CITY CODE
of
WELLS, NEVADA
1982
Code current through:
Ord. 242, passed 8-22-2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Wells, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to and
including ordinance 242, passed in August 22, 2023, and resolution 94-2, passed
May 24, 1994. Ordinances of the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the
provisions of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent
therewith. Consult the City office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
CITY OF WELLS
ORDINANCE NO. 124
AN ORDINANCE CODIFYING AND COMPILING THE GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF
WELLS; PROVIDING FOR PERPETUAL CODIFICATION, DISTRIBUTION OF CODIFICATION,
DEFINITIONS, AND CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS, AND INCORPORATION OF A COPY OF THE CITY
CHARTER.
WHEREAS, the board of councilmen of the city of Wells, Nevada have deemed it to
be in the best interests of the citizens of Wells that the general ordinances
of the city of Wells be compiled as a city code;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNCILMEN OF THE CITY OF WELLS:
SECTION I:
Enactment of Wells city code. The Wells city code prepared by Sterling
Codifiers, Inc., is hereby approved and accepted in its published form, and is
hereby adopted and enacted as the law of the city of Wells.
SECTION II:
Upon passage of this ordinance, two (2) copies of the Wells city code adopted
and enacted hereby shall be filed with the librarian of the supreme court law
library, and thereafter the same shall be received in all courts of this state
as an authorized compilation of the general municipal ordinances of the city of
Wells. These copies shall be supplemented as hereinafter provided.
SECTION III:
One copy of this Wells city code shall be filed in the office of the city clerk
of the city of Wells as part of this ordinance, and shall be perpetually
retained in the city clerk's office without supplementation or alteration as
the original Wells city code adopted and enacted by this ordinance. Such
official copy shall be available for inspection by the public in the office of
the city clerk, and shall be received as prima facie evidence in all courts and
places without further proof as the original Wells city code adopted by this
board.
One further copy of this Wells city code shall be filed in the office of the
city clerk of the city of Wells which the city clerk shall keep currently
supplemented as provided in this ordinance, and which shall be available for
inspection by the public in the office of the city clerk, and which shall be
received as prima facie evidence in all courts and places without further proof
as the Wells city code as supplemented.
SECTION IV:
There is hereby adopted as a method of perpetual codification and
supplementation, the loose-leaf type of binding for the Wells city code and to
supply continuous supplemental service, each newly adopted ordinance of the
city of Wells of a general nature, amending, altering, adding to or deleting
the provisions of this Wells city code shall, within thirty (30) days following
the date of passage and adoption be printed with proper code title, chapter and
section numbers, excluding from the ordinances the titles, enacting clauses,
signatures, attestations, and other formal parts, and such supplement to this
code so prepared shall be inserted in its proper place in the Wells city code
by the city clerk of the city of Wells. Two (2) copies of the supplements as
prepared shall be submitted to the librarian of the supreme court law library
for insertion in the copies of the Wells city code on file. Copies of such
supplements shall be made available to the public on such terms and at such
price or charge as the city manager shall determine from time to time.
SECTION V:
The Wells city code shall have incorporated therein as part thereof a copy of
the city charter of the city of Wells as amended and extended, together with
all further amendments, extensions, supplements, and changes thereto.
SECTION VI:
If any section, paragraph, clause, or provision of this ordinance shall for any
reason be held to be invalid, unenforceable, or unconstitutional by any court
of competent jurisdiction, the invalidity, unenforceability, or
unconstitutionality of such section, paragraph, clause, or provision shall not
affect any remaining provisions of this ordinance.
SECTION VII:
All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed.
SECTION VIII:
Upon adoption, the city clerk of the city of Wells is hereby directed to have
this ordinance published, by title only, together with the councilmen voting
for or against its passage, in the Wells Progress, a newspaper printed and
published in the city of Wells, for at least one publication.
SECTION IX:
This ordinance shall be effective upon the publication mentioned in section
VIII.
PROPOSED AND READ ALOUD to the board of councilmen, and passed and adopted this
24th day of August, 1982, by the following vote of said board:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0586649c910311b2e08b8e63c850573d7cf5ffb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2227.png]
 
WELLS CITY CHARTER
   TABLE OF CONTENTS
   ARTICLE I
   Incorporation Of City; General Powers; Boundaries; Wards And Annexations;
City Offices
1.010   Preamble: Legislative Intent.
1.020   Incorporation Of City.
1.030   Description Of Territory.
1.040   Annexations.
1.050   Elective Offices.
1.060   Elective Offices: Vacancies.
1.070   Mayor And Councilmen Not To Hold Other Office.
1.080   Appointive Offices
1.090   Appointive Officers: Duties; Salary.
1.100   Officials' Performance Bond.
1.110   Oath Of Office.
   ARTICLE II
   Legislative Department
2.010   Board Of Councilmen: Qualifications; Election; Term Of Office; Salary.
2.020   Board Of Councilmen: Contracts.
2.030   Board Of Councilmen: Duties Concerning Departments.
2.040   Board Of Councilmen: Discipline Of Members, Other Persons; Subpoena
Power.
2.050   Meetings: Quorum.
2.060   Meetings: Special.
2.070   Meetings: Time And Place; Rules.
2.080   Oaths And Affirmations.
2.090   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Ordinances, Resolutions And Orders.
2.100   Ordinances: Passage By Bill; Amendments; Subject Matter; Title
Requirements.
2.110   Ordinances: Enactment Procedure; Emergency Ordinances.
2.120   Codification Of Ordinances; Publication Of Code.
2.130   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Public Property, Buildings.
2.140   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Eminent Domain.
2.150   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Licensing, Regulation And Prohibition Of
Businesses, Trades And Professions.
2.160   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Police Ordinances.
2.170   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Fire Protection; Regulation Of
Explosives, Inflammable Materials; Fire Codes And Regulations.
2.180   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Public Health; Board Of Health
Regulations.
2.190   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Buildings; Construction And Maintenance
Regulations; Building And Safety Codes.
2.200   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Zoning And Planning.
2.210   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Rights-Of-Way, Parks, Public Buildings
And Grounds And Other Public Places.
2.220   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Golf Course.
2.230   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Traffic Control.
2.240   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Parking Meters; Off-Street Public
Parking Facilities.
2.250   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Railroads.
2.260   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Nuisances.
2.270   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Animals And Poultry.
2.280   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Abatement Of Noxious Insects, Rats And
Disease-Bearing Organisms.
2.290   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Sanitary Sewer Facilities.
2.300   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Provision Of Utilities.
2.310   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Cemeteries; Acquisition And Maintenance.
2.320   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Television Franchises.
   ARTICLE III
   Executive Department
3.010   Mayor: Duties; Vice President.
3.020   City Clerk: Duties.
3.030   City Clerk's Bond; Performance Bonds.
3.040   City Attorney: Qualifications; Duties.
3.050   County Assessor To Be Ex Officio City Assessor; Duties.
3.060   Chief Of Police: Police Officers.
3.070   City Officers: Duties Restricted And Altered.
3.080   City Officers: Absence From Office.
3.090   City Officers: Collection And Disposition Of Moneys.
3.100   Removal Of Officers.
   ARTICLE IV
   Judicial Department
4.010   Municipal Court.
4.020   Municipal Court: Qualifications Of Municipal Judge; Salary.
4.030   Disposition Of Fines.
4.040   Additional Imprisonment To Satisfy Fine Or Forfeiture.
   ARTICLE V
   Elections
5.010   General Municipal Elections.
5.020   Applicability Of State Election Laws; Elections Under Board Of
Councilmen's Control; Voting Precincts.
5.030   Qualifications, Registration Of Voters.
5.040   Names On Ballots.
5.050   Ballots For Ordinances And Charter Amendments.
5.060   Availability Of Lists Of Registered Voters.
5.070   Watchers And Challengers.
5.080   Voting Machines.
5.090   Election Returns; Canvass; Certificates Of Election; Entry Of Officers
Upon Duties; Tie Vote Procedure.
5.100   Contest Of Election.
   ARTICLE VI
   Local Improvements
6.010   Local Improvement Law.
6.020   Local Improvement Law: Collateral Powers.
   ARTICLE VII
   Local Bonds And Franchises
7.010   Debt Limit.
7.020   Acquisition, Operation Of Municipal Utilities.
7.030   Borrowing Money.
7.040   Franchises.
   ARTICLE VIII
   Revenue
8.010   Municipal Taxes.
8.020   Revenue Ordinances.
   ARTICLE IX
   Miscellaneous Provisions
9.010   Severability Of Provisions.
9.020   Effect Of Enactment Of Charter.
   ARTICLE X
   Transitional Provisions
10.010   Continuation Of Certain Officers.
WELLS CITY CHARTER
            
   (Ch. 159, Stats. 1967 p. 284; R-Ch. 275, Stats. 1971 p. 474)
            
   Chapter 275, Statutes Of Nevada 1971
An act incorporating the city of Wells, in Elko County, Nevada, and defining
the boundaries thereof, under a new charter; and providing other matters
properly relating thereto.
   [Approved April 15, 1971]
   Section 1. The charter of the city of Wells is as follows. Each section of
the charter shall be deemed to be a section of this act for the purpose of any
subsequent amendment.
ARTICLE I
   Incorporation Of City; General Powers; Boundaries; Wards
   And Annexations; City Offices
Sec. 1.010   Preamble: Legislative Intent.
   1. In order to provide for the orderly government of the city of Wells and
the general welfare of its citizens the legislature hereby establishes this
charter for the government of the city of Wells. It is expressly declared as
the intent of the legislature that all provisions of this charter be liberally
construed to carry out the express purposes of the charter and that the
specific mention of particular powers shall not be construed as limiting in any
way the general powers necessary to carry out the purposes of the charter.
   2. Any powers expressly granted by this charter are in addition to any
powers granted to a city by the general law of this state. All provisions of
Nevada Revised Statutes which are applicable generally to cities (not
including, unless otherwise expressly mentioned in this charter, chapter 265,
266 or 267 of NRS) which are not in conflict with the provisions of this
charter apply to the city of Wells.
Sec. 1.020   Incorporation Of City.
   1. All persons who are inhabitants of that portion of the state of Nevada
embraced within the limits set forth in section 1.030 shall constitute a
political and corporate body by the name of "City of Wells" and by that name
they and their successors shall be known in law, have perpetual succession and
may sue and be sued in all courts.
   2. Whenever used throughout this charter, "city" means the city of Wells.
Sec. 1.030   Description Of Territory.
   The territory embraced in the city is that certain land described in the
official plat required by NRS 234.250 to be filed with the county recorder and
county assessor of Elko County, as such plat is revised from time to time.
Sec. 1.040   Annexations.
   1. There is hereby created the city annexation commission.
   2. The number, qualifications, terms and selection of the members of such
commission shall be determined by the board of councilmen.
   3. The commission shall have all the powers and duties of a city annexation
commission created pursuant to NRS 268.626 with respect to annexations to the
city.
Sec. 1.050   Elective Offices.
   1. The elective officers of the city consist of:
   (a) A mayor.
   (b) Four councilmen.
   2. Such officers shall be elected as provided by this charter.
Sec. 1.060   Elective Offices: Vacancies.
   1. A vacancy in the board of councilmen or in the office of mayor shall be
filled by a majority vote of the members of the board of councilmen, or the
remaining members in the case of a vacancy in the board of councilmen, within
30 days after the occurrence of such vacancy. The appointee shall have the same
qualifications as are required of the elective official.
   2. No such appointment shall extend beyond the 1st Monday in July after the
next municipal election, at which election the office shall be filled for the
remaining unexpired term.
Sec. 1.070   Mayor And Councilmen Not To Hold Other Office.
   1. The mayor and councilmen shall not:
   (a) Hold any other elective office or employment within Elko County or the
city, except as provided by law or as a member of a board or commission for
which no compensation is received.
   (b) Be elected or appointed to any office created by or the compensation for
which was increased or fixed by the board of councilmen until 1 year after the
expiration of the term for which such person was elected.
   2. Any person holding any office proscribed by subsection 1 shall
automatically forfeit his office as mayor or councilman.
Sec. 1.080   Appointive Offices.
   1. The board of councilmen of the city may appoint the following officers:
   (a) City clerk.
   (b) Municipal judge.
   (c) Chief of police.
   (d) City engineer.
   (e) City attorney.
   (f) City auditor.
   2. The board of councilmen shall establish such other offices as it may deem
necessary.
Sec. 1.090   Appointive Officers: Duties; Salary. All appointive officers of
the city shall:
   1. Perform such duties as may be designated by the board of councilmen.
   2. Receive such salary as may be designated by the board of councilmen.
Sec. 1.100 Officials' Performance Bond. The board of councilmen may require
from all officers and employees of the city constituted or appointed under this
charter, except councilmen, sufficient security for the faithful and honest
performance of their respective duties.
Sec. 1.110 Oath Of Office. Every person elected or appointed to fill any office
shall subscribe to the official oath as provided by the board of councilmen.
Every person shall swear or affirm that he is not under any direct or indirect
obligation to vote for, appoint or elect any person to any office, position or
employment in the city government.
ARTICLE II
   Legislative Department
Sec. 2.010   Board Of Councilmen: Qualifications; Election; Term Of Office;
Salary.
   1. The legislative power of the city is vested in a board of councilmen
consisting of four councilmen and a mayor.
   2. The mayor and councilmen shall be:
   (a) Bona fide residents of the city for at least 2 years prior to their
election.
   (b) Qualified electors within the city.
   3. All councilmen, including the mayor, shall be voted upon by the
registered voters of the city at large and shall serve for terms of 4 years.
   4. The mayor and councilmen shall receive a salary in an amount fixed by the
board of councilmen.
Sec. 2.020   Board Of Councilmen: Contracts. Members of the board of councilmen
may vote on any lease, contract or other agreement which extends beyond their
terms of office.
Sec. 2.030   Board Of Councilmen: Duties Concerning Departments.
   1. The board of councilmen shall control and supervise the departments of
the city and may establish such rules and regulations as may be necessary for
the administration of such departments.
   2. The mayor shall designate from among the board of councilmen members to
act as:
   (a) Superintendent of public safety.
   (b) Superintendent of streets and public works.
   (c) Superintendent of water and utilities.
   (d) Superintendent of health and sanitation.
   3. The mayor shall be known as the superintendent of finance and revenue.
   4. The duties of each department shall be designated by the board of
councilmen.
Sec. 2.040   Board Of Councilmen: Discipline Of Members, Other Persons;
Subpoena Power.
   1. The board of councilmen may:
   (a) Provide for the punishment of any member for disorderly conduct
committed in its presence.
   (b) Order the attendance of witnesses and the production of all papers
relating to any business before the board of councilmen.
   2. If any person ordered to appear before the board of councilmen fails to
obey such order:
   (a) The board of councilmen or any member thereof may apply to the clerk of
the district court for a subpoena commanding the attendance of the person
before the board of councilmen.
   (b) Such clerk may issue the subpoena, and any peace officer may serve it.
   (c) If the person upon whom the subpoena is served fails to obey it, the
court may issue an order to show cause why such person should not be held in
contempt of court and upon hearing of the matter may adjudge such person guilty
of contempt and punish him accordingly.
Sec. 2.050   Meetings: Quorum.
   1. The board of councilmen shall hold at least one regular meeting each
month, and by ordinance may provide for additional regular meetings.
   2. A majority of all members of the board of councilmen constitutes a quorum
to do business, but a lesser number may meet and recess from time to time, and
compel the attendance of the absent members.
   3. Except as otherwise provided by law, all sessions and all proceedings of
the board of councilmen shall be public.
Sec. 2.060   Meetings: Special.
   1. Special meetings may be held on call of the mayor or by a majority of the
board of councilmen, by giving a minimum of 6 hours' notice of such special
meeting to each member of the board of councilmen prior to the meeting.
   2. At a special meeting:
   (a) No contract involving the expenditure of money may be made or claim
allowed unless notice of the meeting called to consider such action is
published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city at least 1 day
before such meeting.
   (b) No business may be transacted except such as has been stated in the call
of the meeting.
   (c) No ordinance may be passed except an emergency ordinance, or one
specified in section 7.030.
Sec. 2.070   Meetings: Time And Place; Rules. The board of councilmen may:
   1. Fix the time and place of its meetings and judge the qualifications and
election of its own members.
   2. Adopt rules for the government of its members and proceedings.
Sec. 2.080   Oaths And Affirmations. The mayor, each councilman and the city
clerk may administer oaths and affirmations relating to any business pertaining
to the city before the board of councilmen or to be considered by the board of
councilmen.
Sec. 2.090   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Ordinances, Resolutions And Orders.
   1. The board of councilmen may make and pass all ordinances, resolutions and
orders not repugnant to the constitution of the United States or the state of
Nevada, or to the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes or of this charter,
necessary for the municipal government and the management of the affairs of the
city, and for the execution of all the powers vested in the city.
   2. When power is conferred upon the board of councilmen to do and perform
anything, and the manner of exercising such power is not specifically provided
for, the board of councilmen may provide by ordinance the manner and details
necessary for the full exercise of such power.
   3. The board of councilmen may enforce ordinances by providing penalties not
to exceed those established by the legislature for misdemeanors.
   4. The board of councilmen shall have such powers, not in conflict with the
express or implied provisions of this charter, as are conferred generally by
statute upon the governing bodies of cities organized under a special charter.
   5. The salary of an elective officer shall not be increased or diminished
during the term for which he is elected or appointed.
Sec. 2.100   Ordinances: Passage By Bill; Amendments; Subject Matter; Title
Requirements.
   1. No ordinance may be passed except by bill and by a majority vote of the
whole board of councilmen. The style of all ordinances shall be as follows:
"This Board of Councilmen of the City of Wells does ordain:".
   2. No ordinance shall contain more than one subject, which shall be briefly
indicated in the title. Where the subject of the ordinance is not so expressed
in the title, the ordinance is void as to the matter not expressed in the
title.
   3. Any ordinance which amends an existing ordinance shall set out in full
the ordinance or sections thereof to be amended, and shall indicate matter to
be omitted by enclosing it in brackets and shall indicate new matter by
underscoring or by italics.
Sec. 2.110   Ordinances: Enactment Procedure; Emergency Ordinances.
   1. All proposed ordinances when first proposed shall be read to the board of
councilmen by title and referred to a committee for consideration, after which
an adequate number of copies of the proposed ordinance shall be filed with the
city clerk for public distribution. Except as otherwise provided in subsection
3, notice of such filing shall be published once in a newspaper qualified
pursuant to the provisions of chapter 238 of NRS, as amended from time to time,
and published in the city at least 1 week prior to the adoption of the
ordinance. The board of councilmen shall adopt or reject the ordinance or an
amendment thereto, within 30 days from the date of such publication.
   2. At the next regular meeting or adjourned meeting of the board of
councilmen following the proposal of an ordinance and its reference to
committee, such committee shall report such ordinance back to the board of
councilmen. Thereafter, it shall be read as first introduced, or as amended,
and thereupon the proposed ordinance shall be finally voted upon or action
thereon postponed.
   3. In cases of emergency or where the ordinance is of a kind specified in
section 7.030, by unanimous consent of the board of councilmen, final action
may be taken immediately or at a special meeting called for that purpose, and
no notice of the filing of the copies of the proposed ordinance with the city
clerk need be published.
   4. All ordinances shall be signed by the mayor, attested by the city clerk,
and shall be published by title, together with the names of the councilmen
voting for or against passage, in a newspaper qualified pursuant to the
provisions of chapter 238 of NRS, as amended from time to time, and published
in the city for at least one publication, before the ordinance shall become
effective. The board of councilmen may, by majority vote, order the publication
of the ordinance in full in lieu of publication by title only.
   5. The city clerk shall record all ordinances in a book kept for that
purpose, together with the affidavits of publication by the publisher.
Sec. 2.120   Codification Of Ordinances; Publication Of Code.
   1. The board of councilmen may codify and publish a code of its municipal
ordinances in the form of a municipal code, which code may, at the election of
the board of councilmen, have incorporated therein a copy of this charter and
such additional data as the board of councilmen may prescribe. When such code
is published, two copies shall be filed with the librarian at the supreme court
law library.
   2. The ordinances in the code shall be arranged in appropriate chapters,
articles and sections, excluding the titles, enacting clauses, signature of the
mayor, attestations and other formal parts.
   3. The codification shall be adopted by an ordinance and shall not contain
any substantive changes, modifications or alterations of existing ordinances;
and the only title necessary for the ordinance shall be "An ordinance for
codifying and compiling the general ordinances of the city of Wells."
   4. The codification may be amended or extended by ordinance.
Sec. 2.130   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Public Property, Buildings.
   1. The board of councilmen may:
   (a) Control the property of the corporation.
   (b) Erect and maintain all buildings necessary for the use of the city.
   (c) Purchase, receive, hold, sell, lease, convey and dispose of property,
whenever situated, for the benefit of the city, improve and protect such
property, and do all other things in relation thereto which natural persons
might do.
   2. The board of councilmen may not, except as otherwise specifically
provided by this charter or any other law, mortgage, hypothecate or pledge any
property of the city for any purpose.
Sec. 2.140   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Eminent Domain. The board of
councilmen may condemn property for the public use in the manner prescribed by
chapter 37 of NRS, as amended from time to time.
Sec. 2.150   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Licensing, Regulation And
Prohibition Of Businesses, Trades And Professions.
   1. The board of councilmen may:
   (a) Regulate all businesses, trades and professions.
   (b) Fix, impose and collect a license tax for revenue upon all businesses,
trades and professions.
   2. No person licensed by an agency of the state of Nevada to practice any
trade or profession except gaming may be denied a license to conduct his
profession.
   3. The board of councilmen may establish any equitable standard to be used
in fixing license taxes required to be collected pursuant to this section.
Sec. 2.160   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Police Ordinances.
   1. The board of councilmen may enact and enforce such local police
ordinances as are not in conflict with the general laws of the state of Nevada.
   2. Any offense made a misdemeanor by the laws of the state of Nevada shall
also be deemed to be a misdemeanor in the city whenever such offense is
committed within the city.
Sec. 2.170   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Fire Protection; Regulation Of
Explosives, Inflammable Materials; Fire Codes And Regulations. The board of
councilmen may:
   1. Organize, regulate and maintain a fire department.
   2. Provide for the appointment of a fire chief and prescribe his duties.
   3. Regulate or prohibit the storage of any explosive, combustible or
inflammable material in or transported through the city, and prescribe the
distance from any residential or commercial area where it may be kept.
   4. Establish, by ordinance, a fire code and other regulations necessary to
carry out the purpose of this section.
Sec. 2.180   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Public Health; Board Of Health;
Regulations. The board of councilmen may:
   1. Provide for safeguarding public health in the city.
   2. Create a board of health and prescribe the powers and duties of such
board.
   3. Provide for the enforcement of all regulations and quarantines
established by the board of health by imposing adequate penalties for
violations thereof.
Sec. 2.190   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Buildings; Construction And
Maintenance Regulations; Building And Safety Codes. The board of councilmen
may:
   1. Regulate all matters relating to the construction, maintenance and safety
of buildings, structures and property within the city.
   2. Adopt any building or safety code necessary to carry out the provisions
of this section and establish such fees as may be necessary.
Sec. 2.200   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Zoning And Planning.
   1. The board of councilmen may:
   (a) Divide the city into districts and regulate and restrict the erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair or use of buildings,
structures or land within such districts.
   (b) Establish and adopt ordinances and regulations relating to the
subdivision of land.
   2. The board of councilmen shall carry out the provisions of subsection 1 in
the manner prescribed by chapter 278 of NRS, as amended from time to time.
Sec. 2.210   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Rights-Of-Way, Parks, Public
Buildings And Grounds And Other Public Places. The board of councilmen may:
   1. Lay out, maintain, alter, improve or vacate all public rights-of-way in
the city.
   2. Regulate the use of public parks, buildings, grounds and rights-of-way
and prevent the unlawful use thereof.
   3. Require landowners to keep the adjacent streets, sidewalks and public
parks, buildings and grounds free from encroachments or obstructions.
   4. Regulate and prevent in all public places:
   (a) The distribution and exhibition of handbills or signs.
   (b) Any practice tending to annoy persons passing in such public places.
   (c) Public demonstrations and processions.
   5. Prevent riots or any act tending to promote riots in any public place.
Sec. 2.220   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Golf Course. The board of
councilmen may:
   1. Acquire, establish and maintain any golf course, driving range,
clubhouse, pro shop and other facility related thereto.
   2. Cooperate with any nonprofit corporation or association formed under the
laws of the state of Nevada for the purpose of engaging in such activities by:
   (a) Donating, leasing or selling lands, buildings, improvements and personal
property to such corporations or associations.
   (b) Donating funds and acquiring membership in such corporations or
associations.
Sec. 2.230   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Traffic Control. The board of
councilmen may, by ordinance, regulate:
   1. All vehicular, pedestrian and other traffic within the city and provide
generally for the public safety on public streets and rights-of-way.
   2. The length of time for which vehicles may be parked upon the public
streets and publicly owned parking lots.
Sec. 2.240   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Parking Meters; Off-Street Public
Parking Facilities.
   1. The board of councilmen may acquire, install, maintain, operate and
regulate parking meters at the curbs of the streets or upon publicly owned
property made available for public parking. The parking fees to be charged for
the use of the parking facilities regulated by parking meters shall be fixed by
the board of councilmen.
   2. Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the board of councilmen may
acquire property within the city by any lawful means except eminent domain for
the purpose of establishing off-street public parking facilities for vehicles.
The board of councilmen may, after an election is held in conformity with the
provisions of chapter 350 of NRS concerning municipal bond elections, as
amended from time to time, and a majority of the ballots cast of each color
therein, is in favor of the issuance of such bonds, issue revenue bonds for the
purpose of acquiring such property and erecting such improvements thereon as
may be proper. The board of councilmen may, in such bonds, pledge the on-
street parking revenues, the general credit of the city, or both, to secure the
payment of the principal and interest thereon.
Sec. 2.250 Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Railroads. The board of councilmen
may:
   1. License, regulate or prohibit the location, construction or laying of
tracks of any railroad or streetcar in any public right of way.
   2. Grant franchises to any person or corporation to operate a railroad or
streetcar upon public rights of way and adjacent property.
   3. Declare a nuisance and require the removal of the tracks of any railroad
or streetcar in any public right of way.
   4. Condemn rights of way for any public purpose across any railroad right of
way.
   5. Prescribe the length of time any public right of way may be obstructed by
trains standing thereon.
   6. Require railroad companies to fence their tracks and to construct cattle
guards and crossings and to keep them in repair.
Sec. 2.260   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Nuisances. The board of councilmen
may:
   1. Determine by ordinance what shall be deemed nuisances.
   2. Provide for the abatement, prevention and removal of such nuisances at
the expense of the person creating, causing or committing such nuisances.
   3. Provide that such expense of removal shall be a lien upon the property
upon which the nuisance is located. Such lien shall:
   (a) Be perfected by filing with the county recorder a statement by the city
clerk of the amount of expenses due and unpaid and describing the property
subject to the lien.
   (b) Be coequal with the latest lien thereon to secure the payment of general
taxes.
   (c) Not be subject to extinguishment by the sale of any property on account
of the nonpayment of general taxes.
   (d) Be prior and superior to all liens, claims, encumbrances and titles
other than the liens of assessments and general taxes.
   4. Provide any other penalty or punishment of persons responsible for such
nuisances.
Sec. 2.270   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Animals And Poultry. The board of
councilmen may:
   1. Fix, impose and collect an annual per capita tax on all dogs and provide
for the capture and disposal of all dogs on which the tax is not paid.
   2. Regulate or prohibit the running at large of all kinds of animals and
poultry.
   3. Establish a pound, appoint a poundkeeper and prescribe his duties.
   4. Prohibit cruelty to animals.
Sec. 2.280   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Abatement Of Noxious Insects, Rats
And Disease-Bearing Organisms. The board of councilmen may take all steps
necessary and proper for the extermination of noxious insects, rats and other
disease-bearing organisms, either in the city or in territory outside the city
but so situated that such insects, rats and disease-bearing organisms migrate
or are carried into the city.
Sec. 2.290   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Sanitary Sewer Facilities. The
board of councilmen may:
   1. Provide for a sanitary sewer system or any part thereof, and obtain
property therefor either within or without the city.
   2. Sell any product or byproduct thereof and acquire the appropriate outlets
within or without the city and extend the sewer lines thereto.
   3. Establish sewer fees and provide for the enforcement and collection
thereof.
Sec. 2.300   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Provision Of Utilities. The board
of councilmen may:
   1. Provide, by contract, franchise or public enterprise, for any utility to
be furnished to the city for the residents thereof.
   2. Provide for the construction of any facility necessary for the provision
of such utilities.
   3. Fix the rate to be paid for any utility provided by public enterprise.
Any charges due for services, facilities or commodities furnished by any
utility owned by the city is a lien upon the property to which the service is
rendered and shall be perfected by filing with the county recorder of Elko
County a statement by the city clerk of the amount due and unpaid and
describing the property subject to the lien. Each such lien shall:
   (a) Be coequal with the latest lien thereon to secure the payment of general
taxes.
   (b) Not be subject to extinguishment by the sale of any property on account
of the nonpayment of general taxes.
   (c) Be prior and superior to all liens, claims, encumbrances and titles
other than the liens of assessments and general taxes.
Sec. 2.310   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Cemeteries; Acquisition And
Maintenance. The board of councilmen may, by any lawful means, acquire and
maintain property for public use as a cemetery.
Sec. 2.320   Powers Of Board Of Councilmen: Television Franchises.
   1. The board of councilmen may contract with, authorize or grant a franchise
to, any person, company or association to construct, maintain and operate a
television installation system which requires the use of city property or that
portion of the city dedicated to public use for the maintenance of cables or
wires underground, on the surface or on poles for the transmission of the
television picture.
   2. Any franchise granted shall require a time within which actual
construction shall be commenced, time within which distribution of television
shall be completed, and posting of a bond in an amount to be set by the board
of councilmen to assure compliance therewith.
ARTICLE III
   Executive Department
Sec. 3.010   Mayor: Duties; Vice President.
   1. The mayor shall:
   (a) Serve as a member and ex officio president of the board of councilmen
and preside over its meetings.
   (b) Serve as the chief executive officer of the city.
   (c) Perform such emergency duties as may be necessary for the general
health, welfare and safety of the city.
   (d) Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance or by the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes which apply to a mayor or a city
organized under the provisions of a special charter.
   2. The board of councilmen shall elect one of its members to be vice
president. Such person shall:
   (a) Hold such office and title, without additional compensation, during the
term for which he was elected.
   (b) Perform the duties of mayor during the absence or disability of the
mayor.
   (c) Act as mayor until the next municipal election if the office of mayor
becomes vacant.
Sec. 3.020   City Clerk: Duties. The city clerk shall:
   1. Keep the corporate seal and all books and papers belonging to the city.
   2. Attend all meetings of the board of councilmen and keep an accurate
journal of its proceedings, including a record of all ordinances, bylaws and
resolutions passed or adopted by it. After approval at each meeting of the
board of councilmen, the city clerk shall attest the journal after it has been
signed by the mayor.
   3. Sign all warrants issued.
   4. Number and countersign all licenses issued by the city. All licenses
shall be in a form devised by the city clerk and approved by the board of
councilmen.
   5. Enter upon the journal the result of the vote of the board of councilmen
upon the passage of ordinances, or of any resolution appropriating money,
abolishing licenses, or increasing or decreasing the rates of licenses.
   6. Act as ex officio city treasurer.
   7. Perform such other duties as may be required by the board of councilmen.
Sec. 3.030   City Clerk's Bond; Performance Bonds. The city clerk shall be
liable and accountable on his official bond for the performance of his duties
under the provisions of this charter, and the board of councilmen may require
from him such additional security as may be necessary from time to time.
Sec. 3.040   City Attorney: Qualifications; Duties.
   1. The city attorney shall be a duly licensed member of the state bar of
Nevada but he need not be a resident of the city.
   2. The city attorney shall be the legal officer of the city and shall
perform such duties as may be designated by ordinance.
Sec. 3.050   County Assessor To Be Ex Officio City Assessor; Duties.
   1. The county assessor of Elko County shall be ex officio city assessor of
the city. The county assessor shall perform such duties for the city without
additional compensation.
   2. Upon request of the ex officio city assessor, the board of councilmen may
appoint and set the salary of a deputy city assessor to perform such duties
relative to city assessments as may be deemed necessary.
Sec. 3.060   Chief Of Police: Police Officers. The chief of police may, subject
to approval of the board of councilmen, appoint and supervise such police
officers as may be deemed necessary.
Sec. 3.070   City Officers: Duties Restricted And Altered. The board of
councilmen may prescribe by ordinance the powers and duties of all city
officers, where such powers and duties have not been established by this
charter, and may add to, alter or restrict such powers and duties.
Sec. 3.080   City Officers: Absence From Office. If any appointive officer
removes his office from the city, or absents himself therefrom for more than 30
days without leave of the board of councilmen, his office shall be declared
vacant by the board of councilmen and the vacancy filled by appointment as
provided in this charter.
Sec. 3.090   City Officers: Collection And Disposition Of Moneys.
   1. All taxes, fines, forfeitures or other moneys collected or recovered by
any officer or person pursuant to the provisions of this charter or of any
valid ordinance of the city shall be paid by the officer or person collecting
or receiving them to the city clerk, who shall dispose of them in accordance
with the ordinances, regulations and procedures established by the board of
councilmen.
   2. The board of councilmen may by proper legal action collect all moneys
which are due and unpaid to the city or any office thereof, and the board of
councilmen may pay from the general fund all fees and expenses necessarily
incurred by it in connection with the collection of such moneys.
Sec. 3.100   Removal Of Officers. If any officer is adjudged guilty of
misfeasance, nonfeasance or malfeasance in office, by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the board of councilmen may declare the office vacant and fill
the vacancy so caused, as provided by law.
ARTICLE IV
   Judicial Department
Sec. 4.010   Municipal Court. There shall be a municipal court of the city to
which the provisions of chapters 5 and 266 of NRS, relating to municipal
courts, as amended from time to time, shall apply.
Sec. 4.020   Municipal Court: Qualifications Of Municipal Judge; Salary. The
municipal court shall be presided over by a municipal judge, who shall be:
   1. A resident of the city for a continuous 1-year period immediately
preceding his appointment.
   2. A qualified elector for a continuous 1-year period immediately preceding
his appointment.
Sec. 4.030   Disposition Of Fines. All fines and forfeitures for the violation
of ordinances shall be paid into the treasury of the city in the manner to be
prescribed by ordinance.
Sec. 4.040   Additional Imprisonment To Satisfy Fine Or Forfeiture. Whenever a
person is sentenced to both fine and imprisonment, or to pay a forfeiture in
addition to imprisonment, he shall be confined in the city or county jail,
whichever is designated in his sentence of imprisonment, for an additional
period of 1 day for each $4 of the amount until such fine or forfeiture is
satisfied. He shall not be imprisoned beyond the maximum sentence for the
offense for which he is confined.
ARTICLE V
   Elections
Sec. 5.010   General Municipal Elections.
   1. On the Tuesday after the 1st Monday in June 1975, and at each successive
interval of 4 years thereafter, there shall be elected by the qualified voters
of the city, at a general election to be held for that purpose, a mayor and one
councilman, who shall hold office for a period of 4 years and until their
successors have been elected and qualified.
   2. On the Tuesday after the 1st Monday in June 1977, and at each successive
interval of 4 years thereafter, there shall be elected by the qualified voters
of the city, at a general election to be held for that purpose, three
councilmen, who shall hold office for a period of 4 years and until their
successors have been elected and qualified.
Sec. 5.020   Applicability Of State Election Laws; Elections Under Board Of
Councilmen's Control; Voting Precincts.
   1. All elections held under this charter shall be governed by the provisions
of the election laws of this state, so far as such laws can be made applicable
and are not inconsistent herewith.
   2. The conduct of all municipal elections shall be under the control of the
board of councilmen. For the conduct of municipal elections, for the prevention
of fraud in such elections, and for the recount of ballots in cases of doubt or
fraud, the board of councilmen shall adopt by ordinance all regulations which
it considers desirable and inconsistent with law and this charter.
   3. There shall be but one voting precinct in the city. All elective officers
shall be elected by the voters of the city at large.
Sec. 5.030   Qualifications, Registration Of Voters.
   1. Every person who resides within the city at the time of holding any
municipal election, and whose name appears upon the official register of voters
in and for the city, is entitled to vote at each municipal election, and for
all officers to be voted for and on all questions that may be submitted to the
people at any such elections, except as otherwise provided in this article.
   2. Nothing in this charter shall be so construed as to deny or abridge the
power of the board of councilmen to provide for supplemental registration.
Sec. 5.040   Names On Ballots. The full names of all candidates, except those
who have withdrawn, died or become ineligible, shall be printed on the official
ballots without party designation or symbol. The use of nicknames in
conjunction with the candidates' legal names is allowed and the nicknames may
be printed on the official ballots. If two or more candidates have the same
surname or surnames so similar as to be likely to cause confusion, their
residence addresses shall be printed with their names on the ballot.
Sec. 5.050   Ballots For Ordinances And Charter Amendments. An ordinance for
charter amendment to be voted on in the city shall be presented for voting by
ballot title. The ballot title of a measure may differ from its legal title and
shall be a clear, concise statement describing the substance of the measure
without argument or prejudice. Below the ballot title shall appear the
following question: "Shall the above described (ordinance) (amendment) be
adopted?" The ballot or voting machine or device shall be so marked as to
indicate clearly in what manner the voter may cast his vote, either for or
against the ordinance or amendment.
Sec. 5.060   Availability Of Lists Of Registered Voters. If, for any purpose
relating to a municipal election or to candidates or issues involved in such an
election, any organization, group or person requests a list of registered
voters of the city, the department, office or agency which has custody of the
official register of voters shall either permit the organization, group or
person to copy the voters' names and addresses from the official register of
voters or furnish such a list.
Sec. 5.070   Watchers And Challengers. A candidate is entitled upon written
application to the election authorities at least 5 days before the election to
appoint two persons to represent him as watchers and challengers at each
polling place where voters may cast their ballots for him. A person so
appointed has all the rights and privileges prescribed by watchers and
challengers under the election laws of this state. The watchers and challengers
may exercise their rights throughout the voting and until the ballots have been
counted.
Sec. 5.080   Voting Machines. The board of councilmen may provide for the use
of mechanical or other devices for voting or counting the votes not
inconsistent with law or regulations of the secretary of state.
Sec. 5.090   Election Returns; Canvass; Certificates Of Election; Entry Of
Officers Upon Duties; Tie Vote Procedure.
   1. The election returns from any municipal election shall be filed with the
city clerk, who shall immediately place such returns in a safe or vault, and no
person shall be permitted to handle, inspect or in any manner interfere with
such returns until canvassed by the board of councilmen.
   2. The board of councilmen shall meet on the 1st Tuesday after any election
and canvass the returns and declare the result. The election returns shall then
be sealed and kept by the city clerk for 6 months, and no person shall have
access thereto except on order of a court of competent jurisdiction or by order
of the board of councilmen.
   3. The city clerk, under his hand and official seal, shall issue to each
person declared to be elected a certificate of election. The officers so
elected shall qualify and enter upon the discharge of their respective duties
on the 1st Monday in July next following their election.
   4. If any election should result in a tie, the board of councilmen shall
summon the candidates who received the tie vote and determine the tie by lot.
The clerk shall then issue to the winner a certificate of election.
Sec. 5.100   Contest Of Election. A contested election for any municipal office
shall be determined according to the law of the state regulating proceedings in
contested elections in political subdivision.
ARTICLE VI
   Local Improvements
Sec. 6.010   Local Improvement Law. The board of councilmen, on behalf of the
city and in its name, without any election, may from time to time acquire,
improve, equip, operate and maintain, convert to or authorize:
   1. Curb and gutter projects;
   2. Drainage projects;
   3. Off-street parking projects;
   4. Overpass projects;
   5. Park projects;
   6. Sanitary sewer projects;
   7. Sidewalk projects;
   8. Storm sewer projects;
   9. Street projects;
   10. Underpass projects;
   11. Water projects; and
   12. Underground utility and communication lines.
Sec. 6.020   Local Improvement Law: Collateral Powers. The board of councilmen
on behalf of the city for the purpose of defraying all the costs of acquiring
or improving any project authorized by section 6.010, or any portion of the
cost thereof not to be defrayed with moneys otherwise available therefor, is
vested with the powers granted to municipalities by chapters 271 and 704A of
NRS, as amended from time to time.
ARTICLE VII
   Local Bonds And Franchises
Sec. 7.010   Debt Limit.
   1. The city shall not incur an indebtedness in excess of 40 percent of the
total assessed valuation of the taxable property within the boundaries of the
city.
   2. In determining any debt limitation under this section, there shall not be
counted as indebtedness:
   (a) Any revenue bonds, unless the full faith and credit of the city is also
pledged to their payment.
   (b) Any special assessment bonds, although a deficiency in the proceeds of
the assessments is required to be paid from the general fund to the city.
   (c) Any short-term securities issued in anticipation of and payable from
property taxes levied for the current fiscal year.
Sec. 7.020   Acquisition, Operation Of Municipal Utilities. The city may, in
the manner and for the purposes provided in this charter and Nevada Revised
Statutes as they apply to cities, grant franchises and acquire in any manner
any public utility, and hold, manage and operate it, either alone or jointly,
with any level of government or instrumentality or subdivision thereof.
Sec. 7.030   Borrowing Money.
   1. Subject to the limitations imposed by this article, the city may borrow
money for any corporate purpose, including without limitation any purpose
expressly authorized by this charter or by Nevada Revised Statutes for a city,
and for such purpose may issue bonds or other securities. The local government
securities law, as amended from time to time, applies to all securities so
issued, except for securities issued under section 6.020.
   2. The board of councilmen shall submit any proposal to borrow money, except
an emergency loan as defined and authorized by chapter 354 of NRS, as amended
from time to time, and except for any securities issued under section 6.020,
but including securities payable from pledged revenues, to the registered
voters of the city in the manner provided by NRS 350.010 to 350.070, inclusive,
as amended from time to time.
   3. Any property tax levied to pay the principal of or interest on such
indebtedness authorized under subsection 2 shall be levied upon all taxable
property within the city, as provided in NRS 350.590 to 350.602, inclusive, as
amended from time to time.
   4. Any ordinance pertaining to the sale or issuance of bonds or other
securities, including without limitation securities issued under section 6.020,
may be adopted in the same manner as is provided for cases of emergency. A
declaration by the board of councilmen in any ordinance that it is of this kind
shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud or gross abuse of discretion.
Sec. 7.040   Franchises.
   1. Before granting any franchise the board of councilmen shall first adopt a
resolution setting forth fully and in detail the applicant for, purpose and
character of, terms and time and conditions of the proposed franchise. Such
resolution shall be published in full in a newspaper qualified pursuant to the
provisions of chapter 238 of NRS, as amended from time to time, and published
in the city for at least two publications in the 2 weeks succeeding its
adoption.
   2. On the first regular meeting of the board of councilmen after the
expiration of the period of such publication, the board of councilmen shall
proceed to pass an ordinance for the granting of the franchise; but such
franchise shall be granted only on substantially the same terms and conditions
as expressed in the resolution as published. Otherwise such ordinance shall be
void.
ARTICLE VIII
   Revenue
Sec. 8.010   Municipal Taxes.
   1. The board of councilmen shall annually, at the time prescribed by law for
levying taxes for state and county purposes, levy a tax not exceeding 3 percent
upon the assessed value of all real and personal property within the city,
except as otherwise provided in the local government securities law, as amended
from time to time. The taxes so levied shall be collected at the same time and
in the same manner and by the same officers, exercising the same functions, as
prescribed in the laws of the state of Nevada for collection of state and
county taxes. The revenue laws of the state shall, in every respect not
inconsistent with the provisions of this charter, be applicable to the levying,
assessing and collecting of the municipal taxes.
   2. In the matter of the equalization of assessments, the rights of the city
and the inhabitants thereof shall be protected in the same manner and to the
same extent by the action of the county board of equalization as are the state
and county.
   3. All forms and blanks used in levying, assessing and collecting the
revenues of the state and counties shall, with such alterations or additions as
may be necessary, be used in levying, assessing and collecting the revenues of
the city. The board of councilmen shall enact all such ordinances as it may
deem necessary and not inconsistent with this charter and the laws of the state
for the prompt, convenient and economical collecting of the revenue.
Sec. 8.020   Revenue Ordinances. The board of councilmen shall have full power
to pass and enact all ordinances necessary to carry into effect the revenue
laws in the city and to enlarge, fix and determine the powers and duties of all
officers in relation thereto.
ARTICLE IX
   Miscellaneous Provisions
Sec. 9.010   Severability Of Provisions. If any portion of this charter is held
to be unconstitutional or invalid for any reason by the decision of any court
of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portion of this charter. The legislature hereby declares that it
would have passed the charter and each portion thereof, irrespective of the
portion which may be deemed unconstitutional or otherwise invalid.
Sec. 9.020   Effect Of Enactment Of Charter.
   1. All rights and property of every kind and description which were vested
in the city prior to the enactment of this charter shall be vested in the same
municipal corporation on the effective date of this charter. No right or
liability, either in favor of or against such corporation existing at the time
of becoming incorporated under this charter, and no action or prosecution shall
be affected by such change, but it shall stand and progress as if no change had
been made.
   2. Whenever a different remedy is given by this charter, which may properly
be made applicable to any right existing at the time of such city so becoming
incorporated under this charter, such remedy shall be cumulative to the remedy
before provided, and used accordingly.
   3. All ordinances and resolutions in effect in the city prior to the
effective date of this charter shall, unless in conflict with the provisions of
this charter, continue in full force and effect until amended or repealed.
   4. The enactment of this charter shall not affect any change in the legal
identity of the city.
   5. The enactment of this charter shall not be construed to repeal or in any
way affect or modify:
   (a) Any special, local or temporary law.
   (b) Any law or ordinance making an appropriation.
   (c) Any ordinance affecting any bond issue or by which any bond issue may
have been authorized.
   (d) The running of the statute of limitations in force at the time of this
charter becomes effective.
   (e) Any bond of any public officer.
ARTICLE X
   Transitional Provisions
Sec. 10.010   Continuation Of Certain Officers.
   1. The councilmen elected at large to a 4-year term at the general municipal
election held June 3, 1969, shall continue in office as a councilman until the
election, and qualification thereafter, of his successor at the general
municipal election to be held on the first Tuesday after the first Monday of
June, 1973. The successor shall serve a 4-year term until the election, and
qualification thereafter, in turn, of his successor pursuant to subsection 2 of
section 5.010.
   2. The two councilmen elected at large for 2-year terms each at the general
municipal election held June 8, 1971, shall continue in office as councilmen
until the election, and qualification thereafter, of their successors at the
general municipal election to be held on the first Tuesday after the first
Monday of June, 1973. The successors shall each serve a 4-year term until the
election, and qualification thereafter, in turn, of their successors pursuant
to subsection 2 of section 5.010.
   3. The councilman elected at large to a 4-year term at the general municipal
election held June 8, 1971, shall continue in office as a councilman until the
election, and qualification thereafter, of his successor pursuant to subsection
1 of section 5.010.
   4. The mayor, elected to a 4-year term at the general municipal election
held June 8, 1971, shall continue in the office of mayor until the election,
and qualification thereafter, of his successor pursuant to subsection 1 of
section 5.010.
   Sec. 2. Chapter 159, statues of Nevada 1967, at page 284, entitled "an act
incorporating the city of Wells, in Elko County, Nevada, and defining the
boundaries thereof, under a new charter; providing that such charter shall
become effective only if the original charter is repealed; and providing other
matters properly relating thereto," approved March 22, 1967, and all other acts
amendatory thereof, are hereby repealed.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
Official Municipal Code   1
Municipal Code Saving Clause   2
Municipal Code Definitions   3
Municipal Code General
Penalty   4
City Manager   5
Sale, Exchange Or Lease Of
City Real Property   6
Appraiser Requirements For
Sale Or Lease Of City Property   6A
Employee Personnel Manual   7
Election Regulations   8
Court Facilities Assessment Fee   9
Whistle Blower Protection   10
Code Enforcement   11
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL MUNICIPAL CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alteration
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the board of councilmen, this code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of the city of Wells.
This code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the Wells city code, and it
is hereby published by authority of the council and shall be kept up to date as
provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause,
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (1982 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (1982 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the city
code. (1982 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATION:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
board of councilmen. The city clerk shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk.
Any person having in his custody an official copy of the city code shall make
every effort to maintain said code in an up to date and efficient manner. He
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the city clerk.
Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other interested
persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be returned to
the office of the clerk when directed so to do by order of the board of
councilmen. (1982 Code)
CHAPTER 2
MUNICIPAL CODE SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances. (1982 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case this code shall be considered as amending such ordinance
or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1982 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable, if
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party affected, applied to
any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city herein repealed
and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this code shall be
deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed to be discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code. (1982 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The board of councilmen hereby declares that it
would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence,
clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases
be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1982 Code)
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL CODE DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-4: Definition Of Chief Of Police/Chief Law Enforcement Officer
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural number is
used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any single
matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although distributive
words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or person is
referred to in this code by words importing the singular number only, or the
masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females as well as
males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided, that these
rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this code which
contains any express provision excluding such construction or where the subject
matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been changed
in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1982 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
   AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
   CITY: The city of Wells, county of Elko, state of Nevada.
   EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
city of Wells".
   FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   MISDEMEANOR: Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed.
   NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
   OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Wells".
   OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods,
chattels, effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by
which any pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created,
acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and
every right or interest therein.
   RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small
quantities direct to the consumer.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
   TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such buildings or land, whether alone or with
others.
   WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined,
shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or
things in quantity to person who purchase for the purpose of resale.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it shall be in
the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his
proper mark. (1982 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1982 Code)
1-3-4: DEFINITION OF CHIEF OF POLICE/CHIEF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
During any period of time there may be an interlocal contract for the Elko
County sheriff's office to provide law enforcement services to the city in lieu
of a city police department, the term "chief law enforcement officer" (who
shall be the Elko County sheriff) shall be substituted and mean the term "chief
of police" wherever either term appears in this code.
The Elko County sheriff acting as the chief law enforcement officer for the
city of Wells is acting under an interlocal contract and is not an officer,
agent or employee of the city of Wells. Furthermore, under the terms of the
interlocal contract, the sheriff has absolute discretion in all matters
included in the agreement. (Ord. 191, 4-24-2001)
CHAPTER 4
MUNICIPAL CODE GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Except as provided in Wells City Code Title 8 Chapter 1, any person convicted
of any violation of any city ordinance which does not otherwise provide a
specific penalty, shall be punished by the imposition of a fine not to exceed
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by a sentence of confinement in the city
or county jail not to exceed six (6) months, or both such fine and imprisonment
1 . (Ord. 120, 1-26-1982; amd. Ord. 239, 12-13-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. NRS 268.019.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Except as provided in Wells City Code Title 8 Chapter 1, the penalty
provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of this code the
same as though it were a part of each and every separate section unless
otherwise indicated. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
code where a duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act
continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in this code.
   B.   Except as provided in Wells City Code Title 8 Chapter 1, in all cases
where the same offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or
sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to
proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the same person
for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit
shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty
being enforced.
   C.   Except as provided in Wells City Code Title 8 Chapter 1, whenever the
doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a breach of any
section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or penalty
specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter shall
apply. (1982 Code; amd. Ord. 239, 12-13-2022)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intent of
the board of councilmen to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1982 Code)
CHAPTER 5
CITY MANAGER
SECTION:
1-5-1: Appointive Office Of Manager
1-5-2: Qualifications
1-5-3: Salary
1-5-4: Powers And Duties
1-5-1: APPOINTIVE OFFICE OF MANAGER:
   A.   Office Established: Pursuant to the authority granted to the board of
councilmen of the city in the Wells city charter, section 1.080, there is
hereby established the appointive office of city manager. The appointive office
of the city manager is in addition to the existing appointive offices of city
clerk, municipal judge, chief of police, city engineer, city attorney, and city
auditor.
   B.   Appointment, Removal: The board of councilmen shall appoint the city
manager for an indefinite term or definite term to serve at the pleasure of
said board of councilmen. The city manager may be removed from office by a
majority vote of the members of the board of councilmen with the mayor having a
vote. In removing a city manager, the board of councilmen shall comply with all
applicable city and state laws.
   C.   Act As Engineer: The city manager may also be the city engineer. (Ord.
107, 5-8-1979)
1-5-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
The city manager shall be chosen by the board of councilmen on the basis of
executive and administrative qualifications with special reference to actual
experience or knowledge of accepted practices in respect to the duties of a
city manager. At the time of appointment the city manager need not be a
resident of the city or state but may reside outside the city while in office
only with the approval of the board of councilmen. (Ord. 107, 5-8-1979)
1-5-3: SALARY:
The salary of the city manager shall be fixed by the board of councilmen by
resolution. (Ord. 107, 5-8-1979)
1-5-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The city manager shall perform such administrative duties as the board of
councilmen may designate by resolution including, but not limited to, the
following duties:
   A.   Act as the chief administrative officer for the city;
   B.   Present the annual budget for the city;
   C.   Administer the approved annual budget for the city;
   D.   Prepare agendas for all board of councilmen meetings;
   E.   Supervise the purchasing for all departments of the city;
   F.   Supervise transactions relating to the sale of city property including
city land sales;
   G.   See that all city ordinances are enforced, and that the provisions of
all franchises, leases, contracts, permits and other privileges granted by the
city are observed. (Ord. 107, 5-8-1979)
CHAPTER 6
SALE, EXCHANGE OR LEASE OF CITY REAL PROPERTY
SECTION:
1-6-1: Requirement And Process For Using Appraisers
1-6-2: Notice For Sale Or Lease Of Real Property
1-6-3: Resolution Required For And Method Of Sale Or Lease Of Real Property
1-6-4: Exceptions To Public Auction Sales
1-6-5: Additional Power Of City
1-6-6: Powers Regarding Eminent Domain
1-6-1: REQUIREMENT AND PROCESS FOR USING APPRAISERS:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 268.048 to
268.058, inclusive, and 278.479 to 278.4965, inclusive, except as otherwise
required by federal law or pursuant to a cooperative agreement entered into
pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 277.050 or 277.053 or an interlocal
agreement in existence on October 1, 2004, and except if the governing body is
entering into a joint development agreement for real property owned by the city
to which the governing body is a party or if the sale or lease of real property
larger than one acre is approved by the voters at a primary or general
election, primary or general city election or special election, the governing
body shall, when offering any real property for sale or lease:
      1.   Obtain two (2) independent and confidential appraisals of the real
property before selling or leasing it. The appraisals must be based on the
zoning of the real property as set forth in the master plan for the city and
have been prepared not more than six (6) months before the date on which real
property is offered for sale or lease.
      2.   Select the two (2) independent appraisers from the list of
appraisers established pursuant to subsection B of this section.
      3.   Verify the qualifications of each appraiser selected pursuant to
subsection A2 of this section. The determination of the governing body as to
the qualifications of the appraiser is conclusive.
   B.   The governing body shall adopt by ordinance the procedures for creating
or amending a list of appraisers qualified to conduct appraisals of real
property offered for sale or lease by the governing body. The list must:
      1.   Contain the names of all persons qualified to act as a general
appraiser in the same county as the real property that may be appraised; and
      2.   Be organized at random and rotated from time to time.
   C.   An appraiser chosen pursuant to this section must provide a disclosure
statement which includes, without limitation, all sources of income of the
appraiser that may constitute a conflict of interest and any relationship of
the appraiser with the property owner or the owner of an adjoining property.
   D.   An appraiser shall not perform an appraisal on any real property
offered for sale or lease by the governing body if the appraiser or a person
related to the appraiser within the first degree of consanguinity or affinity
has an interest in the real property or an adjoining property. (Ord. 209, 8-23-
2005)
1-6-2: NOTICE FOR SALE OR LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY:
Except as otherwise provided in this section and section
1-6-4 of this chapter, Nevada Revised Statutes 268.048 to 268.058, inclusive,
and 278.479 to 278.4965, inclusive, except as otherwise provided by federal law
or pursuant to a cooperative agreement entered into pursuant to Nevada Revised
Statutes 277.053 or an interlocal agreement in existence on October 1, 2004,
and except if the governing body is entering into a joint development agreement
for real property owned by the city to which the governing body is a party or
if the sale or lease of real property larger than one acre is approved by the
voters at a primary or general election, primary or general city election or
special election:
   A.   If a governing body has determined by resolution that the sale or lease
of any real property owned by the city will be in the best interest of the
city, it may sell or lease the real property in the manner prescribed for the
sale or lease of real property in section
1-6-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Before the governing body may sell or lease any real property as
provided in subsection A of this section, it shall:
      1.   Post copies of the resolution described in subsection A of this
section in three (3) public places in the city; and
      2.   Cause to be published at least once a week for three (3) successive
weeks, in a newspaper qualified under chapter 238 of Nevada Revised Statutes
that is published in the county in which the real property is located, a notice
setting forth:
         a.   A description of the real property proposed to be sold or leased
in such a manner as to identify it;
         b.   The minimum price, if applicable, of the real property proposed
to be sold or leased; and
         c.   The places at which the resolution described in subsection A of
this section has been posted pursuant to subsection B1 of this section, and any
other places at which copies of that resolution may be obtained.
   C.   If the governing body by its resolution finds additionally that the
real property to be sold is worth more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
the board shall conduct an appraisal pursuant to section
1-6-1 of this chapter to determine the value of the real property and, except
for real property acquired pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 371.047, shall
not sell or lease it for less than the highest appraised value.
   D.   If the real property is appraised at one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
or more, the governing body may:
      1.   Lease the real property; or
      2.   Sell the real property for:
         a.   Cash; or
         b.   Not less than twenty five percent (25%) cash down and upon
deferred payments over a period of not more than ten (10) years, secured by a
mortgage or deed of trust bearing such interest and upon such further terms as
the governing body may specify.
   E.   A governing body may sell or lease any real property owned by the city
without complying with the provisions of sections
1-6-1,
1-6-2, and
1-6-3 of this chapter to:
      1.   A person who owns real property located adjacent to the real
property to be sold or leased if the governing body has determined by
resolution that:
         a.   The real property is a:
            (1)   Remnant that was separated from its original parcel due to
the construction of a street, alley, avenue or other thoroughfare, or portion
thereof, flood control facility or other public facility;
            (2)   Parcel that, as a result of its size, is too small to
establish an economically viable use by anyone other than the person who owns
real property adjacent to the real property offered for sale or lease; or
            (3)   Parcel which is subject to a deed restriction prohibiting the
use of the real property by anyone other than the person who owns real property
adjacent to the real property offered for sale or lease; and
         b.   The sale or lease will be in the best interest of the city.
      2.   Another governmental entity if:
         a.   The sale or lease restricts the use of the real property to a
public use; and
         b.   The governing body adopts a resolution finding that the sale or
lease will be in the best interest of the city.
   F.   A governing body that disposes of real property pursuant to subsection
E of this section is not required to offer to reconvey the real property to the
person from whom the real property was received or acquired by donation or
dedication.
   G.   If real property that is offered for sale or lease pursuant to this
section is not sold or leased at the initial offering of the contract for the
sale or lease of the real property, the governing body may offer the real
property for sale or lease a second time pursuant to this section. If there is
a material change relating to the title, zoning or an ordinance governing the
use of the real property, the governing body must obtain a new appraisal of the
real property pursuant to the provision of section
1-6-1 of this chapter before offering the real property for sale or lease a
second time.
If real property that is offered for sale or lease pursuant to this section is
not sold or leased at the second offering of the contract for the sale or lease
of the real property, the governing body may list the real property for sale or
lease at the appraised value with a licensed real estate broker, provided that
the broker or a person related to the broker within the first degree of
consanguinity or affinity does not have an interest in the real property or an
adjoining property. (Ord. 209, 8-23-2005)
1-6-3: RESOLUTION REQUIRED FOR AND METHOD OF SALE OR LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this section and section
1-6-2 of this chapter and Nevada Revised Statutes 268.048 to 268.058,
inclusive, and 278.479 to 278.4965, inclusive, except as otherwise required by
federal law or pursuant to a cooperative agreement entered into pursuant to
Nevada Revised Statutes 277.050 or 277.053 or an interlocal agreement in
existence on October 1, 2004, and except if the governing body is entering into
a joint development agreement for real property owned by the city to which the
governing body is a party or if the sale or lease of real property larger than
one acre is approved by the voters at a primary or general election, the
governing body shall, in open meeting by a majority vote of the members and
before ordering the sale or lease at auction of any real property, adopt a
resolution declaring its intention to sell or lease the property at auction.
The resolution must:
      1.   Describe the property proposed to be sold or leased in such a manner
as to identify it;
      2.   Specify the minimum price and the terms upon which the property will
be sold or leased; and
      3.   Fix a time, not less than three (3) weeks thereafter, for a public
meeting of the governing body to be held at its regular place of meeting, at
which sealed bids will be received and considered.
   B.   Notice of the adoption of the resolution and of the time and place of
holding the meeting must be given by:
      1.   Posting copies of the resolution in three (3) public places in the
county not less than fifteen (15) days before the date of the meeting; and
      2.   Causing to be published at least once a week for three (3)
successive weeks before the meeting, in a newspaper qualified under chapter 238
of Nevada Revised Statutes that is published in the county in which the real
property is located, a notice setting forth:
         a.   A description of the real property proposed to be sold or leased
at auction in such a manner as to identify it;
         b.   The minimum price of the real property proposed to be sold or
leased at auction; and
         c.   The places at which the resolution described in subsection A of
this section has been posted pursuant to subsection B1 of this section, and any
other places at which copies of that resolution may be obtained.
   C.   At the time and place fixed in the resolution for the meeting of the
board, all sealed bids which have been received must, in public session, be
opened, examined and declared by the governing body. Of the proposals submitted
which conform to all terms and conditions specified in the resolution of
intention to sell or lease and which are made by responsible bidders, the bid
which is the highest must be finally accepted, unless a higher oral bid is
accepted or the governing body rejects all bids.
   D.   Before accepting any written bid, the governing body shall call for
oral bids. If, upon the call for oral bidding, any responsible person offers to
buy or lease the property upon the terms and conditions specified in the
resolution, for a price exceeding by at least five percent (5%) the highest
written bid, then the highest oral bid which is made by a responsible person
must be finally accepted.
   E.   The final acceptance by the governing body may be made either at the
same session or at any adjourned session of the same meeting held within the
ten (10) days next following.
   F.   The governing body may, either at the same session or at any adjourned
session of the same meeting held within the ten (10) days next following, if it
deems the action to be for the best public interest, reject any and all bids,
either written or oral, and withdraw the property from sale or lease.
   G.   Any resolution of acceptance of any bid made by the governing body must
authorize and direct the mayor to execute a deed or lease and to deliver it
upon performance and compliance by the purchaser or lessee with all the terms
or conditions of his contract which are to be performed concurrently therewith.
(Ord. 209, 8-23-2005)
1-6-4: EXCEPTIONS TO PUBLIC AUCTION SALES:
   A.   The city may sell, lease or otherwise dispose of real property for the
purposes of redevelopment or economic development:
      1.   Without first offering the real property to the public; and
      2.   For less than fair market value of the real property.
   B.   Before the board of councilmen may sell, lease or otherwise dispose of
real property pursuant to this section, the city council must:
      1.   Obtain an appraisal of the property pursuant to section
1-6-1 of this chapter; and
      2.   Adopt a resolution finding that it is in the best interests of the
public to sell, lease or otherwise dispose of the property:
         a.   Without offering the property to the public; and
         b.   For less than fair market value of the real property.
   C.   As used in this section:
   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT: 1. The establishment of new commercial enterprises or
facilities within the city;
      2.   The support, retention or expansion of existing commercial
enterprises or facilities within the city;
      3.   The establishment, retention or expansion of public, quasi-public or
other facilities or operations within the city;
      4.   The establishment of residential housing needed to support the
establishment of new commercial enterprises or facilities or the expansion of
existing commercial enterprises or facilities; or
      5.   Any combination of the activities described in subsections C1 to C4,
inclusive, of this definition to create and retain opportunities for employment
for the residents of the city.
   REDEVELOPMENT: Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada Revised Statutes
279.408. (Ord. 209, 8-23-2005)
1-6-5: ADDITIONAL POWER OF CITY:
The city of Wells may:
   A.   Have and use a common seal, which it may alter at pleasure.
   B.   Purchase, receive, hold and use personal and real property wherever
situated.
   C.   Except as otherwise provided in sections
1-6-1,
1-6-2 and
1-6-3 of this chapter, sell, convey and dispose of such personal and real
property for the common benefit.
   D.   Determine what are public uses with respect to powers of eminent
domain.
   E.   Acquire, own and operate a public transit system both within and
without the city.
   F.   Receive bequests, devises, gifts and donations of all kinds of property
wherever situated in fee simple, in trust or otherwise, for charitable or other
purposes and do anything necessary to carry out the purposes of such bequests,
devises, gifts and donations with full power to manage, sell, lease or
otherwise dispose of such property in accordance with the terms of such
bequest, devise, gift or donation. (Ord. 209, 8-23-2005)
1-6-6: POWERS REGARDING EMINENT DOMAIN:
   A.   The Wells board of councilmen may reconvey all the right, title and
interest of the city in and to any land donated, dedicated, acquired in
accordance with chapter 37 of Nevada Revised Statutes, or purchased under the
threat of an eminent domain proceeding, for a public park, public square,
public landing, agricultural fairground, aviation field, automobile parking
ground or facility for the accommodation of the traveling public, or land held
in trust for the public for any other public use or uses, or any part thereof,
to the person:
      1.   By whom the land was donated or dedicated or to his heirs, assigns
or successors, upon such terms as may be prescribed by a resolution of the
governing body; or
      2.   From whom the land was acquired in accordance with chapter 37 of
Nevada Revised Statutes, or purchased under the threat of an eminent domain
proceeding, or to his heirs, assigns or successors, for an amount equal to the
amount paid for the land by the governing body.
   B.   If the governing body determines that maintenance of the property is
unnecessarily burdensome to the city or that reconveyance would be in the best
interest of the city and its residents, the governing body may formally adopt a
resolution stating that determination. Upon the adoption of the resolution, the
presiding officer of the governing body shall issue a written offer of
reconveyance to the person from whom the land was received or acquired or his
successor in interest.
   C.   If the person from whom the real property was received or acquired, or
his successor in interest:
      1.   Accepts the offer of reconveyance within forty five (45) days after
the date of the offer, the governing body shall execute a deed or reconveyance.
      2.   Refuses to accept the offer of reconveyance or states in writing
that he is unable to accept the reconveyance, the governing body may sell or
lease the real property in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 209, 8-23-2005)
ARTICLE A. APPRAISER REQUIREMENTS FOR SALE OR LEASE OF CITY PROPERTY
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Requirements And Process For Using Appraisers
1-6A-2: List Of Appraisers
1-6A-1: REQUIREMENTS AND PROCESS FOR USING APPRAISERS:
   A.   The city manager or designee shall compile a list of appraisers
residing in Elko County qualified to conduct appraisals of real property in
Elko County.
   B.   The list shall:
      1.   Contain the names of all persons qualified to act as a general
appraiser in Elko County; and
      2.   Be organized at random and rotated from time to time.
   C.   An appraiser chosen pursuant to subsection B of this section must
provide a disclosure statement which includes, without limitation, all sources
of income of the appraiser that may constitute a conflict of interest and any
relationship of the appraiser with the property owner or the owner of an
adjoining property.
   D.   An appraiser shall not perform an appraisal on any real property
offered for sale or lease by the governing body if the appraiser or a person
related to the appraiser within the first degree of consanguinity or affinity
has an interest in the real property or an adjoining property. (Ord. 210, 8-23-
2005)
1-6A-2: LIST OF APPRAISERS:
   A.   The list of qualified appraisers shall be amended annually to delete
appraisers no longer residing or qualified in Elko County and to add new
appraisers residing and qualified in Elko County. (Ord. 210, 8-23-2005)
CHAPTER 7
EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL MANUAL
SECTION:
1-7-1: Adoption
1-7-1: ADOPTION:
The board of councilmen of the city of Wells may, by resolution, enact and
amend from time to time an employee personnel manual. Prior to adopting or
amending any employee personnel manual, the board of councilmen shall hold at
least one public hearing at a regularly scheduled board of councilmen meeting
to discuss and enact any such manual and amendments thereto. (Ord. 150, 11-8-
1988)
CHAPTER 8
ELECTION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Conducting Of City Elections
1-8-2: Political Parties (Rep. by Ord. 201, 3-11-2003)
1-8-3: Nominations (Rep. by Ord. 201, 3-11-2003)
1-8-4: Candidates
1-8-5: Ballots
1-8-6: Absent And Early Voting Ballots
1-8-7: Registration
1-8-8: Sample Ballots And Voter Lists
1-8-9: Notices
1-8-10: Election Boards
1-8-1: CONDUCTING OF CITY ELECTIONS:
All city elections and the manner of holding the same shall be governed and
conducted in accordance with the Wells city charter, this chapter of the Wells
city code, and the laws of the state governing general elections, so far as the
same can be made applicable to such city elections, and except as herein
provided, and the rules and regulations for the conduct of primary and general
elections in all counties of the state, issued by the state pursuant to title
24, Nevada Revised Statutes, so far as the same can be made applicable to city
elections, and except as herein provided. (Ord. 176, 6-24-1997)
1-8-2: POLITICAL PARTIES:
(Rep. by Ord. 201, 3-11-2003)
1-8-3: NOMINATIONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 201, 3-11-2003)
1-8-4: CANDIDATES:
   A.   A candidate for any office to be voted for at a general city election
shall file an affidavit of candidacy with the city clerk during regular
business hours of the city clerk. The city clerk shall charge and collect from
each candidate and each candidate shall pay to the city clerk, at the time of
filing of the affidavit of candidacy, a filing fee as set by resolution of the
board of councilmen. All filing fees so collected by the city clerk shall be
deposited to the credit of the general fund of the city. No person shall be
deemed a candidate for office at such election or be entitled to have his name
placed upon the official ballot unless such person has filed such affidavit of
candidacy and paid the filing fee as set by the board of councilmen.
   B.   A candidate for any office to be voted for at a general city election
must file an affidavit of candidacy with the city clerk in accordance with the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes 293C.145.
   C.   The secretary of state shall prescribe the form for the affidavit of
candidacy 1 . (Ord. 201, 3-11-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. NRS 293C.145(3).
1-8-5: BALLOTS:
Official general city election ballots shall contain the names of candidates
grouped alphabetically under the title of the office for which such candidates
file. In years in which the mayor will be elected, the candidates for mayor
shall be listed first, followed by the candidates for councilmen. At the top of
the general election ballot shall be printed "OFFICIAL BALLOT", under that
shall be printed "WELLS CITY GENERAL ELECTION", and under that shall be printed
the date of the election. All other details relating to ballots shall be
controlled and governed by the laws of the state governing general election
laws, so far as the same may be applicable, and the rules and regulations for
the conduct of primary and general elections, as amended from time to time,
issued by the state, so far as the same may be applicable. (Ord. 176, 6-24-
1997)
1-8-6: ABSENT AND EARLY VOTING BALLOTS:
Voting by absent ballot or early voting by personal appearance shall be
conducted as prescribed by the laws of the state in effect at the time of such
voting, as set forth in Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 293C so far as such
laws are applicable to city elections. (Ord. 201, 3-11-2003)
1-8-7: REGISTRATION:
   A.   Every person who resides within the exterior boundaries of the city at
the time of holding any city election, and whose name appears upon the official
register of voters in and for the city, shall have the right to vote at each
city election, whether special, primary, or general, and for all officers to be
voted for and on all questions that may be submitted to the people at any such
primary, general, or special city election.
   B.   Registration of the electors or voters in the city shall be
accomplished in the manner provided in the election laws of the state, so far
as the same can be made applicable and which are not inconsistent herewith.
Registration shall close at the time specified in Nevada Revised Statutes 293C
for the close of registration for a general election. (Ord. 201, 3-11-2003)
1-8-8: SAMPLE BALLOTS AND VOTER LISTS:
Unless otherwise ordered by the board of councilmen, no list of electors
registered to vote at any city election need be published. The city clerk
shall, in accordance with the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes 293C.530,
at least ten (10) days before any election, cause to be mailed to each
registered voter in the city a sample ballot for his precinct with a notice
informing the voter of the location of his polling place. If the location of
the polling place has changed since the last election:
   A.   The city clerk shall mail a notice of the change to each registered
voter in the city not sooner than ten (10) days before mailing the sample
ballots; or
   B.   The sample ballot must also include a notice in at least 10-point bold
type immediately above the location which states:
NOTICE:   THE LOCATION OF YOUR POLLING PLACE HAS CHANGED SINCE THE LAST
ELECTION.
(Ord. 201, 3-11-2003)
1-8-9: NOTICES:
Notice of close of registration shall be given by the city clerk at the time
and in the manner provided for in Nevada Revised Statutes 293C. The city clerk
shall include in the notice of close of registration pursuant to Nevada Revised
Statutes 293C a statement indicating the last date and time on which persons
may file affidavits of candidacy and pay the filing fee for such election
specified in this chapter. The city clerk shall publish in a newspaper having a
general circulation in the city, a copy of the proclamation by the mayor,
proclaiming such election pursuant to article V of the city charter. Such copy
of the proclamation shall be published once a week for four (4) consecutive
weeks, the first publication thereof to be made within one week from the date
of such proclamation. The city clerk shall post a copy of such proclamation in
the office of the city clerk within one week from the date of such
proclamation, and shall further post a copy of the notice of close of
registration to be given pursuant hereto in the office of the city clerk within
one week from the date of first publication of such notice of close of
registration. (Ord. 201, 3-11-2003)
1-8-10: ELECTION BOARDS:
Election boards shall be appointed as prescribed by the laws of the state in
effect at the time of such voting as set forth in Nevada Revised Statutes 293C.
(Ord. 201, 3-11-2003)
CHAPTER 9
COURT FACILITIES ASSESSMENT FEE
SECTION:
1-9-1: Short Title
1-9-2: Duration
1-9-3: Administrative Assessment
1-9-4: Exceptions
1-9-5: Addition To Fine
1-9-6: Installments
1-9-7: Special Revenue Fund
1-9-8: Regional Justice Center
1-9-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the WELLS ADMINISTRATIVE FEE
FOR COURT FACILITIES CODE. (Ord. 180, 9-23-1997)
1-9-2: DURATION:
This chapter shall be in effect for twenty five (25) years after the effective
date hereof. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to offenses committed
before July 1, 1997. (Ord. 180, 9-23-1997)
1-9-3: ADMINISTRATIVE ASSESSMENT:
Whenever a defendant pleads guilty or guilty but mentally ill, or no contest or
is found guilty of a misdemeanor or violation of any municipal ordinance, the
municipal judge shall include in the sentence the sum of ten dollars ($10.00)
for each such misdemeanor or violation as an administrative assessment for the
provision of court facilities and render a judgment against the defendant for
the assessment. (Ord. 180, 9-23-1997)
1-9-4: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of section
1-9-3 of this chapter do not apply to:
   A.   An ordinance regulating metered parking; or
   B.   An ordinance that is specifically designated as imposing a civil
penalty or liability pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 244.3575 or 268.019.
(Ord. 180, 9-23-1997)
1-9-5: ADDITION TO FINE:
The money collected for an administrative assessment for the provision of court
facilities must not be deducted from the fine imposed by the justice or judge
but must be taxed against the defendant in addition to the fine. The money
collected for such an administrative assessment must be stated separately on
the court's docket and must be included in the amount posted for bail. If the
defendant is found not guilty or the charges are dismissed, the money deposited
with the court must be returned to the defendant. If the judge cancels a fine
because the fine has been determined to be uncollectible, any balance of the
fine and the administrative assessment remaining unpaid shall be deemed to be
uncollectible and the defendant is not required to pay it. If a fine is
determined to be uncollectible, the defendant is not entitled to a refund of
the fine or administrative assessment he has not paid and the judge shall not
recalculate the administrative assessment. (Ord. 180, 9-23-1997)
1-9-6: INSTALLMENTS:
If the judge permits the fine and administrative assessment for the provision
of court facilities to be paid in installments, the payments must be applied in
the following order:
   A.   To pay the unpaid balance of an administrative assessment imposed
pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 176.059;
   B.   To pay the unpaid balance of an administrative assessment for the
provision of court facilities pursuant to this section; and
   C.   To pay the fine. (Ord. 180, 9-23-1997)
1-9-7: SPECIAL REVENUE FUND:
The money collected for administrative assessments for the provision of court
facilities in municipal courts must be paid by the clerk of the court to the
city treasurer on or before the fifth day of each month for the preceding
month. The city treasurer shall deposit the money received in a special revenue
fund. The city may use the money in the special revenue fund only to:
   A.   Acquire land on which to construct additional facilities for the
municipal courts or a regional justice center that includes the municipal
courts.
   B.   Construct or acquire additional facilities for the municipal courts or
regional justice center that includes the municipal courts.
   C.   Renovate or remodel existing facilities for the municipal courts.
   D.   Acquire furniture, fixtures and equipment necessitated by the
construction or acquisition of additional facilities or the renovation of an
existing facility for the municipal courts or a regional justice center that
includes the municipal courts. This subsection does not authorize the
expenditure of money from the fund for furniture, fixtures or equipment for
judicial chambers.
   E.   Acquire advanced technology for use in the additional or renovated
facilities.
   F.   Pay debt service on any bonds issued pursuant to subsection 3 of Nevada
Revised Statutes 350.020 for the acquisition of land or facilities or the
construction or renovation of facilities for the municipal courts or a regional
justice center that includes the municipal courts.
Any money remaining in the special revenue fund after five (5) fiscal years
must be deposited in the municipal general fund for the continued maintenance
of court facilities if it has not been committed for expenditure pursuant to a
plan for the construction or acquisition or court facilities or improvements to
court facilities. The city treasurer shall provide, upon request by a municipal
court, monthly reports of the revenue credited to and expenditures made from
the special revenue fund. (Ord. 180, 9-23-1997)
1-9-8: REGIONAL JUSTICE CENTER:
If money collected pursuant to this chapter is to be used to acquire land on
which to construct a regional justice center, to construct a regional justice
center or to pay debt service on bonds issued for these purposes, the county
and the participating cities shall, by interlocal agreement, determine such
issues as the size of the regional justice center, the manner in which the
center will be used and the apportionment of fiscal responsibility for the
center. (Ord. 180, 9-23-1997)
CHAPTER 10
WHISTLE BLOWER PROTECTION
SECTION:
1-10-1: Definitions
1-10-2: Appointment And Authority Of Hearing Officer
1-10-3: Written Appeal
1-10-4: Procedures For Conduct Of Hearing On Written Appeal
1-10-5: Prohibitions And Applications
1-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings:
   IMPROPER GOVERNMENTAL ACTION: Any action taken by a city of Wells officer or
employee in the performance of his official duties, whether or not the action
is within the scope of his employment, which is:
   A.   In violation of any city, state law or regulation;
   B.   If the officer or employee is a local governmental officer or employee,
in violation of an ordinance of the local government;
   C.   An abuse of authority;
   D.   Of substantial and specific danger to the public health or safety; or
   E.   A gross waste of public money.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT: City of Wells.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENTAL EMPLOYEE: Any person who performs public duties under the
direction and control of the local governmental officer for compensation paid
by or through the local government.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENTAL OFFICER: A person elected or appointed to a position with
the local government that involves the exercise of a local governmental power,
trust or duty, including:
   A.   Actions taken in an official capacity which involve a substantial and
material exercise of administrative discretion in the formulation of local
governmental policy;
   B.   The expenditure of money of a local government; and
   C.   The enforcement of laws and regulations of the state or a local
government.
   REPRISAL OR RETALIATORY ACTION: Includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   The denial of adequate personnel to perform duties;
   B.   Frequent replacement of members of the staff;
   C.   Frequent and undesirable change in the location of an office;
   D.   The refusal to assign meaningful work;
   E.   The wrongful issuance of letters of reprimand or evaluations of poor
performance;
   F.   A wrongful demotion;
   G.   A wrongful reduction in pay;
   H.   The wrongful denial of a promotion;
   I.   A wrongful suspension;
   J.   A wrongful dismissal;
   K.   A wrongful transfer; or
   L.   Frequent changes in working hours or workdays. (Ord. 215, 4-28-2009)
1-10-2: APPOINTMENT AND AUTHORITY OF HEARING OFFICER:
   A.   The city council will periodically appoint a hearing officer or a panel
of hearing officers from recommendations made by the city manager.
   B.   If the hearing officer determines that the action taken was a reprisal
or retaliatory action, the hearing officer may issue an order directing the
proper person to desist and refrain from engaging in such action. (Ord. 215, 4-
28-2009)
1-10-3: WRITTEN APPEAL:
   A.   A local government officer or employee who claims a reprisal or
retaliatory action was taken against him for disclosing information concerning
improper governmental action may file a written appeal pursuant to Nevada
Revised Statutes chapter 281 with the city clerk. The appeal must be:
      1.   Filed within sixty (60) calendar days after the date the alleged
reprisal or retaliatory action took place;
      2.   Filed within two (2) years of the disclosure of improper
governmental action; and
      3.   Submitted on a form provided by the city clerk.
   B.   The hearing officer may reject a form that is incomplete or otherwise
deficient as insufficient to commence the appeal. (Ord. 215, 4-28-2009)
1-10-4: PROCEDURES FOR CONDUCT OF HEARING ON WRITTEN APPEAL:
   A.   The provisions of this section govern the procedure for conducting a
hearing for a written appeal filed pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes chapter
281 and this chapter.
   B.   A party may appear in person and may be represented by an attorney or
another person of his choice, if the party chooses not to represent himself.
   C.   All testimony must be under oath administered by the hearing officer.
   D.   The appeal must be heard in the following manner:
      1.   The opening statement for the officer or employee.
      2.   The opening statement for the employer, unless reserved.
      3.   Presentation of the officer's or employee's case, followed by cross
examination. The city officer or employee must establish that:
         a.   He was an officer or employee on the date of the alleged reprisal
or retaliatory action;
         b.   He disclosed information concerning improper governmental action;
and
         c.   The alleged reprisal or retaliatory action was taken against him
within two (2) years after the date he disclosed the information concerning
improper governmental action.
         d.   If the officer or employee establishes the facts set forth in
subsections D3a, D3b and D3c of this section, presentation of the employer's
case, followed by cross examination, to establish that the employer did not
engage in the alleged reprisal or retaliatory action or that the action was
taken for a legitimate business purpose and was not the result of the
disclosure of information concerning improper governmental action by the
officer or employee.
         e.   If the employer establishes a legitimate business purpose for the
alleged reprisal or retaliatory action, the officer or employee may introduce
evidence, followed by cross examination, to demonstrate that the stated
business purpose is a pretext for the reprisal or retaliatory action.
      4.   The parties may respectively offer rebutting testimony only, unless
the hearing officer permits additional evidence upon the original cause.
      5.   The closing argument for the city officer or employee.
      6.   The closing argument for the employer.
      7.   Submission of the appeal for a decision.
   E.   The hearing officer shall convene the hearing at the time and place
specified for the purpose of hearing the appeal.
   F.   Written notice of the time and place of the hearing must be given to
the parties at least ten (10) days in advance. The notice must contain the
information required for a party to request reasonable accommodation.
   G.   The hearing officer shall provide reasonable accommodation to a party
with a disability who requests such accommodation within the time sufficient to
make the accommodation.
   H.   Hearings may be continued beyond the period originally scheduled or
recessed until a future date which is agreeable to the hearing officer and the
parties if good cause is shown.
   I.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection J of this section, all
hearings on appeals must be open to the public.
   J.   On the motion of either party, the hearing officer shall exclude from
the hearing room witnesses in the matter not at the time under examination
except the parties to the proceeding. No hearing may be closed to the public
except on motion of either party for good cause shown.
   K.   A document or piece of physical evidence sought to be introduced during
the hearing must first be identified for the record and the hearing officer may
request the production of such records and the appearance of such persons as he
requires.
   L.   The hearing officer shall determine the evidence upon the charges and
specifications as set forth by the appeal document only, and shall not consider
any additional evidence beyond the scope of the charges.
   M.   An employer's or employee's past performance by way of an act or a
failure to act may be shown by competent evidence.
   N.   All testimony and exhibits offered at the hearing must be relevant and
bear upon the matter in contention. Any testimony or exhibits which are
considered by the hearing officer as not meeting this criterion may properly be
excluded. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply and the hearing officer has
full discretion to admit or preclude evidence.
   O.   The hearing officer shall also consider the objection of either side to
the introduction of evidence. Competence and relevance must be the primary test
in ruling on objections.
   P.   Decision must be based on evidence presented. The hearing officer shall
be guided in his decision by the weight of the evidence as it appears to him at
the hearing.
   Q.   Any letter, paper or object offered in evidence must be properly
authenticated. The representative for the opposing party is entitled to examine
the exhibit when it is offered. (Ord. 215, 4-28-2009)
1-10-5: PROHIBITIONS AND APPLICATIONS:
   A.   An officer or employee shall not directly or indirectly use or attempt
to use the officer's or employee's official authority or influence to
intimidate, threaten, coerce, command, influence or attempt to intimidate,
threaten, coerce, command or influence another city officer or employee or
another local governmental officer or employee, as applicable, in an effort to
interfere with or prevent the disclosure of information concerning improper
governmental action.
   B.   For the purposes of this section, use of "official authority or
influence" includes taking, directing others to take, recommending, processing
or approving any personnel action such as an appointment, promotion, transfer,
assignment, reassignment, reinstatement, restoration, reemployment, evaluation
or other disciplinary action.
   C.   A city officer or employee shall not use these provisions to harass
another city officer or employee.
   D.   These provisions do not prohibit an officer or employee from initiating
proper disciplinary procedures against another city officer or employee or
another local governmental officer or employee, as applicable, who disclosed
untruthful information concerning improper governmental action.
   E.   These provisions are intended to be directory and preventive rather
than punitive, and do not abrogate or decrease the effect of any of the
provisions of state statutes or this code which define or prescribe punishments
with respect to the conduct of officers or employees. (Ord. 215, 4-28-2009)
CHAPTER 11
CODE ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
1-11-1:    Definitions
1-11-2:    Authority
1-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: A person employed by the City for the purpose of
enforcing the City Code. (Ord. 241, 4-25-2023)
1-11-2: AUTHORITY:
   A.   Subject to and except as otherwise provided in NRS 171.17751, the
following officers and employees of the City are empowered to prepare, sign and
serve written citations on persons accused of violating the City Code:
      1.   Fire chief or any employees designed by the Fire Chief;
      2.   Building inspectors (including supervising building inspectors,
senior building inspectors, and building inspectors);
      3.   Police Chief or any employees designed by the Police Chief;
      4.   Code Enforcement Officers; and
      5.   Animal control officers.
   B.   Pursuant NRS 171.17751(5), an employee designated to prepare, sign and
serve written citations pursuant to this section may exercise that authority
only within the field of enforcement in which the employee works, may only
issue citations for violations of the City Code, and must comply with the
provisions of NRS 171.1773 pertaining to the form and content of citations.
(Ord. 241, 4-25-2023)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Planning Commission   1
Emergency Management   2
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Administrative Provisions; Appointments
2-1-2: Officers And Employees
2-1-3: Compensation
2-1-4: Meetings And Transactions Of Business
2-1-5: Powers, Duties And Jurisdiction
2-1-6: Financial Provisions
2-1-7: Cooperation By City Officials
2-1-1: ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS; APPOINTMENTS:
   A.   Appointment, Membership: There is hereby created a planning commission
in and for the city to be known as the Wells planning commission. This
commission shall consist of seven (7) members. The members of the commission
shall be appointed by the mayor of the city, with the approval of the board of
councilmen. The members shall hold no other public office, except that one such
member may be a member of the zoning board of adjustment. Members shall be
eligible for reappointment.
   B.   Term Of Office: The terms of the members first appointed shall be three
(3) years for two (2) members, two (2) years for two (2) members and one year
for three (3) members. The mayor shall designate the terms of the respective
members first appointed at the time of appointment. Thereafter, the terms of
each member shall be four (4) years or until his successor takes office.
   C.   Termination Of Office, Vacancy: Members may be removed, after public
hearing, by a majority vote of the board of councilmen for inefficiency,
neglect of duty or malfeasance of office.
Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be
filled for the unexpired term.
Absence of an appointed member for four (4) consecutive regular meetings
without the formal consent of the commission shall be deemed to constitute a
retirement of that appointed member, and the vacancy thus created shall be
filled thereafter by the mayor by the appointment of a successor to fill the
unexpired term of office.
   D.   Definitions: So far as applicable to this chapter the definitions set
out in Nevada Revised Statutes 278.010 are adopted as part of this chapter.
(Ord. 91, 2-12-1973)
2-1-2: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Officers: Within thirty (30) days after their appointment, members of
the commission shall meet in regular session and organize by electing from
their appointed members a chairman and from their members a secretary. The term
of the chairman and secretary shall be one year, with eligibility for
reelection.
It shall be the duty of the chairman to preside over all meetings of the
commission. In his absence, a chairman pro tempore may be elected to preside.
It shall be the duty of the secretary to keep a record of all proceedings of
the commission, to keep all records required by this chapter or by the laws of
the state of Nevada, to transmit the commission's recommendations to the board
of councilmen of the city and perform such other duties as are usually
performed by the secretary of a planning commission.
   B.   Employees, Contractors: In addition to electing its chairman and
secretary, the commission shall create and fill such other offices as it may
determine.
The commission may appoint such employees as it may deem necessary for its
work, whose appointment, promotion, demotion and removal shall be subject to
the same provisions of law as govern other corresponding civil employees of the
city.
The commission may also contract with city planners, engineers, architects and
other consultants for such services as it may require. (Ord. 91, 2-12-1973)
2-1-3: COMPENSATION:
All members of the commission shall serve as such without compensation
excepting reasonable traveling expenses made necessary in the fulfillment of
their duties. (Ord. 91, 2-12-1973)
2-1-4: MEETINGS AND TRANSACTIONS OF BUSINESS:
   A.   The commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in each month.
Other meetings may be provided for in its rules.
   B.   It shall adopt rules for transaction of business and shall keep a
record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations, which
record shall be a public record. Rules may be amended from time to time.
   C.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, a majority of the members
of the commission shall constitute a quorum for holding of a meeting and the
transaction of business and a majority vote of the members of the commission
shall be necessary for official action. (Ord. 91, 2-12-1973)
2-1-5: POWERS, DUTIES AND JURISDICTION:
   A.   Jurisdiction: The jurisdiction of the planning commission shall be
within the limits of the city and all areas hereafter annexed or added to the
city.
   B.   Create Master Plan: The commission shall prepare and adopt a
comprehensive long term general plan for the physical development of the city,
which, in the commission's judgment, bears relation to the planning thereof as
provided in title 9, chapter 1 of this code.
   C.   Annual Report: The commission shall render annually a full report of
its work to the board of councilmen of the city.
   D.   Advice And Recommendations To Council: The commission shall have the
following additional powers and duties:
      1.   To confer with and advise the board of councilmen upon all matters
which may be referred to it by the mayor of the board of councilmen.
      2.   To recommend to the board of councilmen the leasing, sale, exchange,
use or other disposition of city owned property for planning and zoning
purposes 1 .
   E.   Advisory Powers: Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, or by
the laws of the state, the powers and duties of the commission are of an
advisory nature only, and the commission shall not have any powers or duties
which conflict with or supersede the powers and duties of other city
commissions, board, supervisors or officials 2 . (Ord. 91, 2-12-1973)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 1, chapter 6 of this code for sale of real property regulations.
2 2. See title 9, chapter 1 of this code for other powers and duties.
2-1-6: FINANCIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Expenditures: The expenditures of the commission, exclusive of gifts,
shall be within the amounts appropriated for the purpose by the board of
councilmen which shall provide the funds, equipment and accommodations
necessary for the commission's work.
   B.   Financial Limitations: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter,
neither the commission nor any member thereof shall incur any financial
liability in the name of the city. (Ord. 91, 2-12-1973)
2-1-7: COOPERATION BY CITY OFFICIALS:
All officers and employees of the city shall cooperate with the commission and
render all reasonable assistance. (Ord. 91, 2-12-1973)
CHAPTER 2
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
2-2-1: Purpose; Local Emergency Manager
2-2-2: Definitions
2-2-3: Responsibilities And Powers Of Local Emergency Manager
2-2-4: Curfews, Rationing, And Suspension Of Ordinances
2-2-5: Removal Of Structures, Debris And Other Hazards
2-2-6: Protection Of City Documents
2-2-7: Violations And Penalty
2-2-1: PURPOSE; LOCAL EMERGENCY MANAGER:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the safety and welfare of
the people and the protection of their property within the City of Wells in an
emergency or disaster through organized emergency operations; to provide for
the coordination of such operations with appropriate public and private
agencies, persons, business associations and organizations; and to provide for
the delegation of the disaster assistance responsibilities of the Board of
Council Members to those city agencies having the resources for providing
disaster assistance.
   B.   Local Emergency Manager: There is hereby created the office of Local
Emergency Manager. Such officer shall be appointed by the mayor and may be the
city manager. (Ord. 235, 5-11-2021)
2-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter unless context otherwise requires:
 
             An emergency which is so severe or widespread that it is beyond the resources
DISASTER:    normally available to local government or private relief agencies to alleviate
             the damage, loss, hardship or suffering caused by natural or human-caused events.
             Any human-made or natural event or circumstances causing or threatening loss of
EMERGENCY:   life, injury to person or property, human suffering or financial loss of such an
             extent that extraordinary measures must be taken to protect the public health,
             safety and welfare.
             The preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency functions, other than
             functions for which military forces are primarily responsible, to minimize injury
             and repair damage resulting from emergencies or disasters caused by enemy attack,
             sabotage or other hostile action, by fire, flood, earthquake, storm or other
EMERGENCY    natural causes, or by technological or man-made catastrophes. These functions
MANAGEMENT:  include, without limitation:
             A.   The provision of support for search and rescue operations for persons and
             property in distress.
             B.   Organized analysis, planning and coordination of available resources for the
             mitigation of, preparation for, response to or recovery from emergencies or
             disasters.
EMERGENCY    A plan adopted pursuant to this chapter which contains the city's policies and
OPERATIONS   procedures and provides guidance to the chief executive, policymakers, city
PLAN or the  personnel and the community when managing emergency operations, the planning
PLAN:        process and programs.
LOCAL        The person appointed by the mayor to carry out the emergency operations plan and
EMERGENCY    lead the local organization for emergency management.
MANAGER:
LOCAL
ORGANIZATION That organization led by the local emergency manager subject to the direction and
FOR          control of the mayor or board of council members.
EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT:
RESPONSE     That plan as defined by NRS 239C.250. (Ord. 235, 5-11-2021)
PLAN:
 
2-2-3: RESPONSIBILITIES AND POWERS OF LOCAL EMERGENCY MANAGER:
   A.   The local emergency manager is responsible for:
      1.   Preparation of the emergency operations plan.
      2.   Presentation of the plan to the board of council members for
approval.
      3.   Revisions to the plan and presentation of revisions to the board of
council members which may approve amendments by resolution.
      4.   Preparation of a response plan.
      5.   Presentation of the response plan to the board of council members
for approval.
      6.   Annual review and presentation of the response plan, along with any
revisions, to the board of council members for approval by resolution.
      7.   Submission of the response plan before December 31 of each year to
the Nevada Division of Emergency Management of the Department of Public Safety.
   B.   The local emergency manager is empowered to:
      1.   Execute the emergency operations plan and control the overall
accomplishment of the purpose of this chapter at the direction of the mayor
who, by charter, shall perform emergency duties necessary for the general
health, welfare and safety of the City of Wells.
      2.   Direct city employees and members of the local organization for
emergency management in order to implement the emergency operations plan.
      3.   Obtain vital services, supplies and equipment needed to protect life
and property through requisition or contract with private parties or other
governmental entities and may bind the city for the value thereof without being
required to comply with the normal purchasing procedures if compliance with
those procedures would unreasonably hamper or impair the implementation of the
plan.
      4.   Suspend the licensing requirements for persons whose services are
required for the implementation of the plan. (Ord. 235, 5-11-2021)
2-2-4: CURFEWS, RATIONING, AND SUSPENSION OF ORDINANCES:
If an emergency or disaster has been declared and the local emergency manager
deems it necessary to maintain peace and protect the public, he or she may,
with the sheriffs consent:
   A.   Establish a curfew for the area designated as an emergency area which
fixes the hours during which persons other than officially authorized personnel
may be upon the public streets or other public places.
   B.   Prohibit or limit the number of persons who may gather or congregate
upon any public street within the emergency area.
   C.   Prohibit or ration the sale, distribution or giving away of petroleum
products or fuel.
   D.   Protect and monitor the stores which handle essential items such as
food, medicines and essential supplies.
   E.   Temporarily suspend codes and ordinances in the interest of health,
safety and welfare.
Nothing in this section limits the powers or authority of the sheriff
established by charter, state law or the Nevada Constitution. (Ord. 235, 5-11-
2021)
2-2-5: REMOVAL OF STRUCTURES, DEBRIS AND OTHER HAZARDS:
During an emergency or disaster, the local emergency manager may direct the
removal of structures, debris and other hazards which threaten the public
health or safety. Upon the failure of a person to comply with an order, the
city may take action to remove the hazards, and the property owner is liable
for the costs incurred. (Ord. 235, 5-11-2021)
2-2-6: PROTECTION OF CITY DOCUMENTS:
Each department or agency of city government shall protect, store in an
alternate location, and back up vital records. (Ord. 235, 5-11-2021)
2-2-7: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY:
It shall be a misdemeanor punishable by fine not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or by imprisonment not to exceed six (6) months, or both, during an
emergency:
   A.   To willfully obstruct, hinder, or delay any member of the local
organization for emergency management or the local emergency manager in any
enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation issued pursuant to this chapter or
in the performance of any duty imposed upon him or her by virtue of this
chapter.
   B.   To do any act forbidden by any lawful rules or regulations issued
pursuant to this chapter if such act is of such a nature as to give assistance
to the enemy or to imperil the life or property of any inhabitant of this city
or to prevent, hinder or delay the defense or protection thereof.
   C.   To wear or carry or display without authority any mark or
identification specified by the local emergency manager. (Ord. 235, 5-11-2021)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Business Licensing Regulations   1
Transient Lodging Tax   2
Liquor Regulations   3
Petroleum Products   4
Gaming License Board   5
Wells Brothel Code   6
Licensing And Regulation Of Sexually Oriented Businesses   7
Cannabis Zoning Regulations And Licenses   8
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Licenses Required
3-1-2: Exemptions
3-1-3: Application For License
3-1-4: Licenses; Issuance By Clerk
3-1-5: Monies Received By City Clerk
3-1-6: Posting License
3-1-7: Multiple Licenses
3-1-8: Requirement; Non-Transferability
3-1-9: Duties Of City Clerk
3-1-10: Fees
3-1-11: Term Of License; Payment Of Fees
3-1-12: Duties Of Licensees
3-1-13: Investigations And Inspections
3-1-14: Suspension Or Revocation Of Licenses
3-1-15: Penalties; Violations
3-1-1: LICENSES REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or carry on any business,
trade, profession or calling for the transaction or carrying on of which a
license is required under the provisions of the chapter within the city without
first procuring the license required for such business, trade, profession or
calling as in this chapter provided. (Ord. 224, 6-24-2014)
3-1-2: EXEMPTIONS:
The foregoing notwithstanding, a business license is not required for the
following:
   A.   Providing childcare for less than three (3) children.
   B.   A governmental entity as defined by chapter 76, Nevada Administrative
Code.
   C.   A non-profit religious, charitable, fraternal or other organization
that qualifies as a tax-exempt organization pursuant to 26 U.S.C., § 501(c).
   D.   A vendor at an event sponsored or hosted by a non-profit religious,
charitable, fraternal or other organization that qualifies as a tax-exempt
organization pursuant to 26 U.S.C. § 501(c).
   E.   A natural person who has qualified and received a state business
license exemption from the State of Nevada.
   F.   A natural person whose sole business is the rental of four (4) or fewer
dwelling units to others.
   G.   A business whose primary purpose is to create or produce motion
pictures. As used in this section, MOTION PICTURES has the meaning ascribed to
it in Nevada Revised Statutes 231.020, and who is registered with the division
of motion pictures.
   H.   An insurance company holding a current license or certificate of
authority pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 680B.020 conducting business not
incidental to title 57.
   I.   Any vendor or group associated with or affiliate of Wells Combined
Schools, performing a fundraiser within the Wells city limits. (Ord. 224, 6-24-
2014)
3-1-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Application Fee And Form: Every person desirous of carrying on,
maintaining, pursuing, conducting or transacting any such trade, business,
occupation, calling or pursuit shall apply to the city clerk for a license so
to do and shall deposit with such application the proper license fee. Such
application shall be in substantially the following form:
      APPLICATION FOR LICENSE
      TO THE HONORABLE CITY CLERK OF THE CITY OF WELLS, IN THE COUNTY OF ELKO,
STATE OF NEVADA:
      Gentlemen:
      In accordance with Wells City Code, Title 3, Chapter 1, I hereby apply
for a license, permitting the carrying on of _________________ at
____________________, in the city of Wells, such business to begin on the
_______ day of _________________, 20____. I hereby state that no business has
been carried on at said place by the applicant, without having first obtained a
license so to do; and I hereby promise that if said license is granted, the
licensee will comply with all the ordinances of the City now in effect or which
may be enacted for the regulation and control of such business, and this
promise shall be deemed part of the consideration passing to the City of Wells
for the grant of such license. License to be issued in the name of
      ___________________________________________________________.
      Names of all persons owning an interest in said business, and respective
places of business:
      ______________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________
__________________________________
      There is herewith enclosed the sum of $ ___________ as license fee, as
determined by the provisions of Wells City Resolution.
                     __________________________
                        Applicant
      Subscribed and sworn to before me this ______ day of _________________,
20____.
      ______________________________
      City Clerk or Notary Public   
   B.   Information Required; Investigation: The application shall require the
submission of such information as the city clerk shall find to be reasonably
necessary for the fair administration of this chapter. Upon request of the city
clerk, the chief law enforcement officer may cause an investigation of any
applicant for a license under this chapter and to provide the city clerk with
the information necessary to determine the eligibility of such applicant for a
license and the accuracy, completeness and reliability of the information
supplied by such applicant.
   C.   Denial Of Application:
   1.   The city clerk shall have the right and power to refuse and deny any
applications for a license if the clerk determines that any one or more of the
following exist:
      a.   The applicant has failed to truthfully and completely fill out and
execute under oath the required application forms and supply and provide all
information required thereby;
      b.   The applicant has been convicted of any felony or has been convicted
of any crime involving moral turpitude;
      c.   The application contains any false, fraudulent or misleading
material statements or information;
      d.   The application or any agent, employee, officer, director,
stockholder or other representative thereof has at any time had a business
license for the same or a similar business suspended, cancelled or revoked;
      e.   The business for which the license is applied for is unlawful under
any ordinance, code, rule or law of the city, state or federal government; or
      f.    The business to be licensed involves any act, the commission of or
the permitting or causing the commission of, in the operation such business is
made unlawful or is prohibited by any ordinance, rule, code or law of the city,
state, or federal government.
   2.   Upon any refusal or denial of an application, the city clerk shall
notify the applicant and state in writing the reasons therefor and deliver them
to the applicant personally or mail them to the applicant at the address
indicated on the application.
   3.   When any application is denied or the issuance of a license is denied,
such applicant shall not engage in the business for which the license or
application was refused unless a license to be issued to such applicant
pursuant to a judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction ordering the same
or the denial is overruled in the appeal procedure by the city council. (Ord.
224, 6-24-2014)
3-1-4: LICENSES; ISSUANCE BY CLERK:
A license shall not be issued to any person, until the amount required for such
license shall be first paid as required by the provisions of this chapter.
   A.   Ex Officio Collector; Authority: The city clerk is hereby made ex
officio collector of licenses and shall have the power to issue all licenses
herein provided for and collect all revenue required to be paid under the
provisions of this chapter, and as is provided by that certain act of the
legislature of the state entitled "an act incorporating the City of Wells in
Elko County, Nevada and defining the boundaries thereof, under a new charter
approved April 15, 1971, and providing other matters relating thereto".
   B.   License Forms Issuance: All licenses provided by this chapter shall be
printed in appropriate form, and in duplicate and shall be so printed that on
issuance the date, number, amount, business, trade or profession licensed and
the name or names of the party or parties to whom the license is granted and
the time for which the same is granted shall be indicated, and before issuance
to the persons entitled thereto, upon payment of said license being made, shall
be signed by the city clerk and the mayor. (Ord. 224, 6-24-2014)
3-1-5: MONIES RECEIVED BY CITY CLERK:
The city clerk is hereby made the ex officio receiver of license money under
the provisions of this chapter and shall deposit the same in the fund of the
city to be used for city purposes within the city, as is provided by an act of
the legislature of the state entitled "an act incorporating the City of Wells
in Elko County, Nevada and defining the boundaries thereof, under a new charter
approved April 15, 1971, and providing other matters relating thereto". (Ord.
224, 6-24-2014)
3-1-6: POSTING LICENSE:
All licenses taken out pursuant to the requirements of this chapter shall be
posted and kept by the party or parties taking out the same, in a conspicuous
place in or about the place of business of the person who obtains the same;
and, on demand, during the usual hours of business, must be shown to the city
clerk. (Ord. 224, 6-24-2014)
3-1-7: MULTIPLE LICENSES:
More than one (1) business license may be required for a business operation
depending on the type of business activities being conducted. (Ord. 224, 6-24-
2014)
3-1-8: REQUIREMENT; NON-TRANSFERABILITY:
Every license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall specify by name
the person or who it is issued and shall designate the business which is to be
carried on under said license and the place where the same shall be carried on.
No license granted or issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be in
any way transferable or assignable or authorize any other business than is
therein mentioned or named to be done or transacted. (Ord. 224, 6-24-2014)
3-1-9: DUTIES OF CITY CLERK:
   A.   License Register: The city clerk shall make diligent inquiry and
examination as to all persons in the city liable to pay for licenses as
provided in this chapter. The clerk shall keep in the clerk's office a set of
books to be called the "City License Register", in which shall be entered the
names of all parties to whom license have been issued, the business, trade or
profession licenses, the time for which the license holds good, the date of
issuance and the date of its expiration, and the amount received therefor.
There shall be kept an accurate account in a suitable book of all licenses
issued by the clerk the quarter, month, week or day, as the case may be, for
which issued and the amount thereof.
   B.   Report Delinquencies: The clerk may report to the city council all
parties who have failed to take out licenses or failed to timely pay the fee,
as required by this chapter, as soon as such party or parties shall have been
delinquent ten (10) days, and thereupon the city council may instruct the city
attorney to institute civil proceedings to recover the amount of such
delinquency, together with any penalty and all costs of suit; but such civil
proceedings shall not be a bar to the criminal action in the chapter provided
for.
   C.   Classification Of Businesses: In all cases not specifically named by
resolution of the city council, the city clerk shall place the business to be
licensed in the category which she considers to be proper for the business in
question. (Ord. 224, 6-24-2014)
3-1-10: FEES:
The business license and classification of businesses fees applicable to each
particular business within the city shall be set by resolution of the city
council. (Ord. 224, 6-24-2014)
3-1-11: TERM OF LICENSE; PAYMENT OF FEES:
All licenses are for the fiscal year beginning July 1 and ending June 30. All
licenses must be renewed each fiscal year. There shall be no proration of
license fees for a license issued after the beginning of the fiscal year and
there shall be no return of such fee to businesses which discontinued their
operation prior to the end of the fiscal year. (Ord. 224, 6-24-2014)
3-1-12: DUTIES OF LICENSEES:
Every licensee under this chapter shall:
   A.   Permit all reasonable inspections of his business and examination of
his books by public authorities so authorized by law;
   B.   Ascertain and at all times comply with all laws, ordinances and
regulations applicable to such licensed business;
   C.   Avoid all forbidden, unlawful, improper and unnecessary acts or
practices or conditions in the conduct of his business which do or may affect
the public health, morals or welfare or constitute a public nuisance; and
   D.   Refrain from operating the licensed businesses in the city after
expiration of his license and during the period his license is revoked or
suspended. (Ord. 224, 6-24-2014)
3-1-13: INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   The city clerk and the chief law enforcement officer, and their
respective deputies and officers, shall and hereby are authorized to make
investigations reasonably necessary for the enforcement of this chapter and
shall have the authority to inspect licensees, their business records or
premises to determine and enforce compliance with this chapter.
   B.   All persons authorized herein to inspect licensees and businesses shall
have the authority to enter, with or without search warrant, at all reasonable
times, the following premises:
      1.   Those for which a license is required;
      2.   Those for which a license was issued and which, at the time of
inspection, are operating under said license; and/or
      3.   Those for which the license has been revoked or suspended. (Ord.
224, 6-24-2014)
3-1-14: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
   A.   Criteria For Suspension Or Revocation: Any license issued, pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter or any amendment thereof, for the conducting of
business may be suspended or revoked for good cause by the city council. Good
cause for such suspension or revocation shall include, but is not limited to
the following.
      1.   The existence of unsanitary conditions, noise, disturbances or other
conditions at, near or in the premises which cause or tend to create a public
nuisance or which injuriously affects the public health, safety, morals or
welfare.
      2.   The commission of, or permitting or causing the commission of, any
act in the operation of the business, which act is made unlawful or is
prohibited by any ordinance, rule or law of the city, state or federal
government.
      3.   Fraudulent practices and misrepresentation in the operation of the
business, or concealment or misrepresentation in procuring the license.
      4.   The business for which the license has been issued is unlawful or is
prohibited by any ordinance, code, rule or law of the city, state or federal
government.
      5.   The license was issued by mistake or in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter.
      6.   The premises used for the conduct of said business has been
condemned, declared a fire hazard or declared unsafe for business occupancy
under the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Procedure For Suspension Or Revocation: Any license issued pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter may be suspended, cancelled or revoked in the
manner provided in this subsection.
      1.   The city council may, on its own motion or initiative or upon
complaint of any person, institute proceedings to suspend or revoke the license
by mailing a complaint setting up the alleged reason for such proceeding to the
licensee at the last address or such licensee as shown by his application or by
a supplemental application filed pursuant to the provisions hereof.
      2.   The licensee shall, within five (5) days of the date of such mailing
unless an extension of time be granted by the council, file with the city clerk
written answer to such a complaint.
      3.   The city council shall fix a day and time for a hearing at which the
licensee shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
      4.   If the licensee fails to file a written answer at the time required
or if the licensee fails to appear at the place and time designated for the
hearing, the city council may order the license suspended or revoked.
      5.   The city council shall within ten (10) days from the date of such
hearing enter an order to suspend or revoke or to refuse to suspend or revoke
said license.
      6.   An alternative to the procedure outlined in the foregoing
subsections, the city council may on its own initiative or upon the complaint
from any person requiring the licensee to appear before the city council and
the time and place fixed by the city council then and there to show cause, if
any he may have, why his license should not be suspended or revoked. The
hearing shall not be less than five (5) days from the date of service upon the
licensee by mailing a copy of the order to him at his last known address or
place of business or by making personal service upon him thereof. Failure by
the licensee to appear at the time and place designated by the city council
hereof in and of itself constitutes sufficient grounds for the suspension or
revocation of a licensee's license.
   7.   There shall be no reopening or review of the proceedings whatever
before the city council except when it shall subsequently appear to the
satisfaction of the city council that the licensee's failure to answer or
appear was due to matters beyond his control and not to the negligence on the
part of the licensee.
   8.   In all proceedings under this chapter or any other provision of this
chapter, the city council shall have the right to subpoena witnesses and
documents and all witnesses thus subpoenaed shall attend at the time and place
appointed therein, and failure to attend at the time and place appointed by the
city council as contempt thereof and a finding by the city council to such
effect shall be reported to the chief law enforcement officer for immediate
disposition thereon and shall constitute prima facie evidence of contempt in
any trial of the offending witness in any court in the city. (Ord. 224, 6-24-
2014)
3-1-15: PENALTIES; VIOLATIONS:
Any person opening, engaging in, carrying on or pursuing any business trade,
occupation, calling or pursuit without first having obtained from the city the
required license may be found guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty,
and in addition thereto shall pay the entire fee for the required license
retroactive to the beginning of the fiscal year, July 1 of the year such
business, trade, occupation, calling or pursuit was established, together with
a penalty payment equal to the total sum of one year's fee for the license
required. In addition to other penalties which may be provided, if the any
license fee provided for by this chapter shall remain unpaid for a period of
more than thirty (30) days after the same is due, a penalty of one half (1/2)
the license fee shall be added to the same and collected by the officer or
employee of the city having charge of the collection of licenses. If this
license fee and the penalty remain unpaid for additional ten (10) days, the
license shall be forthwith cancelled. (Ord. 224, 6-24-2014)
CHAPTER 2
TRANSIENT LODGING TAX 1
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: License Required
3-2-3: Transient Lodging Tax Provisions
3-2-4: Dispute Resolution
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  3-1-5E of this title for hotel license fees.
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
   CITY: City of Wells.
   LESSEE: Any person renting rooms, spaces or accommodations from a licensee.
   LICENSEE: Any person operating or conducting a rental business of transient
lodging.
   TAX: A tax imposed herein on transient lodging and by the authority of the
laws of Nevada and especially section 268.095, Nevada Revised Statutes, and all
amendments thereto.
   TRANSIENT LODGING: The following types of lodging:
   A.   Hotels;
   B.   Motels;
   C.   Apartments;
   D.   Time share projects, except when an owner of a unit in the time share
project who has a right to sue or occupy the unit is occupying the unit
pursuant to a "time share instrument" as defined in Nevada Revised Statutes
119A.150;
   E.   Apartment hotels;
   F.   Vacation trailer parks;
   G.   Campgrounds;
   H.   Parks for recreational vehicles; and
   I.   Any other establishment that rents rooms, spaces or other
accommodations to temporary or transient guests having four (4) or more rooms,
spaces or other accommodations for rent.
   TRANSIENT LODGING RENTAL BUSINESS: The operating of any business which
provides "transient lodging", wherein a room, space or other accommodation is
rented for a period of less than twenty eight (28) days for use by the same
tenant, to include any room, space or other accommodation which is rented to
the same tenant in successive terms of less than twenty eight (28) days each,
but not to include any room, space or other accommodation which is rented for a
term of twenty eight (28) days or longer. In the event a business rents a
portion of its rooms, spaces or other accommodations for terms of less than
twenty eight (28) days and another portion of its rooms, spaces or other
accommodations for terms of twenty eight (28) days or more, only those rooms,
spaces or other accommodations rented for terms of less than twenty eight (28)
days shall constitute a "transient lodging rental business". (Ord. 208, 12-14-
2004)
3-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, either for himself or for another person,
to commence or to carry on any transient lodging rental business in this city,
without first having procured a license from the city clerk so to do; provided,
that a licensee may secure the license within ten (10) days of commencement of
business or within ten (10) days when this chapter becomes effective, but the
license shall be issued as of the date of the commencement of business or the
effective date hereof.
The city clerk shall, upon receipt of an application for a license, issue a
license to such applicant, who shall keep the same posted in his place of
business in a conspicuous place. (Ord. 208, 12-14-2004)
3-2-3: TRANSIENT LODGING TAX PROVISIONS:
There is hereby fixed and imposed a license tax for revenue and regulation on
every licensee operating a transient lodging rental business within the city,
in addition to all existing license taxes now in effect: a) a tax in the amount
of thirteen percent (13%) of the amount of the gross income derived from
rentals received by such licensee operating a transient lodging rental business
within the corporate limits of the city; b) a promotion of tourism tax in the
amount of one percent (1%) of the amount of the gross income derived from
rentals received by such licensee operating a transient lodging rental business
within the corporate limits of the city.
   A.   Exemptions And Exceptions: There shall be, and hereby is, exempted from
the license tax on transient lodging each rental by any lessee of a room, space
or other accommodation when the room, space or other accommodation is paid for,
directly, from a federal, state or local governmental entity.
   B.   Tax Collected By Licensee: Each licensee is, and shall be, required to
add the amount of the transient lodging tax on the amount of the room or space
rentals due from each lessee. The amount of the tax shall be displayed
separately from the price of the room or space rent on the registration card or
other record of the licensee.
   C.   Display Of Notice: Each licensee shall prominently display in each room
or suite of rooms or rental space rented or leased, or, at the option of the
licensee, in the lobby at or in the immediate vicinity of the registration
desk, a sign reading substantially as follows:
   NOTICE
This business is required to collect a 14% transient lodging tax on any
transient lodging rental of less than 28 days.
         The Management
   D.   Tax Paid To Clerk, Penalties And Interest:
      1.   The licensee shall pay or mail and have postmarked the transient
lodging tax to the city clerk on or before the tenth day of the month following
the month in which said tax shall accrue. The transient lodging tax shall
become delinquent after the tenth day of the month in which the same is to be
paid, if the tax has not been received or mailed and postmarked by that date.
If the transient lodging taxes are not received or postmarked on or before the
tenth day of the month in which they become due, then the licensee shall pay a
penalty of ten percent (10%) of the unpaid, due and delinquent transient
lodging tax, plus interest at the rate of one percent (1%) per month on such
delinquent transient lodging tax from the date of delinquency to the date of
payment of such transient lodging tax, but the interest shall not exceed thirty
percent (30%) of such tax, and the licensee shall also pay the costs of
collection of the tax, penalty and interest, including the court costs and
attorney fees.
      2.   The city clerk is hereby authorized and empowered to collect the
proceeds of said transient lodging tax, interest and penalties and to enforce
by all appropriate and lawful means the provisions of this chapter and to bring
suit therefor as well as to proceed by criminal action.
   E.   Examination Of Books And Records: The city clerk and his duly
authorized agent are empowered to examine and audit the books, papers and
records of any licensee or person operating a transient lodging rental business
and to make investigations in connection therewith.
   F.   Refunds: All licenses shall be issued for the period of time set forth
in the license. In accordance with applicable law, the city clerk shall have
the authority to refund, without interest, to the licensee any tax improperly
collected by said city clerk from any licensee.
   G.   Recreational Fund Provided:
      1.   The city shall forthwith set up a recreational fund and all monies
paid hereunder pursuant to the thirteen percent (13%) transient lodging tax
shall be credited thereto. The city shall use the proceeds of the thirteen
percent (13%) transient lodging tax solely for recreational purposes now in
existence or which may be created hereafter. One and five tenths percent (1.5%)
of the thirteen percent (13%) will be placed in a capital improvement fund for
capital/recreation projects. The transient lodging tax shall be for the benefit
of the residents of the city and others. Said funds may be expended as a part
of said recreational purpose for the administration and enforcement of this
chapter. If the city should issue bonds for the aforesaid recreational
purposes, or borrow money legally through any other method for recreational
purposes, the monies comprising the recreational fund, or to comprise the same
in the fund, may be pledged to pay the obligations secured by said bonds or
otherwise.
      2.   The city shall forthwith set up a promotion of tourism fund and one
percent (1%) of all monies paid hereunder shall be credited thereto. The city
shall use the proceeds of the one percent (1%) transient lodging tax solely to
advertise the resources of Elko County related to tourism, including available
accommodations, transportation, entertainment, natural resources and climate,
and to promote special events related thereto. Three-eighths (3/8) of all
proceeds of the tax must be paid to the department of taxation for deposit with
the state treasurer for credit to the fund for the promotion of tourism. Five-
eighths (5/8) of all proceeds of the tax must be deposited with the county fair
and recreation board created pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 244A.597 and
244A.598 to be used to advertise the resources of Elko County related to
tourism, including available accommodations, transportation, entertainment,
natural resources and climate and to promote special events related thereto.
(Ord. 208, 12-14-2004; amd. Ord. 226, 4-28-2015)
3-2-4: DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
   A.   Any dispute relating to an overpayment or underpayment of any transient
lodging tax must in the first instance be the subject of the following dispute
resolution process before either the city or the taxpayer may file a civil
court action.
   B.   The party asserting the dispute must serve a written notice of dispute
upon the other party. The notice of dispute must be served together with a
written statement setting forth the nature of the dispute, the disputing
party's position with respect to the dispute, and the technical, legal or
factual information or documentation the disputing party is relying upon to
support its position. Within ten (10) days after service of the disputing
party's written statement of position, the opposing party must serve the
disputing party a written statement of position setting forth the opposing
party's position with respect to the dispute, and the technical, legal or
factual information or documentation the opposing party is relying upon to
support its position.
The parties shall have a period of ten (10) days from the date of service of
the disputing party's written statement within which to resolve the dispute by
informal negotiations.
   C.   In the event the parties are unable to resolve the dispute by informal
negotiations under the preceding subsection, then the dispute shall be
submitted to nonbinding arbitration. The arbitration must commence within
thirty (30) days of the termination of the period for informal dispute
resolution provided in subsection B of this section and must be conducted by
the justice of peace of Wells Township. Each party shall bear its own costs and
expenses (including attorney fees) associated with the arbitration. The parties
may otherwise resolve any or all disputes at any time before, during or after
the arbitration process.
   D.   In the event the dispute cannot be resolved in accordance with this
section, each party shall have the right to take any judicial action available
to it under the laws of the state of Nevada. Jurisdiction and venue for any
such action shall be the justice court of the applicable township or the fourth
judicial district court of the state of Nevada. (Ord. 208, 12-14-2004)
CHAPTER 3
LIQUOR REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: License Required; Exceptions
3-3-3: License Classifications; Fees
3-3-4: Application For License; Information To Be Shown
3-3-5: Investigation Of Applicant
3-3-6: Status Of Fraternal, Social And Civic Clubs
3-3-7: Approval, Denial Of Application By Board
3-3-8: Issuance And Contents Of License
3-3-9: License Conditions And Requirements
3-3-10: Revocation Of License; Board Powers
3-3-11: Summary Suspension Of License; Grounds; Procedure
3-3-12: Reinstatement Of Licenses
3-3-13: Minors
3-3-14: Premises Maintained In Clean And Orderly Manner
3-3-15: Penalty; Civil Judgment
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
described in this section, unless the context clearly indicates a different
meaning:
   BEER: Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of any infusion or
decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product, or any
combination thereof, in water.
   BEER LICENSE: A license issued by the city which permits the sale of beer by
the licensee at the premises specified in the license for consumption on or off
the licensee's premises.
   BOARD: The board of councilmen of the city.
   CITY: The city of Wells, Nevada.
   CITY CLERK: The city clerk of the city of Wells, Nevada, or the said clerk's
deputy.
   FRATERNAL, SOCIAL AND CIVIC CLUB LICENSE: A license issued by the city,
which permits the licensee therein designated to serve, sell or give liquors to
the licensee's bona fide members and invited guests only for consumption at the
licensee's premises specified in the license. This license shall not permit the
licensee to conduct or operate any public bar or place for the sale, serving or
delivery of any liquor to the general public.
   LIQUOR: Beer, wine, gin, whiskey, cordials, ethyl alcohol, or rum, and every
liquid or solid, patented or not, containing one-half of one percent (0.5%) or
more of alcohol by volume, and which is used for beverage purposes.
   MINOR: A natural person, male or female, under the age of twenty one (21)
years.
   PACKAGE: Any container or receptacle used for holding liquor, which
container or receptacle is corked or sealed.
   PACKAGED LIQUOR LICENSE: A license issued by the city which permits the sale
of liquors, beer and wine in packages by the licensee at the premises specified
in the license, for consumption off of the licensee's premises.
   PERSON: A natural person, partnership, association, company, corporation,
fraternal, civic or social clubs and all other types of organizations.
   RETAIL LIQUOR LICENSE: A license issued by the city which permits the sale
of beers, wines and liquors, in packages, or by the drink by the licensee at
the premises specified in the license, for consumption on or off the licensee's
premises.
   SPECIAL EVENTS LICENSE: A license issued by the city which permits the
licensee therein designated to sell or serve such liquor in such location and
for such period of time, not exceeding one week, and shall be specified by the
board of councilmen and set out in said license.
   WHOLESALE LIQUOR LICENSE: A license issued by the city which permits the
sale of beers and wines only or liquors in packages by the licensee to a person
holding a valid, current, retail liquor license or a wholesale liquor license
or fraternal, social and civic club license or special events license issued by
the city, but not to sell to a consumer or general public direct.
   WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
content of fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar and
including, without limitation, port, sherry and champaign. (Ord. 122, 4-27-
1982)
3-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, keep for sale,
serve, give away, furnish or distribute, or cause or permit to be sold, offered
or kept for sale, served, given away, furnished or distributed any kind of
liquor in the city limits unless such person has first applied for, paid all
license fees for, received and is the holder in good standing of the proper
license or licenses required by this chapter; provided, however, that this
section shall not apply to the following:
   A.   Liquor served by a private family in its home as a part of its family
or social life;
   B.   The use of liquor for sacramental purposes by any duly ordained
minister;
   C.   The use, sale or dispensing of liquor by any doctor, apothecary or
pharmacist who uses alcohol or liquor for or in compounding medicine or for
medicinal or scientific purposes;
   D.   The employees of a person who holds a valid, unexpired license pursuant
to this chapter, while acting within the course of his employment. (Ord. 122,
4-27-1982)
3-3-3: LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS; FEES:
   A.   Under the provisions of this chapter, the following classes of licenses
may be issued to qualified applicants therefor; and the following schedule of
fees shall be paid for such licenses:
 
Retail liquor license         $300.00 per year
Packaged liquor license       260.00 per year
Wholesale liquor license      100.00 per year
Special events license (beer) 5.00 per day
 
   B.   Each person whose activities fall into more than one class of liquor
licenses as defined in this chapter must apply for and receive a license for
each class applicable before such person can operate in such class.
   C.   The liquor licenses required by this chapter shall be in addition to
any other licenses required of any person by the city for conducting or
carrying on any other business in connection with, or separate from the
activities licensed under this chapter.
   D.   No refunds of any portion of an annual license fee shall be made.
   E.   A valid license under this chapter authorizes the licensee to sell soft
drinks in connection with the business for which the license is issued.
   F.   License fees shall be due and payable on July 1 of each year. Any
license fee which has not been paid on or before July 15 of each year shall be
increased by a penalty of ten percent (10%) which shall be added to the fee and
collected with the fee prior to issuance of any license hereunder. Any
applicant who is granted and issued an initial liquor license shall be entitled
to have the liquor license fee prorated for that year as of the date such
applicant files his application for license. If the license fee and penalty
have not been paid on or before July 15, any rights to renew a license without
application to the board shall be forfeited and shall forthwith terminate at
the time of the close of the city office on the fifteenth day of such month,
and at such time the liquor business to which the delinquent license fee
relates shall forthwith close and cease operation if still in operation at that
time.
This provision shall not be construed to permit the operation of any business
to which this chapter applies for any length of time whatever without having in
full force and effect a proper license issued by the city with all fees
therefor fully paid; nor shall it be construed to extend the expiration date of
any license, nor to prevent the board from taking any action to revoke, cancel,
suspend, restrict or condition the license for any reason, including nonpayment
of fees. (Ord. 122, 4-27-1982)
3-3-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; INFORMATION TO BE SHOWN:
An application for the licenses required by this chapter shall be made to the
board of councilmen of the city, and filed with the city clerk. Each
application shall:
   A.   Be made on such form as the board shall prescribe.
   B.   Include the name and address of the applicant, who shall be all persons
having an interest in the business to be licensed. If the applicant is a
partnership, the application shall include the names and addresses of all
partners. If the applicant is a corporation, association or other organization,
the application shall include the names and addresses of all officers,
directors, stockholders, resident agents, and all other persons having an
interest in the business to be licensed, and the address of the principal place
of business of the corporation, and the name and address of the person or
persons who shall have the active management of its business for which or in
connection with which a license is desired (listing of stockholders may be
dispensed with by the board if stock has been sold to the general public).
   C.   Specify the class or classes of license desired, the location by street
and number of the premises for which the license is sought, and the name of the
owner or owners of the premises where the business is to be operated.
   D.   Be supplemented by such additional information or documents as the
board shall request from the applicant at any time, it being the duty of the
applicant to supply all such matter.
   E.   Be accompanied by the annual license fee required for each class of
license for which application is made, which license deposit shall be returned
by the city clerk to the applicant in the event the application is denied.
   F.   Be signed and verified by all persons who shall conduct or have any
interest in the business activities for which a liquor license is required. In
the case of corporations, clubs or organizations with members, the application
shall be verified by its president or secretary or the person who shall
actively manage or conduct the business or activity for which a liquor license
is required, if written authority from the corporation to make such application
is filed with the city clerk with the application.
   G.   Contain a statement that if such application is approved and a license
issued, it will be accepted by the applicant subject to the terms, conditions
and provisions of this chapter, and such other rules and regulations as may at
any time hereafter be adopted or enacted by resolution or ordinance by the
board. (Ord. 122, 4-27-1982)
3-3-5: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
The city clerk shall present each application to the board at its first regular
or special meeting after the filing of the application. The board may, at that
time, if they deem it necessary, refer the application to the chief of police
for investigation. The chief of police may cause an investigation to be made of
the moral character and business responsibility of the person applying for a
license, and of all persons who will be interested in the business for which a
liquor license is required, and in case of a corporation, its officers,
directors, stockholders, and the person who shall have the management of the
business for which or in connection with which the license is desired, together
with an investigation of the location of the proposed place of business, and of
such other matters as may be necessary to the protection of the public good,
welfare, safety, health, and morals of the inhabitants of the city. Upon
completion of the investigation, the chief of police shall render a report of
the investigation to the board. (Ord. 122, 4-27-1982)
3-3-6: STATUS OF FRATERNAL, SOCIAL AND CIVIC CLUBS:
The board of councilmen of the city shall be the sole judge as to whether or
not any person applying for a license as a fraternal, social or civic club, is
a bona fide fraternal, social or civic club such as to qualify for a license
under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 122, 4-27-1982)
3-3-7: APPROVAL, DENIAL OF APPLICATION BY BOARD:
   A.   The board shall approve or deny applications. The board may deny any
application for any reason deemed sufficient by the board, and may refuse to
license any applicant.
   B.   If an application is denied by the board, the board forthwith shall
return the license fee accompanying the application to the applicant. If the
board approves an application, the board shall then authorize the city clerk to
issue the license required by this chapter. The license shall not be effective
until issued and delivered to the applicant.
   C.   A majority vote shall be required of all the members of the board of
councilmen duly elected to grant or refuse such application. Such action by the
board on any application shall be final.
   D.   Any application granted and license issued pursuant hereto shall be
granted for and in consideration of the applicant agreeing to and complying
with the provisions of this chapter and the terms, conditions, representations,
and agreements set out in the application and any license issued hereunder.
(Ord. 122, 4-27-1982)
3-3-8: ISSUANCE AND CONTENTS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Upon the granting of any application pursuant to this chapter, the
applicant shall be entitled to be licensed by the city clerk pursuant and
subject to the provisions of this chapter. The license certificate shall set
forth, among other things, the following:
      1.   The name of all persons to whom it is issued. If the license is
issued under a fictitious name, the license shall set forth, in addition to the
fictitious name, the name or names of each of the persons conducting the
business under the fictitious name. If it is issued to a corporation, the
license shall set forth, in addition to the name of the corporation, the name
of the person who shall have the active management of the business for which
the license is issued.
      2.   The amount of license fee paid therefor.
      3.   The location, by street and number, of the premises for which the
license is issued.
      4.   The date of commencement which will be the date of issuance and date
of termination which will be the last day of the year in which it was granted,
subject to revocation, cancellation, suspension, restriction, and conditioning,
pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   The license shall be for one year or the remaining portion of the year,
subject to the provisions of this chapter, and shall be signed by the mayor and
city clerk.
   C.   Subject to all provisions of this chapter, if at the end of a year a
licensee holds a valid, unexpired license which has not been revoked, canceled,
suspended, restricted or conditioned, and no proceedings have been instituted
or are pending in any court or before the board involving a violation of this
chapter, or which could or does involve proceedings to consider the revocation,
cancellation, suspension, restriction or conditioning of such license, such
licensee may renew its license for the next year without application to the
board by timely payment of the required license fees and penalties, if any,
within the time specified in this chapter. Such renewal license shall be on the
same terms and conditions as the original license and subject to all provisions
of this chapter as if granted after application to the board.
   D.   Any licensee receiving a license pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed to have accepted the same with all the duties,
obligations, restrictions, limitations, and other provisions of this chapter as
part and parcel of said license, and subject to the faithful compliance with
the promises, agreements, and representations set forth in the application for
such license, without other or further notice, and without each or any of such
provisions being specifically incorporated in the license granted.
   E.   In special or unusual circumstances and in order to prevent undue
hardship, the city clerk with approval of the city manager, may issue a
"temporary license" pending the processing of an application for a permanent
license; provided, however, that at the time any such temporary license is
issued by the city clerk, a full and complete application for a liquor license
shall be on file with the city clerk. Such license shall be valid for thirty
(30) days or until approval or denial of the final application by the board of
councilmen, whichever occurs first. (Ord. 193, 6-26-2001)
3-3-9: LICENSE CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
Each license shall:
   A.   Be posted in a conspicuous place in the premises for which it was
issued.
   B.   Be nontransferable, except that upon prior written consent of the
board, the location of the premises for which it was issued may be changed,
provided there is no change in licensees.
   C.   Be authority for the persons or associations specifically named as
licensees to transact the business or activity licensed thereunder. (Ord. 122,
4-27-1982)
3-3-10: REVOCATION OF LICENSE; BOARD POWERS:
   A.   Investigation Upon Complaint: The board of councilmen may, upon its own
motion, and shall, upon the verified complaint in writing of any person,
investigate the action of any licensee under this chapter, and shall have the
power to cancel, temporarily suspend for such a period of time as they deem
advisable, or permanently revoke a license, or place such restrictions and
conditions upon a license as they shall deem necessary or advisable, for any
one of the following acts or omissions:
      1.   The failure to make timely payment of license fees and penalties, or
either of them; provided, however, no action by the board shall be necessary in
the event of nonpayment of license fees and penalties on or before the
fifteenth day of the month in which they came due as provided in this chapter;
or
      2.   The misrepresentation of any material fact by the applicant in
obtaining a license under this chapter; or
      3.   If any one of the licensees named in a license violates or causes or
permits to be violated any of the provisions of this chapter; or
      4.   If any manager, bartender, agent, servant, officer or employee of a
licensee hereunder violates or causes or permits to be violated any of the
provisions of this chapter while acting in any way in connection with the
licensee's business; or
      5.   If any one of the licensees named in a license commits any act which
would be sufficient ground for the denial of an application by such licensee
for a license under this chapter; or
      6.   If any one of the licensees named in a license or any manager,
agent, bartender, servant, officer or employee of a licensee refuses to permit
the chief of police, or any policeman, or any other duly authorized
representative of the city to visit and reasonably inspect every part and
portion of the licensee's premises, or refuses to or fails to furnish the chief
of police, or any policeman or officer of the city, upon request, with all
facts and information within his knowledge concerning any offense committed in
or about the premises and the parties involved and the witnesses thereto; or
      7.   If any one of the licensees named in a license violates any of the
agreements, conditions or terms contained in the application for a license,
this chapter or the license issued pursuant hereto; or
      8.   If any one of the licensees named in a license violates or causes or
permits to be violated any ordinance of the city or any law of the State of
Nevada or of the United States of America regulating the sale, serving or
dispensing of liquors; or
      9.   If the licensee or any agent or employee thereof makes, causes or
permits a sale of any kind of liquor other than that authorized by the class of
license the licensee holds.
   B.   Issuance Of Citation: Except in cases of the automatic cancellation or
revocation of a license as in this chapter provided, upon the filing with the
board of a verified complaint charging a licensee with the commission, within
one year prior to the date of filing the complaint, of any act or omission
which is cause for cancellation, suspension, revocation, restriction, or
conditioning of a license, the board forthwith shall issue a citation directing
the licensee, not less than five (5) days after service thereof upon the
licensee, to appear by filing with the board the licensee's verified answer to
the complaint showing cause, if any the licensee has, why his license should
not be cancelled, suspended, revoked, restricted or conditions placed thereon.
Service of the citation with a copy of the complaint shall be made upon the
licensee in one of the following manners:
      1.   By personal service upon any one or more of the persons named in the
license as a licensee named in the license, service to be made by the chief of
police or any police officer of the city or by the sheriff of Elko County, or
his deputy, or by any citizen of the United States over twenty one (21) years
of age; or
      2.   By mailing by depositing in the United States mail a copy of the
citation with a copy of the complaint enclosed in a sealed envelope with
postage thereon fully prepaid, addressed to the licensee at the latest address
of record in the city clerk's office. Service shall be deemed complete upon the
date of mailing. Without excluding other ways of proof, proof of service by
mailing and the date thereof may be made by an affidavit of mailing or by proof
of mailing by registered mail or certified mail.
In case a corporation is a licensee, then such service above specified may be
upon the president, or other head of the corporation, or the secretary, or
managing agent, or resident agent, or any other officer thereof. In case of
service by mailing, it may be addressed to the corporation or to any of the
said officers, managing agent, or resident agent thereof at the latest address
of record in the city clerk's office.
Failure of the licensee to answer within the time specified shall be deemed an
admission by the licensee of the commission of the act or acts or omissions
charged in the complaint and a waiver of all defenses the licensee may have to
such charges. Upon such failure to answer, the board shall revoke the license
and shall give notice of such revocation by mailing a copy thereof, by United
States mail in a sealed envelope with postage thereon fully prepaid, addressed
to the licensee at the latest address of record in the office of the city
clerk.
   C.   Hearing:
      1.   Upon the filing of an answer by the licensee, the board shall fix
the time and place for a hearing and give the licensee and the complainant not
less than five (5) days' notice thereof. The notice may be served by depositing
in the United States mail a copy of the notice enclosed in a sealed envelope
with postage thereon fully prepaid, addressed to the licensee and to the
complainant, respectively, at their latest address of record in the office of
the city clerk. With the notice to the complainant there shall be attached to
or enclosed a copy of the answer. If either party has appeared by an attorney,
notice shall be given to the attorney instead of to the party. In the event the
city, the board, the chief of police, the city attorney, or any other city
officer or representative acting by or on behalf of the city is the
complainant, the notices to and service of answer upon the complainant herein
called for shall be dispensed with.
      2.   Upon the hearing, the complainant and the licensee may appear in
person or by attorney, or both, and present relevant evidence and witnesses.
After the hearing is concluded and the matter submitted, the board shall,
within ten (10) days after such submission, render its decision, which must be
made by the vote of a majority of all of the members elected as councilmen of
the city. If the decision of the board is that the charge set forth in the
complaint has been established, the board shall do one or more of the
following:
         a.   Revoke or cancel the license;
         b.   Suspend the license for such a period of time as the board deems
advisable;
         c.   Place such restrictions upon the license and/or the licensee's
place of business as the board deems advisable;
         d.   Make the license and the continued force and effect thereof
conditioned upon such terms and conditions as the board shall deem advisable.
If, in the opinion of a majority of all the members elected, the charges set
forth in the complaint have not been established, or provided, they shall
dismiss the complaint.
   D.   Time Periods: The board may, upon stipulation of the complainant and
the licensee, shorten or extend the times herein set in connection with
notices, pleadings and hearings. (Ord. 122, 4-27-1982)
3-3-11: SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE; GROUNDS; PROCEDURE:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the board of councilmen
shall have the right and power to suspend summarily any license issued pursuant
to this chapter in cases appearing to it to be of an aggravated or flagrant
violation of this chapter, or of the laws of the state of Nevada relating to
liquors; provided, however, that the board shall not summarily suspend any
license unless the board finds that such action is immediately necessary for
the preservation of public health, welfare, safety and morals of the
inhabitants of the city. Such order of suspension shall remain effective until
further order of the board of final disposition of the charges upon which the
order is based. In the event of a suspension without prior notice, every
licensee shall immediately be given notice in writing of the reason or reasons
for such suspension, which shall include a specification of the acts or
omissions alleged against the licensee. The licensee shall be given an
opportunity to be heard at a meeting of the board at which hearing the licensee
may appear in person, or by attorney, or both, and present a reasonable number
of witnesses to show cause, if any there be, why the license should not be
revoked. Notices shall be served and given, the answer filed, and the hearing
conducted in the manner and under the procedures provided in section
3-3-10 of this chapter. The licensee may waive the time specified for a hearing
and such hearing may be held at any time agreed upon by the licensee and the
board; provided, however, that nothing herein shall be construed to limit the
right of the board to proceed with revocation proceedings. (Ord. 122, 4-27-
1982)
3-3-12: REINSTATEMENT OF LICENSES:
When, in the opinion of the board, a licensee has shown proper cause, the board
of councilmen may reinstate any license which has been previously cancelled or
suspended and may remove, change or modify all or any restrictions or
conditions which have been set pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 122, 4-27-1982)
3-3-13: MINORS:
   A.   Sales To Minors Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any bartender, manager,
agent or any other person employed by any licensee to sell, serve, give away,
furnish or dispense any kind of liquor to any minor. For the purpose of this
section, a person shall be deemed to be employed by a licensee if he purports
to have the authority to make sales, whether actually receiving a wage or not.
      2.   In any prosecution or proceedings for the suspension or revocation
of any license based upon a violation of subsection A1 above, proof that the
defendant licensee or his agent or employee, demanded and was shown immediately
prior to furnishing any liquor to a person under the age of twenty one (21)
years, bona fide documentary evidence of majority and identity of such person
issued by a federal, state, county or municipal government, or subdivision or
agency thereof, including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle operator's
license, a registered certificate issued under the federal selective service
act, or an identification card issued to a member of the armed forces, is a
defense to the prosecution, or proceeding for the suspension or revocation of
any license.
   B.   Employment Of Certain Minors Prohibited And Certain Minors Permitted:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee to employ any minor to sell or handle any
liquor of any kind, or to permit any minor to handle such liquor in his place
of business in any way, except that a person who has attained the age of
sixteen (16) years but not yet eighteen (18) years, may be employed in a retail
food store for the sale or disposition of liquor if he is supervised by a
person who is eighteen (18) years of age or over, who is an owner or employee
of the business which sells or disposes of the liquor, and who is actually
present at the time the liquor is disposed of or sold, and the liquor is in a
sealed or corked container or receptacle. Provided, however, that grocery
store, shopping center, and supermarket licensees affording "box boy" or other
delivery service from the place of sale to the conveyance of the purchaser
shall be responsible under the foregoing prohibition only until the sale is
completed, and that minors may nevertheless carry or transport liquors to the
conveyance of the purchaser, in which event such purchaser shall be deemed to
have assumed full and complete ownership and responsibility for such liquor.
(Ord. 122, 4-27-1982)
   C.   False Identification Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, regardless of age, to
counterfeit, forge, alter, erase or obliterate any card, writing, paper or
document which bears the age of the holder or purported holder thereof, with
the intention that such card, writing, paper or document should be used by a
minor for the purpose of obtaining any alcoholic beverage or liquor, or to
sell, lend or give away any such card, writing, paper or document to a minor
which could be used by a minor for the purpose of obtaining any alcoholic
beverage or liquor.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any minor to use or attempt to use or offer
any counterfeit, forged, erased or obliterated card, writing, paper or document
of the kind mentioned in subsection C1 of this section, or to verbally falsely
represent his or her age, or to use or attempt to use any other person's
identification documents, for the purpose of obtaining any alcoholic beverage
or liquor from any person within the city.
   D.   Purchase By Minor Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any minor to
purchase, obtain, or receive in any manner within the city any liquor or
alcoholic beverage of any kind from any person; except that at the direction
and in the company of a parent or guardian, a minor may consume an alcoholic
beverage in the residence of such parent or guardian; further, except that a
minor may consume an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of following the
direction of a licensed medical practitioner; or except that a minor may
consume an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of participation in legitimate
religious activities.
   E.   Possession By Minor Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any minor to
have in his or her custody or possession within the city any alcoholic beverage
or liquor of any type or kind, except any sealed alcoholic beverage in the
regular course of his or her legitimate employment.
   F.   Consumption By Minor Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any minor to consume any kind of alcoholic
beverage or liquor in or about the premises of any licensed liquor
establishment of the city or elsewhere within the city.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any minor to be in possession of any kind
of alcoholic beverage or liquor through consumption anywhere in the city;
except that at the direction and in the company of a parent or guardian, a
minor may consume an alcoholic beverage in the residence of the parent or
guardian; except that minor may consume an alcoholic beverage for the purpose
of following the direction of a licensed medical practitioner; or except that a
minor may consume an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of participation in
legitimate religious activities. Possession by consumption shall consist solely
of the assimilation of alcohol in the minor's body, and such crime shall not
require proof of possession or control prior to consumption or proof of the act
of swallowing an alcoholic beverage or liquor.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any minor who has consumed any kind of
alcoholic beverage or liquor at the direction and in the company of a parent or
guardian in the home, to leave the home and go out into the city. Such a minor
shall be guilty of possession through consumption as provided for in subsection
F2 of this section.
      4.   For purposes of this section, any peace officer may detain any minor
whom the officer encounters under circumstances which reasonably indicate that
the minor has committed or is committing one of the crimes enumerated in
subsection F1, F2 or F3 of this section. At any time after this detention, the
minor so detained shall be arrested if probable cause for an arrest appears.
(Ord. 169, 7-13-1993)
   G.   Loitering By Minor Prohibited:
      1.   No minor shall spend time in or remain in the bar area of the
premises of any licensee hereunder where liquors of any kind are sold or
served.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee hereunder, or the bartender,
manager, agent or any other employee of any licensee, to knowingly allow or
permit any minor to remain in the bar area of the premises of the licensee
where liquor of any kind is sold or served.
   H.   Exceptions: Nothing in the above subsections G1 and G2 of this section
shall apply to:
      1.   The areas, other than the bar and gaming areas, of the
establishments wherein liquor of any kind is sold at a bar in an establishment
which operates and maintains dining tables or booths or lunch counters or hotel
or motel accommodations or other types of businesses separate from the bar; or
      2.   Any grocery store or drug store where liquor of any kind is not sold
by the drink for consumption on the premises. (Ord. 122, 4-27-1982)
3-3-14: PREMISES MAINTAINED IN CLEAN AND ORDERLY MANNER:
   A.   Every licensee shall conduct and maintain his premises in a clean and
orderly manner.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee hereunder, or any bartender,
manager, agent, employee of such licensee, or any other person in charge of any
saloon or bar, to knowingly allow or permit any of the following persons to
remain on the licensee's premises or to sell or give, or to permit to be sold
or given to any of the following, any liquor: any person exhibiting any knife
with a blade in excess of two inches (2"), gun, pistol or other deadly weapon
in a rude, angry or threatening manner. (Ord. 122, 4-27-1982)
3-3-15: PENALTY; CIVIL JUDGMENT:
Every person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, shall, on
conviction therefor, be punished by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00) or by imprisonment in the city jail for a period not exceeding six
(6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day such violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such hereunder.
No civil judgment, or any act or suit by the city attorney, the city clerk, or
the violator shall bar or prevent a prosecution for each and every violation of
this chapter. (Ord. 122, 4-27-1982)
CHAPTER 4
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Information To Be Posted
3-4-2: Fraudulent Practices Prohibited
3-4-3: Violations, Penalty
3-4-1: INFORMATION TO BE POSTED:
   A.   Gasoline Price Signs Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to
sell or offer for sale at retail for use in internal combustion engines in
motor vehicles any gasoline unless such seller shall post and keep continuously
posted on the individual pump or other dispensing device from which such
gasoline is sold or offered for sale a sign or placard not less than seven
inches (7") in height and eight inches (8") in width nor larger than twelve
inches (12") in height and twelve inches (12") in width and stating clearly and
legibly in numbers of uniform size the selling price or prices per gallon of
such gasoline so sold or offered for sale from such pump or other dispensing
device together with the name, trade name, brand, mark or symbol, and grade or
quality classification, if any, of such gasoline.
   B.   Tax Stated: The amount of governmental tax to be collected in
connection with the sale of such gasoline shall be stated on such sign or
placard and separately and apart from such selling price or prices.
   C.   Signs Restricted: No sign or placard stating or referring directly or
indirectly to the price or prices of gasoline other than such signs or placards
as hereinabove provided shall be posted or maintained on, at, near or about the
premises on which said gasoline is sold or offered for sale.
   D.   Related Products Price Signs: It shall be unlawful for any person in
connection with the sale or offering for sale at retail of any petroleum
products for use in motor vehicles, other than gasoline, to post or maintain at
such place of sale or offering for sale, any sign, placard, or other display
that states, relates or refers to, the price at which such petroleum products
are sold or offered for sale, except as follows:
      1.   Such sign, placard or other device shall be not less than seven
inches (7") in height and eight inches (8"') in width, nor larger than twelve
inches (12") in height and twelve inches (12") in width.
      2.   The price stated, mentioned or referred to on such sign, placard, or
other display, shall be by the unit of the measure at which such petroleum
products are customarily sold at retail.
      3.   The name, trade name, brand, mark, or symbol, and grade or quality
classification if any, of such petroleum products, shall be clearly stated on
such sign, placard, or other display, and if such petroleum products are sold
without identification by name, trade name, brand, mark, or symbol, such sign,
placard, or other display shall refer clearly to such petroleum products as
unbranded.
      4.   If such petroleum products are sold or delivered by or through the
means of dispensing equipment, such sign, placard or other display shall be
posted and maintained on such dispensing equipment and at no other place. (Ord.
55A, 5-22-1962)
3-4-2: FRAUDULENT PRACTICES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale gasoline or other
petroleum products for use in motor vehicles at retail in any manner so as to
deceive or tend to deceive the purchaser as to the price, nature, quality or
identity thereof, or to sell or offer for sale from any pump, dispensing
device, or container any gasoline or other petroleum products other than that
gasoline or other petroleum products manufactured or distributed by the
manufacturer or distributor marketing such gasoline or other petroleum products
under the name, trade name, brand, symbol or mark affixed to or contained on
such pump, dispensing device or container, or to substitute, mix or adulterate
gasoline or other petroleum products sold or offered for sale under a name,
trade name, brand, symbol or mark. (Ord. 55A, 5-22-1962)
3-4-3: VIOLATIONS, PENALTY:
Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction
therefor, be punished by a fine of not more than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) or by imprisonment for not more than sixty (60) days, or by both such
fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 55A, 5-22-1962)
CHAPTER 5
GAMING LICENSE BOARD
SECTION:
3-5-1: Authority Of Board Of Council Members
3-5-2: Licenses Required, Fees
3-5-3: Application For License
3-5-4: Renewal Of License
3-5-1: AUTHORITY OF BOARD OF COUNCIL MEMBERS:
The board of council members, except any member who holds a nonrestricted
gaming license issued by the state of Nevada, shall have and exercise all
authority on behalf of the city in the manner of granting, denying, issuing,
renewing, suspending or revoking of any license issued by the city to any
business or establishment required to hold or holding a nonrestricted gaming
license issued by the state. (Ord. 236, 5-11-2021)
3-5-2: LICENSES REQUIRED; FEES:
   A.   City Licenses and Fees: It shall be unlawful for any person, either as
owner, lessee, or employee, whether for hire or not, to deal, operate, carry
on, conduct, maintain, or expose for play within the city:
      1.   Any gambling game as defined by NRS 463.0152, except a slot machine;
or any gambling game in which any person, keeping, conducting, managing or
permitting the same to be carried on, receives directly or indirectly any
compensation or reward, or any percentage or share of the money or property
played, for keeping, running, carrying on, or permitting the said game to be
carried on, except games played with cards in private homes or residences in
which no person makes money for operating the game, except as a player, without
first having applied for and secured a license from the city clerk and paying
therefor a license fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) for three (3) calendar
months, payable in advance, for any one of the aforesaid games or devices.
      2.   Slot Machines: Any slot machine played for money, for checks, or
tokens redeemable in money or property, without first having applied for and
procured a license from the said city clerk of the said city and paying
therefor a license fee of seven dollars fifty cents ($7.50) for three (3)
calendar months, payable in advance.
   B.   County License: The licenses provided for herein shall not permit such
applicant or licensee to operate any machine, device, or game provided for
herein until such applicant or licensee shall have procured a license from the
sheriff of Elko County, as provided by NRS 244.345.
   C.   License Approval Required: No license shall be issued by the city clerk
to any person, either as owner, lessee, or employee for any business, the
operation of which either requires or which business holds a nonrestricted
gaming license issued by the state until the application for said city license
has been considered and approved by the board of council members. (Ord. 236, 5-
11-2021)
3-5-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The person so applying for a license shall:
   A.   Furnish a complete description of the particular room and premises in
which the licensee desires to carry on or conduct such machine, device, or
game, together with the location of the building, its street address, and any
other information by which it may be definitely and readily located and
recognized.
   B.   State definitely the particular type of machine or the particular game
or device which the licensee desires to carry on or conduct in said room and
premises, and, as so stated, the same shall be specifically described in and
entered upon said license. (Ord. 236, 5-11-2021)
3-5-4: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   A license previously adopted for issuance by the board of council
members may be renewed by the city clerk without further action of the board of
council members, until such time as the board of council members may advise or
instruct the said city clerk to the contrary.
   B.   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed, but only to the extent of such conflict.
   C.   If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this chapter shall
for any reason be held to be invalid, unenforceable or unconstitutional by any
court of competent jurisdiction, the invalidity, unenforceability of such
section, paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect any remaining
provisions of this chapter.
   D.   That upon adoption, the City Clerk of the City of Wells is hereby
directed to have this chapter published, by title only, together with the
Councilmen voting for or against its passage, in a newspaper of general
circulation printed and published in the County of Elko, for at least one
publication.
   E.   This chapter shall be effective upon the publication in Elko Daily Free
Press. (Ord. 236, 5-11-2021)
CHAPTER 6
WELLS BROTHEL CODE
SECTION:
3-6-1: Short Title
3-6-2: Definitions
3-6-3: Public Policy
3-6-4: Prostitution Not An Offense Or Nuisance
3-6-5: Unlawful Under Certain Conditions
3-6-6: Licensing And Control Board Created
3-6-7: License Application; Contents
3-6-8: License Application; Filing And Investigation
3-6-9: License Restrictions
3-6-10: Licenses; Multiple Licensing Prohibited
3-6-11: Location Of Operation; Zoning
3-6-12: Board May Impose Other Restrictions
3-6-13: Zoning
3-6-14: License Issuance
3-6-15: License Fees
3-6-16: Work Permit Registration Requirements
3-6-17: Security Requirements; Inspections For Brothels
3-6-18: Proof Of Identity And Age
3-6-19: Prostitute Or Other Employee Change Of Employment; Job Positions
3-6-20: Key Employee Registration
3-6-21: Medical Examinations; Duty Of Licensee
3-6-22: Action Of Board On Medical Report
3-6-23: Determination Of Board Concerning Health Hazards
3-6-24: Licensee To Bear Costs Of Board's Actions
3-6-25: Registration Card And Medical Certificate Inspections
3-6-26: Prostitute And Employee Report
3-6-27: Excluded Persons
3-6-28: Medical Examination Required Of All Prostitutes
3-6-29: General Provisions
3-6-30: Armed Security Officers Prohibited; Other Restrictions And Requirements
3-6-31: Revocation Or Suspension Of Licenses
3-6-32: Exception To Hearing Procedure (Emergency Suspension Of Brothel
License)
3-6-33: License Not Transferable
3-6-34: Death Or Resignation Of Licensed Person
3-6-35: Criminal Penalty
3-6-36: Separability
3-6-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be known and cited as the WELLS BROTHEL CODE. (Ord. 192, 6-26-
2001)
3-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words will be defined as follows:
   APPLICANT: Any person, firm or corporation applying to the board for a
license or license renewal under the provisions of this chapter together with
all persons listed in subsections
 3-6-7A and B of this chapter.
   BOARD: The city of Wells board of councilmen.
   BROTHEL: A duly licensed house of prostitution operated in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   CLERK: The city clerk of the city of Wells.
   HOUSE OF PROSTITUTION: Any building in which sexual acts are provided or
performed for a fee.
   MINOR TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS: Any misdemeanor violation of a city or state
traffic code other than for the following offenses:
   A.   Driving under the influence of alcohol;
   B.   Reckless driving;
   C.   Driving on a revoked license;
   D.   Hit and run or failure to report an accident.
   POLICE: The chief of police or his designee of the city of Wells or a duly
appointed representative.
   PROSTITUTE: A male or female person who for a fee engages in sexual
intercourse, oral-genital contact or any touching of the sexual organs or other
intimate parts of a person for the purpose of arousing or gratifying the sexual
desire of either person.
   PROSTITUTION: Engaging in sexual conduct for a fee.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT: Any of the acts enumerated in the definition of "prostitute"
in this section.
   WORK CARD OR WORK PERMIT: A permit issued by the chief of police to
applicants who meet the requirements of this chapter permitting the applicant
to perform work authorized by this chapter. (Ord. 192, 6-26-2001)
3-6-3: PUBLIC POLICY:
   A.   The board of councilmen of the city of Wells hereby finds, and declares
to be the public policy of this city, that:
      1.   The continued existence of the brothel industry is dependent upon
public confidence and trust that licensed prostitution is conducted honestly
and competitively and free from criminal and corruptive elements.
      2.   Public confidence and trust can only be maintained by strict
regulation of all persons, locations, practices, associations and activities
related to the operation of licensed houses of prostitution.
      3.   All establishments where prostitution is conducted must therefore be
licensed and controlled to protect the public health, safety, good order and
general welfare of the inhabitants of the city.
      4.   All key employees, prostitutes and every other employee of a house
of prostitution must therefore be registered and controlled to protect the
public health, safety, good order and general welfare of the inhabitants of the
city.
   B.   No applicant for a license has any right to a license. Any license or
other board approval granted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter is a
privilege. It is recognized that the state of Nevada may through legislative
action prohibit houses of prostitution throughout the state. It is further
recognized that the city of Wells may by local ordinance prohibit houses of
prostitution 1 . (Ord. 192, 6-26-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. NRS 201.430.
3-6-4: PROSTITUTION NOT AN OFFENSE OR NUISANCE:
The operation of a house of prostitution within the city of Wells in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter does not constitute a public nuisance or
offense to public decency. (Ord. 192, 6-26-2001)
3-6-5: UNLAWFUL UNDER CERTAIN CONDITIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep, own or
operate any house of prostitution (house of ill fame or bawdy house), of any
description within the city of Wells, except as provided in this chapter.
   B.   It is unlawful for any owner or bartender/manager of a licensed brothel
to allow any person to practice prostitution or to solicit business for a
prostitute or to procure any person for the purpose of prostitution within the
city of Wells, except within the house of prostitution of a licensed brothel as
set forth in the Wells zoning code. Prostitutes shall not be hired from a
brothel for the purpose of prostitution to accompany a customer outside the
brothel from which the prostitute is employed. All soliciting of prostitution
and acts of prostitution must take place inside the house of prostitution of a
licensed brothel. (Ord. 192, 6-26-2001)
3-6-6: LICENSING AND CONTROL BOARD CREATED:
   A.   The board of councilmen of the city of Wells shall act as a
prostitution licensing and control board.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the board to carry out the terms of the
provisions of this chapter, and to see that this chapter is faithfully
enforced.
   C.   Powers of the board shall include, but shall not be limited to, the
power to:
      1.   Receive all license applications submitted under the provisions of
this chapter.
      2.   Investigate all applicants for a license or license renewal under
the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   Grant or refuse to grant the license or license renewal provided for
in this chapter.
      4.   Receive complaints concerning alleged violations of this chapter.
      5.   Revoke or temporarily suspend or put restrictions and conditions
against licenses issued under the terms of this chapter.
      6.   Exercise any proper power and authority necessary to perform the
duties assigned it. Such powers are not limited by any enumeration of powers or
considerations in this chapter.
      7.   Hear appeals and complaints from the rules of the chief of police or
his designee. (Ord. 192, 6-26-2001)
3-6-7: LICENSE APPLICATION; CONTENTS:
Any person, firm or corporation desiring to own or operate a house of
prostitution within the city of Wells shall apply to the board for a license to
operate such house of prostitution. Such license application shall contain the
following information:
   A.   Names, ages and addresses of all persons and their spouses who have or
will have any financial interest in the operation, including the owner of the
real property, if the real property is leased to the operator.
   B.   Names, ages and addresses of persons who are or will be personally
responsible for the conduct and management of the operation.
   C.   Names and addresses of any other businesses in which each applicant has
any financial interest, including the type of such business and the nature of
the applicant's interest.
   D.   Names and addresses of all employers of the applicant in the preceding
seven (7) years.
   E.   The street address of the property upon which the proposed operation is
being conducted, together with copies of all deeds, mortgages, deeds of trusts,
liens or other encumbrances, leasehold interests, or other interests relating
to the property.
   F.   Names, ages and addresses of all persons who have or will have
leasehold or other interests in the real property.
   G.   Any other information reasonably deemed necessary or useful by the
board or the chief of police or his designee.
   H.   If the applicant is an entity, other than an individual entity, the
names and addresses of every other business in which the applicant has ever had
any financial interest where the operation of such business or its activities
were illegal under the laws of the jurisdiction where such business was
conducted.
   I.   If the applicant is a firm or corporation, a complete and accurate
financial statement of the applicant.
   J.   A complete and accurate statement regarding the amount to be invested
in the business and the source and application of funds.
   K.   Any other information reasonably deemed necessary or useful by the
board or the chief of police or his designee.
   L.   For each individual applicant listed in subsection A of this section,
and each key employee listed in section
3-6-20 of this chapter, the following shall be furnished:
      1.   A personal history record on a form prescribed or approved and
published by the board, listing the applicant's:
         a.   Personal identifying information;
         b.   Marital information, including previous marriages;
         c.   Family information;
         d.   Education;
         e.   Military information;
         f.   Arrests and detentions (excluding minor traffic violations) which
shall include a statement of the offense, the place of its occurrence, the date
of its occurrence, and the disposition of the case;
         g.   Any civil litigation in which a judgment over five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) was entered against the applicant;
         h.   Names and addresses of all employers in the preceding ten (10)
years;
         i.   All addresses in the preceding ten (10) years;
         j.   The names and addresses of every other business in which the
applicant has ever had any financial interest or in which the applicant was an
employee, where the operation of such business or its activities were illegal
under the laws of the jurisdiction where such business was conducted;
         k.   Any other information deemed necessary or useful by the board or
the chief of police;
      2.   A recent photograph of the applicant;
      3.   Two (2) complete sets of fingerprints;
      4.   A complete and accurate financial statement of the applicant
together with a review or compilation by a licensed CPA and a written business
plan, this is not required for a spouse with no ownership interest;
   M.   If the marital status of an owner or the stockholders of any corporate
owner changes, such owner shall file an addendum to the license application
which addendum shall include the name of the new spouse and the information
required in subsection L of this section within sixty (60) days. (Ord. 192, 6-
26-2001)
3-6-8: LICENSE APPLICATION; FILING AND INVESTIGATION:
   A.   All license applications under the provisions of this chapter shall be
filed with the city clerk, along with a nonrefundable investigation fee, the
amount of which will be set by resolution of the board of councilmen from time
to time. If the actual total cost of investigating any license application
exceeds the fee, the applicant shall be responsible for and pay the city the
amount in excess of the fee.
   B.   Upon presentation of any license application to the city clerk, the
city clerk shall refer such application to the chief of police or his designee
for investigation. The chief of police or his designee shall conduct a full
investigation of all information contained in the license application, which
investigation shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      1.   A complete check of all records of the federal bureau of
investigation and any other similar organization concerning the criminal record
of any applicant.
      2.   A personal interview with each applicant.
      3.   An interview, either personal or by mail, with all employers of the
applicant and business associates of the applicant, as shown in the license
application.
      4.   Examination of the financial statement and financial background of
the applicant.
      5.   Any other investigation reasonably deemed necessary by the chief of
police or his designee.
   C.   Within thirty (30) days after any application is referred by the city
clerk to the chief of police or his designee, the chief of police or his
designee shall report the results of his investigation in writing to the board,
which report shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      1.   A complete statement of the results of all investigations
undertaken.
      2.   A list of any errors or omissions found to exist in the application.
      3.   An evaluation of the personal and financial status and background of
the applicant.
      4.   A statement as to whether, in his professional opinion, further
investigation is necessary or desirable.
   D.   The chief of police or his designee may, with the consent of the board,
employ a certified public accountant to assist with the financial investigation
and the expenses of such accountant shall be chargeable to the applicant who
shall be required to post in advance with the city clerk an amount sufficient
to cover the estimated expense.
   E.   In the event the cost of an investigation conducted under the
provisions of this section exceeds the investigative fee required by subsection
A of this section, the applicant shall upon request of the board post with the
city clerk an amount sufficient to cover the estimated additional expense.
   F.   At the conclusion of the investigation any unused additional
investigative funds which the applicant was required to deposit under the
provisions of subsection C, D or E of this section, exclusive of subsection A
of this section, shall be refunded.
   G.   Within thirty (30) days after receiving the chief of police or his
designee's report, the board may:
      1.   Refer the application back to the chief of police or his designee
for additional investigation.
      2.   Require a personal interview with the applicant.
      3.   Require the applicant to submit additional information relative to
his application.
      4.   Grant or refuse to grant a license under the provisions of this
chapter.
   H.   The board may, based upon just cause which includes, but is not limited
to, the following, refuse to grant a license to any applicant:
      1.   If the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony.
      2.   Where an applicant or an applicant's spouse or any other individual
listed on the application that would have any interest in the brothel, has been
convicted of any felony.
      3.   Where an applicant is financially insolvent or is inadequately
financed.
      4.   Where an applicant has a history of financial instability.
      5.   Where an applicant has wilfully omitted or incorrectly stated any
material fact in the license application.
      6.   Where an applicant has any financial interest in, or connection
with, any business which is illegal where such business is located.
      7.   Where an applicant's license under the provisions of this chapter
would be contrary to the health, welfare or safety of the city of Wells or its
residents.
      8.   When the proposed establishment is not in the correct zoning.
      9.   Where an applicant has business relationships with persons or
entities that would be denied a license for reasons other than financial
instability or insolvency.
      10.   Where an applicant has ever been convicted of the possession, use,
and sale, or furnishing of any narcotic, hallucinogenic or dangerous drug.
      11.   Where an applicant has ever been convicted of any crime involving
theft, embezzlement or misappropriation of funds.
      12.   Where an applicant has ever been convicted of any crime involving
violence with the use of any deadly or dangerous weapon.
      13.   Where an applicant has ever been convicted of any crime involving
illegal use of firearms.
      14.   Where an applicant has ever been convicted of a gross misdemeanor
offense of obstructing justice or resisting an officer within five (5) years
before the filing of the application.
   I.   Upon denying any application for a license under the provisions of this
chapter, the applicant shall have thirty (30) days within which to cure any
defect in the application, and such application may be again submitted to the
board for consideration, and herein provided, within thirty (30) days after
such denial. (Ord. 192, 6-26-2001)
3-6-9: LICENSE RESTRICTIONS:
Every license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall have the
following restrictions:
   A.   No operation may be conducted in violation of any applicable city,
county, state or federal ordinance, statute or regulation.
   B.   The maximum number of houses of prostitution which will be permitted
within the city limits of the city of Wells is two (2). (Ord. 192, 6-26-2001)
3-6-10: LICENSES; MULTIPLE LICENSING PROHIBITED:
No individual, firm, or corporation shall be granted any interest in more than
one license to operate a house of prostitution within the city limits of the
city. (Ord. 192, 6-26-2001)
3-6-11: LOCATION OF OPERATION; ZONING:
A house of prostitution may be operated only in a zoning district classified as
RC restricted commercial district, as defined by section
10-7-10 of this code. (Ord. 192, 6-26-2001)
3-6-12: BOARD MAY IMPOSE OTHER RESTRICTIONS:
The board may, in its discretion and to promote the health, safety and welfare
of the people of the city of Wells and to promote the orderly conduct of the
operation, impose additional restrictions, including, but not limited to, the
following:
   A.   Every provision of this chapter.
   B.   Limitation of the number of prostitutes that may be working in an
operation over and above that which was stated in business management plan.
   C.   Limitation on the type and size of building in which an operation may
be conducted over and above that which was described in business management
plan.
   D.   The board may impose restrictions pursuant to this section prior,
during or after issuance of license.
   E.   The board may by resolution authorize the chief of police or his
designee to promulgate written rules and regulations not inconsistent with the
provisions of this chapter regulating the activities and conduct of prostitutes
and the brothel employees working pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
All such proposed rules and regulations will be forwarded to the board and
affected licensee. Thereafter, at a regularly held city council meeting, the
board may approve, modify or reject the proposed rules. Upon approval of such
rules by the board, the board or a court may treat a violation of such rules as
a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 192, 6-26-2001)
3-6-13: ZONING:
No licenses shall be issued without the prospective licensee first obtaining
proper zoning for the proposed operation. (Ord. 192, 6-26-2001)
3-6-14: LICENSE ISSUANCE:
   A.   Upon approval of all applications connected with an operation, the
board shall issue a license for the operation, which license shall state:
      1.   The name and address or location of the operation.
      2.   The license period of the license.
      3.   The date of renewal of the license.
      4.   License may have an attachment in letter form which would indicate
any optional restrictions or limitations imposed by the board under section
3-6-12 of this chapter.
   B.   All licenses shall be issued for an annual period (July 1 – June 30)
with quarterly review.
   C.   No later than fifteen (15) days after the renewal notice is provided by
the city clerk, the licensee shall apply to the Wells city clerk, on forms
provided, for a renewal. The city clerk shall forthwith notify the chief of
police or his designee, and if any valid written complaint regarding the
operation shall have been received during that current license period. The
chief of police or his designee upon receiving the approval of the city manager
may cause the renewal application to be placed on the agenda of the next city
council meeting at which meeting the board shall either renew or deny the
license. If placed on the agenda, the board shall conduct a hearing, and may
summon witnesses, interview the licensee, interview any complainant, require
additional investigation by the chief of police or his designee, or do any and
all other acts which may be necessary or appropriate to the board's
determination. If no such complaints have been received, the Wells city clerk
shall issue the renewed license upon compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   D.   Failure of any licensee to comply with the renewal procedure, as
required in subsection C of this section, may be grounds for the board to
revoke the license at its first regular meeting in the month following the
expiration date. Any license thus revoked may be reinstated only upon
compliance by the licensee with all requirements of this chapter relating to
original license applications.
   E.   No change in ownership, partners, shareholders or any other persons
with any ownership interest in the brothel shall occur after the board has
granted a license until the following occurs:
      1.   The licensee shall furnish to the chief of police or his designee a
list of all proposed persons or entities that desire to acquire an interest in
the brothel.
      2.   The chief of police shall request a nonrefundable investigation fee
for each person or entity desiring to acquire an interest in the brothel.
      3.   All provisions of this chapter relating to the investigation and
licensing of applicants for a brothel license shall apply to the person or
entity desiring to acquire an interest in the brothel. Such person or entity
shall be granted or refused the privilege to acquire an ownership interest in
the brothel in accordance with applicable provisions of this chapter for the
granting or denying of a license to the original licensee or owners. (Ord. 192,
6-26-2001)
3-6-15: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Fee: Every licensee shall pay a license fee, which fee is set by
resolution of the board of councilmen and may be increased from time to time,
for the privilege of operating a house of prostitution in the city of Wells.
Said fees shall be paid annually and shall accompany the renewal application
form. License fees are not prorated and are nonrefundable.
   B.   Service Charge: In addition, every house of prostitution shall pay a
service charge in an amount set by resolution of the board of councilmen from
time to time, for the police department services provided by weekly
investigations relating to compliance with state health laws and other police
and regulatory services. This service charge shall be paid annually and shall
accompany the renewal application form. Service charges are not prorated and
are nonrefundable. When a house of prostitution is operated in such a manner as
to cause unreasonable economic burden on the city administration, police
department or the city of Wells, the city may charge any such costs as a
service charge.
   C.   Due Dates: License fees shall be paid to the city clerk no later than
March 15, June 15, September 15, and December 15. (Ord. 192, 6-26-2001)
3-6-16: WORK PERMIT REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to work as a prostitute or bartender/
manager at a brothel or any employee to reside on the premises of a licensed
brothel, unless such person is the holder of a valid current work permit issued
by the chief of police or his designee in accordance with this chapter.
   B.   Every prostitute and every other employee of each licensee shall be
registered with the chief of police or his designee on application forms
provided by the chief of police or his designee. As used herein "every other
employee" means bartenders, maids, chefs, cooks, kitchen help, dishwashers or
any other employee who is not a "key employee" as defined in section
3-6-20 of this chapter. Each applicant shall furnish:
      1.   Personal history record listing the applicant's:
         a.   Personal identifying information.
         b.   Marital information, including previous marriages.
         c.   Family information.
         d.   Arrests and detentions excluding minor traffic violations which
shall include a statement of the offense, the place of its occurrence, the date
of its occurrence, and the disposition of the case.
         e.   Names and addresses of all employers in the preceding five (5)
years.
         f.   All addresses in the preceding five (5) years.
         g.   Any other information deemed necessary or useful by the board or
the chief of police or his designee.
      2.   A full set of fingerprints of the applicant.
      3.   Prostitute work card application must be accompanied with an
application fee, which is set by resolution of the board of councilmen and may
be increased from time to time.
      4.   A work card must be renewed each time a prostitute changes place of
work from one brothel and starts work with a different brothel.
   C.   The chief of police or his designee shall investigate the accuracy of
all information supplied by any applicant on the registration form.
   D.   No person under twenty one (21) years of age shall be employed in any
capacity by a house of prostitution or registered to work in any house of
prostitution or receive compensation from any house of prostitution except for
yard work or off site computer work.
   E.   No person may work in any manner or reside on the premises of a
licensed brothel who:
      1.   Concerning crimes in this state:
         a.   Has ever been convicted of a category A or B felony;
         b.   Has been convicted of a category C or D felony within the past
five (5) years;
         c.   Has been convicted of a category E felony within the past year;
         d.   Has been convicted of a gross misdemeanor in this state within
the past year, except a gross misdemeanor of obstructing justice or resisting
an officer within the past five (5) years shall be a further prohibition; or
         e.   Has been convicted within the past six (6) months of misdemeanor
offenses involving theft, larceny, embezzlement, battery, illegal drugs/
substances or misdemeanor offenses deemed predatory, abusive, dishonest, or
inappropriate towards minors or elders.
      2.   Concerning crimes outside this state:
         a.   Has ever been convicted of a crime for which the term of
imprisonment imposed, as opposed to the actual length of imprisonment, was
greater than ten (10) years;
         b.   Has been convicted of a crime within the past five (5) years, for
which the term of imprisonment imposed, as opposed to the actual length of
imprisonment, was at least one year but less than ten (10) years;
         c.   Has been on probation or parole, from a term of imprisonment,
within the past year; or
         d.   Has been convicted of a misdemeanor within the past six (6)
months involving theft, larceny, embezzlement, battery, illegal drugs/
substances or misdemeanor offenses deemed predatory, abusive, dishonest, or
inappropriate towards minors or elders.
      3.   Concerning other restrictions:
         a.   If registered under the provisions of this chapter, such
licensing would be contrary to the health, safety or welfare of the city or its
residents;
         b.   Has wilfully made any false statement or omission in the
registration form required by subsection B of this section; or
         c.   The chief of police or his designee will have the authority to
deny or revoke the work permit of a prostitute or of a bartender/manager or any
person who works or resides on the premises of a licensed brothel who does not
qualify under this section or who is found to be violating this code or state
law. The person whose work card has been denied or revoked may file an appeal
to the city of Wells board of councilmen within thirty (30) calendar days from
the date in which the work permit (card) was denied or revoked.
   F.   All prostitutes or bartenders/managers or any person who works or
resides on the premises of a licensed brothel shall file with the police and
maintain in the house of prostitution at all times, a current work card with
the operator of a licensed brothel before commencing work as a prostitute or
bartender/manager or employee who resides on the premises of a licensed
brothel; no work card shall be transferable; all work cards shall state the
name of the licensed operation where the prostitute or bartender/manager or
employee who resides on the premises of a licensed brothel will work; no
prostitutes shall change their place of work from one brothel to another
without first notifying the chief of police or his designee of the proposed
change and obtaining a revised work card. Work cards must be on the premises of
the house of prostitution and accessible to police at all times.
      1.   No prostitute or bartender/manager of a licensed Wells brothel can
possess more than one card at a time or work for more than one Wells brothel at
a time. (Ord. 199, 11-12-2002)
3-6-17: SECURITY REQUIREMENTS; INSPECTIONS FOR BROTHELS:
   A.   The brothel license which is granted as a privilege license pursuant to
section
 3-6-14 of this chapter shall include a consent to and an acknowledgment of the
power and authority of the chief of police or his designee, or other authorized
representative of the city to enter the licensed brothel premises and the
principal office of any brothel, at any time during brothel business hours for
the purpose of examining the premises, or the employment record of said
business to ascertain the truth or veracity of statements made on the brothel
license application and to determine if the terms, conditions, provisions and
regulations of this code and state law are being complied with.
   B.   The person in charge of a licensed house of prostitution shall
cooperate with the state of Nevada health division, bureau of disease control
during:
      1.   The investigation of the circumstances or cause of a case or
suspected case, or of an outbreak or suspected outbreak.
      2.   The carrying out of measures for the prevention, suppression or
control of a communicable disease, including procedures of exclusion, isolation
and quarantine.
      3.   A person who owns/operates a brothel business or his/her agent or
employee commits an offense if such person refuses to permit a lawful
inspection of the premises by the persons designated above. (Ord. 192, 6-26-
2001)
3-6-18: PROOF OF IDENTITY AND AGE:
Every applicant for registration as a key employee under provisions of section
3-6-20 of this chapter, or as a prostitute or other employee under the
provisions of section
3-6-16 of this chapter must prove their identity, social security number and
age. The chief of police or his designee may require an applicant to produce
not less than one piece of identification bearing the photograph of the
applicant, and if there exists reasonable doubt as to the age of the applicant,
a birth certificate must be presented to provide satisfactory proof of age. The
chief of police or his designee may make photocopy reproductions of all
documents presented. (Ord. 192, 6-26-2001)
3-6-19: PROSTITUTE OR OTHER EMPLOYEE CHANGE OF EMPLOYMENT; JOB POSITIONS:
   A.   No employee registration is transferable to another position of the
house of prostitution or to a different house of prostitution.
   B.   No employee registered as a key employee or other employee shall change
employment from one operation to another without first applying to the chief of
police or his designee for a new registration card.
   C.   No employee registered as a prostitute shall change employment from one
operation to another without first notifying the chief of police or his
designee of the proposed change and obtaining a new registration card.
   D.   No employee registered as a prostitute or other employee shall change
job positions with the same operation without first notifying the chief of
police or his designee of the proposed change and obtaining a revised
registration card. An employee filling two (2) distinct positions must obtain a
revised registration card. (Ord. 192, 6-26-2001)
3-6-20: KEY EMPLOYEE REGISTRATION:
   A.   Any executive, employee or agent of a licensed house of prostitution
having the power to exercise a significant influence over decisions concerning
any part of the house of prostitution is a key employee.
   B.   The board shall not be restricted by the title of the job performed or
amount of compensation received, but shall consider the functions,
responsibilities and apparent decision making authority of the person involved
in the operation of the house of prostitution in making its decision as to
whether a person is a key employee.
   C.   Every key employee of each licensee shall be registered with the chief
of police or his designee on application forms provided by the chief of police
or his designee. The key employee shall furnish that information required by
subsection
 3-6-7L of this chapter, except subsection
3-6-7L4 of this chapter.
   D.   Every application for registration as a key employee shall be
accompanied with a one time, nonrefundable fee, to be set by resolution of the
board of councilmen from time to time and thereafter the annual renewal or
revision fee, which shall be set by resolution of the board of councilmen from
time to time.
   E.   Upon receiving a completed application and the appropriate fee, the
chief of police or his designee shall issue the key employee a registration
card which shall bear identifying information pertaining to the employee, a
fingerprint, photograph, the name of the house of prostitution, position held
and the words "key employee".
   F.   The chief of police or his designee shall conduct a full investigation
of all information contained in the registration application. The background
investigation shall be similar to the investigation required for a licensee, as
required by section
 3-6-8 of this chapter.
   G.   The chief of police or his designee may deny an application for
registration as a key employee or revoke a previously issued registration as a
key employee on the grounds enumerated in subsection
3-6-8H of this chapter.
   H.   No later than thirty (30) days after the effective date of this chapter
every person previously registered to work in a position now designated as a
key employee position by this chapter must comply with subsection C of this
section. Any key employee previously registered in such position shall be
exempt from payment of the initial fee as required by subsection D of this
section. (Ord. 192, 6-26-2001)
3-6-21: MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS; DUTY OF LICENSEE:
Every licensee shall ensure that every prostitute is examined by a physician
licensed to practice medicine in the state, or by a physician’s assistant or
registered nurse under the authority of a physician licensed to practice
medicine in the state, or an advanced practice registered nurse, nurse
practitioner, licensed in the state, as required in section
3-6-28  of this chapter, and that the physician has:
   A.   Issued to every person examined and found not to be afflicted with a
sexually transmitted disease, a certificate so stating;
   B.   Refused to issue such certificate to any person found to be, or
suspected of being, afflicted with a sexually transmitted disease;
   C.   Reported the results of such examinations weekly to the chief of police
or his designee at such time as the chief shall set in writing to the board;
   D.   Reported to the board immediately the existence of any condition on the
premises of any licensed operation which, in the professional opinion of the
physician, constitutes a health hazard to the patrons or employees of any
licensed operation or to the public, together with his recommendations for
correcting the condition. (Ord. 192, 6-26-2001; amd. Ord. 242, 8-22-2023)
3-6-22: ACTION OF BOARD ON MEDICAL REPORT:
Upon receiving any report under subsection
3-6-21D of this chapter, in the case of an emergency under Nevada Revised
Statutes 241.020(2) and (5), the board shall convene forthwith for the purpose
of considering the report and taking appropriate action. In nonemergency
situations, the board shall follow the notice requirements of Nevada Revised
Statutes chapter 241. In carrying out its functions under this section, the
board may conduct hearings, employ experts, summon witnesses, and inspect and
take any action deemed necessary including, but not limited to, immediate
cessation of the brothel operation. (Ord. 192, 6-26-2001)
3-6-23: DETERMINATION OF BOARD CONCERNING HEALTH HAZARDS:
In the case of an emergency as set forth in section
3-6-22 of this chapter, within forty eight (48) hours after receiving any
report under subsection
3-6-21D of this chapter or within a reasonable time in nonemergency situations,
the board shall make and have recorded in its minutes a finding as to whether
or not a health hazard exists. If no hazard is found, the licensed operation
may recommence business. If a health hazard is found to exist, the board shall
order appropriate action, which may include, but shall not be limited to, the
following:
   A.   Order suspension of the license until the health hazard has been
corrected and proof of such presented;
   B.   Order permanent revocation of the employee registration of any employee
or employees found responsible for the health hazard;
   C.   Order suspension of any employee registration until any condition
contributing to or having caused the health hazard has been corrected;
   D.   Order any specific or series of medical procedures or treatments which,
according to expert opinion, will correct the health hazard;
   E.   Order any other action reasonably suited to the eradication of the
health hazard;
   F.   When any health hazard has been corrected, written proof of the
correction shall be submitted to the board of councilmen;
   G.   Order permanent revocation of the license issued under this chapter.
(Ord. 192, 6-26-2001)
3-6-24: LICENSEE TO BEAR COSTS OF BOARD'S ACTIONS:
Any and all actions ordered by the board to be undertaken by a licensee shall
be undertaken and completed at the cost of the licensee. In lieu of taking any
action ordered by the board, the licensee may, in every case, permanently cease
operation of the licensed business. (Ord. 192, 6-26-2001)
3-6-25: REGISTRATION CARD AND MEDICAL CERTIFICATE INSPECTIONS:
Not less than once each week the chief of police, or his designee, shall go to
the premises of each licensee and inspect the registration card of every key
employee, prostitute and other employee, and the medical certificate of every
prostitute, to ensure that every employee of the licensee has fully conformed
to every applicable provision of this chapter. (Ord. 192, 6-26-2001)
3-6-26: PROSTITUTE AND EMPLOYEE REPORT:
   A.   Every licensee shall prepare a prostitute weekly report to the chief of
police or his designee on a form to be furnished by the chief of police or his
designee which shall identify each prostitute by name, date of hire, and if
applicable, date of termination.
   B.   The reporting period shall commence at the conclusion of the
registration card and medical certificate inspection required by section
3-6-25 of this chapter and continue until the next week.
   C.   It shall be the duty of the licensee to immediately commence a new form
at the conclusion of the week listing every prostitute then working and to add
the required information for each new employee hired during the reporting
period and to enter the date of termination on every employee termination
during that period.
   D.   The report shall be signed by a licensee or a key employee and given to
the chief of police or his designee at the commencement of the inspection
required by section
 3-6-25 of this chapter.
   E.   Every licensee shall prepare a monthly report for all other employees
to the chief of police or his designee on a form to be furnished by the chief
of police or his designee which shall identify each employee by name, job
title, date of hire, and if applicable, date of termination. (Ord. 192, 6-26-
2001)
3-6-27: EXCLUDED PERSONS:
   A.   Classification Established: To protect the public health, safety,
morals, good order and general welfare of the residents of the city and those
persons not residents who patronize licensed brothels, there is established a
classification of persons, to be known as "excluded persons", who are to be
excluded or ejected from any establishment licensed under the provisions of
this chapter.
   B.   Excluded Persons Defined:
      1.   Every former applicant for a license whose application was denied
and every former licensee whose license was revoked under the provisions of
section
3-6-31 of this chapter may be deemed an "excluded person".
      2.   Every former applicant for registration as a key employee who was
denied registration and every former key employee whose registration was
revoked under the provisions of subsection
3-6-20G of this chapter, may be deemed an "excluded person".
      3.   Every former applicant for registration as a prostitute or other
employee who was denied registration and every former prostitute or other
employee whose registration was revoked under the provisions of subsection
3-6-16E8 of this chapter may be deemed an "excluded person".
   C.   Entry Of Names On Lists: The board may authorize the chief of police or
his/her designee to place on a list the name of any person who, by reason of
any of the criteria set forth in subsection B of this section, is to be
excluded or ejected from any establishment licensed under the provisions of
this chapter.
   D.   Distribution And Contents Of The List:
      1.   This list shall be open to public inspection and shall be
distributed to every licensee of an establishment licensed as a house of
prostitution in this city.
      2.   This list shall contain the name and all aliases of the person, the
date of birth and physical description of the person, and the effective date
the person's name was placed on the list.
   E.   Petition To Remove From The List:
      1.   Any person who has been placed upon the list may petition the board
in writing and request that his/her name be removed from such list. The
petition shall be verified and state with specificity the grounds believed by
the petitioner to constitute good cause for removal of his/her name.
      2.   The board shall have ninety (90) days in which to entertain such
petition, after which time the board shall either set the petition for hearing
or deny the petition. In the event the board elects to entertain the petition,
a date for hearing shall be specified and thereafter within thirty (30) days a
hearing shall be held.
   F.   Duty Of Licensee To Exclude:
      1.   Whenever an excluded person enters or attempts to enter or is upon
the premises of an establishment licensed as a house of prostitution and is
recognized by the licensee, its agents or employees, then the licensee and its
agents or employees must do the following:
         a.   Request such excluded person to not enter or, if on the premises,
immediately leave.
         b.   Notify the chief of police or his designee if such excluded
person fails to comply with the request of the licensee, its agents or
employees.
      2.   Failure to request such excluded person to leave or to prohibit
entry of such person upon its premises in a timely fashion or failure to
properly notify the chief of police or his designee of the presence of such
excluded person is an unsuitable method of operation and a violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 192, 6-26-2001)
3-6-28: MEDICAL EXAMINATION REQUIRED OF ALL PROSTITUTES:
   A.   Every licensee shall require and ensure that the rules and regulations
now in force or hereafter promulgated by the division of health of the
department of human resources of the state of Nevada are complied with and that
medical examinations are undergone by all prostitutes working at the licensee’s
operation, which examinations shall:
      1.   Be performed at least once a week. These medical examinations must
be completed and the examination results available by each Friday of the week
prior to medical exam record checks being conducted by the police department.
      2.   Be performed by or under the supervision of a physician licensed to
practice medicine in the state, or by a physician’s assistant or registered
nurse under the authority of a physician licensed to practice medicine in the
state, or an advanced practice registered nurse, nurse practitioner, licensed
in the state or doctor of osteopathy duly licensed to practice medicine in the
state.
      3.   Include all tests specified by the division of health of the Nevada
department of human resources for the detection and diagnosis of sexually
transmitted diseases including, but not limited to, weekly tests for gonorrhea
and chlamydia and a monthly blood test for syphilis and human immunodeficiency
virus (HIV), which shall be processed at a licensed and approved clinical
laboratory.
      4.   Include monthly tests approved by the division of health of the
department of human resources of the state for the detection of HIV.
Appropriate specimens are to be submitted to and processed at a licensed and
approved medical laboratory.
      5.   Include other medically approved tests, deemed advisable by the
physician licensed to practice medicine in the state, or by a physician’s
assistant or registered nurse under the authority of a physician licensed to
practice medicine in the state, or an advanced practice registered nurse, nurse
practitioner, licensed in the state, for determining whether the prostitute is
afflicted with any infectious or contagious disease.
      6.   Be performed at the location of the licensed operation, at the
physician’s or advanced practice nurse, nurse practitioner’s office, at a
hospital or clinic, as determined by the physician licensed to practice
medicine in the state, or by a physician’s assistant or registered nurse under
the authority of a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state, or an
advanced practice registered nurse, nurse practitioner, licensed in the state.
      7.   Consistent with NAC 441A.120(2), no person may work as a prostitute
in a licensed house of prostitution until a state licensed and approved medical
laboratory has reported that the results of the tests required by NAC 441A800
et seq., do not show the presence of chlamydia, syphilis, gonorrhea, or the
antibody to the human immunodeficiency virus. In effect, no prostitutes will be
allowed to work (perform sexual acts with another person) on the premises until
they have been cleared by a physician licensed to practice medicine in the
state, or by a physician’s assistant or registered nurse under the authority of
a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state, or an advanced practice
registered nurse, nurse practitioner, licensed in the state, to work.
      8.   If any prostitute’s test results are positive, the prostitute must
be removed from the brothel floor immediately and her work card turned over to
a representative of the police department. The prostitute must wait at the
brothel until contact is made by the state health department or its designee.
This contact may be made in person or by telephone. Once contact is complete,
the prostitute may then leave the premises of the brothel. If the prostitute
chooses to stay, she will remain off the floor, which includes the bar area,
and not engage in any type of sexual activity until a clearance to return to
work has been received from the physician licensed to practice medicine in the
state, or by a physician’s assistant or registered nurse under the authority of
a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state, or an advanced practice
registered nurse, nurse practitioner, licensed in the state, and presented to
the police department.
      9.   The owner/management or key employee of the brothel is required to
notify the police department when a prostitute leaves the brothel on vacation.
(Any period in excess of 48 hours is considered vacation.) Prior to returning
to work from vacation, the prostitute must get a medical exam, clearance from a
physician licensed to practice medicine in the state, or by a physician’s
assistant or registered nurse under the authority of a physician licensed to
practice medicine in the state, or an advanced practice registered nurse, nurse
practitioner, licensed in the state, and cleared to go to work by the Wells
police department.
   B.   After performing the examination required in subsection A of this
section, the examining doctor shall:
      1.   Issue to every person examined and found not to be afflicted with a
sexually transmitted disease or other contagious or infectious disease, a
certificate so stating.
      2.   Refuse to issue such certificate to any person found to be, or
suspected of being, afflicted with a sexually transmitted disease or other
contagious or infectious disease.
      3.   Report the results of such examinations weekly to the chief of
police or his designee.
      4.   If any prostitute examined is found to be afflicted with a sexually
transmitted disease or any contagious or infectious disease that creates a
health hazard, the doctor shall immediately notify the chief of police or his
designee and the licensed operator where the prostitute is working, of such
condition.
   C.   No person may work as a prostitute in any operation without a current
certificate, as described in subsection B1 of this section.
   D.   No person who has ever been denied a certificate by an examining
physician licensed to practice medicine in the state, or by a physician’s
assistant or registered nurse under the authority of a physician licensed to
practice medicine in the state, or an advanced practice registered nurse, nurse
practitioner, licensed in the state, or doctor of osteopathy, as provided in
subsection B2 of this section, may again work as a prostitute in any licensed
operation until such person has received and presented to the chief of police
or his designee a certificate from an examining physician licensed to practice
medicine in the state, or by a physician’s assistant or registered nurse under
the authority of a physician licensed to practice medicine in the state, or an
advanced practice registered nurse, nurse practitioner, licensed in the state,
or doctor of osteopathy stating that the cause or causes which resulted in the
denial of the certificate have been cured and that the person is now free of
any sexually transmitted disease or other contagious or infectious diseases.
   E.   Nothing contained in subsections A through E inclusive of this section
shall prevent the board on its own motion or upon complaints or reports from
any person, from inquiring into the existence of any condition on the premises
of any licensed operation which might constitute or cause a health hazard.
(Ord. 192, 6-26-2001; amd. Ord. 242, 8-22-2023)
3-6-29: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Age Restriction: It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty
one (21) years, to enter or be a patron of any operation licensed under the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Licensee Responsibility: It is unlawful for the licensee of any
operation licensed under the provisions of this chapter, or for any prostitute
or employee of such licensee, to compel, entice, encourage, permit or suffer
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years, to enter or be a patron of
any operation licensed under the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Signs: Signs are permitted for all licensed operations. Prior to any
existing signs being changed or new signs being erected, the size, content,
appropriateness, location and placement of the sign shall be approved by the
board during a regular meeting. All off premises signs shall be placed in a
location off the right of way and in a manner so as not to constitute a hazard.
Signs may be illuminated by an external, internal or independent sources of
light, but not neon signing.
   D.   Maintenance Or Delivery Persons: Persons performing part-time
maintenance or repair work or delivering supplies are not required to obtain a
work permit for such performance of duties unless they reside on the premises
of the licensed brothel. (Ord. 192, 6-26-2001)
3-6-30: ARMED SECURITY OFFICERS PROHIBITED; OTHER RESTRICTIONS AND
REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No licensee shall employ any security officer who, as a condition of
employment, is required to be armed with a firearm or other deadly weapon while
on duty.
   B.   No person employed as a security officer by any licensee shall be armed
with a firearm or other deadly weapon while on duty.
   C.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, every security
officer, whether employed directly by a licensed brothel or by a security
company acting as an independent contractor to furnish security services to a
licensed brothel, shall prior to commencing work, obtain a registration
certificate from the chief of police or his designee. (Ord. 192, 6-26-2001)
3-6-31: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSES:
   A.   The board may, based upon just cause, which includes, but is not
limited to, the following, revoke or temporarily suspend any city license
issued under the provisions of this chapter or place a licensee on probation
with or without conditions for any of the following causes which the board
determines is occurring or has occurred:
      1.   Any cause that would constitute grounds for denial of a license
under subsection
3-6-8H of this chapter.
      2.   Violation by the licensee, their agents or employees, of any
provision of this chapter, state law, or regulated federal law that pertain to
prostitution or are relevant to operation of brothels.
      3.   Violation by any prostitute or person who works on a regular, daily,
or weekly basis, in a house of prostitution, of any provision of this chapter
where the licensee knew or should have known of the violation.
      4.   The licensee knowingly permitting the existence of any health hazard
on the premises occupied by the licensed operation or employing any person as a
prostitute when such person does not have a valid health certificate as
required by section
3-6-28 of this chapter.
      5.   Wilful refusal of the licensee to comply with any order of the board
issued under any legal or lawful provision of the Wells brothel code.
      6.   Any other causes which the board may determine, in its sound
discretion, to be harmful or injurious to the health, welfare and safety of the
general public.
   B.   Before action is taken pursuant to subsection A of this section, unless
an alternative procedure is clearly specified elsewhere in this chapter, the
board shall:
      1.   Conduct a hearing to determine the existence of the cause or causes.
The city shall serve an order to show cause upon the licensee or post upon the
premises where the licensed operation is conducted at least five (5) working
days prior to the time of such hearing.
      2.   Permit the licensee to submit evidence and testimony at the above
hearing.
      3.   Consider all evidence and testimony in support of and in opposition
to the action pending.
      4.   Enter in the minutes of the board the findings of the board and
reasons for any action taken by the board, which action may include revocation,
probation, or temporary suspension of the license and all business activity of
the house of prostitution. The board may, but is not required to, impose such
conditions on the operation of the business as are necessary to cure the
problem and eliminate any danger presented by the violation. Such conditions
may include action by the licensee required to be taken within a reasonable
specified time as an alternative to revocation.
      5.   Enter in the minutes of the board an order specifying the action
taken.
   C.   Notice of the order shall be served upon the licensee or posted upon
the premises occupied by the licensed operation.
   D.   Any action taken shall be effective upon service or posting of the
notice, as specified in subsection C of this section.
   E.   The board may further impose a civil penalty upon the licensee and
order the licensee to pay the reasonable costs and attorney fees of the city in
investigating and conducting the hearing. (Ord. 192, 6-26-2001)
3-6-32: EXCEPTION TO HEARING PROCEDURE (EMERGENCY SUSPENSION OF BROTHEL
LICENSE):
A brothel license may be suspended without a hearing by a written emergency
suspension order signed by the majority of the board, if in their opinion there
exists an immediate and present danger to public health and safety which
necessitates the immediate closure of the brothel. Any such meeting of the
board shall be governed by the emergency exception of the Nevada Revised
Statutes open meetings law. Upon the issuance and service of such an order, all
licensed brothel activity, including consumption of alcohol and sale of
merchandise, shall immediately cease and the brothel licensee may request a
hearing before the board of councilmen within five (5) business days in
accordance with the Nevada open meeting law. The proceedings thereafter shall
be held in accordance with section
3-6-31 of this chapter. (Ord. 192, 6-26-2001)
3-6-33: LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE:
All licenses granted under this chapter shall be for operations conducted on
the property described in the application only, and no operation shall be added
to or moved without a new license application and approval. (Ord. 192, 6-26-
2001)
3-6-34: DEATH OR RESIGNATION OF LICENSED PERSON:
In the event of the death or resignation of a licensed person, the current
license will continue on a temporary basis not to exceed sixty (60) days and a
relicensing process will start again as with a new license application. (Ord.
192, 6-26-2001)
3-6-35: CRIMINAL PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or of this code amended
by this chapter, may be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction, may be
punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by
imprisonment for a term not to exceed six (6) months, or by both fine and
imprisonment. (Ord. 192, 6-26-2001)
3-6-36: SEPARABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions hereof. (Ord. 192, 6-26-2001)
CHAPTER 7
LICENSING AND REGULATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-7-1: Title
3-7-2: Definitions
3-7-3: Classification
3-7-4: Licensing Required
3-7-5: License Application Contents And Issuance
3-7-6: License Fees; License Investigation Fees
3-7-7: Inspection
3-7-8: Renewal Of License
3-7-9: Suspension
3-7-10: Revocation
3-7-11: Appeal
3-7-12: Transfer Of License
3-7-13: Compliance Time Limits For Existing Businesses
3-7-14: Additional Regulations For Escort Agencies
3-7-15: Additional Regulations For Nude Model Studios
3-7-16: Additional Regulations For Sexually Oriented Motion Picture Theaters
3-7-17: Additional Regulations For Sexually Oriented Motels
3-7-18: Regulations Pertaining To Exhibition Of Sexually Explicit Films Or
Videos
3-7-19: Regulations Pertaining To Sexually Oriented "Soda Pop" Or Nonalcoholic
Beverage Clubs
3-7-20: Regulations Pertaining To Sexually Oriented Barbershops
3-7-21: Regulations Pertaining To Sexually Oriented Beauty Salons
3-7-22: Regulations Pertaining To A Sexually Oriented Massage Parlor Or Health
Studio
3-7-23: Regulations And Unlawful Activities Applying To All Sexually Oriented
Business Uses, Principal And Accessory
3-7-24: Regulations And Unlawful Activities Applying To All Accessory Sexually
Oriented Business Uses
3-7-25: Prohibited Activities Of Performers
3-7-26: Prohibited Activities Of Patrons
3-7-27: Criminal Penalty
3-7-28: Civil Injunction
3-7-29: Strict Liability And Liability For The Conduct Of Others
3-7-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the LICENSING AND REGULATION OF
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES. (Ord. 181, 11-12-1997)
3-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   ACCESSORY SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE:
   A.   The offering of retail goods for sale which are classified as sexually
oriented business uses on a limited scale and which are incidental to the
primary activity and goods and/or services offered by the establishment.
Examples of such items include the sale of adult magazines, the sale and/or
rental of adult motion pictures, the sale of adult novelties, and the like.
(Also see applicable sections of the city zoning code for further requirements
defining accessory sexually oriented business use.)
   B.   Dancing or live entertainment characterized by an emphasis on the
presentation of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas",
if such live entertainment is only presented as an occasional activity of the
business operation and is presented not more than four (4) times in any
calendar year.
   C.   Occasional activity as used in connection with an accessory sexually
oriented business use means: dancing or live entertainment characterized by an
emphasis on presentation of "specific sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas" if such live entertainment is only presented as an occasional
activity of the business operation as herein regulated.
   BOARD: The board of councilmen of the city of Wells.
   ESCORT: Any licensee with a Work Permit who, for a compensation of any type,
accompanies any other person to or about social affairs, places of
entertainment or amusement, or who consorts with others about any place of
public resort or within any private quarters outside of a brothel, pursuant to
the terms of
3-7-14.
   ESCORT AGENCY: A licensee which, for compensation of any type, furnishes or
offers to furnish escorts, also known as “outdating” or “out calling,”
operating out of a Premises pursuant to the terms of
3-7-14.
   LICENSEE: A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license.
   PERSON: An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   PREMISES: A brothel building, accessory buildings used by customers, and
area within the fenced enclosure of brothel, if any, of the building.
   PRINCIPAL SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE: The offering of goods and/or services which
are classified as sexually oriented business uses as a primary or sole activity
of a business or establishment and include, but are not limited to, the
following:
Sexually Oriented Adult Video And/Or Adult Bookstore: A building or portion of
a building used for the barter, rental or sale of items consisting of printed
matter, pictures, slides, records, audiotape, videotape or motion picture film
if a substantial or significant portion of such items are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Barbershop: Any barbershop which is licensed to cut hair, but
features sexual exhibits or displays:
   A.   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminude; or
   B.   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
   C.   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which depict or describe "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Beauty Salon: Any beauty salon which is licensed to cut hair,
hairstyling, manicuring, but features sexual exhibits or displays:
   A.   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminude; or
   B.   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
   C.   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which depict or describe "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Body Painting Studio: An establishment or business which
provides the service of applying paint or other substance, whether transparent
or nontransparent, to or on the body of a patron when such body is wholly or
partially nude in terms of "specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Cabaret: A building or portion of a building used for
providing dancing or other live entertainment and if such dancing or other live
entertainment is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
presentation, display, depiction, or description of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Companionship Establishment: A companionship establishment
which provides the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or
discussion between an employee of the establishment and a customer, if such
service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Conversation/Rap Parlor: A conversation/rap parlor which
provides the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or
discussion, if such service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Health/Sport Club: A health/sport club which is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Hotel Or Motel: A hotel or motel wherein material is
presented which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Massage Parlor, Health Club Or Studio: A massage parlor,
health club or studio which provides the services of massage, if such service
is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Mini-Motion Picture Theater: A building or portion of a
building with a capacity for less than fifty (50) persons used for presenting
material if such building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice
contains such material that is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" for observation
by patrons therein.
Sexually Oriented Modeling Studio: An establishment whose major business is the
provision, to customers, of figure models who are so provided with the intent
of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to such customers and
who engage in "specified sexual activities" or display "specified anatomical
areas" while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn,
sculptured, photographed or otherwise depicted by such customers.
Sexually Oriented Motion Picture Arcade: Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein coin or slug operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture
machines, projectors or other image reproducing devices are maintained to show
images to five (5) or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the
images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing "special sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas".
Sexually Oriented Motion Picture Theater: A building or portion of a building
with a capacity of fifty (50) or more persons used for presenting material if
such building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice contains such
material that is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" for observation by patrons
therein.
Sexually Oriented Novelty Business: A business which has as a principal
activity in the sale of devices which stimulate human genitals or devices which
are designed for sexual stimulation.
Sexually Oriented Sauna: A sauna which provides a steam bath or heat bathing
room used for the purpose of bathing, relaxation or reducing, utilizing steam
or hot air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent, if the service provided
by the sauna is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Soda Pop Or Nonalcoholic Beverage Clubs: A nightclub, bar,
restaurant or other commercial establishment that does not serve alcoholic
beverages but features sexual exhibits or displays:
   A.   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminude; or
   B.   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
   C.   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which depict or describe "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Steam Room/Bathhouse Facility: A building or portion of a
building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the
purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam or hot
air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent if the service provided by the
steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS USES: Sexually oriented business uses includes
adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult mini-motion picture
theaters, adult massage parlors, adult steam room/bathhouse/sauna facilities,
adult companionship establishments, adult rap/conversation parlors, adult
health/sport clubs, adult cabarets, adult novelty businesses, adult motion
picture arcades, adult modeling studios, adult hotels/motels, adult body
painting studios, "soda pop" or nonalcoholic beverage club, adult barbershops,
adult beauty salons, and other premises, enterprises, establishments,
businesses or places open to some or all members of the public, at or in which
there is an emphasis on the presentation, display, depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" which are capable
of being seen by members of the public. Activities classified as obscene as
defined by Nevada Revised Statutes 201.235 et seq., are not included.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: A. Less than completely and opaquely covered
human genitals, pubic region, anus, or female breast(s) from the beginning of
the areola or nipple to the end thereof; and
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: A. Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral
copulation, anal intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical
stimulation of unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a
sexual relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a
sexual relationship, and any of the following sexually oriented acts or
conduct: anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, sapphism; or
   B.   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal or tumescence; or
   C.   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus, or
masturbation; or
   D.   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, or
female breast; or
   E.   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude, clad in
undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged in
activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other
physical restrain of any such persons; or
   F.   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually oriented contact
with an animal by a human being; or
   G.   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal irrigation.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT: Substantial enlargement of a sexually oriented
business means the increase in floor area occupied by the business by more than
twenty five percent (25%), as the floor area existed on the effective date
hereof.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL: Transfer of ownership or control of a
sexually oriented business use means and includes any of the following:
   A.   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
   B.   The transfer of securities which constitutes a controlling interest in
the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
   C.   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device which
transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control.
   WORK CARD OR WORK PERMIT: A permit issued by the chief of police to
applicants who meet the requirements of this chapter permitting the applicant
to perform work authorized by this chapter. (Ord. 181, 11-12-1997; amd. Ord.
237, - -2021)
3-7-3: CLASSIFICATION:
The following uses are classified as sexually oriented business uses:
   A.   Accessory sexually oriented business uses which:
      1.   Comprise no more than ten percent (10%) of the floor area of the
establishment in which it is located and comprise no more than twenty percent
(20%) of the gross receipts of the entire business operation; and
      2.   Do not involve or include any activity except the sale or rental of
merchandise; or
      3.   Involve or include dancing or live entertainment characterized by an
emphasis on the presentation of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas", if such live entertainment is only presented as an
occasional activity of the business operation. To qualify as an accessory
sexually oriented business use, said activity or event shall be limited to no
more than twenty one (21) consecutive days taking place at minimum thirty (30)
day intervals following a similar activity or event and such activities or
events occurring no more than four (4) times within a calendar year.
   B.   Principal sexually oriented business uses include, but are not limited
to, the following:
      1.   Body painting studio;
      2.   Adult video and/or adult bookstore;
      3.   Cabaret;
      4.   Soda pop or nonalcoholic beverage club;
      5.   Companionship establishment;
      6.   Conversation/rap parlor;
      7.   Health/sport club;
      8.   Sexually oriented hotel or motel;
      9.   Massage parlor, health club or studio;
      10.   Mini-motion picture theater;
      11.   Modeling studio;
      12.   Motion picture arcade;
      13.   Motion picture theater;
      14.   Novelty business;
      15.   Sauna;
      16.   Steam room/bathhouse facility;
      17.   Barbershops;
      18.   Beauty shops;
      19.   Private clubs.
   C.   Houses of prostitution which are regulated under chapter 6 of this
title are not included within the classification of sexually oriented business
uses as herein regulated. (Ord. 181, 11-12-1997)
3-7-4: LICENSING REQUIRED:
   A.   Required And Exempt:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate a
principal sexually oriented business use without having first secured a license
as herein provided.
      2.   Except for dancing and live entertainment as herein regulated,
accessory sexually oriented business uses shall not require a license pursuant
to this section. An accessory sexually oriented business use which hires or
contracts for live entertainment or dancing must apply for and obtain a
temporary business license for each event. The application for the temporary
license must be on a form provided by the city clerk.
   B.   Application Form And Diagram Required: An application for a license for
a principal sexually oriented business use must be made on a form provided by
the city. The application must be accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing
the configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor space
occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally
prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with market
dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches (±6"). Applicants who must comply with section
3-7-18 of this chapter shall submit a diagram meeting the requirements of that
section.
   C.   Qualification Of Applicant And Premises: The applicant must be
qualified according to the provisions of this section and section
3-7-5 of this chapter and the premises must be inspected and found to be in
compliance with the law by the fire department and building official.
   D.   More Than One Applicant: If a person who wishes to operate a sexually
oriented business use is an individual, the individual must sign the
application for a license as applicant. If a person who wishes to operate a
sexually oriented business use is other than an individual, each individual who
has an interest in the business must sign the application for a license as
applicant. Each applicant must be qualified under section
3-7-5 of this chapter and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a
license is granted. (Ord. 181, 11-12-1997)
3-7-5: LICENSE APPLICATION CONTENTS AND ISSUANCE:
   A.   The license application for a principal sexually oriented business use
shall contain the following:
      1.   Names, ages, and addresses of all persons who have or will have any
financial interest in the operation, including the owner of the real property,
if the real property is leased to the operator;
      2.   Names, ages, and addresses of persons who are or will be personally
responsible for the conduct and management of the operation;
      3.   A recent photograph and complete set of fingerprints of all persons
listed in subsections A1 and A2 of this section;
      4.   Names and addresses of every other business in which the applicant
has any financial interest, including the type of such business and the nature
of the applicant's interest;
      5.   Names and addresses of all employers of the applicant in the
preceding five (5) years;
      6.   All the applicant's addresses for the preceding five (5) years;
      7.   A list of all prior convictions of the applicant for any crime,
excluding minor traffic violations, which list shall include a statement of the
offense, the place of its occurrence, the date of its occurrence, and the
disposition of the case;
      8.   A complete and accurate financial statement of the applicant;
      9.   The street address of the property upon which the proposed operation
is to be conducted;
   B.   Upon presentation of any license application to the city clerk, the
city clerk shall refer such application to the chief of police for
investigation. The chief of police shall conduct a full investigation of all
information contained in the license application.
   C.   Within forty five (45) days after any application is referred by the
city clerk to the chief of police, the chief of police shall report the results
of his investigation in writing to the city clerk, which shall include, but
shall not be limited to, the following:
      1.   A complete statement of the results of all investigations
undertaken;
      2.   A list of any errors or omissions found to exist in the application;
and
      3.   A recommendation by the chief of police for approval or denial of
the license.
   D.   The city clerk at his own direction or at the request of the chief of
police shall refuse to grant a license to any applicant:
      1.   Where an applicant or an applicant's spouse has been convicted of
any felony or a crime involving any of the following:
         a.   Any offense relating to:
            (1)   Indecent exposure;
            (2)   Public sexual indecency;
            (3)   Public sexual indecency to a minor;
            (4)   Sexual abuse;
            (5)   Sexual conduct with a minor;
            (6)   Sexual assault;
            (7)   Sexual assault of a spouse;
            (8)   Molestation of a child;
            (9)   Lewd and lascivious acts;
         b.   Any of the prostitution or pandering offenses;
         c.   Any offense relating to:
            (1)   Production, publication, sale, possession and presentation of
obscene items;
            (2)   Coercing acceptance of obscene articles or publications;
            (3)   Furnishing obscene or harmful items to minors;
            (4)   Public display of explicit sexual materials;
            (5)   Creation, transportation or distribution of obscene films,
photographs or motion pictures of minors;
            (6)   Obscene or indecent telephone communications to minors for
commercial purposes;
         d.   Any offense relating to:
            (1)   Commercial sexual exploitation of a minor;
            (2)   Sexual exploitation of a minor;
            (3)   Admitting minors to public displays of sexual conduct;
         e.   Any offense relating to:
            (1)   Incest;
            (2)   Contributing to delinquency and dependency;
            (3)   Permitting life, health or morals of minor to be imperiled by
neglect, abuse or immoral associations;
            (4)   Sex with animals;
         f.   Any similar offenses to those described above under the criminal
or penal code of Nevada, other states, other cities or other counties;
         g.   Facilitation, attempt, conspiracy or solicitation to commit any
of the foregoing offenses for which:
            (1)   Less than two (2) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
            (2)   Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
            (3)   Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of the
last conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last
conviction, whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two (2) or
more misdemeanor offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring
within any twenty four (24) month period.
      2.   Who has any financial interest in, or connection with, any business
which is illegal where such business is located;
      3.   When the proposed establishment is not in the correct zoning;
      4.   Under eighteen (18) years of age.
      5.   Delinquent in his or her payment to the city of taxes, fees, fines,
or penalties assessed against him or her or imposed upon him or her in relation
to a sexually oriented business use.
      6.   Who has failed to provide information reasonably necessary for
issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form, or has wilfully omitted or incorrectly
stated any material fact on the application.
      7.   Who has been convicted of a violation of a provision of this section
within two (2) years immediately preceding the application. The fact that a
conviction is being appealed shall have no effect.
      8.   Residing with a person who has been denied a license by the city to
operate a sexually oriented business use within the preceding twelve (12)
months, or residing with a person whose license to operate a sexually oriented
business use has been revoked within the preceding twelve (12) months.
      9.   If the premises to be used for the sexually oriented business use
has not been approved by the fire department and the building official as being
in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances.
      10.   If the license fee required by this section has not been paid.
      11.   Who has been employed in a sexually oriented business use in a
managerial capacity within the preceding twelve (12) months and has
demonstrated that he or she is unable to operate or manage a sexually oriented
business use premises in a peaceful and law abiding manner, thus necessitating
action by law enforcement officers.
      12.   If applicant or the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with this code.
      13.   Who has been convicted or whose spouse has been convicted of an
offense listed above may qualify for a sexually oriented business use license
only when the time period required by this section has elapsed.
         a.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification of the applicant or applicant's spouse.
   E.   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the person
or persons to whom it is granted, the classification or classifications of the
sexually oriented business use for which it is granted, the expiration date,
and the address of the sexually oriented business use. All licenses shall be
posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented
business use so that they may be easily read at any time.
   F.   Every license issued under the provisions of this chapter, shall have
the following restrictions:
      1.   No operation may be conducted in violation of any applicable city,
county, state or federal ordinance, statute or regulation;
      2.   No change in ownership, partners, or persons with any interest in
the sexually oriented business use after being approved for a license without
first obtaining city approval in regards to any changes of ownership, partners,
or persons with any interest in the sexually oriented business use. (Ord. 181,
11-12-1997)
3-7-6: LICENSE FEES; LICENSE INVESTIGATION FEES:
The annual fee for a sexually oriented business use license shall be set by
resolution of the city board of councilmen. The investigation fee for the
purpose of issuing a license shall be set by resolution of the city board of
councilmen. In the event that the license is denied upon application, the
license fee shall be refunded; however, no part of the license investigation
fee shall be returned to the applicant. No part of the annual license fee shall
be refunded if the license is suspended or revoked. All licenses shall be
issued on an annual basis from January 1 to December 31 of each year. The
license fee shall be paid annually or semiannually and shall be due on or
before December 31 of each year. (Ord. 181, 11-12-1997)
3-7-7: INSPECTION:
   A.   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the police
department, fire department and building inspection division to inspect the
premises of a sexually oriented business use for the purpose of ensuring
compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or open for business.
   B.   A person who operates a sexually oriented business use, or his or her
agent, or his or her employee, commits an offense if the person refuses to
permit a lawful inspection of the premises by a representative of the police
department at any time it is occupied or open for business. (Ord. 181, 11-12-
1997)
3-7-8: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Application Renewal And Review: Each license shall be renewed only by
making a renewal application as provided by the city clerk. The city clerk and
chief of police shall review the renewal application and shall grant or deny
the renewal license application on the same basis as set forth in section
3-7-5 of this chapter. Applications for renewal shall be made at least thirty
(30) days before the expiration date. If the city clerk or chief of police
determines good and sufficient cause is shown by the applicant for failure to
file a timely renewal application, the city clerk may, if other provisions of
this chapter are complied with, grant the application.
   B.   Denial Of Renewal: When the city clerk or chief of police denies
renewal of a license, the applicant shall not be issued a license for one year
from the date of denial. If, subsequent to denial, the city clerk finds that
the basis for denial of the renewal license has been corrected or abated, the
applicant may be granted a license if at least ninety (90) days have elapsed
since the date denial became final.
   C.   Penalty: If any license provided for by this chapter shall remain
unpaid for more than fifteen (15) days after the same is due, a penalty of
twenty five percent (25%) shall be added to the license fee and collected by an
officer or employee of the city clerk's office. (Ord. 181, 11-12-1997)
3-7-9: SUSPENSION:
The city clerk or chief of police may suspend a license for a period not to
exceed thirty (30) days following written notice and an opportunity to be heard
if the city clerk or chief of police determines that a licensee or an employee
of a licensee has:
   A.   Violated or is not in compliance with this chapter or with the uniform
codes adopted by the city in this code or applicable state laws, including
those relating to buildings, electricity, plumbing, fire safety and mechanical
equipment; or violation of state law relating to the same;
   B.   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business use
premises as authorized by this chapter or any other chapter of this code; or
   C.   Demonstrated an inability to operate or manage a sexually oriented
business use in a peaceful and law abiding manner thus necessitating action by
law enforcement officers. (Ord. 181, 11-12-1997)
3-7-10: REVOCATION:
   A.   The city clerk or chief of police may revoke a license preceded by
written notice and an opportunity to be heard if a cause of suspension in
section
3-7-9 of this chapter occurs and the license has been suspended within the
preceding twelve (12) months.
   B.   The city clerk or chief of police may revoke a license if the city
clerk or chief of police determines that:
      1.   A licensee gave false or misleading information to the city during
the application process;
      2.   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or
sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      3.   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises;
      4.   A licensee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended.
      5.   A licensee has been convicted of an offense listed in subsection
3-7-5D1 of this chapter for which the time period required in that subsection
has not elapsed;
      6.   On two (2) or more occasions within a twelve (12) month period, a
person or persons committed an offense occurring in or on the licensed premises
of a crime listed in subsection
3-7-5D1 of this chapter, for which a conviction has been obtained, and the
person or persons were employees of the sexually oriented business use at the
time the offenses were committed;
      7.   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation to occur in or on the
licensed premises; or
      8.   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city for ad valorem
taxes, local lodging tax, or other taxes or fees related to the sexually
oriented business use.
      9.   Failure of any licensee to apply for a renewal as required in
section
3-7-8 of this chapter shall be grounds for the city clerk or chief of police to
revoke the license. Any license thus revoked may be reinstated only upon
compliance by the licensee with all requirements of this chapter relating to
original license applications.
   C.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the revocation of the license.
   D.   Subsection B7 of this section does not apply to sexually oriented
motels as a grounds for revoking the license unless the licensee or employee
knowingly allowed the act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation,
masturbation or sexual contact to occur in a public place or within public
view, or the licensee, or employee knowingly allowed any felony to be committed
on or about the premises of the sexually oriented motel.
   E.   When the city clerk or chief of police revokes a license, the
revocation shall continue for one year and the licensee shall not be issued a
sexually oriented business use license for one year from the date revocation
became effective. If, subsequent to revocation, the city clerk or chief of
police finds that the basis for the revocation has been corrected or abated,
the applicant may be granted a license if at least ninety (90) days have
elapsed since the date the revocation became effective. (Ord. 181, 11-12-1997)
3-7-11: APPEAL:
   A.   Denial, Suspension Or Revocation: If the city clerk or chief of police
denies the issuance of a license, or suspends or revokes a license, the city
clerk or chief of police shall send to the applicant, or licensee, by certified
mail, return receipt requested, written notice of the action, and the right to
an appeal. The aggrieved party may appeal the decision of the city clerk or
chief of police within thirty (30) days of receiving notice of the city's
action. The filing of an appeal stays the action of the city clerk or chief of
police in suspending or revoking a license until the city board of councilmen
makes a final decision.
   B.   Procedure: The city board of councilmen may hear the appeal itself or
may appoint a committee of the board of councilmen or an independent hearing
officer to hear the matter, report findings of fact and a recommendation for
disposition to the board of councilmen. Hearings on the appeal shall be open to
the public and the licensee or applicant shall have the right to appear and be
represented by legal counsel and to offer evidence in its behalf. At the
conclusion of the hearing, the board of councilmen shall make a final decision.
   C.   Additional Requirements: The city board of councilmen may condition
denial, suspension, revocation or nonrenewal of a license upon appropriate
terms and conditions. (Ord. 181, 11-12-1997)
3-7-12: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business use under the authority of a
license at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. 181, 11-12-1997)
3-7-13: COMPLIANCE TIME LIMITS FOR EXISTING BUSINESSES:
   A.   The regulations and provisions set forth in sections
3-7-14 through
3-7-25 of this chapter shall be applicable to all persons and businesses
described herein, whether the herein described activities were established
before or after the effective date hereof, and regardless of whether such
persons and businesses are currently licensed to do business in the city.
   B.   All such persons and businesses requiring sexually oriented business
use licenses shall have fifty (50) days from the effective date hereof to
comply with the regulatory provisions set forth in sections
3-7-14 through 3-7-25 of this chapter. (Ord. 181, 11-12-1997)
3-7-14: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ESCORT AGENCIES:
   A.   In the event prostitution is temporarily suspended for any reason, but
escorting is otherwise legal, a Licensee operating out of a Premises may acts
as an Escort Agency, and the Work Permitee may operate as an Escort pursuant to
the terms herein. The following grounds shall each be a basis for denial or
revocation:
   B.   No Escort shall:
      1.   Act as an Escort or agree(s) to act as an Escort without a Work
Permit.
      2.   Commit an act of prostitution while acting as an Escort.
      3.   Solicit any fee, gratuity or tip from any outcall entertainment
patron in addition to the basic entertainment fee.
      4.   No Escort shall serve, sell, distribute or possess any intoxicating
liquor, or any beverage represented as containing any alcohol, during the
course of the contract with an outcall entertainment patron without a valid
liquor license.
      5.   At no time shall a Escort expose any portion of their pubic region,
appear in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered,
except in a private residence.
      6.   An Escort shall not work if grossly intoxicated or under the
influence of any controlled substance.
      7.   An Escort shall not fondle or caress any patron, and no patron shall
fondle or caress any Escort.
      8.   An Escort shall not simulate any sexual acts with a patron or use
any artificial device or inanimate object, animal or simulation thereof, to
simulate the same,
      9.   An Escort shall at no time make dates with while performing or
solicit prostitution in any form.
      10.   The Escort Agency shall maintain at all times during the open hours
a schedule or list of all employees and/or independent contractors. This
schedule or list must list all employees and/or independent contractors on duty
and their shift times. The list must be made available to law enforcement on
demand.
      11.   Commission of a criminal act while providing services to an escort/
outcall entertainment patron.
   C.   The following are requirements and restrictions of the Escort Agency
and/or Escort Licenses:
      1.   A Licensee acting as an Escort Agency is responsible for the acts of
its employees and independent contractors or subcontractors, including, but not
limited to, Escorts, attendants, servers, security personnel, managers and
performers. Any License may be revoked for acts of such agent, employee or
subcontractor which violates any provision of this chapter. It is the duty of
the licensee to prevent disturbances, fraudulent acts, prostitution and the
solicitation of prostitution, and violations of the outcall entertainment
regulations as defined in this chapter, inclusive.
      2.   The owners or operators of any Escort Agency and/or Escort service
shall ensure that all independent contractors and subcontractors, including,
but not limited to, attendants, servers, security personnel, managers and
performers must have a current business license and work permit prior to
contracting for their services. The owner or operators must keep a copy of each
individual business license and work card on file for every independent
contractor subcontractor or employee not acting as a regular employee.
      3.   The following restrictions on advertising apply:
         a.   No person shall advertise or cause to be advertised as an Escort
Agency unless operating as such pursuant to the terms herein.
      4.   No licensee, manager subcontractor independent contractor or
employee of an Escort Agency and/or Escort service shall, in any manner, either
directly or indirectly:
         a.   Advertise, display or disseminate:
            (1)   In any newspaper magazine or other publication;
            (2)   By radio or television broadcasting;
            (3)   By telephone directory;
            (4)   By telephone, fax or internet; or
            (5)   By handbill, pictorial, representation or other advertising,
any information or illustrations or pictures of any person or object that
contain any statement which implies or suggests to a reasonable, prudent person
or would give the public a basis to infer or believe that prostitution or any
other illegal act, product or service is offered or provided by any business
licensed under this chapter.
         b.   Advertise in any manner set forth in herein any statement which
implies or suggests to a reasonable, prudent person or would give the public a
basis to infer or believe that an Escort Agency and/or Escort service have been
medically examined or are free from contagious diseases.
   D.   Every Escort Agency and/or Escort must hold a valid Work Permit.
      1.   A Work Permit must be renewed each time an Escort changes place of
work from one Escort Agency and starts work with a different Escort Agency.
      2.   The chief of police or his designee shall investigate the accuracy
of all information supplied by any applicant on the registration form,
      3.   Every licensee shall reguire and ensure that the rules and
regulations now in force or hereafter promulgated by the division of health of
the department of human resources of the state of Nevada are complied with and
that medical examinations are undergone by all escorts working at the
licensee's operation, which examinations shall:
         a.   Be performed at least once a week. These medical examinations
must be completed and the examination results available by each Friday of the
week prior to medical exam record checks being conducted by the police
department.
         b.   Be performed by or under the supervision of a physician or doctor
of osteopathy duly licensed to practice medicine in the state.
         c.   Include all tests specified by the division of health of the
Nevada department of human resources for the detection and diagnosis of
sexually transmitted diseases including, but not limited to, weekly tests for
gonorrhea and chlamydia and a monthly blood test for syphilis and human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV), which shall be processed ata licensed and
approved clinical laboratory.
         d.   Include monthly tests approved by the division of health of the
department of human resources of the state for the detection of HIV.
Appropriate specimens are to be submitted to and processed at a licensed and
approved medical laboratory.
         e.   include other medically approved tests, deemed advisable by the
physician, for determining whether the Escort is afflicted with any infectious
or contagious disease.
         f.   Be performed at the location of the licensed operation, at the
physician's office, at a hospital or clinic, as determined by the physician.
         g.   Consistent with NAC 441 A. 120(2), no person may work as a Escort
in a licensed house of prostitution until a state licensed and approved medical
laboratory has reported that the results of the tests reguired by NAC 441A800
et seg., do not show the presence of chlamydia, syphilis, gonorrhea, or the
antibody to the human immunodeficiency virus. In effect, no Escorts will be
allowed to work (perform sexual acts with another person) on the premises until
they have been cleared by a physician to work.
         h.   If any Escort's test results are positive, the Escort must turn
his or her work card turned over to a representative of the police department
and immediately cease any Escort related activity. The Escort must wait at the
brothel until contact is made by the state health department or its designee.
This contact may be made in person or by telephone. Once contact is complete,
the Escort may then leave the premises of the brothel. If the Escort chooses to
stay she will remain off the floor, which includes the bar area, and not engage
in any type of sexual activity until a clearance to return to work has been
received from the physician and presented to the police departments
         i.   The owner/management of the Escort Agency is reguired to notify
the police department when an Escort leaves the Escort Agency on vacation. (Any
period in excess of 48 hours is considered vacation.) Prior to returning to
work from vacation, the Escort must get a medical exam, clearance from a
licensed physician, and cleared to go to work by the Wells police department.
         j.   After performing the examination required in herein, the
examining doctor shall:
            (1)   Issue to every person examined and found not to be afflicted
with a sexually transmitted disease or other contagious or infectious disease,
a certificate so stating.
            (2)   Refuse to issue such certificate to any person found to be,
or suspected of being, afflicted with a sexually transmitted disease or other
contagious or infectious disease.
            (3)   Report the results of such examinations weekly to the chief
of police or his designee.
            (4)   If any Escort examined is found to be afflicted with a
sexually transmitted disease or any contagious or infectious disease that
creates a health hazard, the doctor shall immediately notify the chief of
police or his designee and the licensed operator where the Escort is working,
of such condition.
         k.   No person may work as an Escort in any operation without a
current certificate, as described herein.
         l.   No person who has ever been denied a certificate by an examining
physician or doctor of osteopathy, as provided in herein, may again work as a
Escort in any licensed operation until such person has received and presented
to the chief of police or his designee a certificate from an examining
physician or doctor of osteopathy stating that the cause or causes which
resulted in the denial of the certificate have been cured and that the person
is now free of any sexually transmitted disease or other contagious or
infectious diseases.
         m.   Nothing contained in subsections A. through E. inclusive of this
section shall prevent the board on its own motion or upon complaints or reports
from any person, from inquiring into the existence of any condition on the
premises of any licensed operation which might constitute or cause a health
hazard.
      4.   Concerning other restrictions:
         a.   If registered under the provisions of this chapter, such
licensing would be contrary to the health, safety or welfare of the city or its
residents:
         b.   Has willfully made any false statement or omission in the
registration form required by subsection B of this section; or
         c.   The chief of police or his designee will have the authority to
deny or revoke the Work Permit of any person who works at an Escort Agency or
as an Escort who does not qualify under this section or who is found to be
violating this code or state law. The person whose work card has been denied or
revoked may file an appeal to the city of Wells board of councilmen within
thirty (30) calendar days from the date in which the work permit (card) was
denied or revoked.
      5.   Any person who works at an Escort Agency or as an Escort shall file
with the police and maintain a current work card before commencing work as a at
an Escort Agency or as an Escort; no Work Permit shall be transferable; all
Work Permits shall state the name of the licensed operation where the Escort
works; no Escort shall change their place of work from one location or Escort
Agency to another without first notifying the chief of police or his designee
of the proposed change and obtaining a revised Work Permit. Work Permits must
be on the premises of the Escort Agency or registered location and accessible
to police at all times.
      6.   No Escort may work for more than one Escort Agency at a time. (Ord.
181, 11-12-1997; amd. Ord. 237, - - 2021)
3-7-15: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR NUDE MODEL STUDIOS:
   A.   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years or allow any person under eighteen (18) years of age on the
premises.
   B.   A person commits an offense if he or she appears in a state of nudity
or seminudity or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity or
seminudity in an area of a nude model studio premises which can be viewed from
the public right of way.
   C.   A person under the age of eighteen (18) years commits an offense if the
person appears seminude or in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a nude
model studio. It is a defense to prosecution under this subsection if the
person under eighteen (18) years was in a restroom not open to public view or
persons of the opposite sex.
   D.   A person commits an offense if the person provides any room in which
the employee or employees and the patron or patrons are alone together without
a separation by a solid physical barrier at least three feet (3') high. The
patron or patrons shall remain on one side of the barrier and the employee or
employees shall remain on the other side of the barrier.
   E.   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa, or mattress
in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception
room open to the public. (Ord. 181, 11-12-1997)
3-7-16: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED MOTION PICTURE THEATERS:
   A.   A person commits an offense if he or she knowingly allows a person
under the age of eighteen (18) years to appear in a state of nudity or seminude
in or on the premises of a sexually oriented motion picture theater or allows
any customer of the business under the age of eighteen (18) years on the
premises.
   B.   It is a defense to prosecute under subsection A of this section if the
person under eighteen (18) years was in a restroom not open to public view or
to persons of the opposite sex. (Ord. 181, 11-12-1997)
3-7-17: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED MOTELS:
   A.   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial
establishment has been rented and vacated two (2) or more times in a period of
time that is less than four (4) hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the
establishment is a sexually oriented motel as that term is defined in this
chapter.
   B.   A person commits an offense if, as the person in control of a sleeping
room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment that does not have
a sexually oriented business use license, he or she rents or subrents a
sleeping room to a person and, within four (4) hours from the time the room is
rented, he or she rents or subrents the same sleeping room again.
   C.   For purposes of subsection B of this section, the terms "rent" or
"subrent" mean the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of
consideration. (Ord. 181, 11-12-1997)
3-7-18: REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR
VIDEOS:
   A.   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business use, other than a sexually oriented motel, which exhibits on the
premises in a viewing room of less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of
floor space, a film, videocassette, or other video reproduction which depicts
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with
the following requirements:
      1.   Upon application for a sexually oriented business use license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more managers' stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not
exceed thirty two (32) square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also
designate the place at which the license will be conspicuously posted, if
granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or
architect's blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be
oriented to the north or to some designated street or object and should be
drawn to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the
various internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an
accuracy of plus or minus six inches (±6"). The city clerk may waive the
foregoing diagram for a renewal application if the applicant adopts a diagram
that was previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of the
premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      2.   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant(s).
      3.   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station may be made without the prior approval of the chief of police or his
designee.
      4.   It is the duty of the owner and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one licensed employee is on duty and situated in each manager's
station at all times that any patron is present inside the premises. In the
case of a sexually oriented motion picture arcade (or "peep show"), it is the
duty of the owner and operator of the premises and the licensed employees who
are present to ensure that no more than one person occupies a viewing room or
"peep" booth at any time, and that all other entrances to peep booths or other
viewing areas (and to the aisles, walkways and hallways leading to peep booths
or other viewing areas) are maintained free of any obstruction such as a door,
curtain, panel, board, slat, ribbon, cord, rope, chain or other device.
      5.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises have two (2) or more managers' stations designated, then the interior
of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted
access for any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations. The view
required in this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the manager's
station.
      6.   It shall be the duty of the owner and operator, and it shall also be
the duty of all employees present in the premises, to ensure that the line of
sight and view areas specified in subsection A5 of this section remain
unobstructed by any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials
at all times that any patron is present in the premises and to ensure that no
patron is permitted access to any area of the premises which has been
designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in the application
filed pursuant to this subsection A.
      7.   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than one foot-candle as measured at the
floor level.
      8.   It shall be the duty of the owner and operator, and it shall also be
the duty of all employees present on the premises, to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
      9.   No operator, owner or employee shall allow openings of any kind to
exist between view rooms or booths.
      10.   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between viewing booths or rooms.
      11.   The operator or owner shall, during each business day, regularly
inspect the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any openings or
holes exist.
      12.   The owner or operator shall cause all floor coverings in viewing
booths to be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting.
      13.   The owner or operator shall cause all wall surfaces and seating
surfaces in viewing booths to be constructed of, or permanently covered by,
nonporous, easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood, composition board or
other porous material shall be used within forty eight inches (48") of the
floor.
   B.   A person having a duty under subsections A1 through A13 of this section
commits an offense if the person fails to fulfill that duty. (Ord. 181, 11-12-
1997)
3-7-19: REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO SEXUALLY ORIENTED "SODA POP" OR NONALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGE CLUBS:
   A.   A "soda pop" or nonalcoholic beverage control club must not allow a
customer, patron or employee on the premises under the age of eighteen (18)
years.
   B.   Must comply with sections
3-7-23 through
3-7-26 of this chapter.
   C.   Must not allow performers to perform unless their genitals, pubic
region and anus are completely and opaquely covered. (Ord. 181, 11-12-1997)
3-7-20: REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO SEXUALLY ORIENTED BARBERSHOPS:
   A.   Any sexually oriented barbershop must not allow a customer, patron or
employee on the premises under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   B.   Must comply with sections
3-7-23 through
3-7-26 of this chapter. (Ord. 181, 11-12-1997)
3-7-21: REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO SEXUALLY ORIENTED BEAUTY SALONS:
   A.   Any sexually oriented beauty salon must not allow a customer, patron or
employee on the premises under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   B.   Must comply with sections
3-7-23 through
3-7-26 of this chapter. (Ord. 181, 11-12-1997)
3-7-22: REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO A SEXUALLY ORIENTED MASSAGE PARLOR OR HEALTH
STUDIO:
   A.   A massage parlor or health studio must not allow a customer, patron or
employee on the premises under the age of eighteen (18) years of age.
   B.   Must comply with sections
3-7-23 through
3-7-26 of this chapter. (Ord. 181, 11-12-1997)
3-7-23: REGULATIONS AND UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES APPLYING TO ALL SEXUALLY ORIENTED
BUSINESS USES, PRINCIPAL AND ACCESSORY:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business use, including principal and
accessory use, or any sexually oriented business use employee, to:
   A.   Allow persons under the age of eighteen (18) years on the licensed
premises, except that in sexually oriented business uses which exclude minors
from less than all of the business premises, minors shall be permitted in
nonexcluded areas;
   B.   Allow, offer or agree to conduct any sexually oriented business use
with persons under the age of eighteen (18) years or in the presence of any
persons under the age of eighteen (18) years;
   C.   Allow the outside door to the premises to be locked while any customer
is in the premises;
   D.   Allow or offer a patron to touch any specified anatomical areas or to
touch any specified anatomical areas of a patron;
   E.   Allow, offer or agree to illegal possession, use, sale or distribution
of controlled substances on the licensed premises;
   F.   Allow sexually oriented business use employees to possess, use, sell or
distribute controlled substances, while engaged in the activities of the
business;
   G.   Allow, offer or agree to allow any alcoholic beverages to be stored,
dispensed or consumed on or in the licensed premises with the exception of
sexually oriented cabarets which provide live entertainment or dancing with
performers whose genitals, pubic region and anus are completely and opaquely
covered (topless dancing cabarets);
   H.   Allow, offer or agree to commit prostitution, solicitation of
prostitution, solicitation of a minor or committing activities harmful to a
minor to occur on the licensed premises or, in the event of a sexually oriented
business use employee or business, the sexually oriented business use employee
committing, offering or agreeing to commit prostitution, attempting to commit
prostitution, soliciting prostitution, soliciting a minor, or committing
activities harmful to a minor;
   I.   Allow, offer, commit or agree to any sexual act in the presence of any
customer or patron;
   J.   Allow, offer or agree to allow a patron or customer to masturbate in
the presence of the sexually oriented business use employee or on the premises
of a sexually oriented business use;
   K.   Allow any person to appear in a state of nudity or seminude in any area
of the premises of a sexually oriented business which can be viewed from the
public right of way. (Ord. 181, 11-12-1997)
3-7-24: REGULATIONS AND UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES APPLYING TO ALL ACCESSORY SEXUALLY
ORIENTED BUSINESS USES:
   A.   It is unlawful for any accessory sexually oriented business use to:
      1.   Operate or cause to operate another accessory sexually oriented
business within five hundred feet (500') of an existing accessory sexually
oriented business.
      2.   Operate or cause the operation of another accessory sexually
oriented business in the same building, structure or portion thereof. (Ord.
181, 11-12-1997)
3-7-25: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES OF PERFORMERS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any professional dancer, model or performer, while
performing in any sexually oriented business use licensed pursuant to this
chapter, including principal and accessory uses:
      1.   To touch in any manner any other person;
      2.   To throw any object or clothing off the stage area;
      3.   Except as otherwise set forth herein, to accept any money, drink or
any other object from any person;
      4.   To allow another person to touch such performer or to place any
money or object on the performer or within the costume or person of the
performer; or
      5.   To perform in an area other than on a stage raised to a height of
not less than three feet (3') with the stage separated by a setback area of a
distance of not less than three feet (3') from any customer observation area
measured in a straight line from the nearest point of the stage to the nearest
point of customer observation. The patrons shall remain at least three feet
(3') from the performers and the performers shall remain on the setback stage
area at least three feet (3') from any customer observation area.
The foregoing prohibitions shall not prohibit two (2) or more performers from
touching each other while performing provided such touching does not involve
the touching of specified anatomical areas whether clothed or unclothed. (Ord.
181, 11-12-1997)
3-7-26: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES OF PATRONS:
It is unlawful for any person or any patron of any sexually oriented business
use, including principal and accessory uses, to touch in any manner any
performer; to lay or place any money or object on any performer or employee of
the sexually oriented business use, or to give or offer to give to any such
performer or employee of the sexually oriented business use any money or object
while such performer or employee of the sexually oriented business use is
performing; except that money may be placed on the stage which shall not be
picked up by the performer except by hand. (Ord. 181, 11-12-1997)
3-7-27: CRIMINAL PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or of this code, as
amended by ordinance, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction,
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or
by imprisonment for a term not to exceed six (6) months, or by both fine and
imprisonment. (Ord. 181, 11-12-1997)
3-7-28: CIVIL INJUNCTION:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is subject to a civil
suit for injunction as well as prosecution for criminal violations and
liability for licensing sanctions such as suspension or revocation. (Ord. 181,
11-12-1997)
3-7-29: STRICT LIABILITY AND LIABILITY FOR THE CONDUCT OF OTHERS:
   A.   The offenses and violations described in this chapter are strict
liability offenses and violations requiring no proof of culpable mental state.
   B.   A licensee of a sexually oriented business use is jointly and
individually liable for violations of any offenses under this chapter by the
employees of the sexually oriented business use, and for all civil and criminal
sanctions or remedies for such violations and offenses, including, but not
limited to, license suspension or revocation, prescribed herein. (Ord. 181, 11-
12-1997)
CHAPTER 8
CANNABIS ZONING REGULATIONS AND LICENSES
SECTION:
3-8-1: Short Title, Authority, And Application
3-8-2: Findings, Intent, And Purpose
3-8-3: Definitions
3-8-4: Zoning Requirements
3-8-5: Requirement To Obtain Conditional Use Permit
3-8-6: Application
3-8-7: Filing And Investigation
3-8-8: Mandatory Conditions Of Approval
3-8-9: License Requirement And Term Of License
3-8-10: Establishment Location Restrictions
3-8-11: Land Use And Location Requirements; Conformance With Zoning
3-8-12: Facilities Not Located Within The City
3-8-13: Preliminary Finding; City Council Action On Application; Denial Of
Business License
3-8-14: Commencement; Non-Operational Status Of Business
3-8-15: License Classification
3-8-16: Security Requirements
3-8-17: On-Site Use Prohibited
3-8-18: Juvenile Employee
3-8-19: Disposal Of Cannabis Waste
3-8-20: Fees
3-8-21: Renewal; Late Penalty; Penalty; Reinstatement
3-8-22: Consent To Inspections
3-8-23: Revocation Of Licenses, Suspension, Cancellation; Notice Of Hearing
3-8-24: Action Upon Suspension, Revocation, Or Closure
3-8-25: Violation; Penalty
3-8-26: State Law
3-8-1: SHORT TITLE, AUTHORITY, AND APPLICATION:
   A.   Short Title: This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the
CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS CODE.
   B.   Authority: The city council has the authority to adopt this chapter
pursuant to the Nevada constitution and Nevada Revised Statutes, including, but
not limited to, Nevada Revised Statutes 278,453A, and 453D, and NRS 678A
through NRS 678D, inclusive, after July 1, 2020.
   C.   Application: This chapter shall apply to all lands within the
boundaries of the city, as defined in this chapter. (Ord. 230, - -2018; amd.
Ord. 234, 8-25-2020)
3-8-2: FINDINGS, INTENT, AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Findings: The Wells City Council finds:
      1.   The Constitution of the -State of Nevada Article 4, Section 38
directs the Nevada Legislature to provide for, among other things, the
authorization of appropriate methods of supply of marijuana to patients
authorized to use it for medical purposes, and the 2013 Nevada Legislature
enacted Senate Bill 374 (Chapter 457, Statutes of Nevada 2013) significantly
amending NRS Chapters 372A (Tax on Controlled Substances) and Chapter 453A
(Medical Use of marijuana) to provide for exemption from criminal prosecution
and the certification, taxation and regulation of medical establishments
(including dispensaries, cultivation facilities, testing laboratories, and
production facilities of edible products) by the Division of Public and
Behavioral Health State Department of Health and Human Services (the
"Division").
      2.   In 2017, the people of the State of Nevada approved Ballot Question
#2, legalizing the use of marijuana for persons twenty-one (21) years of age or
older, now codified in Nevada Revised Statutes 453D, which allows for
recreational marijuana establishments and sales within the State of Nevada and
requires such establishments to comply with all local business licensing
requirements, local land use and Code requirements.
      3.   The existing law requires the Department of Taxation to adopt all
regulations necessary or convenient to cany out provisions of NRS 453D, which
exempts a person who is twenty-one (21) years of age or older from state or
local prosecution for possession, use, consumption, purchase, transportation or
cultivation or certain amounts of marijuana and requires the Department of
Taxation to begin receiving applications for the licensing of marijuana
establishments on or before January 1, 2018. Approved Regulation of the
Department of Taxation, LCB File No. R092-17, became effective February 27,
2018. NRS 453A and 453D were effective until June 30, 2020, and 678A through
678D, inclusive, took effect July 1, 2020.
      4.   NRS 453A.326, prior to June 30, 2020, and NRS 678B.320 currently
provides that if a local jurisdiction issues business licenses, the
registration certificates issued by the Division are deemed to be provisional
until a business license is issued and the certificated establishment complies
with rules and ordinances of the local jurisdiction; and
      5.   Nevada law allows for the City to enact regulations to protect and
promote the public health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the City;
      6.   NRS 453A.326 and 453D.120, prior to June 30, 2020, and NRS 678C.200,
678C.210, and 678D.400 provide that in connection with activities by certified
establishments, certain acts are exempt from criminal prosecution by the State
of Nevada and its political subdivisions.
      7.   Since the use, cultivation, distribution, production, possession and
transportation of marijuana/cannabis remains illegal under Federal law, and
remains classified as a “controlled substance” by federal law, this council
does not have the authority to (and nothing in this chapter is intended to)
authorize, promote, condone or aid production, distribution or possession of
marijuana/cannabis in violation of any applicable law;
      8.   This Chapter is intended to implement NRS 453A and/or NRS 4531),
prior to June 30, 2020, and 678A through 678D, inclusive, after July 1, 2020,
and to establish criteria for the issuance of licenses that are a prerequisite
for the exemption from the State prosecution provided for therein. To the
extent that medical cannabis and adult-use cannabis establishments are
registered and authorized by the State, the purpose of this chapter is to
license and regulate them within the corporate limits of the City to protect
the public interest over cannabis business interests.
      9.   As the operation of a medical cannabis and/or adult-use cannabis
establishment is a revocable privilege and there is no property right for an
individual or business to operate a medical cannabis establishment in the City.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to confer any legitimate claim of
entitlement to any benefit which might otherwise devolve upon licensee or any
person approved for suitability or any third party; and
      10.   By voluntarily applying for and accepting a business license issued
in accordance with this section to operate a medical cannabis establishment or
adult-use cannabis establishment, the holder of the business license and any
other owners, managers, agents, employees, affiliates, heirs and assigns of the
medical cannabis establishment or cannabis establishment for which the license
is issued:
         a.   Waive and release the City, its officers, elected officials,
employees, attorneys and agents from any liability from injuries, damages or
any other liability of any kind that results from any arrest, prosecution or
regulations.
         b.   Jointly and severally agree to indemnify, defend and hold
harmless the City and any of its elected or appointed officers, agents,
employees or attorneys from any and all claims, demands, actions, damages,
decrees, judgments, attorney fees, costs and expenses which may be asserted
against the City, or such elected or appointed officers, agents, employees or
attorneys arising out of or in any manner connected with the medical cannabis
establishment or cannabis establishment that is the subject of a license issued
under this title, including, without limitation, any injury, loss or damage,
including claims arising from bodily injury, personal injury, sickness,
disease, death, property loss or any other loss of any kind whatsoever arising
therefrom. This duty to defend and indemnify the City hereunder shall apply
regardless of any fault of the City in the issuance of a license. The duty to
defend the City is absolute and shall arise as soon as any demand or claim is
asserted against the City and is not conditioned upon a finding of any fault of
the holder of the license. The City is entitled to select the attorney to
defend against the claims and the holder of the license shall immediately pay
all fees and costs charged by the attorney selected by the City.
   B.   Intent: The intent of this chapter is to establish the licensing,
zoning, land use and development requirements applicable to medical cannabis
and adult adult-use cannabis uses, as authorized under chapter prior to June
30, 2020, and 678A through 678D, inclusive, after July 1, 2020, of Nevada
Revised Statutes, respectively.
   C.   Purpose: Pursuant to its general authority to regulate the cultivation,
production, dispensing and sale of cannabis, the city council declares that the
public health, safety and general welfare of the city are best promoted and
protected by requiring the licensing and zoning regulations and standards set
forth in this chapter. (Ord. 230, - -2018; amd. Ord. 234, 8-25-2020)
3-8-3: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Definitions: Certain words or phrases unique to this chapter shall be
construed as herein set out unless it is apparent from the context that they
have a different meaning.
   B.   The words and terms defined in NRS 678A.020 to 678A.40, inclusive, have
the meanings ascribed to them in those sections, unless otherwise defined
herein, and are hereby adopted and incorporated by reference to the extent
applicable to the City, and City may further apot revisions and/or amendments
thereto by subsequent resolution.
CITY:                          The city of Wells, Nevada, a municipal
                               corporation.
CODE:                          The Wells City Code.
                               Any of the following: a facility that provides
                               daycare to children, a public park, a public
                               library, medical facilities, a playground, a
                               public swimming pool, a center or facility which
                               provides recreational opportunities or services
COMMUNITY FACILITY:            to children or adolescents, a church, synagogue,
                               or other building, structure or place used for
                               religious worship or other religious purposes,
                               City Hall, Sheriffs Department, Police Station,
                               Fire Department. The term does not include the
                               Animal Shelter or Public Works facilities.
COUNCIL OR BOARD:              The Wells City Council.
                               Means that after investigation, a person is
                               found to comply with the requirements of this
                               title which are prerequisite to involvement with
                               a privilege license. This title authorizes the
                               city council to require that certain persons who
                               are directly or indirectly involved with
                               privilege licenses be found suitable for such
                               involvement so long as that relationship
FINDING OF SUITABILITY:        continues. A finding of suitability relates only
                               to the specific involvement for which it is
                               made. If the nature of the involvement changes
                               from that for which the applicant is found
                               suitable, or if, in the judgment of the city
                               council, new information concerning the
                               applicant's suitability has become available,
                               the applicant may be made to submit themselves
                               for a new determination of suitability.
JUVENILE:                      Any person less than twenty-one (21) years of
                               age.
                               Any executive, manager, employee, agent,
                               officer, or director of a medical and/or adult-
                               use cannabis establishment having the power to
KEY EMPLOYEE:                  exercise significant influence or control over
                               decisions concerning any part of the operations
                               of the business or a manager charged with the
                               day to day operations of the business.
NEVADA REVISED STATUTES (NRS): The current codified laws of the state of
                               Nevada.
                               Any principal, person, beneficial owner, and
                               individual persons holding any ownership or
                               financial interest for each business entity
                               including all businesses organized under or
                               governed by title 7 of the Nevada Revised
                               Statutes including, but not limited to, private
                               corporations, publicly traded corporations,
                               close corporations, foreign corporations,
                               limited liability companies, partnerships,
                               limited partnerships, and professional
                               corporations (business entities). Ownership
                               interest in the context of publicly traded
OWNERSHIP INTEREST:            corporations shall include all corporate
                               officers and members of any board of directors,
                               and also includes individuals with five percent
                               (5%) or more ownership or financial interest in
                               the publicly traded corporation. To the extent
                               that a business entity has an ownership interest
                               in a medical establishment, the term ownership
                               interest shall also include all individuals with
                               an ownership interest in such business entity.
                               It is the intent of this chapter that all
                               individuals with a direct or indirect ownership
                               interest in a medical cannabis or adult-use
                               cannabis establishment be disclosed and be
                               subject to the requirements of this chapter.
POLICE:                        The chief of police of the City of Wells.
                               A period of three (3) consecutive months
QUARTER OR CALENDAR QUARTER:   commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or
                               October 1, in any year.
                               A permit issued by the chief of police or it's
                               designee to applicants who meet the requirements
WORK CARD OR WORK PERMIT:      of this chapter permitting the applicant to work
                               at a medical cannabis establishment and/or
                               adult-use cannabis establishment. (Ord. 230, - -
                               2018; amd. Ord. 234, 8-25-2020)
 
3-8-4: ZONING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   A Medical cannabis establishment or adult-use cannabis establishment
may only be located by conditional use permit within the Industrial-Heavy (MI-
1) Zone, subject to compliance with the requirements contained herein and upon
approval of the conditional use permit.
   B.   If or when additional medical cannabis establishment or adult-use
cannabis establishment registration certificates are made available by the
state, the City Council may, accept an allocation of additional certificates,
so long as an application would not result in a number of licenses in excess of
the allocated certificates determined by the council, the division may accept
application for applicants currently in possession of a valid provisional or
finalized registration certificate. The City may, by resolution, provide for a
moratorium on the number or types of medical cannabis establishments and/or
adult-use cannabis establishments.
   C.   Permanent Building: The business shall be located in a permanent
building, with an engineered foundation that meets city of Wells building code,
and not located in a mobile home, trailer, cargo container, motor vehicle, or
similar personal property. A medical cannabis establishment or a adult-use
cannabis establishment may be located in a completely enclosed, stand-alone
building, or one or more medical cannabis establishment or adult-use cannabis
establishment under the same ownership may be located together in the same
building. A separate business license must be obtained, for each use: medical
cannabis cultivation facility, medical cannabis production facility, medical
cannabis independent testing facility, medical cannabis distributor, adult use
cannabis cultivation facility, adult-use cannabis production facility, adult-
use cannabis independent testing facility, or adult-use cannabis distributor.
   D.   Access: The proposed medical cannabis establishment or a adult use
cannabis establishment will have direct access (both ingress and egress) from
the secured parking area. Only one secured exterior doorway shall be allowed
for the purpose of ingress or egress to the medical cannabis establishment or a
adult-use cannabis establishment, and such doorway shall be visible from the
street or parking lot.
   E.   Outside Storage: No outside storage shall be permitted for a medical
cannabis establishment or a adult-use cannabis establishment, including the use
of shipping containers for on-site storage.
   F.   Size: Except as preempted by state authority, the City may change the
minimum sizes of medical cannabis establishments and/or adult-use cannabis
establishments at present, the minimum size of a medical cannabis testing
laboratories shall be one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet total floor
area.
      1.   The minimum size of a medical cannabis cultivation facility shall be
six thousand (6,000) square feet of total floor area.
      2.   The minimum size of a medical cannabis production facility shall be
three thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet of total floor area.
   G.   Accessory Uses: No accessory uses are permitted in association with a
medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment.
   H.   Signs: Signage for the medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use
cannabis establishment shall conform to the standards found in the Sign Code of
the City, shall be reviewed and approved by the city's building official or
designee, and shall comply with NRS 453A and 453D, prior to June 30, 2020, and
678A through 678D, inclusive, after July 1, 2020, and related regulations
regarding content and style;
   I.   State Approval: A medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use
cannabis establishment must obtain approval from the state of Nevada to operate
such a facility in the City and must obtain any required state licensing prior
to the conditional use permit being sought. (Ord. 230, - -2018; amd. Ord. 234,
8-25-2020)
3-8-5: REQUIREMENT TO OBTAIN CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
Medical cannabis establishments and adult-use cannabis establishments shall
require the approval of a conditional use permit. (Ord. 230, - -2018; amd. Ord.
234, 8-25-2020)
3-8-6: APPLICATION:
Upon determination to accept applications for medical cannabis establishments
and/or adult-use cannabis establishments, the Council may accept compliant
applications.
In addition to the general application requirements required elsewhere in the
City Code, an applicant for a conditional use permit to allow for the licenses
as herein identified shall complete a supplemental application which includes
all of the following information:
   A.   Type Of License: Whether the applicant is applying for a medical
cannabis and/or adult-use cannabis establishment license for an independent
testing laboratory, cultivation facility, a facility for production of edible
cannabis products, cannabis infused products, or cannabis dispensary, together
with the following:
   B.   Applicant Information:
      1.   The mailing address of the applicant;
      2.   The applicant's date of birth;
      3.   The name, address, telephone number and date of birth of the
proposed key employee(s);
      4.   The telephone number of the applicant, including cellphone number;
      5.   The e-mail address of the applicant;
      6.   An attestation that the information provided to the city to apply
for the medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment
license is true and correct according to the information known by the applicant
at the time of signing; and
      7.   The signature of the natural person for the proposed medical
cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment;
   C.   Name Of Establishment: The name of the proposed medical cannabis
establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment, as reflected in the
articles of incorporation or other documents filed with the Nevada Secretary of
State;
   D.   Type Of Business Organization: The type of business organization of the
applicant, such as individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability
company, association or cooperative joint venture or any other business
organization. It is the intent of this chapter that all individuals with a
direct or indirect ownership interest in the medical cannabis establishment
and/or adult-use cannabis establishment be disclosed and be subject to the
requirements of this chapter;
   E.   Other Ownership Interests: The name and physical address of any other
medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment within
the city which any owner, officer, manager or director has ownership interest
in, a contractual relationship with or is otherwise associated with;
   F.   List Of Persons Receiving Registration Card: A list of persons
associated with the medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis
establishment who have received, or will request, an medical cannabis
establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment agent registration card
from the state regulating authority;
   G.   Accompanying Documents: A complete and accurate copy of the application
and all accompanying documents to be filed with the state regulating authority
pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 453A.322 and/or NRS 453D including, or if
later than July 1, 2020, pursuant to 678A through 678D, inclusive, but not
limited to:
      1.   All proposals for operations, business plans, attestations,
financial documentation, and required tax reports;
      2.   All documents detailing proposed organizational structure, all
narratives, and resumes;
      3.   All documentation required concerning the adequacy of the proposed
building and construction plans with supporting details in the form specified
by the city building official and the payment of all required review and
inspection fees;
      4.   All testing, transportation, policy, operations manuals, financial
plan, environmental plan, and procedures manual to ensure the use of adequate
security measures;
   H.   A site plan drawn to scale showing the location of the proposed
building on the lot; property lines; adjoining streets; driveway locations;
parking layout; landscaping; walls/fences; solid waste enclosures; and
easements.
   I.   Floor Plan: The floor plan of the medical cannabis establishment and/or
adult-use cannabis establishment;
   J.   Elevation drawings or photographs of the proposed building which
demonstrate that the building is consistent with the traditional style of
pharmacies and medical offices in the community.
   K.   Rendering of proposed signage showing that the proposed signs are
consistent with the City code. Evidence shall be submitted that the division to
regulate medical cannabis has approved the name, logo, sign(s) and
advertisement of the medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis
establishment.
   L.   The City of Wells zone for the parcel.
   M.   Name of the medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis
establishment.
   N.   Address Of Establishment And Owners: The physical address where the
proposed medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment
will be located and the physical address of any owner, co-owner, or person
otherwise affiliated with the medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use
cannabis establishment.
   O.   A statement describing what activity will occur at the site - medical
cannabis and/or adult-use cannabis cultivation facility, facility for the
production of edible medical cannabis and/or cannabis products or medical
cannabis and/ or cannabis infused products, medical cannabis and/or cannabis
independent testing laboratory, or a combination thereof.
   P.   The name and physical address of any other medical cannabis
establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment within Nevada in which
any owner, officer, manager, or director of the applicant has an ownership
interest in, or contractual relationship or is otherwise associated with.
   Q.   The name and location of the off-site cultivation facility providing
the cannabis, if applicable. The name and location of the cannabis independent
testing laboratory providing laboratory service, if applicable.
   R.   A plan that complies with any applicable Nevada health district
regulations governing air quality for the medical cannabis establishment and/or
adult-use cannabis establishment that prevents or controls any dust, fumes,
vapors, or odor of cannabis off the premises of the medical cannabis
establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment.
   S.   Copy Of Contracts: A copy of all contracts, proposed contracts for
consulting, management, renting or leasing the premises for the proposed
medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment,
including written documentation stating that the property owner of the proposed
location for the medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis
establishment is fully aware of the property's intended use or a copy of the
deed to such property showing ownership vested in the applicant;
   T.   Statement Acknowledging Federal Laws: A written statement acknowledging
that the applicant understands applicable federal laws, any guidance, or
directives issued by the U.S. department of justice, the laws of the state of
Nevada and the laws and regulations of the city applicable thereto, concerning
the operation of a medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis
establishment. The written statement shall also acknowledge that any violation
of any laws or regulations of the state of Nevada, or of the city, or any
activity in violation of any guidance or directives issued by the U.S.
department of justice, in such place of business, or in connection therewith,
or the commencement of any legal proceeding relating to such medical cannabis
establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment by federal authorities,
may render such license subject to immediate suspension or revocation;
   U.   Statement Holding City Harmless; Bond: A written statement to the
business license official that the applicant will hold harmless, indemnify, and
defend the city against all claims and litigation arising from the issuance of
a license, including any claims and litigation arising from the medical
cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment, operation, or
ownership of the medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis
establishment, and a bond to secure such obligation and name the City as an
additional insured thereon if required by resolution of the council;
   V.   Suitability Of Persons Holding Ownership Interest: An acknowledgment
that the applicant is seeking a privilege license and understands that each
person with an ownership interest must be found suitable to hold such license
by the city council prior to the issuance of any license; that the applicant
understands and acknowledges that the burden of proving qualifications to
receive such a permit or license is at all times on the applicant; that the
granting of medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis
establishment license is at the discretion of the city council; and that the
applicant agrees to abide by the decision;
   W.   Fingerprint Based Background Checks: All applicants applying for a
medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment license
with the city of Wells are required to provide the city with a full set of
fingerprints. Fingerprinting shall be completed at the Chief of Police. In all
cases where the applicant for medical cannabis establishment and/or cannabis
establishment is a firm, partnership, association or corporation, all the
members, principal officers, directors, stockholders, and/or managers shall
present themselves to the Chief of Police, for fingerprinting. Fingerprint data
may be used to conduct state and national criminal records checks. Upon receipt
of the fingerprint data, Chief of Police is authorized to transmit the
fingerprint data to the Nevada department of public safety to conduct state
criminal records checks. The Nevada department of public safety is authorized
to exchange this fingerprint data with the federal bureau of investigation to
conduct national criminal records checks. The results of the state and national
criminal checks will be disseminated to the Chief of Police. Upon completion of
the investigation, the chief of police, or the designee thereof, shall prepare
and submit a report containing findings and a recommendation of approval or
disapproval to the city council. This provision is enacted pursuant to Nevada
Revised Statutes 239B.010(l)(a) and public law 92-544;
The chief of police shall conduct a full investigation of all information
contained in the registration application. The background investigation shall
be similar to the investigation required for a licensee, as required by section
3-6-8 of this chapter.
All agents, key employees and employees shall be subject to the foregoing.
   X.   A plan to comply with the Federal Hazardous Materials Regulations;
   Y.   Environmental remediation bond(s) or water reclamation bonds as
required by resolution of the council.
   Z.   Investigation Fees:
      1.   Fees Enumerated:
         a.   Application Fee: Onetime nonrefundable application fee of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00), per application;
         b.   Investigation And Fingerprinting Fee: Each application for a
license filed pursuant to this chapter shall be accompanied by an investigation
and fingerprinting fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per person to be
investigated. This fee is nonrefundable and is in addition to other fees
collected pursuant to this title;
         c.   Application Deposit and Actual Cost: Applicant shall deposit five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) ("deposit") per application with the City Clerk
with the application to be debited by the City for actual costs incurred by the
city or its designated agent(s) to complete the necessary investigations, which
shall include, but is not limited to administrative time. Any remaining funds
upon completion of the investigation shall be returned to the applicant. In
addition to the fees required to accompany the application, the applicant shall
be required to pay the city the actual cost incurred by the city or its
designated agent to complete the necessary investigations, and in the even the
cost is greater than the deposit, applicant shall reimburse the city or its
designated agent for any and all cost exceeding the deposit;
   AA.   Confidentiality Required: All information, other than the criminal
history information, of a confidential nature supplied under the terms of this
chapter must be maintained by the business license officer, in a confidential
file, to be opened for inspection only by city officials and law enforcement
officers; provided, however, the applicant may waive the requirements of this
subsection and the city may be required to produce such information as required
pursuant to a court order, in order to respond to license, disciplinary action
or complaints by licensee, or as may be required by the Public Records Act.
(Ord. 230, - -2018; amd. Ord. 234, 8-25-2020)
3-8-7: FILING AND INVESTIGATION:
   A.   All license applications under the provisions of this chapter shall be
filed with the city clerk, along with a nonrefundable investigation fee.
   B.   Upon presentation of any license application to the city clerk, the
city clerk must refer such application to the chief of police or his designee
for investigation. The chief of police or his designee must conduct a full
investigation of all information contained in the license application, which
investigation must include, but must not be limited to, the following:
      1.   A complete check of all records of the federal bureau of
investigation and any other similar organization concerning the criminal record
of any applicant.
      2.   A personal interview with each applicant.
      3.   An interview, either personal or by mail, with all employers of the
applicant and business associates of the applicant, as shown in the license
application.
      4.   Examination of the financial statement and financial background of
the applicant.
      5.   Any other investigation reasonably deemed necessary by the chief of
police or his designee.
   C.   Within thirty (30) days after any application is referred by the city
clerk to the chief of police or his designee, the chief of police or his
designee must report the results of his investigation in writing to the
council, which report shall include, but must not be limited to, the following:
      1.   A complete statement of the results of all investigations
undertaken.
      2.   A list of any errors or omissions found to exist in the application.
      3.   An evaluation of the personal and financial status and background of
the applicant.
      4.   A statement as to whether, in his professional opinion, further
investigation is necessary or desirable.
   D.   The chief of police or his designee may, with the consent of the
council, employ a certified public accountant to assist with the financial
investigation and the expenses of such accountant shall be chargeable to the
applicant who shall be required to post in advance with the city clerk an
amount sufficient to cover the estimated expense.
   E.   In the event the cost of an investigation conducted under the
provisions of this section exceeds the investigative fee required by subsection
A of this section, the applicant shall upon request of the board post with the
city clerk an amount sufficient to cover the estimated additional expense.
   F.   At the conclusion of the investigation any unused additional
investigative funds which the applicant was required to deposit under the
provisions of subsection C, D or E of this section, exclusive of subsection A
of this section, must be refunded.
   G.   Within thirty (30) days after receiving the chief of police or his
designee's report, the council may:
      1.   Refer the application back to the chief of police or his designee
for additional investigation.
      2.   Require a personal interview with the applicant.
      3.   Require the applicant to submit additional information relative to
his application.
      4.   Grant or refuse to grant a license under the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 230, - -2018; amd. Ord. 234, 8-25-2020)
3-8-8: MANDATORY CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
All conditional use permit applications for the licenses herein must abide by
the following conditions of approval. The city council may impose conditions of
approval that are more restrictive than those required by this section. The
approval of all conditional use permits authorizing the operation of a medical
cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment must contain at
a minimum the following conditions:
   A.   The conditional use permit grantee must provide to the city of Wells
development services department, or its equivalent, a copy of the registration
certificate issued by the state of Nevada prior to commencing operations.
   B.   The medical cannabis establishment and/or cannabis establishment must
continue to meet all requirements for a medical cannabis establishment and/or
adult-use cannabis establishment to qualify for and maintain its certificate of
registration as set forth by state law and shall comply with all laws of the
city of Wells.
   C.   The medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis
establishment must comply with all operating procedures required by state law.
   D.   The medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis
establishment must prohibit anyone from consuming cannabis on the premises.
   E.   If the medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis
establishment has signage, the signage shall conform to the requirements of
sign regulations of the City code and NRS 453A and NRS 453D, prior to June 30,
2020, and 678A through 678D, inclusive, after July 1, 2020.
   F.   The medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis
establishment must prohibit anyone that lacks authorization to be on the
premises.
   G.   The medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis
establishment must prohibit cannabis activities including, without limitation,
cultivating, growing, processing, displaying, selling or storage from being
conducted outdoors.
   H.   All cultivation or production of cannabis that a cultivation facility
carries out or causes to be carried out must take place in an enclosed
facility.
   I.   The medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis
establishment must prevent cannabis from being displayed or kept in a manner
that is visible from outside the facility.
   J.   The medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis
establishment must post a legible sign inside the facility stating that:
      1.   The use or distribution of cannabis is a violation of federal law.
      2.   The possession, use, or distribution of cannabis for nonmedical
purposes is a violation of state law.
      3.   Consumption of cannabis on the premises is prohibited.
      4.   No one under the age of twenty-one (21) years is permitted on the
premises.
   K.   The conditional use permit grantee shall submit (on a form provided by
the city) a notarized affidavit in which the grantee acknowledges that the
operation of a medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis
establishment is a violation of federal law.
   L.   The conditional use permit grantee shall submit a notarized statement
in which the grantee agrees to hold the city of Wells harmless against any
federal law enforcement actions that may result from the activities of the
medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment that is
the subject of the conditional use permit.
   M.   Medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment
must employ security and surveillance systems as outlined herein. (Ord. 230, -
- 2018; amd. Ord. 234, 8-25-2020)
3-8-9: LICENSE REQUIREMENT AND TERM OF LICENSE:
A medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment
business license is a revocable privilege and the holder of such a license does
not acquire thereby any vested right. No license under this chapter can be
assigned or transferred except with the approval of the city council and must
follow all Nevada division of public and behavioral health policies and/or the
Nevada Department of Taxation and procedures for transferring of ownership. A
medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment must
comply at all times with all applicable laws, regulations or licensing
requirements in the conduct of the business.
   A.   License Required: All medical cannabis establishments and adult-use
cannabis establishments as defined in this chapter shall be licensed and
controlled so as to protect the public health, safety, morals, good order and
general welfare of the inhabitants of the city to safeguard the public.
      1.   It shall be unlawful for a person to engage in any form of business
or commerce involving the cultivation, processing, manufacturing, storage,
sale, distribution, transportation, or consumption of cannabis other than those
forms of businesses and commerce that are expressly contemplated by Nevada
Revised Statutes, including but not limited to 453A and/or 453D, prior to June
30, 2020, and 678A through 678D, inclusive, after July 1, 2020, and any
administrative rules duly adopted by the state regulating authority and without
first making application and securing a medical cannabis establishment and/or
cannabis establishment license to do so from the City of Wells. Such
application shall be first subject to the state pre-requirements.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any medical cannabis
establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment in the city without a
valid registration certificate duly issued by the state regulating authority,
and a license issued pursuant to this chapter and operating in compliance with
any and all applicable state laws and this code.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to provide medical cannabis,
adult use cannabis, edible medical cannabis products, edible adult use cannabis
products, medical cannabis infused products, or adult use cannabis infused
products to a medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis
establishment within the city without a registration certificate duly issued by
the state regulating authority and a license issued by the city.
      4.   A license is required for each medical establishment and/or adult-
use cannabis establishment registration certificate an applicant holds to
operate at each location where that activity is to occur as required under this
chapter.
      5.   A person operating more than one type of medical cannabis
establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment in the same location must
have a separate license for each type of establishment registration
certificate.
      6.   The license requirement set forth in this chapter shall be in
addition to, and not in lieu of, any other licensing and permitting
requirements imposed by any other federal, state or local law.
      7.   A license issued pursuant to this section does not provide any
exception, defense or immunity to any person in regal'd to any potential
criminal liability the person may have for the production, distribution,
transportation, or possession of cannabis.
   B.   Posting License; Failure As Grounds For Revocation: All licenses issued
for medical cannabis establishment(s) and/or adult-use cannabis establishment
(s) shall be posted in a conspicuous place in order that they may be readily
available for inspection by authorized state and city officials. Failure to
comply with the provisions of this subsection shall constitute grounds for
revocation of any such license so not posted.
   C.   Location Transfer: A medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use
cannabis establishment business license may not be transferred to a new
location within the city unless it is in accordance with this chapter and shall
be inspected and approved by the fire department and the building and zoning
department to ensure safety and compliance with applicable city ordinances and
regulations. A transfer fee in the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
shall be paid for the location transfer. A change of location must also be
approved by the Nevada division of public and behavioral health pursuant to
Nevada Revised Statutes 453A, and NRS 678A through NRS 678D, inclusive, after
July 1, 2020,
   D.   License; Corporation, Partnership, Limited Liability Company; Changes
In Membership: In the case of a corporate licensee, any and all changes in the
officers of such corporation must be reported to the business license official
within thirty (30) days of such change. Such new officers shall be required to
qualify for a license as required in this chapter. Any new manager of a
corporate licensee shall be required to qualify for a license as required in
this chapter. In the case of a partnership or limited liability company, any
change in ownership of the partnership or limited liability company must be
reported to the business license official within thirty (30) days of such
change. Any new partners or managers shall be required to qualify for a license
as required in this chapter.
   E.   Notice Of Change To Key Employee: It shall be a condition of the
license to inform the business license official of any change in the employment
status of a registered employee or volunteer who serves in a management
position, or as a key employee within ten (10) days of the effective date of
the change in employment status. A change of employment status includes
termination, leave of absence, and promotion to a management position or key
employee.
   F.   Transportation Of Products: A medical establishment and/or
establishment may transport, paraphernalia, edible products and infused
cannabis products between another establishment. Transportation must meet all
requirements of the state regulating authority. Product must be placed in
unmarked, nontransparent transportation containers. All required transportation
logs must be in the vehicle and made available to law enforcement upon being
stopped by a law enforcement officer within the city, each driver must identify
to the officer that the product contained within the vehicle is medical
cannabis and/or adult-use cannabis, edible medical cannabis and/or adult use
cannabis products or medical cannabis and/or adult use cannabis infused
products, as the case may be, from a licensed medical cannabis establishment
and/or adult-use cannabis establishment and must present to the officer a state
agent registration card, the route the vehicle was authorized to travel and the
actual travel log. (Ord. 230, - -2018; amd. Ord. 234, 8-25-2020)
3-8-10: ESTABLISHMENT LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   All medical cannabis establishments and/or adult-use cannabis
establishments must be located a distance of at least one thousand feet
(1,000') from any of the following existing land uses:
      1.   Public or private schools (grades K-12).
      2.   Community facilities as defined in this chapter.
      3.   This distance limitation does not apply to any school or community
facility whose owners/operators sign a disclosure statement acknowledging that
they are moving to a location within one thousand feet (1,000') of an existing
medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment.
      4.   The city may provide other location restrictions by resolution of
the council as consistent with NRS chapters 453A or 453D prior to June 30,
2020, and 678A through 678D, inclusive, after July 1, 2020.
   B.   These separation requirements in subsections A and B of this section
shall be measured as provided in NRS 453A and/or 453D, prior to June 30,2020,
and 678A through 678D, inclusive, after July 1, 2020. (Ord. 230, - -2018; amd.
Ord. 234, 8-25-2020)
3-8-11: LAND USE AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS; CONFORMANCE WITH ZONING:
   A.   No medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis
establishment license will be issued unless the location is in accordance with
the requirements of this code.
   B.   Approval of a location or of a use permit pursuant to this code does
not guarantee or constitute approval of any medical cannabis establishment and/
or adult-use cannabis establishment license. (Ord. 230, - -2018; amd. Ord. 234,
8-25-2020)
3-8-12: FACILITIES NOT LOCATED WITHIN THE CITY:
A medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment which
does not have a substantial day to day business operations within the city of
Wells and which has obtained a business license in a jurisdiction other than
the city need not apply for a city of Wells license to only provide testing of
medical or adult-use cannabis and/or merely deliver cannabis products to an
medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment, or
transport such products from such establishment located within the city. (Ord.
230, - -2018; amd. Ord. 234, 8-25-2020)
3-8-13: PRELIMINARY FINDING; CITY COUNCIL ACTION ON APPLICATION; DENIAL OF
BUSINESS LICENSE:
Upon receipt of provisional certificate from the State, the business license
official shall upon completion of the preliminary finding of suitability refer
the application to the city council for consideration.
   A.   Preliminary Finding Of Suitability: The preliminary finding of
suitability will be based on the information submitted to the business license
official as outlined in this chapter.
   B.   Notification Of Denial; Registration Certificate Required: Applicants
found unsuitable by the license official shall be notified in writing within
ten (10) business days after the close of the application period.
   C.   City Council Action: City council shall consider the following criteria
that will include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Ranking provided by the Nevada division of public and behavioral
health and/or the Nevada Department of Taxation, if applicable;
      2.   Information regarding any bankruptcy proceedings involving owners or
board members;
      3.   The identity, character, and background of the applicant, capacity,
capitalization;
      4.   Operational plan, organizational structure, environmental
sustainability and mitigation plans, interior floor plans of the buildings,
odor control systems and suitability of the building for the use proposed, site
plan as to parking, traffic movement and aesthetics;
      5.   Impact on the surrounding neighborhood; the type and degree of
security and facilities and any other factors that in his or her discretion are
deemed necessary to the safety, peace, order and welfare of the public.
   D.   Other Inspections: All applicants selected by the city council must
satisfy all required building, fire inspection criteria, and applicable food
safety inspections before commencing operations.
   E.   Denial: The following persons are declared not to be qualified to hold
a medical establishment and/or establishment license under the provisions of
this chapter:
      1.   A person who does not possess, or who does not have a reputation for
possessing a good moral character;
      2.   A person under the age of twenty-one (21) years;
      3.   A person who has been convicted of a felony;
      4.   A person who has been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude
which includes, but is not limited to: possession of a controlled substance,
theft, fraud, falsification in official matters, offenses against privacy,
lewdness, voyeurism, trafficking, or violent or aggravated conduct involving
persons or property;
      5.   A person who is currently on parole or probation to any court, penal
institution, or governmental entity, including being under house arrest or
subject to a tracking device;
      6.   A person who has been incarcerated in a federal or state prison;
      7.   A person who illegally resides in the United States;
      8.   A person who at the time of renewal of any license issued under this
chapter, would not be eligible for such license upon a first application;
      9.   A partnership, limited partnership, association or limited liability
company, unless all the partners, managers and members of such partnership,
limited partnership, association or limited liability company required to
submit to a background investigation under the provisions of section of this
chapter are found to be suitable;
      10.   A corporation, if any principal officer required to submit to a
background investigation under the provisions of this chapter is not found
suitable;
      11.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought or does not have a lease or provisional lease thereon for the
full period for which the license is to be used.
No license shall be issued to any person who has violated any provision of this
chapter, this title, or the act, or who has violated any provision of a license
to sell of any kind or type issued by the city or any other governmental
agency, or who has had such a license revoked. (Ord. 230, - -2018; amd. Ord.
234, 8-25-2020)
3-8-14: COMMENCEMENT; NON-OPERATIONAL STATUS OF BUSINESS:
The licensee must commence operation of the business within ninety (90) days
after the license has been approved by the state regulating authority and may
not discontinue operation of the business for more than a three (3) month
period without city council approval. The city council may approve
nonoperational status of the business beyond the initial three (3) month period
in time increments not to exceed one year but in no event shall the city
council approve any nonoperational status beyond a maximum of one year. A
license shall be automatically revoked at the expiration of the time periods
provided by this section unless city council approval has been granted pursuant
to this section. All license fees must be paid notwithstanding the licensee's
nonoperational status. (Ord. 230, - -2018; amd. Ord. 234, 8-25-2020)
3-8-15: LICENSE CLASSIFICATION:
The city council may issue licenses for the following types of medical cannabis
establishments and/or adult-use cannabis establishments:
   A.   Medical cannabis Cultivation Facility;
   B.   Medical cannabis Independent Testing Laboratory;
   C.   Medical cannabis Production Facility;
   D.   Medical cannabis Distributor;
   E.   Cannabis Cultivation Facility;
   F.   Cannabis Independent Testing Laboratory;
   G.   Cannabis Production Facility; and/or
   H.   Cannabis Distributor. (Ord. 230, - -2018; amd. Ord. 234, 8-25-2020)
3-8-16: SECURITY REQUIREMENTS:
To prevent unauthorized access to the cannabis, each medical cannabis
establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment must submit, maintain,
and follow a security plan that includes customer, building and product
security measures. The security plan must meet all the criteria established by
the state regulating authority and the following minimum requirements:
   A.   Each licensed premises must have a security system which monitors all
perimeter entry points, windows, and controlled areas by a centrally monitored
alarm company properly licensed with the city, and whose agents are properly
licensed and registered under applicable laws. The medical cannabis
establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment must install security
surveillance cameras that monitor all entrances, along with the interior and
exterior of the premises. Recordings from these cameras must be maintained in a
retrievable manner for at least one hundred eighty (180) days from the date
recorded. All entrances must be illuminated with dusk till dawn lighting, and
entrances shall be visible from a public street or parking lot. The medical
cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment must install and
maintain in good working condition robbery and burglary alarm systems.
   B.   Immediate automatic or electronic notification to alert the chief of
police, of an unauthorized breach of security at the medical cannabis
establishment and/or cannabis establishment in the interior of each building of
the medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment;
   C.   All recorded images must clearly and accurately display the time and
date. Time is to be measured in accordance with the U.S. National Institute Of
Standards And Technology standards;
   D.   The surveillance system's data storage device must be secured on site
in a lockbox, cabinet, closet, or secured in another manner to protect from
employee or third-party tampering or criminal theft;
   E.   At least one nineteen (19)-inch, or greater call-up monitor;
   F.   A video printer capable of immediately producing a clear still photo
from any video camera image;
   G.   Video cameras with a recording resolution of at least 720 x 480 or the
equivalent providing coverage of all entrances to and exits from limited access
areas and all entrances to and exits from the building, capable of identifying
any activity occurring in or adjacent to the building;
   H.   A video camera at each loading dock location allowing for the
identification of any person who holds a valid state distribution license;
   I.   A video camera in each grow room capable of identifying any activity
occurring within the grow room in low light conditions
   J.   A method for storing video recordings from the video cameras for at
least thirty (30) calendar days from the date recorded;
   K.   Sufficient battery backup for video cameras and recording equipment to
support at least forty-eight (48) hours of recording in the event of a power
outage;
   L.   A sign must be posted at the front gate the premises is under video
surveillance;
   M.   The medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis
establishment shall be responsible for ensuring compliance with all local and
state regulations regarding the facility and must monitor parking areas and
outdoor areas of the licensed premises for loitering, unlawful sale of
cannabis, and consumption of cannabis;
   N.   Any theft of items containing cannabis or the observance of any
unauthorized transactions of cannabis of any kind or type on the licensed
premises must be reported to the chief of police.
   O.   In addition to complying with all requirements set by the state
regulating authority, any licensed cultivation facility shall secure the
cultivation facility with full video surveillance capable of clearly
identifying any activities occurring within twenty feet (20') of the exterior
of the building and any parking, fenced, or loading areas. A motion detection
lighting system may be employed to illuminate the gate area in low light
conditions;
   P.   No animals may be on the premises, including security animals. (Ord.
230, - -2018; amd. Ord. 234, 8-25-2020)
3-8-17: ON-SITE USE PROHIBITED:
No cannabis of any kind or type shall be smoked, ingested, or otherwise
consumed on the premises of any medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use
cannabis establishment. (Ord. 230, - -2018; amd. Ord. 234, 8-25-2020)
3-8-18: JUVENILE EMPLOYEE:
It shall be unlawful for any business licensed under this chapter to employ any
person under the age of twenty-one (21).
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to work as a employee or independent
contractor (herein referred to as "employee") for a medical cannabis
establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment, unless such person is
the holder of a valid current work permit issued by the chief of police or his
designee in accordance with this chapter.
   B.   Every employee of each licensee shall be registered with the chief of
police or his designee on application forms provided by the chief of police or
his designee. Each applicant shall furnish:
      1.   Personal history record listing the applicant's:
         a.   Personal identifying information.
         b.   Marital information, including previous marriages.
         c.   Family information.
         d.   Arrests and detentions excluding minor traffic violations which
shall include a statement of the offense, the place of its occurrence, the date
of its occurrence, and the disposition of the case.
         e.   Detail all wants and warrants.
         f.   Names and addresses of all employers in the preceding five (5)
years.
         g.   All addresses in the preceding five (5) years.
         h.   Any other information deemed necessary or useful by the council
or the chief of police or his designee.
      2.   A full set of fingerprints of the applicant.
      3.   Work card application must be accompanied with an application fee,
which is set by resolution of the board of councilmen and may be increased from
time to time.
   C.   The chief of police or his designee shall investigate the accuracy of
all information supplied by any applicant on the registration form.
   D.   No person under twenty-one (21) years of age shall be employed in any
capacity.
   E.   No person may work in any manner in or for a medical {'{'}marijuana
{'}'} establishment and/or establishment:
      1.   Concerning crimes in this state:
         a.   Has ever been convicted of a category A or B felony;
         b.   Has been convicted of a category C or D felony within the past
five (5) years;
         c.   Has been convicted of a category E felony within the past year;
         d.   Has been convicted of a gross misdemeanor in this state within
the past year, except a gross misdemeanor of obstructing justice or resisting
an officer within the past five (5) years shall be a further prohibition; or
         e.   Has been convicted within the past six (6) months of misdemeanor
offenses involving theft, larceny, embezzlement, battery, illegal drugs/
substances or misdemeanor offenses deemed predatory, abusive, dishonest, or
inappropriate towards minors or elders.
         f.   Has any wants and/or warrants.
      2.   Concerning crimes outside this state:
         a.   Has ever been convicted of a crime for which the term of
imprisonment imposed, as opposed to the actual length of imprisonment, was
greater than ten (10) years;
         b.   Has been convicted of a crime within the past five (5) years, for
which the term of imprisonment imposed, as opposed to the actual length of
imprisonment, was at least one year but less than ten (10) years;
         c.   Has been on probation or parole, from a term of imprisonment,
within the past year; or
         d.   Has been convicted of a misdemeanor within the past six (6)
months involving theft, larceny, embezzlement, battery, illegal drugs/
substances or misdemeanor offenses deemed predatory, abusive, dishonest, or
inappropriate towards minors or elders.'
         e.   Has any wants and/or warrants.
      3.   Concerning other restrictions:
         a.   If registered under the provisions of this chapter, such
licensing would be contrary to the health, safety or welfare of the city or its
residents;
         b.   Has willfully made any false statement or omission in the
registration form required by subsection B of this section; or
         c.   The chief of police or his designee will have the authority to
deny or revoke the work card of an employee who does not qualify under this
section or who is found to be violating this code or state law. The person
whose work card has been denied or revoked may file an appeal to the City of
Wells board of councilmen within thirty (30) calendar days from the date in
which the work permit (card) was denied or revoked.
   F.   All employees must file with the police and maintain in the medical
cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment, a current work
card with the key employee before commencing work; no work card shall be
transferable; all work cards shall state the name of the licensed operation
where the employee will work. (Ord. 230, - -2018; amd. Ord. 234, 8-25-2020)
3-8-19: DISPOSAL OF CANNABIS WASTE:
Reference to cannabis in this section shall mean both medical cannabis and
adult use cannabis, or either, depending on the applicable reference to license
(s) held my licensee.
   A.   Disposal of waste must meet all state and federal guidelines. Waste
must be maintained in a secure location until removal from the location. All
waste must be deposited at the disposal site operated by the city or its
authorized contractor.
   B.   Cannabis and any waste including wastewater must be stored, secured and
managed in accordance with applicable state statutes and regulations and with a
state approved disposal plan. A medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use
cannabis establishment must dispose of cannabis that is not usable cannabis
within ten (10) calendar days of expiration of use. Cannabis waste must be made
unusable prior to leaving a licensed medical cannabis establishment and/or
adult-use cannabis establishment.
      1.   Wastes that must be rendered unusable prior to disposal include, but
are not limited to:
         a.   Cannabis plant waste, including roots, stalks, leaves, and stems
that have not been processed with solvent.
         b.   Solid cannabis sample plant waste possessed by third party
laboratories certified by the state regulating authority for quality assurance
that must be disposed of,
      2.   The allowable method to render cannabis plant waste unusable is by
grinding and incorporating the cannabis plant waste with non-consumable solid
waste or other ground materials so the resulting mixture is at least fifty
percent (50%) non-cannabis waste by volume. Other methods to render cannabis
waste unusable must be approved by the state regulating authority before
implementing.
      3.   Cannabis waste rendered unusable following an approved method in the
facility disposal plan may be delivered to a franchised or licensed solid waste
facility for final disposition.
      4.   Disposal cannot include cannabis product including plant material
entering the city wastewater collection system, storm drain system or any
unsecure rubbish disposal system.
      5.   A medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis
establishment shall not transfer, share, give, sell or deliver any unused
cannabis in the medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis
establishment's possession to any other person, regardless of whether they are
licensed as an medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis
establishment.
      6.   A medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis
establishment shall not dispose of cannabis in any manner other than permitted
under this chapter. (Ord. 230, - -2018; amd. Ord. 234, 8-25-2020)
3-8-20: FEES:
Medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment
licenses, are not prorated, are fixed, and established, and must be paid in
advance to the business license department by all persons receiving such
licenses as follows:
   A.   Origination Fees: Origination license fees, in addition to the
quarterly renewal fee listed in this section, are imposed for the following and
are payable prior to the issuance of the medical cannabis establishment or
adult-use cannabis establishment license:
License Category Origination Fee
License Category                        Origination Fee
Medical Cannabis Cultivation facility   Established by resolution of the
                                        council
Medical Cannabis Production facility    Established by resolution of the
                                        council
Medical Cannabis Independent Testing    Established by resolution of the
Laboratory                              council
Medical Cannabis Distributor            Established by resolution of the
                                        council
Medical Cannabis Dispensary             Established by resolution of the
                                        council
Adult-use Cannabis Cultivation Facility Established by resolution of the
                                        council
Adult-use Cannabis Production Facility  Established by resolution of the
                                        council
Cannabis Independent Testing Laboratory Established by resolution of the
                                        council
Adult-use Cannabis Distributor          Established by resolution of the
                                        council
Adult-use Cannabis Dispensary           Established by resolution of the
                                        council
 
   B.   License Fees:
License Category Monthly License Fees Monthly Revenue Fees
License Category            Monthly License Fees      Monthly Revenue Fees
Medical Cannabis            Established by resolution Established by resolution
Cultivation facility        of the council            of the council
Monthly Cannabis Production Established by resolution Established by resolution
Facility                    of the council            of the council
Medical Cannabis            Established by resolution Established by resolution
Independent Testing         of the council            of the council
Laboratory
Medical Cannabis            Established by resolution Established by resolution
Distributor License         of the council            of the council
Medical Cannabis            Established by resolution Established by resolution
Distributor License         of the council            of the council
Medical Cannabis Dispensary Established by resolution Established by resolution
                            of the council            of the council
Adult-use Cannabis          Established by resolution Established by resolution
Cultivation Facility        of the council            of the council
Adult-use Cannabis          Established by resolution Established by resolution
Production facility         of the council            of the council
Adult-use Cannabis          Established by resolution Established by resolution
Independent                 of the council            of the council
Cannabis Testing Laboratory Established by resolution Established by resolution
                            of the council            of the council
Adult-use Cannabis          Established by resolution Established by resolution
Distributor License         of the council            of the council
Adult-Use Cannabis          Established by resolution Established by resolution
Dispensary                  of the council            of the council
 
   C.   Fees Nonrefundable: License fees are nonrefundable.
   D.   Modification Of Fees: License origination, application fees and
quarterly fees may be modified from time to time by resolution of the City
Council and any potential applicant is directed to inquire if such a resolution
has been adopted.
   E.   In the event any fees are not made in guaranteed funds on the date in
which they are due, the Licensee shall pay a late fee in the amount of ten
percent (10%) of the amount due for each month that the balance remains
outstanding. (Ord. 230, - -2018; amd. Ord. 234, 8-25-2020)
3-8-21: RENEWAL; LATE PENALTY; PENALTY; REINSTATEMENT:
   A.   Renewal Notification:
      1.   All applications for renewal of a city medical cannabis
establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment business license shall be
notified, before the due date, of each license fee required, however, the
failure to notify any lawful business shall not be held to waive the payment of
the business license fee; nor is the actual receipt of such notice required.
      2.   All applications for renewal of a city medical cannabis
establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment business license shall be
accompanied by a copy of the renewed medical cannabis establishment and/or
adult-use cannabis establishment registration certificate from the state
regulating authority.
   B.   File Renewal Application: Every medical cannabis establishment and/or
adult-use cannabis establishment license shall file, together with the license
fees and taxes required by this chapter, an application for renewal which shall
be certified by the licensee, manager or officer thereof. The application for
renewal shall contain an accurate report of all gross revenue for the preceding
quarter.
   C.   Certification: The form shall include the following certification:
I, (name of certifier), certify and declare under the penalties of perjury that
I am the owner, partner, (president, treasurer, other) of the business named
above, that this is a true, correct and complete report to the best of my
knowledge, information and belief and that this application and report is made
with the knowledge and consent of all other individuals named on the [medical
adult-use cannabis /cannabis] establishment license.
Signed: Dated: Title:
I hereby certify that there has been no unreported change in ownership,
management or location of the [medical] cannabis establishment license, during
the license period; and that the establishment has a valid state license which
has not been revoked or suspended, conditioned or limited during the licensing
period. I further certify there have been no revenues that have not been
reported as required by law or ordinance of the State of Nevada, Elko County,
or the City of Wells.
Signed: Dated: Title:
   D.   Renewal Processing Fee: The licensee shall pay, in addition to all
other fees, a license renewal processing fee of one hundred dollars ($100,00).
   E.   Late Renewal Fee; Penalty: Medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-
use cannabis establishment licenses are delinquent if not paid by the due date,
a penalty of fifty percent (50%) of the amount due or two hundred dollars
($200.00) whichever is greater is assessed if such amount is not paid by the
fifteenth day after the due date. If payment is not made by the fifteenth day,
the penalty increases to fifty percent (50%) of the fee due or four hundred
dollars ($400.00) whichever is greater.
   F.   Reinstatement: License renewal fees not paid within thirty (30) days
after the due date are automatically revoked. Any such license shall not be
reinstated until a fifty percent (50%) penalty fee and a twenty five percent
(25%) reinstatement fee shall have been paid.
   G.   No License Issuance: No license shall be issued until all penalties
have been paid in full. (Ord. 230, - -2018; amd. Ord. 234, 8-25-2020)
3-8-22: CONSENT TO INSPECTIONS:
The applicant or licensee shall consent to any and all reasonable inspections
of the medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment
business operations and premises with or without notice for the purpose of
ascertaining such compliance with the laws and regulations of the city and
state in areas of health, fire prevention, safety, and consumer protection,
together with such examination of the business books and records as may be
necessary to ascertain the basis for determining the payment of fees. (Ord.
230, - -2018; amd. Ord. 234, 8-25-2020)
3-8-23: REVOCATION OF LICENSES, SUSPENSION, CANCELLATION; NOTICE OF HEARING:
   A.   Events Causing Revocation: All medical cannabis establishment and/or
adult-use cannabis establishment business licenses may be revoked if one or
more of the following events occur, but is not limited to the following:
      1.   A licensee has violated, or permitted, allowed, or caused a
violation of any provision of this chapter, any regulation issued pursuant to
this chapter, other ordinances of the City, any condition of approval imposed
upon the issuance of the license, any state law or regulation relating to
operation, the Department of Justice enforcement priorities, or for any other
cause deemed sufficient by the Council in exercise of its sole discretion;
      2.   If the state registration certificate has been surrendered,
suspended or revoked;
      3.   Based on ascertainable facts, the operation substantially aggravates
the crime problems in the city, makes law enforcement unduly difficult, or is
detrimental to the public, health, safety or welfare of the city;
      4.   A licensee has made fraudulent statements as to a material fact on
an application form, as to any other information presented as part of the
application process, or in connection with any other information required to be
submitted to the business license office;
      5.   The licensee has failed to maintain the premises in compliance with
the requirements of the building, fire, health, and environmental agencies;
      6.   Having committed a felony offense;
      7.   Dispensing, delivering or otherwise transferring cannabis to a
person other than a person authorized by the State of Nevada;
      8.   Any act or omission committed by any employee, agent, or independent
contractor that occurs in the course of his or her employment, agency, or
contract with the licensee shall be imputed to the licensee for the purposing
suspension or revocation of the license.
   B.   City Council May Revoke, Suspend Or Cancel: The city council at any
regular or at any special meeting convened and held for that purpose upon a
show cause order for any willful violation or omission of this chapter may
revoke, suspend, or cancel the medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use
cannabis establishment license(s) by a majority vote. If a license is revoked,
suspended, or canceled pursuant to this provision, it shall be unlawful for the
licensee to maintain or conduct such business under the license, or at all.
Upon such revocation, suspension or cancellation, no refund of any portion of
the license fee shall be made to the licensee and the licensee shall
immediately cease all business at all places under such license.
   C.   Notice Of Hearing; Hearing Procedures: Notice and the procedure of a
hearing scheduled for the purposes set forth in this chapter shall be as
follows, which may be amended or renumbered from time to time. The council may
also adopt rules and regulations applicable to license discipline as may be set
forth by resolution.
      1.   Conduct a hearing to determine the existence of the cause or causes.
The city shall serve an order to show cause upon the licensee or post upon the
premises where the licensed operation is conducted at least five (5) working
days prior to the time of such hearing.
      2.   Permit the licensee to submit evidence and testimony at the above
hearing.
      3.   Consider all evidence and testimony in support of and in opposition
to the action pending.
      4.   Enter in the minutes of the council the findings of the council and
reasons for any action taken by the council, which action may include
revocation, probation, or temporary suspension of the license and all business
activity of the house of prostitution. The council may, but is not required to,
impose such conditions on the operation of the business as are necessary to
cure the problem and eliminate any danger presented by the violation. Such
conditions may include action by the licensee required to be taken within a
reasonable specified time as an alternative to revocation.
      5.   Enter in the minutes of the council an order specifying the action
taken.
   D.   Exception to Hearing Procedure (Emergency Suspension of License): Any
license granted pursuant to the terms herein may be suspended without a hearing
by a written emergency suspension order signed by the majority of the board, if
in their opinion there exists an immediate and present danger to public health
and safety which necessitates the immediate closure of the medical cannabis
establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment. Any such meeting of the
board shall be governed by the emergency exception of the Nevada Revised
Statutes open meetings law. Upon the issuance and service of such an order, all
licensed medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment
activity, shall immediately cease and the licensee may request a hearing before
the board of councilmen within five (5) business days in accordance with the
Nevada open meeting law. The proceedings thereafter shall be held in accordance
with this chapter. (Ord. 230, - -2018; amd. Ord. 234, 8-25-2020)
3-8-24: ACTION UPON SUSPENSION, REVOCATION, OR CLOSURE:
   A.   In the event of a suspension, revocation or closure of any license, the
medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment shall
not remove any cannabis from the premises except under the supervision of the
chief of police and must dispose of it in a manner and location approved by the
state regulating authority and/or the policy of the police department.
   B.   In the event that the medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use
cannabis establishment is closing either temporarily, or permanently, medical
cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment shall notify the
business license official of the closing fifteen (15) days before the medical
cannabis establishment and/or adult-use cannabis establishment is closed and in
the case of an emergency, the medical cannabis establishment and/or adult-use
cannabis establishment must notify the business license official within twenty
four (24) hours of such closure. (Ord. 230, - -2018; amd. Ord. 234, 8-25-2020)
3-8-25: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the terms, conditions or provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Upon conviction thereof such person
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed the maximum allowable under Nevada
Revised Statutes, or by imprisonment for a term not to exceed six (6) months,
or by both such fine and imprisonment. Such conviction shall also subject the
permittee or licensee to have his permit or license revoked. Thereafter, any
person adjudged guilty of a violation of this chapter or any of the terms,
conditions or provisions thereof may, in the discretion of the city council, be
denied a permit or license. Each violation or instance of noncompliance shall
be considered a separate and distinct offense. Further, each day of continued
violation or noncompliance shall be considered as a separate offense. (Ord.
230, - -2018; amd. Ord. 234, 8-25-2020)
3-8-26: STATE LAW:
In the event this code is silent or NRS 453A and/or NRS 453D, prior to June 30,
2020, and 678A through 678D, inclusive, after July 1, 2020, and the related
regulations, are more restrictive than the terms herein, and the related
regulations, shall prevail and controlling. (Ord. 234, 8-25-2020)
TITLE 4
BUILDING REGULATIONS
Building Codes   1
Abatement Of Dangerous Buildings   2
Street Numbering Of Buildings   3
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
4-1-1: General Administrative Code Provisions
4-1-2: Applicability
4-1-3: Fire Zones, Map Adopted
4-1-4: Permit Requirements, Fee
4-1-1: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE CODE PROVISIONS:
   A   Title: This Section shall be known as the BUILDING REGULATIONS
ADMINISTRATIVE CODE OF THE CITY OF WELLS, hereinafter "code."
All construction work under the provision of this title must be in conformity
with the provisions of this Section which is hereby adopted by the City.
Certain provisions of this code may be parallel or similar to provisions of the
stated codes or other similar codes adopted by the City. The provisions of this
code and the other adopted codes by the City must be applied to the extent
possible. The City of Wells has the discretion, in the interest of convenience
for the City or the public, to apply the provisions herein or the adopted
corresponding administrative provisions in any of the currently adopted codes.
The City of Wells adopts the following international codes:
      1.   The 2012 edition of the International Building Codes
      2.   The 2012 edition of the International Residential Code Chapters 12
through 43, but specifically deleting section R-313 relating to automatic fire
sprinkler systems and specifically deleting Chapter 18 soils and foundations,
unless recommended by the building official or property owner.
      3.   The 2012 Uniform Mechanical Code
      4.   The 2012 Uniform Plumbing Code
      5.   The 2012 International Fire Code
      6.   The 2011 National Electrical Code
      7.   The 2012 International Energy Conservation Code
      8.   The 2012 International Existing Building Code
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this Section is to provide the administrative
rules and regulations for the administration and enforcement of the technical
codes adopted by the City of Wells. The purpose of this Section and the
technical codes are to provide appropriate design and construction regulations
to safeguard life, health, property, and public welfare by regulating and
controlling the permitting, design, construction, quality of materials, use and
occupancy, location, and maintenance of buildings, service equipment, and
structures in the jurisdiction of the City of Wells specifically regulated
herein.
   C.   Scope: The provisions of this section must serve as the administrative
, organizational and enforcement rules and regulations for the technical codes,
which regulate the site preparation, construction, alteration, moving,
enlargement, replacement, demolition, repair, use and occupancy of buildings,
structures, signs, and building service equipment. For the purposes of this
Section, the term "equipment" or "systems" shall apply to any equipment or
system regulated by the adopted technical codes. Whenever the technical codes
make reference to an Appendix chapter, the Appendix chapter shall not apply
unless specifically adopted by the City of Wells.
      1.   International Building Code Of The City of Wells, International
Residential Code Of The City of Wells: The provisions of these codes shall
apply to the construction of or the enlarging, altering, repairing, moving
demolishing, or changing the occupancy of a building or structure, or to erect,
install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove convert or replace any component,
element or portion of a building or structure.
      2.   Uniform Mechanical Code of the City of Wells: The provisions of this
code must apply to the addition to or erection, installation, alteration,
repair, relocation, replacement, use, or maintenance of any heating,
ventilating, cooling, refrigeration systems; incinerators; or other
miscellaneous heat producing appliances within the City.
      3.   Uniform Plumbing Code of the City of Wells: The provisions of this
code must apply to the erection, installation, alteration, repair, relocation,
replacement, addition to, use, or maintenance of plumbing systems within the
City.
      4.   National Electrical Code of the City of Wells: The provisions of
this code must apply to the installation, alteration, repair, relocation,
replacement, addition to, use, or maintenance of electrical conductors,
equipment, and raceways; signaling and communications conductors, equipment,
and raceways; and optical fiber cables and raceways for ; Public and private
premises, including buildings, structures, yards, lots, parking lots,
carnivals, and industrial substations; Installations of conductors and
equipment that connect to the supply of electricity; Installations used by the
electric utility, such as office buildings, warehouses, garages, machine shops,
and recreational buildings, that are not an integral part of a generating
plant, substation, or control center.
      5.   International Energy Conservation Code of the City of Wells: The
provisions of this code must apply to the construction of or the enlarging,
altering, repairing, or changing the occupancy of the building or structure.
      6.   International Existing Building Code: The provisions of the
International Existing Building Code shall apply to the repair, alteration, and
change of occupancy, addition and relocation of existing buildings. (Ord. 221,
1-22-2012; amd. Ord. 231, - -2018; Ord. 233, - -2018)
4-1-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   General:
      1.   Whenever the term "administrative authority," "authority having
jurisdiction," "building official," "code official," or similar title is used
in any of the above adopted codes, it must be construed to mean the City of
Wells hereinafter "City" or if s authorized representative.
      2.   The provisions of the adopted codes must not be deemed to nullify
any provisions of local, state or federal law.
      3.   References to chapter or section numbers, or to provisions not
specifically identified by number, must be construed to refer to such chapter,
section or provision of the codes.
      4.   The codes and standards referenced must be considered part of the
requirements of the adopted codes to the prescribed extent of each such
reference. Where differences occur between provisions of the adopted codes and
referenced codes and standards, the provisions of the adopted codes must apply.
      5.   In the event that any part or provision of this code is held to be
illegal or void, this must not have the effect of making void or illegal any of
the other parts or provisions.
      6.   The legal occupancy of any structure existing on the date of
adoption of these codes must be permitted to continue without change, except as
is specifically covered in any of the adopted codes and welfare of the
occupants and the public.
      7.   Where, in any specific case, different sections of this code specify
different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most
restrictive must govern. Where there is a conflict between a general
requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement must be
applicable.
   B.   Emergency provisions: In the event of a national, state, or local
emergency declaration, the City may waive or augment the provisions of this
Section as needed during the periods of emergency to protect public safety.
(Ord. 221, 1-22-2012; Ord. 233, - -2018)
4-1-3: FIRE ZONES, MAP ADOPTED:
   A.   The entire incorporated area of the city is hereby declared to be and
is hereby established as a fire district and said fire district shall be known
and designated as fire zones 1, 2, and 3, and each such zone shall include such
territory or portions of said city as illustrated, outlined and designated on a
certain map on file in the office of the city clerk being marked and designated
as "Fire Zones Of The City Of Wells", which is hereby adopted as the fire
zoning map of the city for the application of the regulations included in the
building code, short form, 1955 edition, published by Pacific Coast Building
Officials Conference.
   B.   The map entitled "Fire Zones Of The City Of Wells" shall be adopted by
resolution of the board of councilmen prior to the filing in the office of the
city clerk, and changes in zone limits may be established by resolution of the
board of councilmen whenever in its opinion a change is meritorious and in
conformity with the orderly development of land use in the city. Any such
resolution shall be in the form adopting a revised map designated as "Fire
Zones Of The City Of Wells" and each such map shall bear the date of the
resolution adopting same. Resolutions to adopt a revised map designated as
"Fire Zones Of The City Of Wells" may be introduced at any regular meeting of
the board of councilmen, but final action thereupon shall not be taken until
the next regular meeting and copy of the revised map designated "Fire Zones Of
The City Of Wells" shall be available to public inspection at all times during
regular office hours of the city at the city office to and including the date
of the meeting at which said final action will be taken, and notice that the
board of councilmen will take final action upon any and all such resolutions
shall be posted at the city office at least two (2) weeks prior to the date of
the meeting at which said final action will be taken. (Ord. 42, 7-10-1956)
4-1-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS, FEE 1 :
Whenever electrical and/or plumbing construction is to be undertaken as a
portion of an overall project of building which requires a building permit
pursuant to the building code, short form, the building permit fee shall
include the electrical and/or plumbing permit fee and no additional charge
shall be made for electrical and/or plumbing permits. Whenever electrical and/
or plumbing construction is to be undertaken not as a portion of an overall
building project requiring a building permit, a fee for each electrical permit
and/or plumbing permit shall be paid to the building official at a flat rate of
two dollars ($2.00) per each permit. (Ord. 42, 7-10-1956)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-3-1 of this code for zoning certificate-building permit regulations.
CHAPTER 2
ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Adoption Of Uniform Code For The Abatement Of Dangerous Buildings
4-2-2: Copies Of Code Available
4-2-1: ADOPTION OF UNIFORM CODE FOR THE ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS:
There is hereby adopted, for the purpose of providing a just, equitable and
practical method whereby buildings or structures which for any cause endanger
the life, limb, health, morals, property, safety or welfare of the general
public or their occupants, may be required to be repaired, vacated or
demolished, the latest edition of the uniform code for the abatement of
dangerous buildings recommended by the International Conference of Building
Officials, and the whole thereof, save and except any provisions as are
hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, such to become effective one week
after the final reading before the board of councilmen. Three (3) copies of the
latest edition being adopted shall be approved by the board of councilmen and
placed on file in the office of the city clerk. From the date on which such
filed editions of said code shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be
controlling within the limits of the city. The said code is hereby adopted as
the rules and regulations for abating dilapidated, defective buildings which
endanger life, health, property and public safety. In the event that any of the
provisions of the latest edition of the uniform code for the abatement of
dangerous buildings conflicts with any provision of this chapter, the
provisions of this chapter shall govern and be controlling. All supplements
issued by the International Conference of Building Officials between editions
and approved by the board of councilmen shall be filed in triplicate in the
office of the clerk of the city and shall become a part of this uniform code
for the abatement of dangerous buildings effective one week after public notice
of such filing is given by one publication in a newspaper in the city. (Ord.
143, 9-8-1987)
4-2-2: COPIES OF CODE AVAILABLE:
Three (3) copies of this uniform code for the abatement of dangerous buildings,
with all amendments and supplements thereto hereafter adopted, shall be kept on
file in the office of the city clerk for use and examination by the public in
the office of the clerk. (Ord. 143, 9-8-1987)
CHAPTER 3
STREET NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Street Addresses For Apartment Complexes
4-3-2: Mobile Home Parks And Recreational Vehicle Parks
4-3-3: Commercial Shopping Centers
4-3-4: State Or Political Subdivision Buildings
4-3-5: Buildings Used For Commercial Purposes
4-3-6: Buildings Used For Residential Purposes
4-3-1: STREET ADDRESSES FOR APARTMENT COMPLEXES:
Every person owning any apartment complex or the agent thereof shall, within
thirty (30) days after the effective date of this chapter and within thirty
(30) days after the completion of a new apartment complex, place or cause to be
placed the number, which number shall be made of a reflective type material and
at least three inches (3") high, of its street address on the complex in such a
manner that the police, fire department and other persons responding to an
emergency can readily locate individual dwelling units within the complex. As
used in this section, "apartment complex" means a building or group of
buildings, each building of which is arranged in several suites of connecting
rooms, each suite designed for independent housekeeping. (Ord. 162, 1-28-1992)
4-3-2: MOBILE HOME PARKS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS:
Every person owning any mobile home park or recreational vehicle park or the
agent thereof shall, within thirty (30) days after the effective date of this
chapter and within thirty (30) days after the completion of a new mobile home
park or recreational vehicle park, place or cause to be placed the number of
each space, which number shall be made of a reflective type material and at
least three inches (3") high, on each space in such a manner that the police,
fire department and other person responding to an emergency can readily locate
individual spaces within the park. (Ord. 162, 1-28-1992)
4-3-3: COMMERCIAL SHOPPING CENTERS:
Every person owning a commercial shopping center or the agent thereof shall,
within thirty (30) days after the effective date of this chapter and within
thirty (30) days after completion of any new commercial shopping center, place
on the back door of each business in the shopping center in numerals made of a
reflective type material and at least three inches (3") high a number
identifying that business. (Ord. 162, 1-28-1992)
4-3-4: STATE OR POLITICAL SUBDIVISION BUILDINGS:
Every state or political subdivision owning any building shall, within thirty
(30) days after the effective date of this chapter and within thirty (30) days
after the completion of any new building, place the number, which number shall
be made of a reflective type material and at least three inches (3") high, of
its street address on the front of the building in such a manner that the
police, fire department and other persons responding to an emergency can
readily locate the building. (Ord. 162, 1-28-1992)
4-3-5: BUILDINGS USED FOR COMMERCIAL PURPOSES:
Every person, or the agency thereof, owning any building which is used for
commercial purposes shall, within thirty (30) days after the effective date of
this chapter and within thirty (30) days after the completion of any new
building built for a commercial purpose, place the number, which number shall
be made of a reflective type material and at least three inches (3") high, of
its street address on the front of the building in such a manner that the
police, fire department and other persons responding to an emergency can
readily locate the building. (Ord. 162, 1-28-1992)
4-3-6: BUILDINGS USED FOR RESIDENTIAL PURPOSES:
Every person, or the agent thereof, owning any building, including manufactured
housing, used for residential purposes shall, within thirty (30) days after the
effective date of this chapter and within thirty (30) days after the completion
of a residential building, place or cause to be placed the number, which number
shall be made of a reflective type material and at least three inches (3")
high, of its street address on the building in such a manner that the police,
fire department and other persons responding to an emergency can readily locate
the building. (Ord. 162, 1-28-1992)
TITLE 5
FIRE REGULATIONS
Fire Department   1
Flammable Liquids Code   2
Uniform Fire Code   3
Hazardous Materials Abatement   4
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Established, Purpose
5-1-2: Organization, Structure
5-1-3: Fire Chief
5-1-4: Fire Personnel Provisions
5-1-5: Equipment
5-1-6: Financial Provisions, Payments
5-1-7: Regulations Concerning Firemen, Fires
5-1-1: ESTABLISHED, PURPOSE:
A department to be hereafter known as the Wells volunteer fire department is
hereby created. The purpose of the department shall be the prevention of fire
and the protection of life and property within the city. (Ord. 48, 3-24-1960)
5-1-2: ORGANIZATION, STRUCTURE:
   A.   Membership: This department shall consist of a membership of such
number of members as shall be determined by the chief, with the approval of the
board of councilmen.
   B.   Officers Of Department: The department shall consist of a chief, two
(2) assistant chiefs and other officers as the chief and board of councilmen
may deem necessary for the effective operation of the department.
   C.   Structure, Accountability:
      1.   The chief shall be held accountable to the board of councilmen only,
and shall make written and verbal reports thereto as the board of councilmen
may require. All other department and company officers shall be accountable to
the chief.
      2.   The assistant chiefs and all other department and company officers
shall be appointed by the chief. Such officers shall be accountable to the
chief, and subject to removal by him, with the approval of the board of
councilmen, or by action of the board of councilmen.
   D.   Social Officers: The department may elect a president, vice president,
secretary, and treasurer, to be known as social officers. Such officers may be
elected in any manner and for any term the membership may decide upon, and
their duties shall be to arrange for and manage any or all social functions
sponsored by the department.
The functions and duties of said social officers shall in no way interfere with
those of the regular department officers who are charged with responsibility
for all fire service activities of the department. (Ord. 48, 3-24-1960)
5-1-3: FIRE CHIEF:
   A.   Appointment: The chief shall be appointed by the board of councilmen
for an indefinite period of time, subject to the will of the board of
councilmen. The chief shall be technically qualified by training and experience
and shall have ability to command men and hold their respect and confidence.
   B.   Salary: The salary of the chief shall be determined by the board of
councilmen.
   C.   Duties:
      1.   Regulations, Morale: The chief shall formulate a set of rules and
regulations to govern the department, and shall be responsible to the board of
councilmen for the personnel, morale and general efficiency of the department.
      2.   Company Assignments: The chief shall determine the number and kind
of companies of which the department is to be composed and shall determine the
response of such companies to alarms.
      3.   Instruction Of Personnel: The chief shall at least once a month
conduct suitable drills or instruction in the operation and handling of
equipment, first aid and rescue work, salvage, a study of buildings in the city
limits, fire prevention, water supplies, and all other matters generally
considered essential to good firemanship and safety of life and property from
fire.
      4.   Investigations: The chief is hereby required to assist the proper
authority in suppressing the crime of arson by investigating or causing to be
investigated the cause, origin, and circumstances of all fires.
      5.   Inspections: The chief with the approval of the councilman in charge
of the fire department is hereby empowered to enter any and all buildings and
premises, except the interior of private dwelling houses, at any reasonable
hour for the purpose of making inspections and to serve written notice upon the
owner or occupant to abate, within a specified time, any and all fire hazards
that may be found therein.
      6.   Records: The chief shall see that complete records are kept of all
fires, inspections, apparatus and minor equipment, personnel and other
information about the work of the department.
      7.   Monthly Reports: The chief shall report monthly to the board of
councilmen the condition of the apparatus and equipment; the number of fires
during the month, their locations and causes, and dates of same and losses
occasioned thereby; the number and purposes of all other runs made; and the
number of members responding to each fire or other run, and any changes in
membership.
      8.   Recommendations: The chief shall make a complete annual report to
the board of councilmen within one month after the close of the fiscal year,
such report to include the information specified in subsection C7 of this
section, together with comparative data for previous years and recommendations
for improving the effectiveness of the department. (Ord. 48, 3-24-1960)
5-1-4: FIRE PERSONNEL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Membership, Appointment: The membership of the department shall consist
of such persons as may be appointed by the chief and shall be able bodied
citizens residing within the city limits, preferably property owners whose
business activities are normally within the confines of the city, and who have
telephones in their homes. Determination of whether candidates for appointment
are able bodied shall be made by the chief after such medical and physical
examinations have been made as by the chief may be determined necessary, and
approved by the board of councilmen. (Ord. 48, 3-24-1960; amd. 1982 Code)
   B.   Suspension Or Discharge: Any member of the department may be suspended
or discharged from the department by the chief at any time he may deem such
action necessary for the good of the department. On written request of such
member to the board of councilmen, he shall be given a public hearing on
charges brought by the chief.
   C.   Salaries: The city shall pay to the Wells volunteer fire department the
sum of forty dollars ($40.00) per month.
Any damage in excess of ten dollars ($10.00) to apparel worn by a member at a
fire shall be paid for by the city.
Any salary, with the exception of that paid the chief, shall be paid in one
check to the president and treasurer of the social organization, to be
distributed as the members so desire.
   D.   Paraphernalia; Badge, Insignia:
      1.   Badge: Each member of the department shall be issued a badge
designating his rank.
      2.   Vehicle Insignia: Each vehicle of a department member shall carry a
suitable insignia or identification.
   E.   Police Powers: All regularly appointed members of the department shall
have the same powers and authority as policemen of the city while going to,
attending, and returning from a fire, save and except that such authority shall
pertain only to the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 48, 3-
24-1960; amd. Ord. 123, 4-27-1982)
5-1-5: EQUIPMENT:
   A.   General Provisions: The department shall be equipped with such
apparatus and other equipment as may be required from time to time to maintain
its efficiency and properly protect life and property from fire, subject to the
approval of the board of councilmen.
   B.   Alarms Provided: Suitable arrangement or equipment shall be provided
for citizens to turn in an alarm, and for notifying all members of the
department so that they may promptly respond.
   C.   Private Use: No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for
any private purpose, nor shall any person wilfully and without proper authority
take away or conceal any article used in any way by the department.
   D.   Special Uses: No noncity personnel shall enter any place where fire
apparatus is housed or handle any apparatus or equipment belonging to the
department unless accompanied by, or having the special permission of, an
officer or authorized member of the department.
   E.   Use Outside City: No apparatus shall be hired out or permitted to leave
the city limits, except in response to a call for aid at a fire in a
neighboring community, without the consent of the fire chief and the member of
the board of councilmen in charge of the fire department. The officer in charge
of the department shall have power to assign equipment for response to calls
for outside aid only when the absence of such equipment will not jeopardize
protection in this city. (Ord. 48, 3-24-1960; amd. Ord. 123, 4-27-1982)
5-1-6: FINANCIAL PROVISIONS, PAYMENTS:
Payment of any sums provided for salaries shall be contingent upon such funds
being available and properly provided for in the city budget. (Ord. 48, 3-24-
1960; amd. Ord. 123, 4-27-1982)
5-1-7: REGULATIONS CONCERNING FIREMEN, FIRES:
   A.   Fire Hazard Abatement, Notice: Any person served with a notice to abate
any fire hazard or hazards, shall comply therewith and promptly notify the
chief.
   B.   Police Assistance To Firemen: It is hereby made the special duty of
peace officers who may be on duty and available for fire duty, to respond to
all fire alarms and assist the department in the protection of life and
property, in regulating traffic, maintaining order, and in enforcing observance
of all sections of this chapter.
   C.   Driving Over Fire Hose: No person shall drive any vehicle over or
across a hose nor in any manner injure or interfere with any hose, fire engine,
or other fire apparatus being used by the department.
   D.   Following Fire Apparatus: No unauthorized person with any vehicle shall
follow within six hundred feet (600') of any apparatus belonging to the
department, nor park any vehicle within three hundred feet (300') of a fire.
   E.   False Alarms: No person shall maliciously turn in or cause to be turned
in a false alarm.
   F.   Traffic Obstructions: When motor equipment of the department is
responding to an alarm, nonfiremen cars shall not obstruct the right of way.
   G.   Parking Obstructions: No person shall park any vehicle or otherwise
cause any obstruction to be placed within twenty feet (20') of the entrance to
any fire station or other place where fire apparatus is stored, or within ten
feet (10') of any fire hydrant or cistern. (Ord. 48, 3-24-1960; amd. Ord. 123,
4-27-1982)
CHAPTER 2
FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS CODE
SECTION:
5-2-1: Codes Adopted
5-2-2: Location Of Tanks, Approval
5-2-3: Deliveries From Tank Vehicles And Trailers
5-2-4: Penalties
5-2-1: CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Flammable And Combustible Liquids Code: There is hereby adopted for the
purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and
property from fire or explosion caused from the delivery and handling of
flammable liquids the latest edition of the flammable and combustible liquids
code recommended by the National Fire Protection Association, and the whole
thereof, save and except any portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified, or
amended, of which code not less than three (3) copies have been and now are
filed in the office of the clerk of the city, and the same are hereby adopted
and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the date on
which this chapter shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be
controlling within the limits of the city. The said code is hereby adopted as
the rules and regulations for the installation of containers for storing and
handling flammable liquids. In the event that any of the provisions of the
latest edition of the flammable and combustible liquids code conflict with any
provisions of this chapter, the provisions of this chapter shall govern and be
controlling.
   B.   Regulatory Standards For Tank Vehicles For Flammable And Combustible
Liquids Code: There is hereby adopted for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or
explosion caused from the delivery and handling of flammable liquids the latest
edition of "Flammable And Combustible Liquid Tank Vehicles" regulations
recommended by the National Fire Protection Association and the whole thereof,
save and except any portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended,
of which regulations not less than three (3) copies have been and now are filed
in the office of the clerk of the city, and the same are hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the date of
which this chapter shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be
controlling within the limits of the city. The said regulations are hereby
adopted as the rules and regulations for the transportation and handling of
flammable liquids. In the event that any of the provisions of the latest
edition of the flammable and combustible liquid tank vehicles regulations
conflict with any provisions of this chapter, the provisions of this chapter
shall govern and be controlling. (Ord. 94, 5-28-1974)
5-2-2: LOCATION OF TANKS, APPROVAL:
   A.   Approval, Permit: Before any underground storage tank is installed, the
owner shall present to the board of councilmen at a regularly held meeting a
drawing showing the location of said tank. Upon approval by the board of
councilmen, the city clerk shall issue a permit for the installation of said
tank.
   B.   Inspection Required: The owner shall leave the installation open until
inspection is made by the board of councilmen or its authorized agents. (Ord.
94, 5-28-1974)
5-2-3: DELIVERIES FROM TANK VEHICLES AND TRAILERS:
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no person shall make delivery of any flammable
or combustible liquids from a tank vehicle and trailer unless all tanks and
trailers are attached to the tractor of the vehicle. (Ord. 94, 5-28-1974)
5-2-4: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any provisions of this chapter hereby adopted or
fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order
made thereunder or who shall build in violation of any detailed statement of
specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any
certifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate
or permits issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken, or who
shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the city or
by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall
severally for each and every such violation and noncompliance respectively be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than twenty
five dollars ($25.00) nor more than three hundred dollars ($300.00), or by
imprisonment for not less than ten (10) days nor more than thirty (30) days or
by both such fine and imprisonment. The imposition of one penalty for any
violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such
persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects
within a reasonable time; and when not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days
that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 94, 5-28-1974)
CHAPTER 3
UNIFORM FIRE CODE
SECTION:
5-3-1: Adoption Of Uniform Fire Code
5-3-2: Establishment And Duties Of Bureau Of Fire Prevention
5-3-3: Definitions
5-3-4: Appeals
5-3-5: New Materials, Processes Or Occupancies Which May Require Permit
5-3-6: Penalties
5-3-7: Copies Of Code Available
5-3-1: ADOPTION OF UNIFORM FIRE CODE:
There is hereby adopted, for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing
conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, that certain
code known as the uniform fire code recommended by the Western Fire Chief's
Association and the International Conference of Building Officials, being
particularly the latest edition thereof and the whole thereof, save and except
any provisions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended (article 82 is
hereby deleted), such to become effective one week after the final reading
before the board of councilmen. There is also hereby added to the fire code the
current addition of the national fuel gas code published by the National Fire
Protection Association, and "Standards For The Storage And Handling Of
Liquefied Petroleum Gases", published by the National Fire Protection
Association. Three (3) copies of the latest edition being adopted shall be
approved by the board of councilmen and placed on file in the office of the
city clerk. From the date on which such filed editions of said code shall take
effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the
city. The said code is hereby adopted as the rules and regulations for
governing conditions hazardous to life from fire or explosion. In the event
that any of the provisions of the latest edition of the uniform fire code
conflict with any provision of this chapter, the provisions of this chapter
shall govern and be controlling. All supplements issued by the International
Conference of Building Officials between editions and approved by the board of
councilmen shall be filed in triplicate in the office of the city clerk and
shall become a part of this uniform fire code effective one week after public
notice of such filing is given by one publication in a newspaper in the city.
(Ord. 142, 11-24-1987)
5-3-2: ESTABLISHMENT AND DUTIES OF BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION:
   A.   The uniform fire code shall be enforced by the bureau of fire
prevention of the city which is hereby established and which shall be operated
under the supervision of the chief of the fire department.
   B.   The chief in charge of the bureau of fire prevention shall be appointed
by the board of councilmen on the basis of examination to determine his
qualifications.
   C.   The chief of the fire department may detail such members of the fire
department as inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary. The chief of
the fire department shall recommend to the board of councilmen the employment
of technical inspectors, who, when such authorization is made, shall be
selected through an examination to determine their fitness for the position.
The examination shall be open to members and nonmembers of the fire department,
and appointments made after examination shall be for an indefinite term with
removal only for cause. (Ord. 142, 11-24-1987)
5-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
   CORPORATION COUNCIL: Wherever used in the uniform fire code shall be held to
mean the attorney for the city of Wells.
   JURISDICTION: Wherever used in the uniform fire code shall mean the city of
Wells. (Ord. 142, 11-24-1987)
5-3-4: APPEALS:
Whenever the chief shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a permit
applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the code do not apply
or that the true intent and meaning of the code have been misconstrued or
wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision of the chief to
the board of councilmen within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision
appealed. (Ord. 142, 11-24-1987)
5-3-5: NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES WHICH MAY REQUIRE PERMIT:
The city manager and the chief shall act as the committee to determine and
specify, after giving affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new
materials, processes or occupancies, which shall require permits, in addition
to those now enumerated in said code. The chief shall post such lists in a
conspicuous place in his office, and distribute copies thereof to interested
persons. (Ord. 142, 11-24-1987)
5-3-6: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any provisions of the code hereby adopted or fail
to comply therewith or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made
thereunder or who shall build in violation of any detailed statement of
specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder or any certificate or
permits issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken or who shall
fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the city or by a
court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed therein, shall severally
for each and every such violation and noncompliance respectively be deemed
guilty of a city offense and punishable as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of
this code. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the
violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required to
correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when
not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that prohibited conditions are
maintained shall constitute a separate offense. The application of the above
penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited
conditions. (Ord. 142, 11-24-1987)
5-3-7: COPIES OF CODE AVAILABLE:
Three (3) copies of this uniform fire code, with all amendments and supplements
thereto hereafter adopted, shall be kept on file in the office of the city
clerk for use and examination by the public in the office of the clerk. (Ord.
142, 11-24-1987)
CHAPTER 4
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ABATEMENT
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definition Of Hazardous Material
5-4-2: Liability For Costs Incurred In Clean Up Of Hazardous Materials
5-4-3: Definition Of Costs
5-4-4: Exclusion Of Costs For Fire Suppression Services
5-4-1: DEFINITION OF HAZARDOUS MATERIAL:
For purposes of this chapter "hazardous materials" shall be defined as any
substance or materials in a quantity or form which, in the determination of the
fire chief or his authorized representative, poses an unreasonable and imminent
risk to the life, health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological
balance of the environment, and shall include, but not be limited to, such
substances as explosives, radioactive materials, petroleum or petroleum
products or gases, poisons, etiologic (biologic) agents, flammables and
corrosives. (Ord. 152, 4-11-1989)
5-4-2: LIABILITY FOR COSTS INCURRED IN CLEAN UP OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS:
The fire department is authorized to clean up or abate the effects of any
hazardous material deposited upon or into property or facilities of the city;
and any person or persons who intentionally or negligently caused such deposit
shall be liable for the payment of all costs incurred by the fire department as
a result of such cleanup or abatement activity. The remedy provided by this
section shall be in addition to any other remedies by law. (Ord. 152, 4-11-
1989)
5-4-3: DEFINITION OF COSTS:
For purposes of this chapter, costs incurred by the fire department shall
include, but shall not necessarily be limited to, the following: actual labor
costs of city personnel, including workers' compensation benefits, fringe
benefits, administrative overhead; cost of equipment operation, cost of
materials obtained directly by the city; and cost of any contract labor and
materials. (Ord. 152, 4-11-1989)
5-4-4: EXCLUSION OF COSTS FOR FIRE SUPPRESSION SERVICES:
The authority to recover costs under this chapter shall not include actual fire
suppression services which are normally or usually provided by the fire
department. (Ord. 152, 4-11-1989)
TITLE 6 1 PUBLIC PROPERTY AND UTILITIES 1
Wells Water Code   1
Sewer Regulations   2
Water And Sewer Contracts (Rep. by Ord. 160, 9-24-1991)   3
Garbage And Waste Code   4
Nuisances   5
Sign Regulations   6
Cable Television Franchise (Rep. by Ord. 189, 4-11-2000)   7
Gaseous Fuels Franchise   8
Municipal Cemetery   9
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 7, chapter 1 of this code for offenses against property and
  title 1, chapter 6 of this code for sale of real property.
1 1. See also title 7, chapter 1 of this code for offenses against property and
  title 1, chapter 6 of this code for sale of real property.
CHAPTER 1
WELLS WATER CODE
SECTION:
6-1-1: Short Title
6-1-2: Public Policy
6-1-3: Definitions
6-1-4: Conditions Of Service
6-1-5: Class Of Service
6-1-6: Application For Service
6-1-7: Discontinuance Of Service
6-1-8: Termination Provisions
6-1-9: Restoration Of Service
6-1-10: Abandonment Of Service
6-1-11: Seasonal Connect And Disconnect Of Service
6-1-12: Service Connections
6-1-13: Service Connection Restrictions
6-1-14: Modification To Service
6-1-15: Emergency Service
6-1-16: Charges And Fees
6-1-17: Rate
6-1-18: Commercial Sale
6-1-19: Unauthorized Use Of Public Fire Hydrants
6-1-20: Unauthorized Use Of Private Fire Service
6-1-21: Water Service To Outside City Limits
6-1-22: Main Extension
6-1-23: Reserved
6-1-24: Geothermal Water Wells
6-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be known and cited as the WELLS WATER CODE. (Ord. 160, 9-24-
1991)
6-1-2: PUBLIC POLICY:
The board of councilmen of the city of Wells hereby finds and declares to be
the public policy of this city that:
   A.   For the protection of public health, safety and general welfare of the
inhabitants of the city, the Wells water system shall provide for domestic and/
or commercial usage culinary water to its inhabitants and furthermore the
drilling of private wells and/or establishment of private water systems within
the city limits are strictly prohibited.
   B.   Financial solvency shall be maintained by the water department by means
of establishing a rate structure which shall sufficiently compensate the debt
service, operation and maintenance cost and capital improvement outlay.
   C.   Water is a valuable natural resource and water conservation shall be
encouraged by mandating the installation of water meters to all service
connections and by implementing a water conservation policy.
   D.   It is vital and just to the inhabitants of the city that they shall not
be unduly burdened financially by future expansion of the water system, thus a
connection privilege fee is established for providing water service capacity to
the consumer and such fee shall be accrued exclusively for the purpose of
capital improvements.
   E.   For the protection of public health and the integrity of the city water
system, it is prohibited to pollute the city water system by cross connection
unless the provisions of section
 6-1-13 of this chapter are fully complied with. (Ord. 160, 9-24-1991)
6-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
   APPLICANT: A person applying for water service to a particular property
within the city.
   BOARD: The board of councilmen of the city of Wells.
   CITY: The city of Wells and administration of the Wells water system.
   CITY MANAGER: The person duly appointed by the board to perform the duties
of the position, or his duly appointed representative.
   COMBINED SERVICE: A service connection through which water is obtained for
the dual purpose of private fire protection and domestic use.
   CONSUMER: A person who is a recipient of water service from the city.
   CROSS CONNECTION: Any actual or potential connection between the city's
water distribution facilities and any source or system which may potentially
cause contamination, pollution or change in water quality by any and all
causes.
   DOMESTIC SERVICE: A service connection through which water is obtained for
all purposes exclusive of fire protection, including commercial and industrial
uses.
   DWELLING UNIT: An area or enclosure occupied by one household in one
building or part of the building.
   EMERGENCY SERVICE CONNECTION: Temporary service connection required to
provide water to safeguard health and protect private or public property,
subject to the conditions governing temporary service connections.
   EMPLOYEE: Any individual employed by the city, excluding independent
contractors, consultants and their employees.
   INTERCONNECTION: Any actual or potential connection to customer's piping
which will provide water to property or permit use of water for purposes other
than that for which a service connection was authorized.
   NONSTANDARD CONNECTION: A service connection installed at a location not
adjacent to the property served and where there will never be a main installed
contiguous to the property.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, organization, partnership, trust,
company, corporation or entity, and any municipal, political or governmental
corporation, city, body or agency other than the city.
   PRIVATE FIRE SERVICE: A service connection through which water is obtained
for fire protection exclusively.
   SERVICE CONNECTION: The lateral pipe from the point of connection to a city
water main, to and including a meter, or battery thereof, and meter box or
vault.
   STANDARD SERVICE CONNECTION: A service connection installed at a location
adjacent to the property being served.
   TEMPORARY SERVICE CONNECTION: Service connection installed at a location not
adjacent to the property served and which is subject to removal or relocation
at such time as a main is constructed contiguous to the property. (Ord. 160, 9-
24-1991)
6-1-4: CONDITIONS OF SERVICE:
   A.   Pressures: All applicants for water service will be required to accept
such conditions of pressure and service as are provided by the distribution
system at the location of the proposed service connection, and to hold the city
harmless for any damages arising out of low pressure or high pressure
conditions or interruptions in service.
   B.   Area Served: Properties within the boundaries of the city water system
shall be eligible to receive water and shall be served by the city water system
in accordance with this chapter. Properties outside the boundaries of the city
shall not be eligible to receive water from the city except through provisions
set forth in section
6-1-21 of this chapter.
   C.   Main Required: New applications for water service will be accepted only
if the city water main extends to within two hundred feet (200') of the
property being served. The applicant will provide any necessary easements and,
additionally, bear the cost of any extension of the water main.
   D.   Damage To Property: The city will not be liable for damage to property
resulting from water running from open or faulty piping or fixtures on the
customer's property. Customers who request activation of a service shall be
responsible for damage resulting from such activation due to open or faulty
piping and fixtures on the customer's property.
   E.   Tampering With City Property: No one except an employee shall at any
time, in any manner operate the curb cocks or valves, main cocks, gates or
valves of the city's system, or interfere with meters or their connections,
street mains or other parts of the water system.
   F.   Penalty For Violation: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day's violation of the provisions of this chapter may
be deemed a separate offense.
   G.   Waste Of Water: No customer shall knowingly permit leaks or waste of
water. Where water is wastefully or negligently used on a customer's premises
effecting the city's general service, the city may discontinue the service if
such conditions are not corrected within five (5) days after giving the
customer written notice.
   H.   Private Water Wells Or Private Water System: The drilling of private
wells and/or establishment of private water systems within the city limits for
domestic usage or commercial sale are strictly prohibited, except geothermal
water wells for heating purposes only if allowed by the board. (Ord. 160, 9-24-
1991)
6-1-5: CLASS OF SERVICE:
All services installed by or for the city shall be classified as residential,
commercial, private fire service, commercial sale, master meter - multiple
dwelling units and master meter - business and residential combined for billing
purposes.
   A.   Residential: Includes all service connections through which water is
delivered to individual dwelling units of a maximum three-fourths inch (3/4")
pipe size connection for all purposes.
   B.   Commercial: Includes all service connections through which water is
delivered to the property for the purpose of operating one or more businesses.
   C.   Private Fire Service: Includes all service connections through which
water is delivered to the property for fire protection exclusively.
   D.   Commercial Sale: Water being delivered through fire hydrant connection
for use in construction projects. Includes all service connections through
which water is delivered through fire hydrant via a metering apparatus for a
specific duration as specified by customer in his application.
   E.   Master Meter - Multiple Dwelling Units: Includes one service connection
to apartment, mobile home park and multiple dwelling units in one private
property.
   F.   Master Meter - Business And Residential Combined: Includes one service
connection to private property which is occupied by business and residential
dwelling units. (Ord. 160, 9-24-1991)
6-1-6: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE:
Application for city water services shall comply with existing city regulations
and resolutions. (Ord. 160, 9-24-1991)
6-1-7: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
   A.   Customer's Request For Discontinuance:
      1.   A customer may have service discontinued by giving not less than one
business day's advance notice thereof at the office of the water department.
Charges for service may be required to be paid until the requested date of
discontinuance or such later date as will provide not less than the required
one business day's advance notice.
      2.   When such notice is not given, the customer will be required to pay
for service until one business day after the water department has knowledge
that the customer has vacated the premises or otherwise has discontinued water
service.
      3.   Emergency situations will not require this notice. (Ord. 160, 9-24-
1991)
6-1-8: TERMINATION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Termination For Noncompliance With Rules: The water department may
terminate service to any customer for violation of these rules after it has
given the customer written notice of such intention. Where safety of water
supply is endangered, service may be discontinued or curtailed immediately
without notice.
   B.   Termination For Waste Of Water: Where negligent or wasteful use of
water exists from a customer's premises, the water department may terminate the
service if such practices are not remedied after it has given the customer
written notice to such effect by certified mail or citation issued by the city
police three (3) days prior to proposed date of termination. No person shall
waste water by permitting water to escape through defective plumbing, or by
sprinkling, watering or irrigating shrubbery, trees, lawns, grass, ground
covers, plants, gardens, vegetables, flowers or any other vegetation in such a
manner or to such an extent as to permit water to escape and flow onto
adjoining property or into or along a public street or gutter. Watering lawns
through the use of an "open hose" to which no sprinkling irrigation or other
such device is attached shall be considered wasteful use of water.
   C.   Termination For Unsafe Apparatus: If any condition is found to exist on
a customer's premises which, in the opinion of the city manager, constitutes a
hazard to health or which may contaminate the water supply or which threatens
to damage any portion of the city water system, or if the use of water thereon
by apparatus, appliances, equipment or otherwise is found to be detrimental or
damaging to the water supply, the water department or its customers, the
service may be terminated without notice. The water department will notify the
customer immediately of the reasons for the discontinuance and the corrective
action to be taken by the customer before service can be restored.
   D.   Termination For Fraudulent Use Of Service: When the water department
has discovered that a customer has obtained service by fraudulent means, or has
diverted the water service for unauthorized use, the service to that customer
may be discontinued without notice. The water department will not restore
service to such customer until that customer has complied with the Wells water
code and rules and reasonable requirements of the water department and the
water department has been reimbursed for the full amount of the service
rendered and the actual cost to the water department incurred by reason of the
fraudulent use.
   E.   Procedure For Termination Of Services For Nonpayment:
      1.   On the twenty sixth day succeeding the mailing of any water bill, or
in the event the twenty sixth day falls on a holiday, Saturday or Sunday, then
on the next succeeding working day during which time the bill has not been paid
in full, all charges to that date, whether or not billed, and all charges
accrued for water services are deemed due and payable, and on such nonpayment
of water charges, the water billing shall be considered delinquent and the city
clerk shall mail notice to the legal owner or the applicant for service and
shall either mail a copy of the notice to the tenant or post a copy of the
notice on the premises of the tenant at the address receiving service,
notifying the owner and tenant that the water service will be terminated on a
specific date, which date shall not be less than ten (10) days after the date
of mailing or posting such delinquency notice. All costs incurred by the city
in completing the notification process shall be assessed to the owner or
applicant for service and such costs shall be added to the water bill.
      2.   The owner or applicant applying for service or occupant of the
premises may request to present his position concerning termination of water
services to the board and the board's action will be final.
      3.   Failure of the owner, customer or tenant to appear before the board
after having requested such right, as provided above, will cause the water
service to be terminated.
      4.   On the date of termination of water services, or any date
thereafter, the city clerk may cause to be filed with the Elko County recorder
a statement of the amount due and unpaid for water services and a description
of the property to which the services were rendered to perfect a lien against
the property. All costs incurred by the city in perfecting such a lien shall be
assessed to the owner or applicant for service and such costs shall be added to
the balance to be collected. (Ord. 160, 9-24-1991)
6-1-9: RESTORATION OF SERVICE:
   A.   Reconnection Charge: Where service has been terminated for a violation
of this chapter, the water department shall charge such sum as set by
resolution by the city council from time to time for reconnection of service.
All costs incurred in reconnecting service after a disconnect has occurred
shall be borne by the owner or applicant for service.
   B.   Reconnection Be Made During Regular Working Hours: The water department
will endeavor to make reconnections during regular working hours on the day of
the request, if conditions permit, otherwise reconnections will be made on the
regular working day following the day the request is made.
   C.   Reconnection Be Made At Other Than Regular Working Hours: When a
customer has requested that the reconnection be made at other than regular
working hours, the water department will reasonably endeavor to so make the
reconnection if practicable under the circumstances, but will be under no
obligation to do so, unless an emergency exists. The cost for such reconnection
shall be one and one-half (11/2) times greater than the regular reconnection
charge as set by resolution of the city council from time to time. (Ord. 160,
9-24-1991)
6-1-10: ABANDONMENT OF SERVICE:
   A.   In the event that a service connection is permanently deactivated, the
meter and other salvageable materials will be removed by the city, without
credit to the former consumer.
   B.   The owner of the property being served must sign a removal order form
as provided by city resolution.
   C.   In the event the consumer abandons the service without notifying the
city, the charges for water consumption accrued by the consumer shall be
computed up to the date the abandonment was made known or discovered by the
city. (Ord. 160, 9-24-1991)
6-1-11: SEASONAL CONNECT AND DISCONNECT OF SERVICE:
   A.   Annually, consumers may request the city to temporarily disconnect
their water service for certain specific duration, with the intention that
their water service will be reconnected within a maximum duration of six (6)
months.
   B.   The consumer or owner of the property being served must sign a seasonal
disconnect/connect form as provided by city resolution.
   C.   The consumer or owner shall continue to pay a monthly debt service fee
during the time service is disconnected.
   D.   The consumer or owner must notify the city in writing of his request
for reconnection of service.
   E.   Reconnection shall be made if, and only if, all charges for prior
service at any location within the city have been paid in full and the deposit
rule shall apply. (Ord. 160, 9-24-1991)
6-1-12: SERVICE CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Mandatory Metering: Metering of water usage to service connection is
mandatory for all classes of services except for private fire service.
   B.   Size And Water Supply:
      1.   The city reserves the right to determine the size of the service
connection and meter to be installed, giving consideration to the needs of the
applicant and the capacity of the main to which the service is to be connected.
No service connection shall be approved of a size larger than can be supplied
by the main without adversely affecting service to other customers.
      2.   In the event an existing main is determined to be inadequate to meet
the requirements of an applicant, the applicant shall bear the cost of
upgrading the main to meet required standards.
      3.   Whenever two (2) mains are available from which service can be
provided, the city shall, at its option, determine the main to which their
service connection will be made.
   C.   Location:
      1.   Service connections shall be installed at right angles to a main and
the point of connection shall not be within a street intersection.
      2.   The meter location shall be within the public right of way or
easement adjacent to existing or proposed curb line.
      3.   In alleys or easements, meters shall be located at a point as close
as practicable to the property line near which the main is located.
      4.   All meters shall be located outside of driveways and other areas
where access by city personnel for operation and maintenance may be restricted.
   D.   Composition: A standard service connection shall be comprised of a
service lateral from the point of connection to the main, to and including a
meter or battery of meters, and meter box and vault.
   E.   Ownership:
      1.   Service connections, including laterals, meters, boxes and other
appurtenances from the water main to the point of connection, shall be and
remain the property of the city, and the city shall be responsible for the
maintenance and repair of such facilities, subject to any agreements covering
the installation of such facilities.
      2.   All pipe and fittings from the point of connection to consumer's
property shall be installed by and maintained by the property owner.
   F.   Private Fire Service:
      1.   Private fire service shall be restricted to standby for emergency
fire protection.
      2.   A service connection line shall be dedicated exclusively for that
purpose only, and any connection to said service connection or connection line
at any location is strictly prohibited except where already in place the date
this chapter is adopted. Any and all losses or damages of any kind or nature
resulting from such existing connection shall be the responsibility of the
property owner.
      3.   The size of service connection and distribution pipes, the layout of
its distribution and location of its firefighting apparatus shall be determined
by appropriate authority such as the city fire chief or state fire marshal,
with letter of approval.
      4.   The board may require installation of an approved detector check
valve.
   G.   Emergency Service: Emergency service shall be authorized for limited
periods of time when the usual source of supply fails or is declared to be
potentially harmful or in other circumstances that endanger health or property.
Connections may be provided, at the discretion of the city, to a fire hydrant
or any available outlet from the city facilities. The applicant shall pay all
installation costs and applicable fees and deposits and shall make application
for a main extension in accordance with section
6-1-22 of this chapter, if applicable.
   H.   Nonstandard Service: Nonstandard service may be authorized when, in the
opinion of the city, a main extension will never be necessary for orderly
development of the system, fire protection, service to other property or other
reasons. Nonstandard service laterals from the meter to the customer shall not
be located within public thoroughfare. A recorded easement over private
property for the service lateral shall be provided to the city.
   I.   Separate Service To Each Separate Ownership:
      1.   Except for service connections installed prior to January 1, 1991,
each dwelling or commercial unit under separate ownership shall be provided
with a separate service connection.
      2.   Two (2) or more dwelling units under one ownership and on the same
lot or parcel of land (such as apartments, a mobile home park, cubical units,
etc.) may be supplied through separate and individual service connection or
master meter. The city reserves the right to limit the number of houses or the
area of land under one ownership to be supplied by one service connection.
      3.   Not more than one service connection for domestic or commercial
supply shall be installed for one building, except under special conditions.
      4.   A service connection shall not be used to supply adjoining property
of a different owner or to supply property of the same owner across a street or
alley.
      5.   When property provided with a service connection is divided, each
service connection shall be considered as belonging to the lot or parcel of
land which it directly enters.
   J.   Planned Unit Development Residential:
      1.   Each dwelling unit under separate ownership must be provided with a
separate service connection.
      2.   Two (2) or more dwelling or commercial units under one ownership and
on the same lot or parcel of land will be supplied with separate and individual
water connections with meters, unless a development plan has been reviewed and
approved by the city engineer and the board.
   K.   Planned Unit Development: A planned unit development may consist of
attached or detached single-family units, townhouses, cluster units,
condominiums, garden apartments or any combination thereof. A separate metered
service connection shall be required for each dwelling unit within the
development. Separate connections shall be required for common areas, including
irrigation, recreation and utility. Such areas or buildings shall not be
interconnected or served directly from services providing water to dwelling
units. If the circumstances are such that separate services to each dwelling
unit are not practical, as determined by the city, each building containing
individual dwelling units shall have separate service.
   L.   Installation Of City Facilities By A Developer: Subject to the
provisions of applicable sections of these service rules, the following shall
apply to the installation of all facilities which are to be owned and operated
by the city:
      1.   The developer shall pay to the city, prior to the approval of any
installation of water facilities, all applicable fees and charges in accordance
with the rate schedule then in effect.
      2.   All water facilities to be owned by the city shall be located within
paved thoroughfares outside of parking areas. Water meters shall be located
outside of travel lanes and driveways and shall be protected from vehicular
traffic, as determined by the city.
      3.   The city shall have inspected and approved the installation of the
water service facilities before a meter is set or service is provided, other
than water for construction purposes.
      4.   Fire hydrants to be connected to a city main shall be approved by
the fire department having jurisdiction, prior to installation. (Ord. 160, 9-
24-1991)
6-1-13: SERVICE CONNECTION RESTRICTIONS:
The city reserves the right to prohibit connections to certain mains when, in
its opinion, such connections may impair the integrity of such mains or when
the location of such connection would not be conducive to orderly development
and planning of the distribution system. In such conditions, consideration will
be given to a main extension or alternate means of supply.
   A.   Cross Connections:
      1.   No connections shall be permitted between the city's water supply
system and:
         a.   Any sewer or draining system;
         b.   Any steam, gas or chemical line, pipe or conduit;
         c.   Any device, boiler, tank or container whereby any contamination
or pollution or any dangerous, impure, unsanitary or unpotable substance may be
introduced into any portion of the city's water supply system by back flow,
back siphonage or any other method; and,
         d.   Any premises where a water supply system other than the city's
exists.
      2.   Any connection where possibility of contamination or pollution
exists shall be equipped with a city approved back flow prevention installation
constructed, tested and maintained by the city at the customer's expense. Any
subsequent testing, inspection or maintenance shall be done at the customer's
expense. At the customer's option, the device may be installed by a properly
licensed contractor. The installation must be approved and inspected by a city
representative.
   B.   Installation By City: Service connections, other than in subdivisions,
shall be installed by the city. When warranted by circumstances, the city may
permit installation of the service connections by independent contractors. In
such event, city specifications must be adhered to and tapping of a main will
be permitted only in the presence of a representative of the city.
   C.   Relief Valves: As a protection to the customer's plumbing system, a
suitable pressure relief valve must be installed and maintained by him, at his
expense, when check valve or other protective devices are used. The relief
valve shall be installed between the check valves and the water heater.
   D.   Backflow Device: Whenever backflow protection has been found necessary
on a water supply line entering a customer's premises, then any and all water
supply lines from the city's mains entering such premises, buildings or
structures shall be protected by an approved backflow device, regardless of the
use of additional water supply lines. The double check valve or other approved
backflow protection devices may be inspected and tested periodically for water
tightness by the city. The devices shall be serviced, overhauled or replaced
whenever they are found defective and all costs of repair and maintenance shall
be borne by the customer. The service of water to any premises may be
immediately discontinued by the city if any defect is found in the check valve
installations or other protective devices, or if it is found that dangerous
unprotected cross connections exist. Service will not be restored until such
defects are corrected. (Ord. 160, 9-24-1991)
6-1-14: MODIFICATION TO SERVICE:
   A.   Relocation Of Service Connection:
      1.   An existing service connection may be relocated, if the new service
is of like size and will provide a water supply to the same parcel of property,
upon application by the property owner.
      2.   The new service connection will be installed upon the same condition
as a normal installation.
      3.   All installation charges, material and labor shall be at the expense
of property owner.
      4.   All salvageable material, if it can be used for the said
installation, will be used.
      5.   Application shall be made by property owner at the city office in
accordance with section
6-1-6 of this chapter.
   B.   Change In Meter Size:
      1.   Meter in place, which is of a size less than the diameter of the
service lateral, may be replaced with a larger size not to exceed the size of
the service lateral.
      2.   Application shall be made by the property owner at city office in
accordance with section
6-1-6 of this chapter.
      3.   Applicants for upsizing the existing meters shall pay the current
inventory replacement price differential between the meter sizes being
exchanged plus all necessary installation charges and the cost of the replaced
meter.
      4.   Applicants for downsizing the existing meter shall pay all necessary
installation charges and the cost of refurbishing the replaced meter.
   C.   Increase In Size Of Service Connection:
      1.   Enlargement of a service connection to the same property requiring
abandonment of the existing connection and installation of a complete
replacement connection of increased size shall be treated as two (2)
transactions, the abandonment of existing connection and a new service
connection.
      2.   Applications shall be made by property owner at city office in
accordance with section
6-1-6 of this chapter.
      3.   All appropriate charges and fees shall be charged accordingly,
except that credit will be allowed for the value of the salvaged meter, such
value to be the current inventory replacement cost less the cost of
refurbishing the replaced meter. (Ord. 160, 9-24-1991)
6-1-15: EMERGENCY SERVICE:
Emergency service may be provided by a connection to an existing main. All
emergency services which are connected to fire hydrants shall conform with
requirements of section
 6-1-13 of this chapter and shall be limited to a maximum of thirty (30) days.
(Ord. 160, 9-24-1991)
6-1-16: CHARGES AND FEES:
The charges and fees for installation of a new connection shall consist of a
connection privilege fee and installation fee and, in some cases, a main
extension fee and/or unusual charges as defined in subsection G of this
section. (Ord. 165, 10-13-1992)
   A.   Connection Privilege Fee: In order to equalize investment in facilities
made by present consumers, a connection privilege fee will be collected for all
new services in the amount shown in the connection privilege fee rate schedule
which shall be set by board resolution from time to time.
   B.   Installation Fee: An installation fee shall be charged to cover the
most current replacement cost at the time of installation request of materials
and labor for installing the water service. The fee shall be based on the
service connection size and meter size and shall be in the amount set forth in
the rate installation fee schedule which shall be set by board resolution from
time to time.
   C.   Private Fire Service: The fee for private fire service shall be set by
resolution of the board of councilmen from time to time.
   D.   Administration Fee: The administration fee shall be set by resolution
of the board of councilmen from time to time.
   E.   Main Extension Fee: The fee for main extensions shall be set by
resolution of the board of councilmen from time to time.
   F.   Main Extension Refund Fee: The main extension refund fee to be charged
shall be set by resolution of the board of councilmen from time to time.
   G.   Unusual Charges:
      1.   Installation of service connection may, on occasion, require cutting
of paved road. The cost of cutting and replacement of paved road shall be the
sole responsibility of applicants.
      2.   Installation of service connection may require a hot tap into water
mains of ten inches (10") or up, for which special skilled labor and/or
equipment is required or may require contracting services. The cost of such
installation shall be cost incurred plus fifteen percent (15%). (Ord. 160, 9-
24-1991)
6-1-17: RATE:
The rate structure consists of two (2) components, basic water allocation
allowance and usage.
   A.   The basic water allocation allowance varies by resident, commercial and
commercial sale, in addition to the pipe size, and this allowance and its rate
shall be as set forth in section
6-1-18 of this chapter by board resolution from time to time.
   B.   The usage rate shall be set in graduation of one thousand (1,000)
gallons of water and varies by resident, commercial and commercial sale, and
this usage rate shall be set by board resolution from time to time. (Ord. 160,
9-24-1991)
6-1-18: COMMERCIAL SALE:
   A.   Sale of water to consumer by means of attaching special metering
apparatus on public fire hydrants for temporary service only.
   B.   Application for this water service may be made in the city office on
regular week days, normal office hours.
   C.   Upon completion of application and payment of all necessary charges and
fees and payment of deposit has been made, metering apparatus may be obtained
from the city.
   D.   It shall be the sole responsibility of the consumer for:
      1.   The attachment of the meter apparatus to the designated public fire
hydrant;
      2.   The security of the meter apparatus;
      3.   Any damage to the metering apparatus, hydrant and public property
within the adjacent area; and
      4.   The return of the metering apparatus to the city in good working
order.
   E.   Charges, fees, deposits and rates of commercial sales are set by board
resolution from time to time. (Ord. 160, 9-24-1991)
6-1-19: UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PUBLIC FIRE HYDRANTS:
Connections to public fire hydrants are prohibited unless a use permit is
issued by the city. The applicant shall pay a use permit fee as set by board
resolution from time to time prior to issuance. The city may require
installation of a hydrant meter, in which case the applicant will be required
to deposit an amount adequate to cover the cost of furnishing, installing and
removing the service connection. Upon discontinuance of service, a refund will
be made, the difference between the amount deposited and costs after allowance
for salvaged materials. When use of a hydrant connection is for a short period
of time and installation of a meter is not practical, charges will be in
accordance with the rate schedule then in effect. Use of a hydrant for
construction water in subdivision development shall be permitted without charge
above the established rates as stated in the rate schedule. Applicants for
connections to fire hydrants shall designate the period of time and purposes
and which rate is to be used.
The city may discontinue the supply and remove its equipment at the expiration
of the period so designated or if the supply is used for any purpose other than
designated by the applicant. The supply is subject to limitations as to rate of
flow and time of use. The city will install all equipment necessary for the
connection and no water will be used until such equipment is installed.
In the event that a connection is made to a fire hydrant without authority to
do so, in addition to any criminal penalty, the user shall be required to pay
such sum as set by board resolution from time to time for each day of use prior
to issuance of the permit. (Ord. 160, 9-24-1991)
6-1-20: UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PRIVATE FIRE SERVICE:
When it is found that a private fire service is being used for purposes other
than standby fire protection, the city shall notify the customer of the
unauthorized use. Immediately upon notification by the city, the consumer or
owner shall discontinue such unauthorized use. Failure to discontinue
unauthorized use shall be a misdemeanor and subject to disconnection of water
service. The customer may be charged for water consumed through the
unauthorized use, as the city may deem appropriate, being consistent with
established water rates. (Ord. 160, 9-24-1991)
6-1-21: WATER SERVICE TO OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
   A.   Areas outside the incorporated city limits shall not be eligible for
water service.
   B.   Prior to January 1, 1991, the city agreed to provide water service to
certain consumers and the city will continue to serve them until said consumer
requests their service to be terminated.
   C.   All existing service connections will remain properties of present
owner and the city is not responsible for the maintenance and shall not accept
ownership of said water distribution system from city's point of connection.
   D.   A master meter shall be installed and maintained at the edge of the
city limits for the purpose of monitoring and billing water usage.
   E.   Excess water usage shall be charged to all of the consumers by dividing
the excess water usage into equal portions and billed each of the consumers.
   F.   The city shall reserve the right not to serve future additional
consumers.
   G.   The existing consumers shall be served at a rate of one and one-half
(11/2) times the base rate and one and one-half (11/2) times the usage rate
with the same amount of basic water allocation allowance and the same
graduation of water usage. (Ord. 160, 9-24-1991)
6-1-22: MAIN EXTENSION:
All main extensions shall be designed by the city engineer, or engineer as
provided by property owner or developer and the design shall be approved by the
city.
The applicant for main extension shall pay all expenses. (Ord. 160, 9-24-1991)
6-1-23: RESERVED:
(Ord. 160, 9-24-1991)
6-1-24: GEOTHERMAL WATER WELLS:
   A.   Potable geothermal water is a valuable natural resource of the city and
its usage for heating is purposes encouraged.
   B.   The drilling of a geothermal water well which is solely used for
heating purposes is permitted within the city limits.
   C.   The owner of the geothermal well shall be responsible for the disposal
of the geothermal water and shall comply with Nevada Revised Statutes.
   D.   Cross connection into the city water system for disposal of geothermal
water from the heating system may be permitted only with prior approval from
the city engineer. Record of proof that the geothermal water of that well is
culinary and meets any state health code, and continuous testing procedures
must be provided by the owner of the geothermal water well to the city.
   E.   Credit on discharge may be allowed by council resolution and its rate
will be set by council resolution from time to time. (Ord. 160, 9-24-1991)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Short Title
6-2-2: Definitions
6-2-3: Matter Excluded From All Sewers
6-2-4: Matter Excluded From Storm Drains
6-2-5: Inflow Excluded From Sanitary Sewers
6-2-6: Sewer Service
6-2-7: Discontinuance Of Service
6-2-8: Termination For Noncompliance With Rules
6-2-9: Termination For Unsafe Apparatus
6-2-10: Termination For Fraudulent Use Of Service
6-2-11: Restoration Of Service
6-2-12: Refusal To Serve
6-2-13: Continuity Of Service
6-2-14: Mandatory Connections
6-2-15: Unlawful Installations
6-2-16: Inspection Of Treatment Facility, Sewers And Attachments
6-2-17: Testing Of Wastewater
6-2-18: Septic Tank Contents
6-2-19: Designation Of Places And Manner Of Discharge Of Septic Tank Contents
6-2-20: Determination Of Character Of Waste Matter
6-2-21: Pretreatment Of Sewage
6-2-22: Design, Construction Of New Connections, Inflow Sources
6-2-23: Prohibition Against Altering Connections
6-2-24: Sewer Main Extension/Enlargement
6-2-25: Prohibition Of Connection Of Inflow Sources
6-2-26: Amendments To Sewer Use Ordinance
6-2-27: Sewer Revenue System
6-2-28: The Capitalization System
6-2-29: Sewer Connection Charges
6-2-30: Connections And Use Outside City Limits
6-2-31: User Charge System
6-2-32: Financial Management System
6-2-33: Separate Accounts
6-2-34: Operation, Maintenance And Replacement (OM&R) Costs
6-2-35: Revenue Gained Through Sale Of Treatment Byproducts
6-2-36: User Charge Rate
6-2-37: Equivalent Dwelling Unit (EDU)
6-2-38: Equivalent Dwelling Unit Benchmarks
6-2-39: Residential User Charge Rate
6-2-40: Commercial/Industrial User Charge Rate
6-2-41: Annual User Charge Rate (UCR)
6-2-42: Surcharges
6-2-43: Annual Notification
6-2-44: Infiltration/Inflow
6-2-45: Biennial Review Of Operation Maintenance Charges
6-2-46: Termination Of Service Procedure For Nonpayment
6-2-47: Appeals
6-2-48: Penalties
6-2-49: Credit And Payment
6-2-50: Fixture Unit Value Table
6-2-51: Precedence
6-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the SEWER CODE OF THE CITY OF WELLS.
(Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter unless otherwise noted, the following are to mean:
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter in a specified time and at a specified
temperature, usually at five (5) days and twenty degrees centigrade (20°C).
   CAPITAL COSTS: Costs of major rehabilitation, expansion or upgrading
required as facilities reach the end of their useful life.
   CAPITAL OUTLAYS: Expenditures which result in the acquisition of, or
addition to, fixed or capital assets.
   CAPITALIZATION CHARGE: The charge to sewer system customers to produce
revenues to retire outstanding indebtedness and maintain reserve accounts for
capital improvements to the sewer system, and other such nonoperating,
maintenance and replacement items as the council may specify.
   CAPITALIZATION FUND: The reserve account to which capitalization charges
accrue; and from which capital costs are met. The fund may be used to meet debt
service, depreciation and such other expenses as the council determines (except
OM&R).
   CITY ENGINEER: The city engineer of the city of Wells or any of his duly
authorized representatives.
   CONNECTION CHARGE: A fee charged in order to equalize the investment in
sewer plant equipment and related facilities. The charge is applied to all new
users of sewer facilities in approximate proportion to their anticipated usage
and is for the right of service in the system. All connection charges and fees
collected are deposited in the capitalization fund.
   COUNCIL: The duly elected city council of the city of Wells.
   DEPARTMENT: The division of municipal government empowered by the council
with responsibility for and authority over the operations and policies of the
wastewater treatment facilities of the city of Wells.
   DIRECTOR: The director of public works of the city of Wells, or any of his
duly authorized representatives.
   EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT (EDU): Equivalent dwelling units shall be defined
as the equivalent wastewater flow contributed by a user, calculated by totaling
the total number of wastewater discharging fixtures and their flow
contribution, measured in fixture units, as indicated in section
6-2-50 of this chapter. EDUs may also be charged for wastewater characteristics
in excess of the standard amounts as defined in section
6-2-38, "Equivalent Dwelling Unit Benchmarks", of this chapter.
   FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: The accounting and budgetary procedures
utilized in the development and application of the user charge system,
following generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and those of the
governmental accounting standards board (GASB). The accounts of the city are
organized on the basis of funds and account groups, each of which is considered
a separate accounting entity. The operations of each fund are accounted for
with a separate set of self-balancing accounts that comprise its assets,
liabilities, fund equity, revenues and expenditures, or expenses as
appropriate.
   FIXED ASSETS: Permanent property such as land, buildings, sewer collection
pipelines, tanks, etc.
   FIXTURE UNIT: The arbitrary value assigned to various plumbing fixtures
based upon the latest edition of the uniform plumbing code and the fixture's
typical discharge loading contribution to the sewer system. Fixture units are
utilized herein in the development of proportional connection charges and user
charge rates. See definition of Sewerage Fixtures.
   INFILTRATION: Water other than wastewater that enters a sewerage system
(including sewer service connections) from the ground, through such means as
defective pipes, pipe joints connections, or manholes, etc.
   INFLOW: Water other than wastewater that enters a sewerage system through
such sources as: roof, yard and cellar drains, catch basins, surface runoff,
street wastewater or drainage.
   MUNICIPAL SEWER SYSTEM: The system of conduits, pumps, treatment plants and
structures used for the purpose of conveying from their source, treating in any
manner and conveying to final points of disposal all wastes of any nature
permitted by this chapter to enter said system. Specifically included as
integral parts of the system are all conduits of any nature forming a network
of conduits or connected directly or indirectly to said network; all pumps,
treatment plants and structures of any kind used in connection with the
collection, treatment, and disposal of the wastes handled by the system; and
all appurtenances to any of the above, either physically or functionally
connected thereto. Sanitary sewers, as defined herein, are all included as
parts of the municipal sewer system.
   OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT (OM&R): Those functions that result
in expenditures during the useful life of the treatment works for materials,
labor, utilities, and other items which are necessary for managing and
maintaining the sewage works to achieve the capacity and performance for which
such works were designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance"
includes replacement as defined below, The term shall exclude expenditures for
fixed or capital assets and any consideration of or for debt service or
depreciation.
   PREMISES: A continuous tract of land, building, or group of adjacent
buildings under a single control with respect to use of sewer and
responsibility for payment thereof. Subdivision of such use or responsibility
shall constitute a division into separate premises as herein defined, except
that where more than one dwelling is being served through the same sewer
service, in which case each of said dwellings shall constitute separate
premises and shall be subject to the same separate charges as if separate
single-family dwellings.
   REPLACEMENT: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
replacement. The term excludes replacement of any fixed or capital asset.
   SANITARY SEWER: A sewer intended to carry only sanitary or sanitary and
industrial waste waters from residences, commercial buildings, industrial
plants and institutions.
   SEWER USE ORDINANCE: The legally binding document which establishes
parameters controlling connection to, and wastes contributed to a wastewater
treatment system, including a mandate that: all residences shall be connected;
all connections shall be properly designed and constructed; the introduction of
hazardous or toxic wastes which may threaten public safety or the plant's
physical integrity shall be prohibited; and new sources of inflow are
prohibited.
   SEWERAGE FIXTURES: Approved type installed receptacles, devices or
appliances which are supplied with water or which receive liquid or liquid
borne wastes, and discharge such wastes into the drainage system to which they
may be directly or indirectly connected. Industrial or commercial tanks, vats,
and similar processing equipment are not sewerage fixtures, but may be
connected to or discharged into approved sewerage fixtures.
   SHALL: Is an imperative; "may" is permissive.
   STORM DRAIN: A sewer line intended to carry only storm waters, surface
runoff, street wash waters, and drainage.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS): Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TREATMENT WORKS: The treatment works shall include the treatment facility,
sewer plant, and sewer system; and shall mean any devices and systems for the
storage, treatment, disposal and reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic
sewage or liquid industrial wastes. These include intercepting sewers, outfall
sewers, sewage collection systems, pumping stations, and other equipment and
their appurtenances; extensions, improvement, remodeling, additions and
alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply
and any works that will be an integral part of the treatment process or is used
for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such treatment.
   USER: A recipient of wastewater treatment services:
Commercial User: All retail stores, restaurants, office buildings, laundries
and other private or public businesses and service establishments.
Industrial User: Any nongovernmental, nonresidential user or publicly owned
treatment works which is identified in the "Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, 1972", office of management and budget, as amended and supplemented,
under the following divisions: division A - agriculture, forestry, and fishing;
division B - mining; division D - manufacturing; division E - transportation,
communications, electric, gas and sanitary; and division I - services.
Residential User: Any contributor to the city's treatment works whose lot,
parcel or real estate, or building is used for domestic dwelling purposes only.
   USER CHARGE FUND: The fiscal account to which all user charge system
revenues shall accrue and through which funds are disbursed to meet only OM&R
expenses.
   USER CHARGE RATE (UCR): The charge assessed users of a wastewater treatment
facility to obtain revenue to fund the user's proportionate share of OM&R
expenses. The user charge rate shall be proportionate to a user's usage (volume
and loading) of the facility. The rate is determined through the application of
the user charge system. The user charge rate is a distinct portion of the
monthly sewer fee, reflecting only OM&R expenses.
   USER CHARGE SYSTEM: The process through which OM&R expenses are determined
and the corresponding user charge rate derived and assessed to users of the
treatment facility, proportionate to usage and loading, to generate revenue to
meet OM&R expenses, thereby assuring fiscal self-sufficiency of the plant over
its useful life. The user charge system shall be inclusive of:
   A.   Rates proportionate to usage.
   B.   Annual notification to each user of the UCR and OM&R costs.
   C.   A financial management system which accounts for OM&R expenses and
establishes the user charge rates.
   D.   Disposition of infiltration/inflow expense.
   E.   Precedence over conflicting legal enactments.
   F.   Disposition of earned or capital income.
   WASTEWATER: The spent water of the community. It may be a combination of the
liquid and water carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings,
industrial plants, and institutions. Wastewater shall specifically exclude
uncontaminated water such as groundwater, rainwater, and surface drainage.
(Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-3: MATTER EXCLUDED FROM ALL SEWERS:
   A.   Wastewater, waste, or any matter having any of the following
characteristics or constituents shall not, under any circumstances, be
discharged into, be placed where they might find their way into, or be allowed
to run, leak or escape into any part of the sewer system:
      1.   Ashes, cinders, sand, earth, coal, rubbish or any matter which is
chemically or physically stable for at least five (5) days at twenty degrees
centigrade (20°C) or which would form a deposit or obstruction or damage or
reduce the capacity of the sewer into which it was placed.
      2.   Inflammable, explosive or poisonous liquids, gases or solids or any
matter which after entrance into a sewer might reasonably be expected to form
into flammable, explosive or poisonous liquids, gases or solids.
      3.   Liquid matter of any nature containing suspended solids in excess of
one thousand parts per million (1,000 ppm).
      4.   Matter of any nature containing five (5) day biochemical oxygen
demand in excess of three hundred milligrams per liter (300 mg/l).
      5.   Animal or vegetable greases, oils or matter containing animal or
vegetable greases or oils of any nature in excess of three hundred parts per
million (300 ppm).
      6.   Liquid matter with a log hydrogen ion (pH) concentration below five
and five-tenths (5.5) or above nine and zero-tenths (9.0) measured at the point
where discharge enters the sewer main.
      7.   Any matter that would be poisonous to or inhibit the biologic
organisms associated with any sewage treatment process, and which in the
opinion of the department, might interfere with the satisfactory operation of
any treatment facility, or any portion of the sewer system.
   B.   Upon obtaining the written approval of the director, sewage wastes or
other matters herein excluded may be discharged into the sewage system upon the
payment to city of the additional costs for processing the same as hereinafter
provided and set forth. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-4: MATTER EXCLUDED FROM STORM DRAINS:
In addition to the matter excluded heretofore, all other matter of any nature
shall be excluded from those parts of the sewer system designated by the
director as storm sewers, excepting only surface drainage waters. All drainage
waters shall be directed into storm sewers only under the authorization and
direction of the director. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-5: INFLOW EXCLUDED FROM SANITARY SEWERS:
In addition to the matter excluded heretofore, all surface drainage water
(inflow) shall be excluded from all parts of the sewer system designated by the
director as the sanitary sewer system. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-6: SEWER SERVICE:
   A.   Applications:
      1.   Content: Each applicant for sewer service shall be required to sign,
on a form provided by the department, an application which shall set forth:
         a.   Date.
         b.   Location of premises to be served, giving street address and
description of property to be served.
         c.   Applicant's name and mailing address and the name and mailing
address of the legal owner of the premises.
         d.   Purpose for which the property will be used (residential,
commercial, apartments, etc.).
         e.   Person and address to which the monthly bills are to be mailed.
         f.   The date the applicant will be ready for sewer service.
         g.   The name of the contracting or plumbing agency that will be
connecting the premises to the city sewer system (new connections only).
         h.   If the applicant is not the legal owner of the property, the
applicant shall provide written evidence of authorization to apply for service
from the legal owner of the property.
      2.   Purpose: The application is merely a written request for service and
does not bind the applicant to take service for any period of time, nor does it
bind the city to serve except under reasonable conditions.
      3.   Responsibility: The legal owner is responsible for the payment of
all sewer charges at the premises for which an application is made. Only the
legal owner of the premises may request termination of sewer service or a
change in the person or address to which the monthly sewer bill is to be sent.
   B.   Change In Customer's Sewerage Fixtures, Equipment, Or Operations: A
customer making any change in the size, character or extent of the equipment or
operations for which the service is utilized shall immediately file with the
department a new application for additional service.
   C.   Sewer Service Laterals: All sewer service laterals shall be constructed
and maintained by the property owner in accordance with department standards,
rules and regulations. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-7: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
Sewer service will normally be considered terminated when the water service to
the property has been shut off. The billing for sewer service will be
discontinued at that time and the customer will be billed in accordance with
this chapter. If, in the opinion of the director, unusual circumstances warrant
continued billing for sewer service, or partial billing for service, the
customer shall be so notified. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-8: TERMINATION FOR NONCOMPLIANCE WITH RULES:
The department may terminate water and/or sewer service to any customer for
violation of these rules after it has given the customer written notice of such
intention. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-9: TERMINATION FOR UNSAFE APPARATUS:
If any condition is found to exist on a customer's premises which constitutes a
hazard to health or which threatens to damage any portion of the city sewer
system, the service may be terminated without notice. The department shall
notify the customer immediately of the reasons for the discontinuance and the
corrective action to be taken by the customer before service can be restored.
(Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-10: TERMINATION FOR FRAUDULENT USE OF SERVICE:
When the department declares that a customer has obtained service by fraudulent
means, the service to that customer may be discontinued without notice. The
department shall not restore service to such customer until that customer has
complied with the Wells sewer code and rules and reasonable requirements of the
department, and the department has been reimbursed for the full amount of the
service rendered and the actual cost to the department incurred by reason of
the fraudulent use. Connection to the sewer system without having first
obtained the necessary permit(s) shall be considered such fraudulent use. (Ord.
158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-11: RESTORATION OF SERVICE:
Sewer service shall be considered restored and subject to billing at such time
as the water reconnection takes place. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-12: REFUSAL TO SERVE:
   A.   Conditions Of Refusal: The department may refuse to serve an applicant
for service under the following conditions:
      1.   If the applicant fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter.
      2.   If the intended use of the service is of such a nature that it will
be detrimental or injurious to existing customers.
      3.   If, in the judgment of the department, the applicant's installation
for utilizing the service in unsafe or hazardous, or subject to freezing, or of
such nature that satisfactory service cannot be rendered.
      4.   Where service has been discontinued for fraudulent use, the
department will not serve an applicant until it has determined that all
conditions of fraudulent use or practice have been corrected.
      5.   If, in the judgment of the department, there is insufficient
capacity to serve the applicant.
   B.   Notification To Customers: When an applicant is refused service under
the provisions of this chapter, the department will notify the applicant that
he may appeal the decision of the department to the council. (Ord. 158, 3-12-
1991)
6-2-13: CONTINUITY OF SERVICE:
   A.   Emergency Interruptions: The department will make all reasonable
efforts to prevent interruptions to service, if and when such interruptions
occur and will endeavor to reestablish service with the shortest possible delay
consistent with the safety of its customers and the general public.
   B.   Scheduled Interruptions: Whenever the department finds it necessary to
schedule an interruption to its service, it will, where feasible, notify all
customers to be affected by the interruptions, stating the approximate time and
anticipated duration of the interruption. Scheduled interruptions will be made
at such hours as will provide least inconvenience to the customers consistent
with reasonable department operations. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-14: MANDATORY CONNECTIONS:
Each owner of houses, buildings or other properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, commercial, industrial or other like purposes situated
within the incorporated areas of the city shall connect to such sewer within
ninety (90) days after such sewer is available for use wherever the public
sewer system is available within four hundred feet (400') of the nearest
property line. Connections to the sewer system are the sole responsibility of
the owner of the property so connected. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-15: UNLAWFUL INSTALLATIONS:
It is unlawful to install, change, bypass, adjust or alter any metering device
or any piping arrangement connected therewith as to show the quantity of sewage
discharged from the premises to be less than the actual quantity. (Ord. 158, 3-
12-1991)
6-2-16: INSPECTION OF TREATMENT FACILITY, SEWERS AND ATTACHMENTS:
Authorized individuals, including employees and officials of the city of Wells,
may enter any premises connected to the sewer system and the treatment facility
to ascertain if all applicable ordinances and regulations are being met. If an
exception to compliance with a law or ordinance is noted, the owner of said
premises, or his agent, shall, upon notice, cause such sewer or its attachments
to be so altered, repaired or reconstructed so as to make them conform to the
requirements of the laws and ordinances within fifteen (15) days from the time
of receipt of such notice. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-17: TESTING OF WASTEWATER:
Authorized city officials and employees may enter upon any and all premises at
all reasonable times for the purpose of inspection, observation, management,
sampling and testing of wastewater in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or of other relevant local, state or federal regulations; and it shall
be unlawful for any person to prevent or attempt to prevent any such entrance
or obstruct or interfere with any such officer or employee while so engaged.
(Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-18: SEPTIC TANK CONTENTS:
It is unlawful for anyone to discharge the contents of any septic tank,
cesspool or chemical toilet into the sewer system of the city except in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-19: DESIGNATION OF PLACES AND MANNER OF DISCHARGE OF SEPTIC TANK CONTENTS:
The department may designate in writing the particular point(s) where the
contents of septic tanks, cesspools or chemical toilets can be discharged into
the sewer system, and the manner in which said contents shall be discharged. No
matter prohibited from sewers by this chapter shall be permitted to be so
discharged. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-20: DETERMINATION OF CHARACTER OF WASTE MATTER:
Prior to the introduction of any material which may reasonably be expected to
threaten public safety, effluent water quality, the physical integrity of the
plant, or which may possibly violate any section of this chapter or any state
or federal regulations, the department shall be apprised of such proposed
discharge, and upon analysis shall issue conditional approval permits or
prohibition (within 21 days). The department shall have responsibility for
instituting and/or completing such analysis, assigning costs for such analysis
and issuing permits. The fact that any matter has been discharged into the
sewer system prior to the passage of this chapter or subsequent thereto without
any objection from the department does not constitute a valid right to so
discharge such matter. If it is discovered that matter being discharged into
the sewer does not conform to the requirements of this chapter, the department
may immediately stop the discharge of such matter into the sewer system. (Ord.
158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-21: PRETREATMENT OF SEWAGE:
   A.   Any discharged matter or wastewater which may be made to comply with
the discharge standards herein contained, may be discharged into the sewer
system, provided it is treated prior to discharge (pretreatment) thereby
bringing it into compliance with the declared standards. Such pretreatment
plants shall be understood to include grease traps, chemical or biochemical
plants, sedimentation chambers and any other devices which effect a change of
any nature in the characteristics of the matter being treated. Any and all such
devices and equipment shall be:
      1.   Subject to the approval of the department.
      2.   Issued a written permit of approval by the department prior to
operation.
      3.   Provided with all necessary features of construction to permit
inspection of operations and testing of material passing through them.
      4.   Open to the inspection of the department at any time.
The producer, in lieu of the treatment of said sewage as hereinabove provided,
may, with the written approval of the department, discharge said sewage, waste
or other matter into said sewage system, subject to the provisions of this
chapter and subject to the payment of the additional cost of the treatment
hereof, as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-22: DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION OF NEW CONNECTIONS, INFLOW SOURCES:
No new connection shall be made to the Wells municipal sewer system unless the
same is properly designed and constructed complying with the uniform building
code and the uniform plumbing code, latest edition. All inflow sources as
defined in EPA regulations, (section 40 CFR, part 35) including, but not
limited to, roof leaders, cellar, yard and area drains, foundation drains, sump
pumps, cooling water discharges, drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole
covers, cross connections from storm sewers and combined sewers, catch basins,
storm waters, surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage shall not be
permitted to be connected to the sewer system. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-23: PROHIBITION AGAINST ALTERING CONNECTIONS:
It is unlawful to change, bypass, adjust, or alter any piping arrangement
(including metering devices) from a premises, or to connect to the sewer system
without the prior written consent of the department. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-24: SEWER MAIN EXTENSION/ENLARGEMENT:
Sewer main facilities may be extended by a subdivider, developer, property
owner, or other persons in accordance with plans and specifications submitted
to, and approved by, the city engineer and the department. All sewer main
extensions shall comply with the following minimum standards for construction:
   A.   Minimum Diameter And Slope: The inside diameter of every sewer main
shall not be less than eight inches (8"), except as may be permitted by the
city engineer. The minimum slopes for sanitary sewers shall be as follows,
unless otherwise permitted by the city engineer:
 
6" sanitary sewer - 0.0049 ft./ft.
8" sanitary sewer - 0.0034 ft./ft.
10" sanitary sewer - 0.0025 ft./ft.
12" sanitary sewer - 0.0020 ft./ft.
15" sanitary sewer - 0.0015 ft./ft.
   B.   Approval And Determination By City Engineer: The subdivider, developer,
property owner, or other persons shall construct all sewer mains in accordance
with the plans and specifications as submitted to, and approved by, the city
engineer; and pay any and all costs for the minimum size sewer main required
for this development, as determined by the city engineer.
   C.   Dedication: Upon connection to the sewer system, the subdivider,
developer, property owner, or other persons shall dedicate all sewer mains
located on property owned or controlled by the city to the city. After
dedication, and after a one year contractor warranty period has expired, the
city will operate and maintain the sewer main located on said property.
   D.   Construction Of Larger Mains: Whenever in the opinion of the city
council or city engineer, it is desirable for the city's benefit that a sewer
main be constructed of a capacity larger than the minimum capacity set forth in
subsection A of this section, the city will pay the difference in pipe material
cost for the oversized sewer main. The subdivider, developer, property owner,
or other person shall be required to purchase materials, construct, and install
such oversized sewer main. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-25: PROHIBITION OF CONNECTION OF INFLOW SOURCES:
All sources of inflow, including, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar,
yard and area drains, catch basins, manholes, etc., shall be prohibited from
connection to the sewer system. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-26: AMENDMENTS TO SEWER USE ORDINANCE:
The council shall have the power and duty to adopt, and may from time to time
amend, rules and regulations for the operation of the Wells municipal sewer
system including, but not limited to, rules and regulations concerning the
method of hooking up, and the type of use of the sewer, so long as such
amendments are not in conflict with the rules and regulations of the United
States environmental protection agency, Nevada division of environmental
protection or city and county law. The Nevada division of environmental
protection shall be advised of all amendments to this chapter at least fourteen
(14) days prior to their effective date. The fees listed in appendix A of this
code shall be amendable by the council by resolution. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-27: SEWER REVENUE SYSTEM:
The city sewer revenue system shall be responsible for the fiscal operations of
the city wastewater treatment facilities. The sewer revenue system shall
consist of two (2) discrete programs: The capitalization system, and the user
charge system, with separate accounts being maintained for each. (Ord. 158, 3-
12-1991)
6-2-28: THE CAPITALIZATION SYSTEM:
Shall provide funding for capital expenditures, debt service, including the
redemption of principal and payment of interest on debt issues, and all other
nonoperating, maintenance, and replacement costs as the council may consider
appropriate, including redemption of the principal and payment of the interest
on sewer bonds. Components of the capitalization system shall include:
   A.   Capitalization Charges: Assessed customers to recover non-OM&R costs
(for which the use of the user charge fund is not appropriate) including late
payment fees and other penalties and the monthly capitalization charge portion
of the user fee. The rate of the capitalization charge shall be established by
the council, and customers shall be notified of the charge as a portion of
their monthly sewer fee schedule.
   B.   Sewer Connection Charges: Funds generated through fee charges to new
users of the system for the privilege of connection to and use of the system as
defined in section
6-2-29 of this chapter.
   C.   Fees, Penalties, And Special Charges: Special fees collected by the
city and not related to regular OM&R expenses shall accrue to the
capitalization fund.
   D.   Capitalization Fund: There shall be created in the treasury of the city
a special fund to be known as the Wells sewer capitalization fund to which
capitalization revenues shall accrue and from which funds shall be disbursed
for the aforementioned purposes. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-29: SEWER CONNECTION CHARGES:
   A.   Initial Or New Connection: For each initial or new connection made to
the sewer system, there shall be charged an initial payment in the form of a
connection fee in accordance with the following schedules:
      1.   Residential: Each separate residential unit, or other individual
housing unit within a multi-family dwelling, apartment house or trailer court,
shall be considered one equivalent dwelling unit. The connection charge per EDU
shall be as listed in appendix A. The connection charge shall apply to all
parcels and lots which have not previously been served by the Wells municipal
sewer system, and each lot of any new subdivision to be served by the Wells
municipal sewer system.
      2.   Commercial And Industrial: For all initial or new commercial and
industrial sewer connections, the connection charge shall be based upon the
number of standard fixture units. The number of SFUs is determined by using the
schedule for commercial and industrial buildings as set forth in section
 6-2-50 of this chapter. The minimum SFU count for commercial and industrial
buildings shall be twenty five (25).
      3.   Modification And Expansion Of Facilities: If a commercial or
industrial service is expanded, and the expansion results in a fixture unit
(SFU) count above twenty five (25), an additional connection charge shall be
paid based upon the net increase in SFUs above the twenty five (25) minimum
times the connection charge per fixture unit as listed in appendix A. In
converting a residential building to commercial use or developing a commercial
use on a lot with previous sewer service, the applicant shall pay a connection
charge based upon the increase in fixture units above the twenty five (25) SFU
minimum. In no case will a refund be granted for a reduction in fixture units.
      4.   Determination Of Sewer Fixture Unit Count: The department will
conduct a fixture unit survey at the time a building permit is requested. This
will be done through an assessment of the construction plans provided by the
applicant and/or an inspection of any existing facilities. The final count will
be based upon the final inspection of the completed structure.
   B.   Payment: The sewer connection charge shall be payable on demand to the
city at the time the building inspector issues a building permit. Any
additional charges incurred due to increased fixture unit count upon completion
of the facility shall be paid prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
   C.   Calculation: Until further resolution of the council, the rate for
sewer use and connection to the sewer system for all residences shall be
calculated at one equivalent dwelling unit (EDU) per dwelling unit.
   D.   Home Occupations: Home occupations shall be charged for one- half (1/2)
of an equivalent dwelling unit (1/2 EDU, 13 fixture units) at the commercial
rate, in addition to the residential rate. Additional sewer fixture units shall
be assessed for sewer fixtures which are occupation specific, see section
6-2-50 of this chapter, the sewer fixture value table.
   E.   Other Uses: All sewer users not specifically identified in subsection C
or D of this section shall be classified as commercial or industrial users and
SFUs shall be determined on the basis of the sewer fixture value unit table
contained in section
6-2-50 of this chapter. The minimum SFU count for the purposes of calculating
the monthly capitalization charge for commercial/industrial users shall be
twenty five (25) SFUs, equal to one equivalent dwelling unit (25 SFUs to 1
EDU). (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-30: CONNECTIONS AND USE OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: Sewage from premises located outside the city limits
may be discharged into the Wells municipal sewer system only after a permit has
been issued by the city engineer, which permit shall be subject to termination
at any time at the direction of the city engineer.
   B.   Terms And Conditions: Owners of property outside the corporate limits
of the city, but adjacent to and abutting upon a sanitary sewer main owned by
the city, may, upon receipt of a permit from the city engineer, discharge
sewage into said sanitary sewer.
Such permit shall be issued only upon the written application of the owner, and
subject to the following terms and conditions:
      1.   The owner, for any such permit, shall attach to the application a
construction permit duly issued to applicant or his contractor by the
appropriate county and/or political subdivision for the construction of a side
sewer, provided such a permit be required by said agency.
      2.   The owner or his licensed contractor shall pay fees and obtain a
permit for a side sewer from the city and shall construct the side sewer in
strict compliance with the specifications of the city governing the
construction and maintenance of side sewers.
      3.   The user shall agree to pay a connection charge for the sewer
service in conformance with the rate schedule established by the city, except
that the connection charge shall be computed at two hundred percent (200%) of
the charge to residents of the city as set forth and established pursuant to
section
6-2-29 of this chapter.
      4.   The user shall agree to pay monthly user fees in accordance with the
user charge system and capitalization charge system contained herein.
      5.   All ordinances, rules, regulations, and procedures relating to the
removal, maintenance, and connection to sanitary sewers in the city shall apply
with equal force to such sewer connection, and any violation of any such
ordinance, rule, regulation, or procedure by any owner of property connected to
a city sewer pursuant to the provisions hereof may result in the disconnection
of said sewer and/or water by the city, in which event the owner of the
property shall forfeit all rights to any connection privileges acquired
pursuant to the provisions of this section.
      6.   The owner or occupant of any property connecting to the sanitary
sewer system of the city pursuant to the provisions hereof shall permit an
inspection of his premises at any and all reasonable times by the city for the
purpose of ascertaining whether or not the use of said sanitary sewer is in
accordance with the ordinances, rules, and regulations of the city pertaining
thereto.
      7.   In the event of a change in occupancy, the new user shall likewise
be invoiced for payments as provided herein. The refusal to make said payments
may result in the disconnection of the sewer and/or water by the city. (Ord.
158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-31: USER CHARGE SYSTEM:
The user charge system shall be based on actual use of the city wastewater
treatment facilities. Each user shall pay his proportionate share of operation,
maintenance and replacement costs based upon his estimated contribution to the
flow volume and loading of the plant, thereby assuring the fiscal self-
sufficiency of the facility over its useful (design) life. The user charge
system shall include the financial management system, the user charge rates,
and the user charge fund. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-32: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM:
The financial management system, as previously defined, shall prescribe
accounting budgetary procedures to accurately depict revenue requirements and
procedures to generate revenue sufficient to operate and maintain the
wastewater collection and treatment system. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-33: SEPARATE ACCOUNTS:
Shall be maintained for the user charge fund and the capitalization fund. (Ord.
158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-34: OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT (OM&R) COSTS:
Operation, maintenance and replacement (OM&R) costs of the treatment system
shall be enumerated through a line item budget including the following
categories:
   A.   Salaries and wages.
   B.   Indirect salary and wage costs.
   C.   Contractual services.
   D.   Materials and supplies.
   E.   Utilities.
   F.   Equipment replacement.
   G.   Administrative expenses.
   OM&R costs shall include the costs required to achieve and maintain
compliance with discharge permits. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-35: REVENUE GAINED THROUGH SALE OF TREATMENT BYPRODUCTS:
Revenue gained through sale or use of treatment related byproducts shall be
credited to the user charge fund. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-36: USER CHARGE RATE:
The user charge rate shall generate revenue sufficient to meet OM&R costs,
thereby assuring the facility's fiscal operational viability, through charges
to customers which are proportionate to their usage (both volume and loading).
The user charge rate shall be recalculated annually based upon the actual and
projected OM&R expenses. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-37: EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT (EDU):
The equivalent dwelling unit shall form the basis for the user charge system.
An equivalent dwelling unit shall be the equivalent volume of three hundred
fifty (350) gallons per day, ten thousand five hundred (10,500) gallons per
month, and one hundred twenty six thousand (126,000) gallons per year.
   A.   Residential equivalent dwelling units shall be calculated according to
the following scale:
 
Single-family dwelling    1 unit per dwelling unit
Multiple-family dwelling  1 unit per dwelling unit
Apartment or rental units 1 unit per dwelling unit
Trailer court             1 unit per dwelling unit
 
   B.   If there are facilities for metering the wastewater flow from a
commercial or industrial user, the equivalent dwelling units shall be
determined on the basis of the actual measured wastewater flow. If no metering
facilities exist, commercial and industrial equivalent dwelling units shall be
calculated according to the sewer fixture value unit table in section
6-2-50 of this chapter. Each commercial or industrial facility shall pay at a
minimum for one EDU, which shall be include up to twenty five (25) fixture
units as listed in section
6-2-49 of this chapter. Any additional fixture units shall be charged at the
rate of four-tenths (0.4) EDU per fixture unit (25 fixture units per EDU), and
the facility may have partial EDUs. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-38: EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT BENCHMARKS:
For the purposes of calculation of surcharges as described below, the following
shall be considered benchmarks of the typical residential discharge:
 
Parameter                     Domestic Wastewater Strength Loading
BOD5                          250 mg/l                     0.65 lbs/day
SS                            250 mg/l                     0.46 lbs/day
Sewer fixture unit equivalent 25                            
 
(Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-39: RESIDENTIAL USER CHARGE RATE:
A uniform rate shall be assessed based upon the average discharge volume and
strength of the predominant user class. The rate shall be as set by the city
council in appendix A, and shall be revisable by resolution of the council.
(Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-40: COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL USER CHARGE RATE:
All sewer users not specifically identified above shall be classified as
commercial/industrial users and their user charge rate shall be based upon the
total number of equivalent dwelling units (EDUs) for the facility, with the
addition of any appropriate surcharges for wastewater characteristics.
   A.   The Minimum Commercial/Industrial (C/I) User Charge Rate (UCR): One EDU
(25 SFU), with the addition of four one hundredths (0.04) of an EDU for each
additional SFU.
   B.   Combination Of Charges: Where sewer service is provided for a
combination of businesses or a combination of a business and a residence, there
shall be a cumulative sewer charge for all types of businesses and residences
so served at said location.
   C.   Commercial And Industrial User Rate: The commercial and industrial user
rate shall be as set forth in appendix A based upon the number of EDUs of the
premises. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-41: ANNUAL USER CHARGE RATE (UCR):
The annual user charge rate shall be based on the following formula for one
equivalent dwelling unit (EDU).
 
Annual user charge (OM&R budget)
Rate (per EDU)=    (Total EDU on system)
(Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-42: SURCHARGES:
   A.   High Strength Discharges: A surcharge shall be levied upon commercial
or industrial customers whose discharge loadings exceed those listed in section
6-2-38 of this chapter. The surcharge shall be based on treatment costs of
additional loadings above standard loading levels, expressed as additional EDUs
or fractions thereof. Additional EDUs shall be calculated by the ratio of
discharged pounds per day of BOD or SS to the residential loading as listed in
section
6-2-38 of this chapter.
   B.   Discharge Permit Fees; Toxic Pollutants: All commercial and industrial
dischargers must obtain a discharge permit at time of service application. All
dischargers whose anticipated discharge level of toxic pollutants will increase
the cost of treating the wastewater shall pay for such increased costs. (Ord.
158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-43: ANNUAL NOTIFICATION:
Shall be given to each customer with the annual sewer fee schedule of the
anticipated OM&R costs, number of EDUs, user charge rate, and capitalization
charge per EDU. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-44: INFILTRATION/INFLOW:
Costs for treatment of infiltration and inflow shall be included with the
operation, maintenance and replacement (OM&R) expenses and shall be distributed
among all customers in proportion to their usage of the treatment facilities.
(Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-45: BIENNIAL REVIEW OF OPERATION MAINTENANCE CHARGES:
The council shall review not less often than every two (2) years the
contribution of users and user classes, the total cost of operation and
maintenance of treatment works, and its user charge system. If necessary, the
council shall revise the charges for users or user classes to accomplish the
following:
   A.   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and maintenance
costs among users and user classes as required herein.
   B.   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and maintenance
costs necessary for the proper operation and maintenance (including necessary
equipment replacement) of the treatment works.
   C.   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs of
operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year and
adjust the rate accordingly. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-46: TERMINATION OF SERVICE PROCEDURE FOR NONPAYMENT:
   A.   Each billing for sewer service shall indicate the date due for payment
of that billing. If payment is not received within fifteen (15) days of the
date due, the payment shall become past due. In the event that payment becomes
past due, the city shall mail a notice to the legal owner or the applicant for
service and the occupant at the address receiving service that the sewer and
water service will be terminated on a specific date, which date shall be ten
(10) days after the date of mailing of such delinquent notice.
   B.   The owner or applicant applying for service, or the occupant of the
premises, may request to present his position concerning termination of sewer
services to the council and the council's action shall be final.
   C.   Failure of the owner, customer or occupant to appear before the council
after having requested such right, as provided above, will cause the sewer
service to be terminated on the next working day.
   D.   On the date of termination of sewer services, or any date thereafter,
the city may cause to be filed with the Elko County recorder a statement of the
amount due and unpaid for sewer services and a description of the property to
which the services were rendered to perfect a lien against the property.
   E.   Upon vacating the premises, all customers desiring to discontinue sewer
service shall notify the department two (2) days prior to vacating the
premises. Unless discontinuance of service is ordered, the customer shall be
liable for charges whether or not the sewer is used. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-47: APPEALS:
The city council shall review any decision made by the director, the city
engineer, or his representatives or agents in interpreting, applying or
enforcing the provisions of this chapter, upon the receipt of an application or
petition in writing requesting a review of such decision. In exercising its
powers or review the council may, in conformity with the provisions of the law,
reverse or affirm wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirements,
decision or determination of the director. The council may also initiate a
review of the director's or city engineer's interpretation of the provisions of
this chapter by a motion and by a vote of a majority of the quorum or a
majority of the members present, if such number exceeds a quorum. In all cases,
the decision of the council shall be final. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-48: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor and be punished by
imprisonment in the Elko County jail for a term not to exceed six (6) months,
or by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by both such
fine and imprisonment. Each day's violation of the provisions of this chapter
may be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-49: CREDIT AND PAYMENT:
   A.   Establishment And Maintenance: Each applicant for service shall
establish and maintain credit to the satisfaction of the department before
service will be rendered.
   B.   Loss And Reestablishment Of Credit: Any amount due for sewer service
that remains unpaid for twenty (20) days after presentation of a bill during
the depositor's first year of service, may be deducted from the guarantee
deposit and service shall be subject to discontinuance until the deposit is
again restored to the original amount. Any such unpaid amount accruing
subsequently to the depositor's first year of service, where the premises are
owned by the depositor, may also be deducted from any guarantee deposit
remaining in the department's possession.
   C.   Bills And Collections:
      1.   All bills for sewer services or for having sewer services available
shall be rendered monthly on the last day of the month in which the services
were used or were available. In the event any such bill is not paid in full
within fifteen (15) days after the date when rendered, sewer service as well as
water service may be immediately discontinued and shut off, as provided by the
laws of the state and the ordinances of the city.
      2.   In the event any service is so discontinued, a penal charge of ten
dollars ($10.00) together with all costs and expenses incurred by the city,
including, but not limited to, the prorated portion of the city employee or
employees' salaries required to effect the discontinuance and reconnection, a
reasonable sum for use of machinery and equipment required, and the expense of
any valves, faucets, or other plumbing fixtures required. Service shall not be
resumed until all legal charges for water service, sewer service, or use of
facilities up to the time of the disconnection, and all penal charges, or the
costs and expenses incurred in causing the discontinuance and the resumption of
the water and sewer services, have been paid in full to the city. (Ord. 158, 3-
12-1991)
6-2-50: FIXTURE UNIT VALUE TABLE:
Fixture unit surveys are conducted and fixture units established in accordance
with the following table:
Description Of Fixture                                    Fixture Value
                                                           Per Unit
Bathroom group:                                             
Bathtub and/or shower                                            2
Water closet, private installation                               4
Water closet, public installation                                6
Lavatory                                                        1
Sink, private bar                                                1
Sink, public bar                                                 2
Sink, commercial                                                 3
Sink, service                                                    3
Urinal                                                           2
Bathtub (with or without shower)                                2
Bidet                                                           2
Dental unit cuspidor                                            1
Dental unit lavatory                                            2
Dishwashers:                                                
Conveyor                                                        6
Undercounter, public                                             3
Residential                                                      2
Disposals                                                       3
Drinking fountains                                              1
Floor drains:                                                    2
Interceptors for grease, oil, solids                            3
Interceptors for sand, car wash, etc.                            6
Laundry tub and faucets:                                      2
Clothes washer, automatic:                                    2
            8   pounds                         6
      12   –   19   pounds                  8
      20   –   39   pounds                   10
      40   –   50   pounds                   12
      50   + per pound of machine weight             0.2
Receptors for refrigerator, coffee urn, soft drinks, ice        1
machines, etc.
Showers per head and drain                                      1
Sinks:                                                      
Bar                                                              1
Flushing rim (clinic)                                           6
Industrial - washup, etc.                                        3
Kitchen                                                          2
Lavatory                                                         1
Trailer parks:                                              
Dump station                                                    12
Recreational vehicle park per pad                                6
Urinals:                                                    
Pedestal - siphon                                                6
Stall                                                           2
Wall                                                             2
Trough/2 feet                                                    2
Water closet:                                               
Tank                                                            4
Flush valve                                                      6
Swimming pool                                                   5
 
For fixture types not listed, fixture units shall be estimated using the latest
edition of the uniform plumbing code. (Ord. 158, 3-12-1991)
6-2-51: PRECEDENCE:
This user charge system shall take precedence over the terms or conditions of
any agreements or contracts which the city is party to which are inconsistent
with the requirements of the water quality act (as amended 1986) and the
regulation of the United States EPA (40 CFR parts 35.2005 – 35.2208). (Ord.
158, 3-12-1991)
CHAPTER 3
WATER AND SEWER CONTRACTS
(Rep. by Ord. 160, 9-24-1991)
CHAPTER 4
GARBAGE AND WASTE CODE
SECTION:
6-4-1: Short Title
6-4-2: Definitions
6-4-3: Deposit Upon Public Place
6-4-4: Collection And Disposal
6-4-5: Receptacles
6-4-6: Scavengers
6-4-7: Vehicles Transporting Solid Waste
6-4-8: Fly Breeding Conditions
6-4-9: Right Of Entry
6-4-10: Conflict With Other Codes Or Ordinances
6-4-11: Violations And Penalties
6-4-12: Enforcement
6-4-13: Billing And Collection
6-4-14: Rates To Be Charged
6-4-15: Repeal Of Ordinances And Resolutions
6-4-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF WELLS GARBAGE AND
WASTE CODE. (Ord. 170, 9-4-1993)
6-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall, when
used in this chapter, have the meaning respectively ascribed to them by this
section:
   ANIMAL OFFAL: Meat scraps, bones or other waste resulting from the
processing of animals for food, and dead animals to be processed for their
commercial value.
   BODY WASTES: Animal or human body excrement.
   CLASS I SOLID WASTE: All nonputrescible solid wastes such as cinders, ashes,
wastepaper, excelsior, rags, wooden boxes, cardboard boxes or paper boxes,
bottles, broken ware, tin cans, metal scraps, small mechanical parts, shavings,
floor sweepings.
   CLASS II SOLID WASTE: All nonputrescible solid wastes, such as tree
trimmings, tree limbs, yard clippings, grass cuttings, weeds, shrubs and brush.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT: Any building or structure or premises not a
residence and includes places of business, institutions, motels, hotels,
governmental agencies, schools, nursing homes, hospitals.
   COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE: Any solid waste produced by a business, commercial
establishment or institution.
   DEBRIS: Left over, superfluous, disposable or unwanted material resulting
from construction, repair, demolition or cleanup of premises that is not "class
II solid waste".
   EXPLOSIVES: Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture commonly used or
intended for the purpose of producing an explosion which contains any oxidizing
and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions, quantities or
packing that an ignition by fire, friction, percussion, or detonator of any
part of the compound or mixture may cause such a sudden generation of highly
heated gases that the resulted gaseous pressures are capable of producing
destructive effects on contiguous objects or destroying life or limb.
   FLAMMABLE MATERIAL OR LIQUID: Any material or liquid which has a flash point
of seventy degrees Fahrenheit (70°F) or less, as determined by a Tagliabue or
equivalent closed cup test device.
   GARBAGE: All animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking or consumption of foods or other worthless offensive
matter, the accumulation of which may create a nuisance or be deleterious to
public health or offensive to sight or smell, that is not "class I solid
waste".
   HAZARDOUS WASTE: A waste or combination of wastes which because of its
quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics may
either:
   A.   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious, irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness.
   B.   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the
environment if improperly disposed.
   C.   A substance which has been determined by the United States department
of transportation under title 49, code of federal regulations, to be capable of
posing an unreasonable risk to health, safety and property if transported in
commerce.
   D.   Any material that is subject to the hazardous waste manifest of the
department of health services or the United States environmental protection
agency.
   HEALTH AND SAFETY CONSIDERATIONS: Approval of the sanitary methods for
storing waste, debris, etc., prior to collection by a permitted private
collector, the adequacy of transportation of the same in a sanitary and safe
manner to the disposal site of said waste, debris, etc., together with the
adequacy of the disposal site for the purpose of receiving the waste, debris,
etc., in a safe and sanitary manner which creates no public health danger or
nuisance.
   INDUSTRY OR INDUSTRIAL SOLID WASTE: Waste which is the byproduct of a
manufacturing process.
   PREMISES: Land, building, or other structures or parts thereof.
   RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL OR RADIOACTIVE SUBSTANCE: Any substance which emits
ionizing radiation.
   REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid waste, including garbage,
animal offal, rubbish, trash, wastes, but not including body wastes or debris.
   RESIDENCE: Any building or structure used as a family domicile including
single- and multi-family dwelling units, apartments, rooming houses, boarding
houses and trailer courts.
   TOXIC CHEMICALS OR TOXIC SUBSTANCES: A substance, other than a radioactive
substance which has the capacity to produce injury or illness to man through
ingestion, inhalation or absorption through any body surface.
   WASTE: Unwanted or superfluous matter. (Ord. 170, 9-4-1993)
6-4-3: DEPOSIT UPON PUBLIC PLACE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit upon the streets, alleys, public
grounds or upon any vacant lot of the city, any garbage, solid waste class I or
II, or debris of any nature, except at such times and places and under such
regulations as the board of councilmen of the city may from time to time permit
or adopt. (Ord. 170, 9-4-1993)
6-4-4: COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL:
Except as may be otherwise provided, the collection and removal of any and all
garbage and waste herein provided shall be performed exclusively by the city or
such collection may be handled exclusively for the city through a private
collector approved by the city council.
The services provided by the city through a franchisee shall be compulsory and
no property owner, tenant, occupant or resident within the city to whom such
services are extended shall haul or cause to be hauled garbage and waste from
the premises owned or occupied by such persons, save and except by application
to the city or on motion by the board of councilmen, good cause appearing, the
board of councilmen may order that the service by the city shall not be
compulsory as to any certain property or premises.
   A.   By City:
      1.   The city council may carry out the provisions of this chapter; and
      2.   May haul all or part of the refuse; and
      3.   May purchase such equipment as may be required to carry out the
provisions of this chapter, and charge and collect charges for services
provided pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   By Contractor:
      1.   Franchise Contracts: The city council may, if considered to be for
the best interests of the city, enter into a franchise contract or contracts
with one or more persons, firms or corporations authorizing the collecting,
removing and disposing of all refuse within the city and for the assessing and
collecting of charges for such services. The city council, in letting any such
contract or contracts under the provisions of this chapter, shall include
therein such provisions as may be deemed necessary to protect the best
interests of the city and its citizens and inhabitants and, particularly,
provisions relieving the city from any responsibility for any acts of such
contractor or contractors and from any damages that may result from collecting,
hauling or disposing of refuse.
      2.   Written Agreement Required: The franchise granted hereunder shall
not become effective until a written agreement is entered into between the
franchisee and the city, such agreement shall include all the requirements set
forth herein. The franchisee shall be required to perform all of the following:
         a.   Garbage Collection: Guarantee that garbage service shall be
available to business locations, public places and all other locations within
the city which the city may designate at all times and that all garbage in
connection therewith within the city shall be removed in an expeditious manner
in accordance with all the terms of the franchise.
            (1)   Collect garbage from all business locations, public places
and other locations which the city may designate wherever situate in the city
at least once a week.
            (2)   Guarantee that in the collection of garbage from any location
in the city, care shall be taken to deposit all garbage inside the collection
truck leaving no evidence or bits or pieces of garbage upon any streets, alleys
or other public places within the city or any private property used for the
collection of garbage.
            (3)   Provide safe, adequate and clean equipment which is
constructed in a manner to be completely covered so as to prevent the sifting,
spilling, dropping or blowing of any of the garbage contained therein upon any
of the streets, alleys or public places in the city.
            (4)   The equipment used by the franchisee shall be modern, up to
date and watertight. The outside of the equipment shall be kept free from dirt
and the inside of carriers of garbage shall be thoroughly cleaned after dumping
each day.
         b.   Guarantee Against Liability: Guarantee that in the exercise of
the duties under the franchise every reasonable and proper precaution to avoid
damage or injury to persons or property shall be used and the franchisee shall
covenant, contract and agree to indemnify and hold harmless the city and all
customers of the franchise from which garbage, rubbish and waste matter is
removed from any and all claims, damages, costs, fees and liabilities by reason
of injury or damage to persons or property growing out of any act of the
franchisee and the agents and employees of the franchisee in removing, hauling,
and dumping any garbage, rubbish and waste matter by reason of the contract.
Franchisee shall further agree that if the city is sued by any person of any
kind to recover damage to any person or property on account of actions during
the performance of duties under the franchise, the franchisee, its heirs,
successors and assigns shall defend all such suits and pay all judgments courts
may enter in such suit. Further, it shall be required to provide liability
insurance of a minimum of seven hundred fifty thousand dollars ($750,000.00)
bodily injury coverage and seven hundred fifty thousand dollars ($750,000.00)
property damage.
         c.   Bond Provided: Provide a performance bond or time certificate in
an amount set forth by resolution of the board of councilmen to ensure faithful
performance of the requirements of the franchise, the form of bond or time
certificate subject to approval by the city attorney.
         d.   Performance Agreement: Agree that in the event that the
franchisee fails to perform any condition of the franchise, fails to abide by
all of the laws, rules and regulations pertaining to the franchise or become
bankrupt or insolvent, the city shall have the right to terminate the franchise
and agreement so awarded if the franchisee fails to correct the deficiency
within thirty (30) days after receipt of written notice of such deficiency from
the board of councilmen.
         e.   Transfer Agreement: Agree that no assignment or transfer of the
franchise shall be made without written consent of the board of councilmen.
         f.   Responsibility Agreement: Agree to be responsible to the board of
councilmen or other officials designated by the board of councilmen.
      3.   Proposals; Bids: Before awarding any such contract or contracts,
sealed proposals or bids may be called for under such notice as may be deemed
reasonable and as may be provided by the city council. Persons submitting any
bids or proposals shall include therein all statements or requirements required
by the council including descriptions, plans and specifications of all
equipment used or to be used, and fees to be charged for regular services and
for additional or special hauling of refuse. The council, in awarding one or
more contracts hereunder shall take into consideration the type of equipment
used or to be used, the responsibility of the bidder, the rates and charges
named in the bid and all other pertinent matters as well as the amount of money
offered by the bidder to the city for the awarding of such contracts.
The board shall have the right to waive formalities in awarding contracts
hereunder. It may award one or more contracts with such designations,
differences and restrictions as to districts, areas, nature of hauling, charges
and other matters, as may be deemed proper and may make such contracts
exclusive in the contractor or contractors or exclusive as to districts, nature
of hauling or otherwise. (Ord. 170, 9-4-1993)
6-4-5: RECEPTACLES:
   A.   Receptacles Required:
      1.   No owner, tenant, lessee or occupant of any public or private
premises shall permit to accumulate upon his premises any garbage, refuse, or
waste except in approved type receptacles approved by the city. These
receptacles shall be of adequate capacity and be provided in sufficient number
to hold all garbage, refuse or waste that accumulates between collections.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump or deposit, or cause to
be dumped or deposited any garbage, refuse or waste in any receptacle not owned
or maintained by him or by an approved franchise collector.
      3.   The lids or covers of refuse containers or receptacles shall be kept
securely in place at all times, except when the refuse is being deposited or
removed for collection, so that flies and other insects may not have access to
the contents thereof.
   B.   Placing For Collection:
      1.   All receptacles, containers, bins or enclosures used by commercial
establishments and residential users shall be placed in areas designated by the
city.
      2.   No receptacles, containers, bins or enclosures shall be placed
beneath a fire escape or so as to restrict egress from an exit door. None shall
be placed under a street floor window unless the window is of fire resistant
construction. All containers, receptacles, bins or enclosures not in existence
shall be required to meet the construction and placement specifications
provided in this chapter: except that the sanitation department may temporarily
waive these requirements in extreme hardship cases.
   C.   Special Handling Of Refuse:
      1.   All large items of refuse such as boxes, cartons and crates over
twenty eight inches (28") on any one side shall be collapsed for each handling
by collection crews.
      2.   Tree trimmings, branches and limbs shall be cut into four foot (4')
lengths. Trunk sections shall be cut so as not to exceed fifty (50) pounds for
any one section. It shall not be necessary to provide receptacles, but it shall
be necessary to have refuse contained in wooden or cardboard boxes or plastic
bags. It shall be placed in a neat and orderly manner.
      3.   Ashes shall not be placed in the same receptacle with any
inflammable substance, but shall be placed in separate metal containers of the
type required for garbage. Ashes shall be soaked with water when necessary to
extinguish live embers.
      4.   Disposal of following types of refuse is prohibited: auto bodies,
septic tank or cesspool pumping, hazardous waste, toxic chemicals,
insecticides, pathological or biological waste, radioactive material,
explosives and flammable material.
      5.   Body wastes and debris shall not be placed with refuse for
collection, but shall be disposed of directly by the person or persons owning,
occupying or leasing the premises wherein such matter is accumulated; however,
animal offal of domestic pets may be placed with refuse provided it is securely
wrapped.
      6.   It shall be the responsibility of the owner, tenant, lessee or
contractor to dispose of or cause to be disposed of all construction rubbish or
debris accumulated as a result of construction operations.
         a.   Every contractor or builder engaged in the erection or repair of
a building shall provide a receptacle for the deposit of garbage and other
refuse. He shall keep surroundings free of debris and trash at all times.
      7.   Any person, firm or corporation who shall place any refuse or debris
upon any private or public property not owned or under the control of said
person, firm or corporation, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, in addition
to any fine which may be imposed for violation or any provision of this code,
shall be liable for all charges which may be assessed for the removal of said
refuse or debris. It is unlawful for any person not authorized by the city to
remove any waste or other material from any existing or any previously
operational landfill of the city. (Ord. 170, 9-4-1993)
6-4-6: SCAVENGERS:
It is unlawful for any person not authorized by the owner of a solid waste
receptacle to remove any solid waste from a receptacle or scatter the same upon
a public alley, street, or public place. It is unlawful for any person not
authorized by the city to remove any solid waste from any city landfill or to
scatter the same upon a public alley, street, public place or the area of the
landfill. (Ord. 170, 9-4-1993)
6-4-7: VEHICLES TRANSPORTING SOLID WASTE:
It is unlawful for any person or permitted private franchise collector to haul
or cause to be hauled on or along any public street or alley any refuse unless
it shall be contained in vehicles or receptacles so constructed as to prevent
the contents from falling, leaking or spilling or any noxious odor escaping
therefrom and to prevent any flies, insects, or rodents from having access to
the contents. Every person hauling any refuse along any street or alley shall
replace immediately in the conveyance used for such hauling any of the contents
which may fall therefrom in or upon any street, alley or public or private
premises. (Ord. 170, 9-4-1993)
6-4-8: FLY BREEDING CONDITIONS:
   A.   Premises To Be Kept Free Of Fly Breeding Substances: It shall be the
responsibility of every owner, lessee or tenant of any premises within the city
to keep the premises at all times clean and inoffensive and free from any
accumulation of garbage, refuse, ashes, rubbish, putrescible wastes, vegetable
waste, animal offal, carcasses of dead animals and any other conditions wherein
houseflies or other flies will breed.
   B.   Fly Breeding Conditions Declared Nuisance; Abatement; Penalty: Any
condition wherein flies breed is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. Any
person who, upon written notification of the sanitation department, its
authorized agent or the city clerk, fails purposely to abate such nuisance
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. If found guilty by the city municipal court,
the nuisance shall be abated and removed by the city at the expense of such
person. (Ord. 170, 9-4-1993)
6-4-9: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The city or its authorized agent shall be and is hereby authorized to enter
into or upon any premises within the corporate limits of the city for the
purpose of making necessary inspections and issuing instructions for abatement
and correction of any and all violations of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 170, 9-4-1993)
6-4-10: CONFLICT WITH OTHER CODES OR ORDINANCES:
Whenever the provisions of this chapter shall conflict with any other
provisions of the city code or other ordinance, the provisions of this chapter
shall prevail. (Ord. 170, 9-4-1993)
6-4-11: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   B.   Each person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every
day during which any portion or part of this chapter is violated. (Ord. 170, 9-
4-1993)
6-4-12: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Collection Attempts: When the owner, lessee, tenant or other possessor
of land being served under the provisions of this chapter has had charges or
penalties assessed against them, and payment has not been received, the city
clerk may assign the account of a bona fide collection agency or institute
legal action for the recovery of the amount due.
   B.   Lien: In the event any bill charged by the city through its water
department is not paid in full within fifteen (15) days after the date when
rendered, the city shall have a lien against the property served for any
penalty, costs, expenses and garbage service charges herein described,
regardless of the person or persons billed therefor or who may have caused said
items to be incurred and such liens shall be perfected by filing with the
county recorder of Elko County a statement by the city clerk of the amount due
and unpaid and describing the property subject to the lien. Each such lien
shall:
      1.   Be coequal with the latest lien thereon to secure the payment of
general taxes.
      2.   Not be subject to extinguishment by the sale of any property on
account of the nonpayment of general taxes.
      3.   Be prior and superior to all liens, claims, encumbrances and titles
other than the liens of assessments and general taxes. (Ord. 170, 9-4-1993)
6-4-13: BILLING AND COLLECTION:
   A.   Billings:
      1.   The water department of the city is hereby authorized and directed
to add the solid waste collection, hauling and or landfill dumping charges
provided herein to its charge for water services and submit the same on a bill
prepared in connection with said water services. Said sums for solid waste
collection service shall become delinquent upon the same dates as the water
bill upon which the same is charged.
      2.   All charges authorized by section
6-4-14 of this chapter shall be billed by and paid to the water department of
the city on a monthly basis.
      3.   No person or commercial establishment within the city shall be
permitted to avoid or refuse to accept such solid waste collection and disposal
service, including franchise permitted private collector services and the
failure of any person to accept such service shall not exempt him from the
payment of the charges for such collection and disposal services.
   B.   Establishment Of Rates: These shall be assessed and charged against the
occupant or owner of all premises within the city, fees for the collection,
hauling and landfill disposal of solid waste. Any such fees billed by the city
shall be set by resolution. Any such fees billed by a private franchise
collector shall be set by the franchise collector and approved by the city.
(Ord. 170, 9-4-1993)
6-4-14: RATES TO BE CHARGED:
   A.   A charge shall be made and collected by the refuse collector from all
occupied premises in the city for collection and hauling. This charge shall be
specifically indicated in the application for permission to collect and haul
garbage, refuse and waste and this charge shall not be changed except by
consent of the city council at a regular meeting.
   B.   A separate charge for landfill disposal shall be set by resolution by
the board of councilmen. The landfill disposal charges shall be collected by
the city.
   C.   Use of the city landfill by industrial firms, contractors or by
businesses disposing of "debris" and class II solid waste generated within the
city, as defined in section
6-4-2 of this chapter shall be billed as set forth below as amended from time
to time by resolution of the city council. It shall be unlawful for any
business to dispose of debris or waste at the city landfill without payment of
the aforementioned charges. Penalties shall be imposed pursuant to section
6-4-11 of this chapter.
   D.   Building permits issued for demolition, roofing, new construction and
remodeling shall have added to the permit issued by the city planning
department, the following sums for the specified projects as a disposal fee for
construction materials if such construction debris is disposed of in the city
landfill.
 a. Structures up to 500 square feet                                    $ 30.00
 b. Structures from 501 to 1,200 square feet                            80.00
 c. Structures above 1,200 square feet                                  160.00
 a. $50.00 permit plus a $2.00 per ton landfill disposal charge
 a. Complete new sheeting including removal of existing paper, shingles 50.00
 and other support materials
 a. Construction costing between $10,000.00 and $49,000.00              35.00
 b. Construction costing between $50,000.00 and $79,000.00              70.00
 c. Construction costing $80,000 and above, plus $10.00 for each        100.00
 additional $10,000.00 value.
 a. Projects costing from $10,000.00 up to                              20.00
 $25,000.00
 b. Projects costing $25,000.00 to $76,000.00                           30.00
 c. Projects costing over $76,000.00                                    80.00
 
Any costs referred to in this section shall be based on the valuation
calculated by the city at the time of issuance of any building permit. (Ord.
170, 9-4-1993)
6-4-15: REPEAL OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS:
   A.   All ordinances or parts of ordinances and resolutions in conflict
herewith are hereby repealed, but only to the extent of such conflict.
   B.   If any section, clause or provision of this chapter shall for any
reason be held to be invalid, unenforceable or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, the invalidity, unenforceability or unconstitutionality
of such section, paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect any remaining
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 170, 9-4-1993)
CHAPTER 5
NUISANCES
SECTION:
6-5-1: General Provisions
6-5-2: Definitions
6-5-3: Duty Of Maintaining Property; Offenses; Remedies
6-5-4: Written Administrative Complaint Of Existence Of Nuisance; Emergency
Declaration And Abatement
6-5-5: Investigation Of Written Complaint Of Nuisance; Inspection Authority
6-5-6: Notice To Property Owner And Occupant Of Nuisance
6-5-7: Setting Of Hearing; Hearing And Decision
6-5-8: Appeal
6-5-9: Referral To Wells City Attorney; Issuance Of Citations
6-5-10: Abatement By City
6-5-11: Assessments Of Costs Of Abatement
6-5-12: Collection Of The Special Assessment
6-5-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Title: This chapter shah be known as the NUISANCES ORDINANCE OF THE
CITY OF WELLS, may be cited as such, and will be referred to hereafter as the
“nuisance code.”
   B.   Purpose and Scope:
      1.   It is determined and declared as follows:
         a.   The city has a substantial and legitimate interest in seeing that
its community, including property, buildings, and premises within its limits,
is kept in a safe and reasonable condition in accordance with generally
accepted community standards.
         b.   The keeping or maintaining of property, buildings, and premises
at variance with the level of maintenance of surrounding properties will result
in blight and/or unsafe conditions and substantial diminution in the
employment, use, and property values of such surrounding properties.
         c.   It is desirous to promote the maintenance of property, buildings,
and premises in order to enhance the community appearance, and the safe,
social, and economic conditions of the community.
      2.   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety, and
welfare of the citizens of Wells and to promote the maintenance of property,
buildings, and premises in order to enhance the livability, community
appearance, and the safe, social, and economic conditions of the community.
      3.   This chapter shall apply to all property, buildings, and premises
within the city without regard to the use, or the date of construction or
alteration.
      4.   The Board of Council Members reserves that action to declare and
abate a public nuisance may proceed through municipal court; however, nothing
prohibits a city manager from proceeding through the Board of Council Members.
(Ord. 238, 8-23-2022)
6-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   “Owner” shall mean the responsible party, person or entity owning the
vacant lot as shown on the last tax assessment roll maintained in the Elko
County Assessor’s office; or any person, co-partnership, agent, operator, firm,
association, corporation or other business entity, or fiduciary having a legal
or equitable interest in the property or who otherwise exercises control of the
property, including the trustee or guardian of the estate of any such person,
and the executor or administrator of the estate of such person if ordered to
take possession or control of the vacant lot by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   B.   For the purposes of this chapter, the term “nuisance or public
nuisance” means any condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which
constitutes a hazard to the health, safety, peace, comfort, convenience,
safety, enjoyment and/or welfare of the public, is detrimental to the property
of others or which causes or tends to cause substantial diminution in the value
of other property in the neighborhood in which such premises are located. This
includes, but is not limited to, the following matters declared, without
limitation, to constitute public nuisances:
      1.   Every act unlawfully done and every omission to perform a duty,
which act or omission:
         a.   Shall annoy, injure, or endanger the safety, health, comfort, or
repose of any considerable number of persons.
         b.   Shall offend public decency;
         c.   Shall unlawfully interfere with, befoul, obstruct or tend to
obstruct, or render dangerous for passage a public park, square, street, alley,
bridge, causeway, or highway, or a river, stream, canal, ditch, pond, or other
body of water;
         d.   Shall in any way render a considerable number of persons insecure
in life or the use of property.
      2.   Anything which is injurious to health, or indecent and offensive to
the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere
with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
      3.   Any dangerous structure or condition which may cause injury to, or
endanger the health, life, property, safety, or welfare of the general public
or the occupants, if any, of the real property on which the structure or
condition is located. The term includes, without limitation, a structure or
condition that:
         a.   Injures or endangers the life, safety, health, or property of the
general public or the occupants of the property upon which the structure or
condition is located, or in any way annoys or endangers the comfort or repose
of a considerable number of persons;
         b.   Violates an ordinance, rule, or regulation regulating health and
safety enacted, adopted, or passed by the city, the violation of which is
designated as a nuisance in the ordinance, rule, or regulation; or
         c.   Does not meet the requirements of a code or regulation adopted
pursuant to NRS 268.413 with respect to minimum levels of health, maintenance,
or safety.
      4.   Debris, rubbish, trash, and refuse which includes all non-
putrescible waste matter or debris, manure, combustible and non-combustible
materials that result from normal household, community, and business activities
including, without limitation, grass clippings, tree trimmings, paper,
cardboard, cans, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, and similar materials.
      5.   Garbage which includes all kitchen and table food waste, animal
waste, vegetable waste, and all household waste or residue resulting from the
preparation, storage, cooking, handling, or treatment of food.
      6.   The violation of any state law or city ordinance which defines
violation thereof as a nuisance or as nuisance activity.
      7.   Abandoned, discarded, or unused objects or equipment such as motor
vehicles, machinery, furniture, stoves, household appliances, cans, containers,
boxes, waste, old building material, and other such items.
      8.   Outside storage of inoperable vehicles, equipment, building
materials, and other property, unless fully screened from view from outside the
property and fully enclosed or otherwise protected in such manner as to prevent
the harboring of insects, flies, rodents, snakes, and other animals.
      9.   Excessive emission of dense smoke and air pollution caused by
excessive soot, cinders, fly ash, dust, noxious acids, fumes, and gasses within
the city.
      10.   Excessive noise which is injurious to health or which interferes
unreasonably with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property within the
city.
      11.   Weeds and noxious plant growth which includes weeds or overgrown
grass, brush, or vegetation that is offensive to the senses or injurious to
health.
      12.   Criminal activity which is defined as a nuisance under City code or
State law. (Ord. 238, 8-23-2022)
6-5-3: DUTY OF MAINTAINING PROPERTY; OFFENSES; REMEDIES:
   A.   No person owning, leasing, occupying, or having charge or control of
any premises or property shall maintain, keep, or permit to be maintained or
kept, a nuisance thereon, nor shall any such person keep, maintain, or permit
to be maintained or kept, such premises in a manner causing substantial
diminution in the value of the other property in the neighborhood in which such
premises are located.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to commit or maintain a
public nuisance or wilfully refuse to perform any legal duty relating to the
removal of such public nuisance, and it shall be unlawful for any person or
entity to rent or lease, or permit to be used, any building or portion thereof,
knowing that the same is intended to be or is being used for, committing or
maintaining any such nuisance. Said crime shall be a misdemeanor offense
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, in addition to any other penalties, abatement orders,
injunctive relief and fines provided herein. Such punishment shall include,
without limitation, a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or
by a sentence of confinement in the city or county jail not to exceed six (6)
months, or both such fine and imprisonment, in addition to any other penalties
and fines authorized in this Chapter.
   C.   The remedies provided herein are cumulative and the City may proceed
under one or more such remedies. A Court of competent jurisdiction for a
violation hereof shall have full authority to order all measures of abatement,
civil penalty, criminal penalty, injunctive relief, assessment, costs, liens
and abatement by the City as part of any sentencing or civil remedies as may be
made consistent such matters found in this Chapter. Each day a violation
continues, whether pursued criminally or civilly, constitutes a separate
violation and/or offense.
   D.   The transfer of the property interests of any person receiving notice
herein shall not relieve that party from liability hereunder.
   E.   A civil fine may be imposed in any court or administrative action to
enforce the provisions of this chapter for up to $500/day for each day of a
continuing violation after notice of violation and the expiration of the time
set forth therein to abate said violation. (Ord. 238, 8-23-2022)
6-5-4: WRITTEN ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT OF EXISTENCE OF NUISANCE; EMERGENCY
DECLARATION AND ABATEMENT:
   A.   The City will not proceed on an administrative allegation of a nuisance
except upon a written complaint, which can be filed by a private citizen or any
appointed officer or department head of the City. Whenever a written complaint
is filed with the City Clerk alleging the existence of a nuisance, the City
Clerk shall notify the City Manager, who in turn shall notify the Public Works
Director, or such other city official as may appear to said City Manager to be
appropriate.
   B.   Whenever the Building Inspector or City Manager determines a public
nuisance exists and the public health, safety or welfare may be in immediate
danger, then he/she shall notify the the Mayor and/or a councilmember to call
an emergency meeting to seek an immediate order of abatement When emergency
abatement is authorized, notice to the owner prior to abatement is not required
but the provisions regarding notice of the statement of costs shall be
applicable. (Ord. 238, 8-23-2022)
6-5-5: INVESTIGATION OF WRITTEN COMPLAINT OF NUISANCE; INSPECTION AUTHORITY:
Except in cases of emergency as described above, the official to whom such
notice is given by the City Manager shall forthwith investigate the facts
claimed to amount to a nuisance and shall report verification, or lack thereof,
to the City Manager within ten (10) days. Said official and any person or
officer authorized to investigate public nuisances or enforce this Chapter are
authorized to enter upon any property or premises to ascertain whether the
provisions of the Code or applicable state codes are being obeyed, and to make
any examinations, inspections and surveys as may be necessary in the
performance of their enforcement or investigative duties. These may include the
taking of photographs, samples or other physical evidence. All inspections,
entries, examinations and surveys shall be conducted in a reasonable manner. If
an owner, occupant or agent refuses permission to enter or inspect, the
enforcement/investigative official may seek an administrative inspection
warrant pursuant to the applicable procedures provided for in the Nevada Code
of Civil Procedure or any applicable process established by a court of
competent jurisdiction. In the case of a criminal investigation, law
enforcement may seek a search warrant consistent with the applicable laws of
the State of Nevada. (Ord. 238, 8-23-2022)
6-5-6: NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNER AND OCCUPANT OF NUISANCE:
   A.   Upon receipt of a verification, the City Manager shall mail by
certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice of the complaint of
existence of a nuisance to the person owning the premises according to the
current tax roll and to the person in possession, in charge, or in control of
the yard, lot, or premises upon which the nuisance exists. The notice shall
describe the nuisance allegation, the work of abatement to be performed, and
any penalties or fines.
   B.   The notice shall require:
      1.   Payment of fines, compliance with penalties and commencement of work
for the removal of the nuisance within 14 days after mailing of the notice, and
removal of the nuisance by a date certain thereafter, affording a minimum of 3Q
days if the condition is not an immediate danger to the public health, safety
or welfare; or
      2.   Within 14 days, a written request to the City Manager that a hearing
be held before the City Manager to contest whether a nuisance exists, whether
said nuisance should be abated or removed, whether the fines and penalties
should be imposed and/or or whether it be shown that there is no nuisance or
that the nuisance was caused by the City. The date specified in the notice by
which the owner must abate the condition and comply with the notice is tolled
for the period during which the owner requests a hearing and receives a
decision.
   C.   If a hearing is not timely requested, the right to a hearing to contest
the declaration of nuisance, the imposition of fines and penalties and/or the
requirement of abatement shall be deemed to be waived. Further, upon a failure
of the owner/occupant to comply with the notice, the City Manager shall prepare
and serve a notice of a finding of public nuisance and order of abatement and
matters related thereto to be served by certified mail return receipt
requested. (Ord. 238, 8-23-2022)
6-5-7: SETTING OF HEARING REGARDING NUISANCE; HEARING AND DECISION:
   A.   If a written request for hearing has been received by the City Manager
within the time specified, the City Manager shall forthwith fix a date to hear
the owner and/or occupant of the real property whereon the alleged nuisance is
claimed to exist and of any other person desiring to be heard.
   B.   At the hearing before the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee,
the respondent and the City shall each be given an opportunity to present
arguments and evidence, to include witness testimony. The rules of evidence
shall not apply. The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee may terminate
the hearing at a time determined in advance by the City Manager or the City
Manager’s designee, provided a reasonable time shall be given to permit the
respondent and the City to present their respective arguments and evidence. The
City Manager or City Manager’s designee may terminate a hearing at any time
upon a determination that the additional evidence and argument to be proffered
by the respondent and the City will be duplicative or not relevant to the
issues to be resolved. The City Manager or the City Manager’s designee shall
issue and serve a written decision upon the respondent with five (5) business
days of the hearing. The written decision shall set forth the findings
concerning the nuisance matter, the fines, penalties and remedies ordered in
conjunction therewith, if any, and the appeal rights applicable to the
decision, if any. (Ord. 238, 8-23-2022)
6-5-8: APPEAL:
   A.   An owner or occupant may appeal the written decision of the City
Manager within fourteen (14) calendar days of service thereof, by certified
mail return receipt requested, to the Board of Council Members by filing a
“Notice of Appeal to the Board of Council Members” with the City Clerk
containing a statement of the basis for the appeal. The Board of Council
Members shall, within forty-five (45) calendar days thereafter, conduct a
hearing on the decision of the City Manager or City Manager’s designee. At the
hearing before the City Council, the appellant and the City shall each be given
an opportunity to present arguments and evidence, to include witness testimony.
The rules of evidence shall not apply. The Board of Council Members may
terminate the proceeding at a time determined in advance by the Board, provided
a reasonable time shall be given to permit the appellant and the City to
present their respective arguments and evidence. The Board of Council Members
may terminate a hearing at any time upon a determination that the additional
evidence and argument to be proffered by the appellant or the City will be
duplicative or not relevant or necessary to the issues to be resolved. The
Board of Council Members shall render a decision at the hearing, to include a
continuation thereof in the event the hearing is tabled.
   B.   A written decision shall be prepared based upon the decision of the
Board of Council Members and may be served upon the appellant at the hearing or
forthwith thereafter by certified mail return receipt requested. This decision
shall set forth the findings regarding the nuisance, if an, and any matters
appropriate to abatement and penalties and fines.
   C.   If work to abate and remove the nuisance is not commenced within the
required period, if the nuisance is not abated or removed within the required
period, if the nuisance is not abated or removed within a reasonable time after
the commencement of work, or if no written appeal notice has been received by
the City Manager within the time specified, the City may proceed to abate the
nuisance and recover the costs, fines and penalties provided in the
determination and order by the Council.
   D.   The failure of an owner or occupant to appeal a decision within the
times required in this Chapter shall result in the waiver of those appeal
rights and strict compliance with the decision of the City Manager shall be
required.
   E.   The decision of the Board of Council Members at an appeal hearing
pursuant to this Chapter shall be final for purposes of judicial review. Any
action for judicial review shall be commenced by filing a petition with the
District Court for the Fourth Judicial District in and for the County of Elko,
State of Nevada, no more than thirty (30) calendar days from the date of the
decision of the Board of Council Members. (Ord. 238, 8-23-2022)
6-5-9: REFERRAL TO WELLS CITY ATTORNEY; ISSUANCE OF CITATIONS:
   A.   In addition to the administrative process set forth herein, an alleged
nuisance may at any time be referred to the City Attorney, who may elect to
file a complaint in municipal court for a violation of this chapter and seek a
conviction and abatement order from the Court separate from the actions taken
in the administrative process.
   B.   In addition to the administrative process set forth herein, the Chief
of Police, his or her designee, or any code enforcement officer or other
officer authorized to issue citations for violations of the City code may
initiate a prosecution for a violation of this Chapter by the issuance of a
citation into Municipal Court. Upon a conviction, the Court shall have full
authority to order abatement and the other remedies set forth herein, in
addition to the other penalties for a misdemeanor. (Ord. 238, 8-23-2022)
6-5-10: ABATEMENT/ENFORCEMENT BY THE CITY:
If an order of the Board of Council Members is not complied with within such
time as the Board of Council Members has designated, the Board shall cause the
abatement and removal of the nuisance and make the cost of abatement a special
assessment against the real property. If fines or penalties are not paid as
provided in the order, the Board shall make such penalties a special assessment
against the real property as provided in this Chapter and/or the Nevada Revised
Statutes. If a court order for abatement is not complied with, the Wells City
Attorney shall pursue remedies available to him/her through the court,
including, but not limited to, a court order for abatement and all other
remedies, costs, fines, assessments and lien procedures which could be imposed
by the Board of Council Members in this Chapter. (Ord. 238, 8-23-2022)
6-5-11: ASSESSMENT OF COSTS OF ABATEMENT:
Upon the completion of abatement and removal of a nuisance by the City after
the Board of Council Members has ordered the owner to abate the nuisance:
   A.   The city employee in charge of the work of abating and removing the
nuisance shall file with the City Clerk a description of the premises and a
verified statement of the work done and all expenses and costs incurred of any
nature whatsoever, and the name of the owner of the premises. The owner shall
be charged with the costs and expenses by the City.
   B.   The Board of Council Members shall make a determination regarding the
costs and expenses of abatement by the City at a regular meeting and shall:
      1.   Determine whether the costs and expenses were proper, the name of
the owner of the premises, and the premises to be assessed; and
      2.   Adopt or revise the statement by resolution levying assessment and
require the city clerk to record the resolution and statement in the Office of
the Elko County Recorder.
   C.   Upon such recording, the assessment shall be due and payable and shall
constitute a lien upon the premises and shall remain until paid. (Ord. 238, 8-
23-2022)
6-5-12: COLLECTION OF THE SPECIAL ASSESSMENT:
   A.   The special assessment may be collected at the same time and in the
same manner as ordinary property taxes are collected and shall be sub ject to
the same penalties and the same procedure and sale in case of delinquency as
provided for ordinary property taxes. All laws applicable to the levy,
collection, and enforcement of property taxes and shall be applicable to such
special assessment.
   B.   The Elko County Assessor shall:
      1.   Make an assessment roll and levy a special assessment upon the
premises and against the person chargeable;
      2.   After such levy, transfer the assessment roll to the Elko County
Treasurer.
   C.   The Elko County Treasurer shall record the assessment in his/her office
in the same manner as street assessments are recorded.
   D.   Any civil penalties that have not been collected may not be made a
special assessment against the property unless:
      1.   At least 12 months have elapsed from the date specified in the
notice by which the owner must abate the condition or the date specified by the
governing body or court by which the owner must abate the condition, whichever
is later;
      2.   The owner has been billed, served or otherwise notified that the
civil penalties are due; and
      3.   The amount of uncollected civil penalties is more than $5,000.
   E.   If a special assessment is imposed under this section, the City clerk
shall submit a written report to the Board of Council Members at least one each
calendar quarter that sets forth, for each property against which such
assessment has been imposed:
      1.   The street address or Assessor’s parcel number of the property;
      2.   The name of each owner of record of the property as of the date of
the assessment; and
      3.   The total of the assessment, stating the amount assessed for the
expense of the abatement. (Ord. 238, 8-23-2022)
CHAPTER 6
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Signs Adjacent To Streets Restricted
6-6-2: Removal Of Noncomplying Signs
6-6-3: Political Signs
6-6-1: SIGNS ADJACENT TO STREETS RESTRICTED:
All signs adjacent to dedicated streets or highways within the city shall be
supported off the dedicated street or highway right of way. Where the improved
section has a defined street improvement planned or presently constructed, said
sign shall not overhang the right of way or dedication more than two-thirds (2/
3) of the distance from the right of way line or property line to the curb or
street and the bottom edge of the sign shall be not less than twelve feet (12')
above ground level. (Ord. 57, 10-23-1962; amd. Ord. 123, 4-27-1982)
6-6-2: REMOVAL OF NONCOMPLYING SIGNS:
Owners of property upon which encroachments are located in violation hereof
shall be instructed to remove same. If encroachments in violation thereof are
not removed within thirty (30) days after notice in writing, same shall be
removed by the city at the expense of the property owner. (Ord. 57, 10-23-1962;
amd. Ord. 123, 4-27-1982)
6-6-3: POLITICAL SIGNS:
   A.   No Permit Required: Political signs, including their supporting
structures, shall be permitted in all zones for a period of forty (40) days
prior to and ten (10) days following a general or special election provided
that:
      1.   The candidate, committee or any other authorized person or group
posting political signs shall either fill out a signposting information sheet
with the city clerk or include the name, address and telephone number on all
signs of the person posting the sign.
      2.   No sign shall be permitted on or to extend over any public property,
public easement, public parkway, public utility property or in the public right
of way. The city shall assess a charge against any person, candidate, entity,
party or group posting or placing signs in violation of this section for the
cost incurred in the removal.
Exception: Notwithstanding the prohibition on placement of political signs on
public property, the city council shall designate, by resolution, public
properties upon which political signs may be placed. Each candidate or position
on a ballot measure shall be limited to one sign for each public property
location designated, and said sign shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet in
area. No sign shall be placed so as to impede the sightlines of a sign already
placed. No sign shall be placed on any tree or shrub by any nail, tack, spike
or other method which will cause physical harm to the tree or shrub.
      3.   Political signs shall not be posted on traffic or street signs or
devices nor shall they be placed in a manner which obstructs traffic or street
signs or devices.
      4.   The candidate, committee or any other authorized person or group
posting or displaying political signs on private property shall obtain the
property owner's permission before doing so. Failure to do so will be a
violation of this chapter.
      5.   If the city clerk finds that any political sign has been posted or
is being maintained in violation of the provisions of this section, the person
(s) responsible for the sign(s) shall be given notice to remove said sign(s)
within twenty four (24) hours from the time of said notice. The notice shall
include a brief statement of the reasons for requiring removal. If the person
so notified fails to correct the violation or remove the sign(s), the city
clerk may cause said sign(s) to be removed without further notice. If the owner
of the sign cannot in good faith be located within a reasonable time, the sign
shall be deemed abandoned. Any political sign that remains posted for more than
fourteen (14) calendar days after the election to which it pertains shall also
be deemed abandoned. The city clerk may cause such abandoned signs and any
signs which constitute an immediate peril to persons or property to be removed
summarily and without prior notice. The city shall assess a charge against any
person, candidate, entity, party or group posting or placing signs in violation
of this section for the cost incurred in the removal. (Ord. 216, 7-28-2009)
CHAPTER 7
CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE
(Rep. by Ord. 189, 4-11-2000)
CHAPTER 8
GASEOUS FUELS FRANCHISE
SECTION:
6-8-1: Short Title
6-8-2: Definitions
6-8-3: Exclusive Grant Of Authority
6-8-4: Term Of Franchise
6-8-5: Compliance With Laws And Ordinances
6-8-6: Service Standards
6-8-7: Conditions For Occupancy Of Public Ways
6-8-8: Construction Standards
6-8-9: Bond
6-8-10: Annexed Or Consolidated Areas
6-8-11: Assignment
6-8-12: Franchise Fee
6-8-13: Nature Of Gas Supplied
6-8-14: Rates
6-8-15: Records And Reports
6-8-16: Business License
6-8-17: Publication Costs
6-8-18: Remedies
6-8-19: Violation Of Franchise
6-8-20: Termination Provided
6-8-21: Procedure Upon Expiration Of The Franchise
6-8-22: Severability
6-8-23: Repeal
6-8-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the WELLS, NEVADA, GASEOUS
FUELS FRANCHISE. (Ord. 184, 4-14-1998)
6-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms and their
derivatives shall have the meanings herein given (and when not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in
the plural number include the singular, words in the singular number include
the plural; and words in the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter):
   CITY: The city of Wells, Nevada, or the lawful successor, transferee or
assignee thereof.
   CUSTOMER: Any person or entity receiving and paying for gaseous fuels
services.
   FRANCHISE AREA: That area within the incorporated city of Wells, as now or
hereinafter constituted.
   GASEOUS FUELS: Natural gas, artificial gas, liquefied natural gas, liquefied
petroleum gas, manufactured gas or any mixture thereof used for heating,
cooking, cooling, power generation or other purposes.
   GRANTEE: Wells Propane, Inc., and its successors and assigns as allowed
within this chapter.
   PERSON: Any natural person, company or entity of any kind.
   PUBLIC WAYS: The surface of, and the space above and below, any public
street, highway, freeway, road, bridge, land, path, alley, court, boulevard,
sidewalk, parkway, way, lane, public utility easement, dedicated utility strip
or right of way dedicated for compatible uses. "Public ways" also means any
easement now or hereafter held by the city for purposes of public travel, or
for utility or public service use dedicated for compatible uses. "Public ways"
shall include other easements or rights of way as may be necessary, with the
city's approval for the installation of distribution lines, pipes, structures
and equipment necessary for the construction or maintenance of the grantee's
distribution system.
   REVENUES: All revenues as determined by generally accepted accounting
principles consistently applied, derived directly or indirectly from revenues
received by grantee, arising from or attributable to operation of the gaseous
fuels distribution system within the territorial limits of the city. (Ord. 184,
4-14-1998)
6-8-3: EXCLUSIVE GRANT OF AUTHORITY:
Upon acceptance as provided herein, an exclusive franchise and right is hereby
granted by the city to grantee to locate, build, construct, purchase, maintain,
operate and extend into, within and through the city, pipelines and facilities
for the purchase, manufacture, storage, transmission and distribution of
"gaseous fuels", as defined herein, for heating, cooking, cooling, power
generation, or other purposes, with the right and privilege for the period and
upon the terms and conditions hereinafter specified to furnish, sell and
distribute said gaseous fuels to the city and the inhabitants thereof by means
of pipes, mains, or otherwise, over, under, along, across and through any
extension, connection with or continuation of the same and/or on, over, under,
along, across and through any and all such new streets, alleys and public ways
and places as may hereafter be laid out, opened, located or constructed within
the territory now or hereafter included in the boundaries of the city. (Ord.
184, 4-14-1998)
6-8-4: TERM OF FRANCHISE:
The franchise herein granted shall take effect and be in force from and after
the final passage and publication hereof as required by law and upon the filing
of acceptance by the grantee within twenty (20) days after the effective date
hereof, and shall continue in force and effect for a term of twenty five (25)
years from and after such passage, unless otherwise terminated as provided
herein; provided, however, should the grantee fail to begin to provide gaseous
fuels service within the city to businesses and residents within two (2) years
from and after the date of final passage of this chapter the city may terminate
the franchise. (Ord. 184, 4-14-1998)
6-8-5: COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND ORDINANCES:
The grantee shall, at all times during the life of this franchise, be subject
to all lawful exercise of police powers by the city, and to such reasonable
regulations as the city shall hereafter by resolution or ordinance provide.
Grantee shall further be responsible for compliance with any applicable state
or federal statutes, rules or regulations. (Ord. 184, 4-14-1998)
6-8-6: SERVICE STANDARDS:
The grantee shall maintain and operate its system and render efficient service
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and in accordance with the
rules, regulations and orders of the public service commission of the state as
they now exist and as they may hereafter be amended or changed. (Ord. 184, 4-
14-1998)
6-8-7: CONDITIONS FOR OCCUPANCY OF PUBLIC WAYS:
All pipes and appurtenances laid or placed by the grantee shall be so located
in the public ways of the city as not to obstruct or interfere with any pipes,
sewers, drains, valves or other structures already installed or presently
master planned by the city to be installed. The grantee shall, when
economically feasible, avoid interfering with the use of any public way where
the paving or surface of such public ways would be disturbed.
   A.   Pipes And Appurtenances: Subject to the conditions herein contained,
grantee shall have the right of installing, maintaining and using any or all of
such pipes and appurtenances from time to time as may be necessary or proper.
   B.   Repair Of Public Roads: Grantee shall promptly, but in no case later
than fifteen (15) days after installing, maintaining, or using such pipes and
appurtenances or any part thereof, at its own cost and expense, place any
public ways in which it may install pipes and appurtenances, or so much thereof
as may have been damaged thereby, in as good an order and condition as that in
which such public ways were found immediately before being disturbed or
excavated by grantee.
   C.   Repair Of Damage: If any portion of a public way shall be damaged by
reason of defects in any of the pipes and appurtenances maintained or
constructed under this grant, or by reason of any other cause arising from the
grantee's operations, or the existence of any pipes and appurtenances
constructed or maintained under this grant, said grantee shall, at its own cost
and expense, within fifteen (15) days repair any such damage and restore such
public way, or portion thereof, to as good a condition as existed before such
defect or other cause of damage occurred.
   D.   Relocation: While this franchise ordinance shall remain in effect, the
grantee shall relocate, without expense to the city, any pipes and
appurtenances theretofore installed and then maintained or used under this
franchise if and when made necessary by any lawful change of grade, alignment
or width of any public way by the city, including the construction of any
viaduct; provided, however, that this provision shall remain in effect only so
long as such public way shall remain under the jurisdiction of said city as a
public way. This provision shall cease to be applicable to any public way if
and when the city shall cease to have jurisdiction over or shall cease to be
obligated to maintain such public way, and nothing herein contained shall be
construed as constituting a contractual obligation of the grantee running to
the authority assuming jurisdiction over or the obligation to maintain such
public way.
   E.   Placement And Inspections: Before the work of installing any pipes and
appurtenances is commenced, the grantee shall file with the city plans showing
the location thereof and shall apply to the city for a permit. The city may
grant a permit for such work on such conditions as it deems necessary and
desirable and with such directions for the location of such pipes and
appurtenances as may be reasonably necessary to avoid sewers, water pipes,
conduits or other structures lawfully in or under the public ways of the city.
All work of installing pipes and appurtenances shall be subject to the
inspection and approval of the city to ensure placement in public ways in good
condition. Such approval may be withheld by the city if in its discretion
grantee has not or is not complying with any provision of this chapter or the
applicable regulatory provisions.
   F.   Restoration: In case of any disturbance of pavement, sidewalk, driveway
or other surfacing, the grantee shall, at its own cost and expense, and in the
manner approved by the city, replace and restore all such paving, sidewalk,
driveway or surface disturbed, in as good a condition as immediately before
said work was commenced.
   G.   Repair Of Water Pipes, Sewers, Drains And Other Structures: The grantee
shall, at its own cost and expense, immediately repair or replace as necessary
any and all water pipes, mains, service lines, valves, meters, sewer lines,
culverts, conduits, and all other materials and equipment utilized in
connection with water service, sewer service and drainage damaged in any way by
the grantee. (Ord. 184, 4-14-1998)
6-8-8: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
All pipes and appurtenances which shall be laid and used under and pursuant to
the provisions of this franchise and in the exercise hereof shall be installed,
constructed and maintained in accordance with any applicable codes, ordinances
and regulations of the city, Nevada statutes and the rules, regulations and
orders of the Nevada public service commission, and in a good and workmanlike
manner and shall be maintained in compliance with all such valid laws,
ordinances, rules, regulations and codes from time to time in force. (Ord. 184,
4-14-1998)
6-8-9: BOND:
   A.   Grantee shall, not less than twenty (20) days prior to the commencement
of construction of the gaseous fuels distribution system, file with the city
clerk and at all times thereafter maintain in full force and effect for the
entire term of the franchise, at its expense, a faithful performance bond
executed by a surety company approved by the city and in form satisfactory to
the city, in the amount of fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00), renewable
annually and conditioned on the faithful performance by the grantee of all the
terms, conditions and covenants contained in the franchise. If the grantee
fails to comply with any one or more of the provisions of the franchise, there
shall be recoverable jointly and severally from the principal and surety of
such bond any damages or losses suffered by the city as a result thereof.
   B.   Neither the provisions of any bond accepted by the city pursuant
hereto, nor any damages recovered by the city thereunder, shall be construed to
excuse faithful performance by grantee or limit the liability of grantee under
the franchise or for damages or precluded the exercise of any other right or
remedy given to the city by law. (Ord. 184, 4-14-1998)
6-8-10: ANNEXED OR CONSOLIDATED AREAS:
This franchise and the provisions of this chapter shall apply to any area which
may hereafter be added to the city by annexation, consolidation or otherwise.
Upon any such annexation or consolidation, such additional area shall become
subject to the franchise rights granted herein and the terms and provisions and
conditions of this chapter. (Ord. 184, 4-14-1998)
6-8-11: ASSIGNMENT:
The grantee shall not sell, transfer or assign this franchise, or any rights or
privileges under this franchise to any person, corporation, partnership or
entity without prior city written approval, which approval shall be within the
sole discretion of the city board of councilmen. No sale, transfer or
assignment shall be effective until the vendee, assignee or lessee has filed in
the office of the city clerk an instrument, duly executed, reciting the fact of
such sale, assignment or lease, accepting the terms of this franchise and this
chapter, and agreeing to perform all of the conditions hereof, and in addition
thereto, the proposed transferee must have the necessary operating authority
and certificates of public convenience as are required by the Nevada public
service commission or such other governmental department, agency or commission
as may then be regulating or controlling the activities or services of the
grantee or the proposed transferee. (Ord. 184, 4-14-1998)
6-8-12: FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.   The grantee shall, during the term of this franchise, or any renewal or
extension hereof, pay to the city for the privilege of operating a gaseous
fuels distribution system under this franchise a fee equal to three percent
(3%) of the gross annual revenues taken in or received by the grantee from the
sale of gaseous fuels within the city from the operation of the gaseous fuels
distribution system.
   B.   Payment shall be made to the city in quarterly installments, the first
installment payment to be paid three (3) months from the date of commencement
of service under this franchise and payments to be made quarterly thereafter,
each installment to be based upon the total gross revenue for the preceding
three (3) month period. If such payments are not made within thirty (30) days
after the expiration of the quarter, the city may, in addition to any other
remedy either at law or as otherwise provided within this agreement, assess a
late penalty one percent (1%) per month on the delinquent amount. (Ord. 184, 4-
14-1998)
6-8-13: NATURE OF GAS SUPPLIED:
The gaseous fuels to be supplied hereunder shall contain a monthly average
gross heating value of not less than the heating value set forth in the
policies filed with or fixed by the Nevada public service commission. (Ord.
184, 4-14-1998)
6-8-14: RATES:
The grantee shall furnish gaseous fuels to the city and its inhabitants for
heating, cooking, cooling, power or any other lawful purposes under the
policies and the rates as are from time to time filed with or fixed by the
Nevada public service commission. (Ord. 184, 4-14-1998)
6-8-15: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
The city shall have access at all reasonable hours to all of the grantee's
books, records, reports, contracts and bookkeeping and accounting procedures
relating to the property and the operations of the grantee within the area
covered by this franchise and all other records required to be kept by the
public service commission of the state or such other governmental department,
agency or commission which may hereafter have the control or regulation of the
grantee. The following records and reports shall be filed with the clerk by the
grantee:
   A.   A true and correct conformed copy of the rates, rules, regulations,
terms and conditions adopted by the grantee and approved by the public service
commission.
   B.   A quarterly summary report showing gross revenues received by the
grantee from its operations within the city during the preceding three (3)
month period and such other information as the city shall request with respect
to properties and operations relating to the grantee's service within the city.
(Ord. 184, 4-14-1998)
6-8-16: BUSINESS LICENSE:
Grantee shall be required to obtain and maintain a city business license;
provided, however, that the cost of such license may be deducted from the
franchise fee required to be paid herein if such deduction is required by law
to avoid payments by the grantee in excess of the maximum franchise fee which
may be imposed upon a franchisee. (Ord. 184, 4-14-1998)
6-8-17: PUBLICATION COSTS:
The grantee shall assume the costs of publication of this Ordinance as such
publication is required by law. A bill for publication costs shall be presented
to the grantee by the clerk upon the grantee's filing of acceptance of this
franchise and such costs shall be paid at that time. (Ord. 184, 4-14-1998)
6-8-18: REMEDIES:
Anything in this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, acceptance of this
franchise by grantee shall result in this chapter becoming a contract between
the city and the grantee and the parties hereby agree that each party shall
have all remedies in law and in equity, including injunctive relief, for the
enforcement of the provisions of this franchise. (Ord. 184, 4-14-1998)
6-8-19: VIOLATION OF FRANCHISE:
In the event that the city believes the grantee, or subject to the restrictions
on transfer, its vendees, successor or assigns, has not complied with the terms
of this franchise, it shall notify the grantee in writing of the exact nature
of the alleged noncompliance. Grantee shall have thirty (30) days from the date
of the notice to respond to the city contesting the assertion of noncompliance,
or to cure such default, or, in the event that, by the nature of default, such
default cannot be cured within thirty (30) days, initiate reasonable steps to
remedy such default and notify the city of the steps being taken and the
projected date that compliance will be met. In the event that such default is
not cured within the thirty (30) day period, or within a reasonable period of
an extension of time which may be granted by the city, the city may terminate
this franchise ordinance. The grantee shall not be relieved of any of its
obligations to comply promptly with any provision of this franchise ordinance
by reason of any failure of the city to enforce prompt compliance. (Ord. 184,
4-14-1998)
6-8-20: TERMINATION PROVIDED:
Notwithstanding any provisions in the franchise to the contrary, in the event
the grantee shall refuse, fail or neglect to perform any of the covenants of
the franchise on its part to be performed, then and as often as such breach may
occur, the city may require the grantee to show cause why the franchise should
not be terminated by reason of such breach or why the grantee should not be
compelled to comply with any conditions claimed to have been violated or
breached, or the city may pursue such other and further rights and remedies as
it may have in law or equity or under any other covenants contained in the
franchise including right to hold the franchise liable for damage for such
breach. (Ord. 184, 4-14-1998)
6-8-21: PROCEDURE UPON EXPIRATION OF THE FRANCHISE:
Upon expiration of the franchise but not upon termination as otherwise provided
herein, if the grantee shall not have perfected a renewal thereof, it may have,
and it is hereby granted, the right to enter upon the public ways or other
property of the city for purposes of removing therefrom any or all of its
property. In so removing said property, grantee shall refill, at its expense,
any excavation that it shall make, and shall leave said streets or other
property in as good condition as that prevailing immediately prior to the
grantee's removal of its property. Grantee may, in lieu of removal of such
property, transfer its interest in such property to a third party provided such
third party is approved by the city as a franchisee. (Ord. 184, 4-14-1998)
6-8-22: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this chapter shall for any
reason be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or
unenforceability of such section, paragraph, clause or provision shall in no
way affect the validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 184, 4-14-1998)
6-8-23: REPEAL:
All ordinances, parts of ordinances or chapters, sections, subsections or
paragraphs or resolutions previously adopted by the city, which are in conflict
with this chapter, are hereby repealed. (Ord. 184, 4-14-1998)
CHAPTER 9
MUNICIPAL CEMETERY
SECTION:
6-9-1: Short Title
6-9-2: Definitions
6-9-3: Authority Of The City Manager
6-9-4: Rules And Regulations
6-9-5: Rules For Interment
6-9-6: Conveyance Of Cemetery Lots
6-9-7: Fees
6-9-8: Impervious Liner
6-9-9: Use Defined
6-9-10: Fencing Prohibited
6-9-11: Shrubs, Trees And Flowers Prohibited
6-9-12: Plastic, Silk Or Other Artificial Flowers And Glass Containers
Prohibited
6-9-13: Monument Specifications
6-9-14: Emergency Closure
6-9-15: Records Of Ownership
6-9-16: Cemetery Accounts
6-9-17: Penalty
6-9-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF WELLS MUNICIPAL
CEMETERY ORDINANCE. (Ord. 190, 7-25-2000)
6-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in
the plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
   CITY: The city of Wells, Nevada.
   MUNICIPAL CEMETERY OR CEMETERY: The municipal cemetery of the city of Wells.
   PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind. (Ord. 190, 7-25-2000)
6-9-3: AUTHORITY OF THE CITY MANAGER:
The Wells city manager shall be in charge of the day to day operation and
maintenance of the municipal cemetery subject to any limitations and
restrictions set forth herein or contained in any applicable law. (Ord. 190, 7-
25-2000)
6-9-4: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The board of councilmen may establish rules and regulations for the use of the
cemetery. (Ord. 190, 7-25-2000)
6-9-5: RULES FOR INTERMENT:
No deceased person shall be interred in the cemetery until the city manager or
her designee has found:
   A.   That a burial permit has been obtained as may be required by law;
   B.   That the lot in which burial is to be made has been fully paid for;
   C.   That the person arranging for such burial has the right to the use of
such lot;
   D.   That such lot is not used beyond its capacity;
   E.   That proper record is made of the name and age of the deceased person
and of the exact location of the grave. (Ord. 190, 7-25-2000)
6-9-6: CONVEYANCE OF CEMETERY LOTS:
The city of Wells shall have the power to convey cemetery lots by a conveyance
document approved by the board of councilmen. The purchaser of a cemetery lot
shall not acquire an estate in fee. The interest acquired shall be an easement
or privilege of burial to be enjoyed so long as the cemetery continues to serve
as a burial ground, subject to municipal regulations and control and legally
revocable whenever the public necessity requires. (Ord. 190, 7-25-2000)
6-9-7: FEES:
The cemetery lots shall be sold and the interment and disinterment shall be
performed by the city of Wells according to a fee schedule set by resolution of
the city of Wells board of councilmen. The city shall perform the interment and
any disinterment. (Ord. 190, 7-25-2000)
6-9-8: IMPERVIOUS LINER:
All coffins interred in the Wells city cemetery shall be required to be placed
in a concrete liner or other liner of equivalent performance. (Ord. 190, 7-25-
2000)
6-9-9: USE DEFINED:
Cemetery lots shall be used only for the burial of the human dead. (Ord. 190,
7-25-2000)
6-9-10: FENCING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful to enclose any cemetery lot with a fence, wall or coping of any
kind. (Ord. 190, 7-25-2000)
6-9-11: SHRUBS, TREES AND FLOWERS PROHIBITED:
Grass shall be planted or grown on cemetery lots. Written approval shall be
obtained from the city manager and the cemetery caretaker prior to the planting
of any other trees, shrubs, flowers and vegetation and the area for planting so
designated and specified by the city manager and the cemetery caretaker. (Ord.
190, 7-25-2000)
6-9-12: PLASTIC, SILK OR OTHER ARTIFICIAL FLOWERS AND GLASS CONTAINERS
PROHIBITED:
No plastic, silk or other artificial flowers are allowed to be placed on
grassed portions of cemetery lots during the period of April 1 through October
31 each year, except for the period of the Friday immediately preceding
Memorial Day through the Tuesday immediately after Memorial Day. Plastic, silk
or other artificial flowers may be placed on headstones or cement bases at any
time. No glass containers are allowed to be placed on cemetery lots. (Ord. 190,
7-25-2000)
6-9-13: MONUMENT SPECIFICATIONS:
Monuments may not exceed thirty inches (30") in height. No monument, marker or
gravestone of any kind shall be placed or set in Wells city cemetery without
the prior approval of the method of setting or placing by the cemetery
caretaker. Upright monuments may be placed only at the head of the grave. One
additional flat stone will be allowed at the foot of the grave. It is unlawful
to cover any cemetery lot completely with cement, concrete, rock or other
foreign material. (Ord. 190, 7-25-2000)
6-9-14: EMERGENCY CLOSURE:
The Wells city manager and cemetery caretaker shall have the authority to
temporarily close the cemetery, or any portion thereof, at such times as they
may deem necessary to protect the cemetery, and in the best interest of the
city. (Ord. 190, 7-25-2000)
6-9-15: RECORDS OF OWNERSHIP:
The city shall keep full and complete records of the ownership of all lots in
the cemetery, of the burial capacity of each lot, sold and unsold, of the
location of each grave, of the names of the persons buried in each grave that
has been or shall hereafter be used, and of the date of burial of each. (Ord.
190, 7-25-2000)
6-9-16: CEMETERY ACCOUNTS:
The city shall keep full and detailed accounts of the receipts and expenditures
on account of the cemetery, and at least once a month shall turn over to the
city treasurer all monies collected on such account. (Ord. 190, 7-25-2000)
6-9-17: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be subject to penalty as set forth in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code. Each act in violation of any of the provisions
hereof shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 190, 7-25-2000)
TITLE 7
POLICE REGULATIONS
Offenses   1
Registration, Fingerprinting And Work Card Permits For Taxicab And Bar
Employees   2
Curfew   3
Convicted Persons, Regulations   4
Animal Control Code   5
Prohibiting Temporary Habitation Of Public Places Or Lands   6
Gaming Employees; Work Permits (Rep. by Ord. 204, 2-10-2004)   7
Antilitter Regulations   8
Commercial Breeders Of Dogs And Cats   9
CHAPTER 1
OFFENSES
SECTION:
7-1-1: Short Title
7-1-2: Definitions
7-1-3: Offenses Against The Person
7-1-4: Offenses Against Health And Safety
7-1-5: Offenses Against The Public Peace
7-1-6: Offenses Against Property
7-1-7: Malicious Mischief To Property
7-1-8: Offenses Against Morals
7-1-9: Electrical Interference
7-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the OFFENSES ORDINANCE OF THE
CITY OF WELLS. (Ord. 99, 6-8-1976)
7-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivations shall have the meanings herein. When not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
   CITY: The city of Wells.
   PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind. (Ord. 99, 6-8-1976)
7-1-3: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PERSON:
   A.   Assault: It shall be unlawful for any person to make an unlawful
attempt, coupled with the present ability, to commit a violent injury upon the
person of another.
   B.   Battery: It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully and unlawfully
use force or violence upon the person of another. (Ord. 99, 6-8-1976)
7-1-4: OFFENSES AGAINST HEALTH AND SAFETY:
   A.   Sale Of Cigarettes And Tobacco To Minors:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person or managing agent of any person
to sell, give away, or offer to sell cigarettes, cigarette paper or any tobacco
of any description to any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
      2.   Upon the written consent of the parent or guardian of the minor, the
person applied to may give or sell to the minor, for the use of the guardian or
parent, cigarettes, cigarette paper, or tobacco of any description. The written
request shall be kept on file by the seller or giver of the article so sold or
given away.
   B.   Minors Loitering In Places Where Alcoholic Beverages Are Sold:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person under twenty one (21) years of
age to loiter or remain on the premises of any saloon or bar where spirituous
or fermented liquors or wine are sold.
      2.   This subsection is not applicable to establishments wherein
spirituous, malt or fermented liquors or wines are served only in conjunction
with regular meals and where dining tables or booths are provided separate from
the bar or any grocery store or drug store where spirituous, malt or fermented
liquors or wine are not sold by the drink for consumption on the premises.
   C.   False Representation By A Minor To Obtain Intoxicating Liquors: It
shall be unlawful for any minor to falsely represent himself to be twenty one
(21) years of age in order to obtain any intoxicating liquor 1 .
   D.   Sale Of Intoxicating Liquor To Minors:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly do any of the
following acts:
         a.   Sell, give or otherwise furnish intoxicating liquors to any
person under the age of twenty one (21) years; or
         b.   Leave or deposit any intoxicating liquors in any place with the
intent that the same shall be obtained by any person under the age of twenty
one (21) years; or
         c.   Furnish, give or cause to be given away any money or thing of
value to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years with the knowledge
that the money or thing of value is to be used by the person under the age of
twenty one (21) years to purchase or procure any intoxicating liquor.
         d.   For the purpose of this subsection:
            (1)   "Intoxicating liquor" means beer, wine, gin, whiskey,
cordials, ethyl alcohol or rum, and every liquid or solid, patented or not,
containing one-half of one percent (0.5%) or more of alcohol by volume and
which is used for beverage purposes.
            (2)   "Knowingly" means that the person who did the prohibited act
had knowledge of the facts which constituted the act or omission prohibited,
and does not require knowledge of its unlawfulness. Knowledge of any particular
fact may be inferred from the knowledge from such other facts as should put an
ordinarily prudent man upon inquiry.
   E.   Barkeepers Allowing Minors To Remain In Bars: It shall be unlawful for
any proprietor, keeper or manager of a bar, saloon or resort where spirituous,
malt or fermented liquors or wines are sold to knowingly allow or permit any
person under the age of twenty one (21) years to remain therein.
This subsection is not applicable to establishments where such liquors are
served in conjunction with regular meals and where dining tables or booths are
provided separate from the bar or grocery stores or drug stores where such
liquors or wines are not sold by drink for consumption on the premises. (Ord.
99, 6-8-1976)
   F.   Minors; Possession Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any minor to
have in his or her possession within the city any liquor of any type or kind.
Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to prohibit the sale of intoxicating
liquor by a minor when such a minor is employed in a retail food store and
makes a sale of liquor in a container or receptacle, which is corked or sealed,
while under the actual supervision of a person over the age of twenty one (21)
years who is an owner or employee of the retail food store.
For the purposes of this subsection, "minor" shall mean any person under the
age of twenty one (21) years. (Ord. 109, 10-23-1979)
   G.   Discharge Of Firearm In A Public Place: It shall be unlawful for any
person to wilfully, maliciously, or wantonly, discharge or cause to be
discharged any pistol, gun or any kind of firearm, in or upon any public street
or thoroughfare or in any theater, hall, store, hotel, saloon, or any public
place, or throw any deadly missile in any public place, or any place where any
person might be endangered thereby although no injury actually results from
such act or acts.
   H.   Aiming Or Discharging Of Firearm In A Public Place: It shall be
unlawful for any person to aim any gun, pistol, revolver or other firearm,
whether loaded or not, at or toward any human being or to wilfully discharge
any firearm, air gun or other weapon or throw any deadly weapon or missile in
any public place or any place where any person might be endangered thereby
although no injury actually results from such act or acts.
   I.   Possession Of Firearms By Minors Under Fourteen: It shall be unlawful
for any minor under the age of fourteen (14) years to handle or have in his
possession or under his control, unless accompanied by or under the immediate
charge of an adult, any firearm of any kind regardless of the purpose for which
he possesses said firearm.
   J.   Sale Of Certain Firearms To Minor Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for
any person to sell or give to another under the age of eighteen (18) years
either a pistol, revolver or a firearm capable of being concealed upon the
person. All firearms having a barrel less than twelve inches (12") in length
are deemed to be "firearms capable of being concealed upon the person".
   K.   Drawing A Deadly Weapon In A Threatening Manner:
      1.   Any person having, carrying or procuring from another person any
knife in excess of two inches (2"), razor blade, sword, pistol, gun, or other
similar type deadly weapon, who shall, in the presence of two (2) or more
persons, draw or exhibit any of such deadly weapon in a rude, angry or
threatening manner, not in necessary self-defense, or who shall in any manner
use the same in any fight or quarrel, shall be guilty of an unlawful act.
      2.   No peace officer shall be held to answer, under the provisions of
subsection A of this section, for drawing or exhibiting any of the weapons
mentioned therein while in lawful discharge of his duties.
   L.   Removal Of Doors From Discarded Refrigerators:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to discard or abandon, in any
place accessible to children, or have in his possession, any refrigerator,
icebox, or deep freeze locker, having a capacity of one and one-half (11/2)
cubic feet or more which is no longer in use and which has not had the door
removed.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly permit an abandoned
or discarded refrigerator, icebox or deep freeze locker as described in
subsection A of this section to remain on premises under his control without
having the door removed.
      3.   The provisions of this subsection shall not be applicable to any
vendor or seller of a refrigerator, icebox or deep freeze locker who keeps or
stores such item for sale purposes, if the vendor or seller takes reasonable
precautions to secure effectively the door of any such refrigerator, icebox or
deep freeze locker so as to prevent entrance by children small enough to fit
therein.
   M.   Malicious Destruction Of Police Or Fire Alarm Signals: It shall be
unlawful for any person to wilfully and maliciously remove, damage, or destroy
any rope, wire, bell, signal, instrument or apparatus for the communication of
alarms of fire or police calls.
   N.   Interference With Police Department:
      1.   Resisting An Officer: It shall be unlawful for any person to resist
any police officer, any member of the police department or person duly
empowered with police authority while in the discharge or apparent discharge of
his duty or in anyway interfere with or hinder him in the discharge of his
duties.
      2.   Escape, Assisting Escape: Any person who offers or endeavors to
assist any person in the custody of a police officer, a member of the police
department, or a person duly empowered with police authority, to escape or to
attempt to escape from such custody shall have committed an unlawful act.
      3.   Impersonating An Officer: Any person, other than an official police
officer of the city, who wears or carries the uniform, apparel, badge,
identification card or any other insignia of office like or similar to or a
colorful imitation of that adopted and worn or carried by official police
officers of the city, shall have committed an unlawful act.
   O.   Swimming Or Bathing In Public Waters: It shall be unlawful for any
person to swim or bathe in the water of the city reservoirs or other public
water storage areas. (Ord. 99, 6-8-1976)
   P.   Fireworks Sale, Use Or Possession: It shall be unlawful for any person
or persons to sell, use, possess, discharge, explode or cause to be discharged
or exploded, any firecrackers, cherry bombs, Roman candles or sky rockets at
any place within the boundaries of the city.
Public demonstrations or displays of fireworks by organized groups and
associations having firefighting equipment available at the time of display or
demonstration are hereby excepted from the provisions of this section. (Ord.
126, 4-26-1983)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  3-3-13C of this code.
7-1-5: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC PEACE:
   A.   Disturbing The Peace: Every person who shall maliciously or wilfully
disturb the peace or quiet of any neighborhood or person or family by loud or
unusual noises, or by challenging to fight or fighting, shall have committed an
unlawful act.
   B.   Assembling To Disturb The Peace: It shall be unlawful for two (2) or
more persons to assemble for the purpose of disturbing the public peace or
committing an unlawful act or who do not disperse on being commanded or
directed so to do by a municipal judge, city police officer, sheriff, coroner
or other public officer.
   C.   Provoking Commission Of Breach Of Peace: It shall be unlawful for any
person by word, sign or gesture to wilfully provoke or attempt to provoke
another person to commit a breach of peace.
   D.   Agreeing To Fight In A Public Place: It shall be unlawful for two (2)
or more persons, by agreement, to fight in a public place in such a manner as
to cause fear or terror to other persons in or about such public place.
   E.   Unlawful Assembly: It shall be unlawful for two (2) or more persons to
assemble together to do an unlawful act.
   F.   Disturbing Lawful Meeting: It shall be unlawful for any person, without
authority of law, to wilfully disturb any lawful assembly or meeting.
   G.   Commission Of Acts On Public Grounds Or Buildings Interfering With
Peaceable Conduct Of Activities:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any acts in any public
building on public grounds surrounding such building which interferes with the
peaceful conduct of activities normally carried on in such building or on such
ground.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to leave a public
building or public grounds which surrounds such building upon request by proper
officials after such person has committed an act referred to herein.
      3.   For the purpose of this subsection the following shall be defined
as:
   PROPER OFFICIAL: The person or persons designated by the administrative
officer or board in charge of such building.
   PUBLIC BUILDING: Any building used for any public purpose which is owned by
the state of Nevada, Elko County, Elko County School District or the city of
Wells.
   H.   Vagrancy: Any person who engages in any of the following acts shall
have committed an unlawful act deemed as "vagrancy":
      1.   Solicits anyone to engage in or who engages in lewd conduct in any
public place or in any place open to the public or exposed to public view.
      2.   Accosts other persons in any public place or any place open to the
public for the purpose of begging or soliciting free items for himself.
      3.   Keeps a place where lost or stolen property is concealed.
      4.   Loiters in or about any restroom area open to the public for the
purpose of engaging in or soliciting any unlawful act.
      5.   Loiters or wanders upon the streets or from place to place without
any apparent reason or business and who refuses to identify himself and account
for his presence when requested by any police officer so to do, so long as the
surrounding circumstances are such as to indicate to a reasonable man that the
public safety demands such an identification.
      6.   Loiters, prowls or wanders upon the private property of another, in
the nighttime, without visible or lawful business with the owner or occupant
thereof.
      7.   Lodges in building, structure or place, whether public or private,
without the permission of the owner entitled to possession or in control
thereof. (Ord. 99, 6-8-1976)
7-1-6: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY:
   A.   Petit Larceny: It shall be unlawful for any person to take and carry
away, or lead, or drive away the personal property of another, which property
has a fair market value of less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) with the
intent to permanently deprive the owner thereof.
   B.   Petit Larceny By Lodger: It shall be unlawful for any lodger to take
and carry away, with the intent to permanently deprive the owner of bedding,
furniture, or other goods which the lodger has been given to use in connection
with his lodging, so long as the value of the property taken does not exceed
one hundred dollars ($100.00) in fair market value.
   C.   Injuring Or Tampering With A Motor Vehicle: Any person who shall
wilfully break, injure, tamper with, set in motion or remove any part or parts
of any vehicle for any purpose without the consent of the owner or possessor of
such vehicle or who shall in any manner wilfully or maliciously interfere with
or prevent the running or operation of such vehicle shall have committed an
unlawful act so long as the loss, if any, by such act or acts is not in excess
of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
   D.   Throwing Or Propelling Substances Or Objects At Motor Vehicles: It
shall be unlawful for any person to throw, discharge, cause to be discharged or
propel any object of any nature, or any substance, at any motor vehicle.
   E.   Receiving Stolen Property: Every person who, for his own gain, or to
prevent the owner from again possessing his property, shall buy, receive,
possess or withhold stolen goods, or anything, the stealing of which is
declared to be larceny or property obtained by robbery, burglary or
embezzlement, which property has a fair market value of less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) knowing the same to have been so obtained; or under such
circumstances as should have caused a reasonable man to know that such goods or
property were so obtained, shall have committed an unlawful act.
   F.   Embezzlement:
      1.   Any bailee of any money, goods or property, whose fair market value
is less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) who shall convert the same to his
own use, with the intent to steal the same or defraud the owner or owners
thereof or any agent, manager, or clerk of any person or any person with whom
any money, property or effects shall have been deposited or entrusted, who
shall use or appropriate such money, property or effects or any part thereof in
any manner or for any purpose other than that for which the same was deposited
or entrusted shall have committed an unlawful act.
      2.   The term "bailee", as used in this subsection, shall be construed to
include any and all persons with whom any money, goods or property has been
deposited and all persons to whom any goods or property shall be loaned or
hired, and all persons to whom any goods or property shall be delivered for any
purpose whatsoever, and all persons, who shall, either as agent, collector, or
servant, be empowered, authorized or entrusted to carry, collect or receive any
money, goods or property of another.
   G.   Use Of False Identification Cards By Minors: It shall be unlawful for
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to use any form of false
identification, or to use the identification of a person other than himself,
for the purpose of entering or remaining in a gambling establishment or for the
purpose of obtaining alcoholic liquor or entering or remaining in a place where
alcoholic liquor is served for consumption on the premises.
   H.   Trespass Onto Land Or Into A Building Of Another:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to go upon the land or into any
building of another with intent to vex or annoy the owner or occupant thereof
or to commit any unlawful act, or to wilfully go or remain upon any land or any
building after having been warned by the owner or occupant thereof not to enter
or remain thereon. Where a warning is required, the warning will be deemed
sufficient if it is as follows:
         a.   The area is fenced with a barrier sufficient to indicate an
intent to restrict the area to human ingress, including, but not limited to, a
wall, hedge or chainlink or wire meshed fence; or
         b.   Signs legibly printed or painted in the English language, warning
persons not to trespass, which are posted in a conspicuous manner upon or near
the boundary of the property at intervals of not more than seven hundred feet
(700'); or
         c.   Verbal or written communication in the English language by the
owner or possessor of the land or building indicating to the person in question
that he is not to enter or remain upon the land or in the building.
   I.   Loitering About Schools Or Public Places Where Children Congregate: A
person who, without legitimate reasons to supervise any such children or other
legitimate reason to be at leisure in such place, loiters about any school or
public place at or near which children attend or normally congregate shall have
committed an unlawful act. (Ord. 99, 6-8-1976)
7-1-7: MALICIOUS MISCHIEF TO PROPERTY:
   A.   Destruction Or Damage To Gardens Or Trees: It shall be unlawful for any
person to wilfully and maliciously injure or destroy any fruit, shade or
ornamental tree standing on the land of another; or to injure or destroy any
shrub, tree, vine or garden produce grown or growing on the land of another.
   B.   Damage To Public Or Other Buildings: It shall be unlawful for any
person to wilfully and maliciously damage or deface any building or part
thereof or to injure or destroy the door or window of any dwelling, house,
shop, store or other house or building.
   C.   Damage To Fences Or Gates: Any person who shall wilfully and unlawfully
injure or destroy any gate, post, railing or fence or any part thereof, the
damage of which does not exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) in value,
shall have committed an unlawful act.
   D.   Removal Of Soil From City Lots Without Consent: It shall be unlawful
for any person to wilfully and maliciously take or carry away any earth, soil
or stone without lawful authority or consent, from any lot or land in the city
of Wells.
   E.   Damage To Telephone Or Power Line Insulators: It shall be unlawful for
any person to wilfully and maliciously damage or destroy in any manner, any
telephone or electric power line insulators or any other public utility power
line insulator or telephone or power line cable, where such damage does not
exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) in value.
   F.   Damage To Monuments In Public Places: Any person who shall wilfully and
maliciously remove, damage or destroy a monument erected in any cemetery,
street, park or other place within the city shall have committed an unlawful
act should the damage of said act or acts not exceed two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00).
   G.   Illegal Posting Of Billboards: It shall be unlawful for any person to
wilfully and unlawfully do any of the following act or acts:
      1.   Without the consent of the owner, agent or occupant of the premises
or property, attach, in any manner, any printed bill, signboard, show poster or
other similar communication upon any fruit tree or ornamental tree, fence,
wall, house, shop or building.
      2.   Without a written permit from the board of councilmen of the city,
attach in any manner, any printed bill, signboard, show poster or other similar
form of communication upon any public building, monument, grave stone,
ornamental tree or other object or property under the supervision of the city
board of councilmen. (Ord. 99, 6-8-1976)
7-1-8: OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS:
   A.   Contributory Delinquency And Neglect Of Children:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit an act or omit the
performance of duties, which act or omission causes or tends to cause or
encourage any person under the age of eighteen (18) to become or remain a
"neglected child" or a "child in need of supervision" or a "delinquent child",
or which act or omission contributes thereto. A contributory act or omission
may be in the form of, but not limited to, a threat, command, persuasion,
inducement or attempt to induce. As used herein, a "neglected child",
"delinquent child", or "child in need of supervision" means any person less
than eighteen (18) years of age:
         a.   Who has no parents or guardians; or who has no parent or guardian
willing to exercise or capable of exercising proper parental control; or who
has no parent or guardian actually exercising such proper parental control, and
who is in need of such control.
         b.   Who is destitute or who is not provided with the necessities of
life by his parents, and who has no other means of obtaining such necessities.
         c.   Whose home is an unfit place for him, by reason of neglect,
cruelty or depravity of either of his parents, or his guardians or other person
in whose custody or care he is.
         d.   Who is living in any house of prostitution.
         e.   Who unlawfully visits a saloon or bar where any intoxicating
liquor or beer is sold, exchanged or given away.
         f.   Who habitually uses intoxicating liquor or who uses opium,
cocaine, morphine, marijuana, lysergic acid, or similar drugs without the
direction of a competent physician.
         g.   Who persistently or habitually refuses to obey the reasonable and
proper orders or directions of his parents, guardian or custodian; or who is
beyond the control of such person.
         h.   Who habitually fails to attend school without an excuse
acceptable to his teacher or principal.
         i.   Who writes or uses vile, obscene, profane or indecent language,
or is guilty of indecent, immoral or lascivious conduct.
         j.   Who violates any law of this state or any ordinance of any town,
city or county of this state defining crime.
      2.   A charge against any person under this subsection may, for
convenience, be termed "contributory delinquency".
   B.   Obscene, Threatening Or Annoying Telephone Calls:
      1.   Any person who wilfully makes a telephone call and directs any
obscene language, representation or suggestion to or about any person receiving
such call or addresses to such other person any threat to inflict injury to the
person or property of the person so addressed or any member of his family has
committed an unlawful act.
      2.   Every person who makes a telephone call with intent to annoy another
person has, whether or not the conversation ensued from making the telephone
call, committed an unlawful act.
      3.   Any violation of subsections B1 and B2 of this section is committed
at the place at which the telephone call or calls were made and at the place at
which the telephone call or calls were received and may be prosecuted at either
place, but not both. (Ord. 99, 6-8-1976)
7-1-9: ELECTRICAL INTERFERENCE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly maintain, operate or
cause to be operated any machine, device, apparatus or instrument of any kind
whatsoever or any electrical lines or plants of any description, within the
corporate limits of the city, the operation of which will reasonably cause
preventable electrical interference with radio and television reception within
said municipal limits. All such electrical lines or plants or machines,
devices, apparatus or instruments may be used if the same are properly equipped
to avoid all unnecessary or reasonably preventable interference with radio and
television reception and are not negligently operated.
   B.   This section shall not be held or construed to embrace or cover the
regulation of any transmitting, broadcasting or receiving instrument,
apparatus, or device used or useful in interstate commerce, or the operation of
which instrument, apparatus, or device is licensed or authorized by or under
the provisions of any act of congress of the United States.
   C.   The duly appointed city manager of the city shall be ex officio radio
inspector and shall have power at all times to conduct investigations in the
city to ascertain whether or not any machine, device, apparatus or instrument
of any kind is causing interference with radio or television reception and
shall be empowered with police authority to make such search and investigation
as is necessary to carry out the intent of this section.
   D.   It shall be the duty of any person owning or controlling or operating
any machine, device, apparatus or instrument of any kind, within the limits of
the city which is interfering with radio or television reception, to equip the
same with a filter or contrivance which will eliminate said interference with
radio and television reception, upon being notified to do so by the city
manager. (Ord. 37, 2-9-1954; amd. Ord. 123, 4-27-1982; 1982 Code)
CHAPTER 2
REGISTRATION, FINGERPRINTING AND WORK CARD PERMITS FOR TAXICAB AND BAR
EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definitions
7-2-2: Registration And Fingerprinting Required
7-2-3: Registration And Fingerprint Information
7-2-4: Qualifications For Work Card Permits
7-2-5: Unlawful To Be Employed As An Employee Without A Work Permit
7-2-6: Application, Fingerprints, Photograph, Temporary Work Permit, Denial,
Approval, Renewal And Revocation Of Work Permits And Fees
7-2-7: Appeals
7-2-8: Penalties
7-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES: Any and all distilled or rectified spirits, potable
alcohol, brandy, whiskey, rum, gin, aromatic bitters, beer, wine and every
liquid or solid containing alcohol capable of being consumed by a human being.
   EMPLOYEES OF LIQUOR ESTABLISHMENTS: Bartenders, waiters and any other person
who serves alcoholic beverages to patrons for consumption on the premises, save
and excepting the employees of cafes and restaurants.
   TAXI STANDS: Includes all persons who own and/or drive any motor vehicle or
conveyance used in the city for the purpose of transporting persons for hire,
save and except those persons employed for hire to transport persons in
interstate traffic exclusively.
   TEMPORARY WORK PERMIT: A work permit which is valid only for a period not to
exceed thirty (30) days from its date of issue and is not renewable.
   WORK PERMIT: Any card, certificate or permit issued by the board or by the
chief of police of the city, authorizing the employment of the holder as a
taxicab, bartender or waiter employee. (Ord. 207, 7-13-2004)
7-2-2: REGISTRATION AND FINGERPRINTING REQUIRED:
   A.   Policy Declared: It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city, as
herein expressed by the board of councilmen, that the safety, morals, good
order and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city will be better
protected and served by requiring the registration with the police department,
and the fingerprinting of all employers and employees of taxi stands and
employers and employees of establishments where alcoholic beverages are sold at
retail and served on the premises.
   B.   Owners And Operators; Requirements: It shall be unlawful for any person
to own and/or operate a bar or other establishments where alcoholic beverages
are sold at retail on the premises, or taxi stands, unless such person shall
first have registered his name and address with the police department and shall
have had their fingerprints taken and filed with the police department.
   C.   Employee Requirements: It shall be unlawful for any person to accept
employment as a driver or operator of any taxicab, or in any establishment
where "alcoholic beverages", as defined in this chapter, are sold at retail and
consumed on the premises unless such person shall first have registered his
name and address with the police department and shall have had his fingerprints
taken and filed with the police department.
   D.   Owner Or Operator Hiring Requirement: It shall be unlawful for any
person operating a taxi stand or an establishment where alcoholic beverages are
sold at retail for consumption on the premises, to employ any person required
to register with the police department by terms of this chapter, unless such
person shall have so registered with the police department and had his
fingerprints taken and filed with the police department. (Ord. 207, 7-13-2004)
7-2-3: REGISTRATION AND FINGERPRINT INFORMATION:
The police department shall send a copy of fingerprints obtained pursuant to
this chapter to the bureau of identification of the state and one copy to the
identification bureau of the federal bureau of investigation at Washington,
D.C., with the request that all information as to the previous record, if any,
of such person be transmitted to the chief of police. (Ord. 207, 7-13-2004)
7-2-4: QUALIFICATIONS FOR WORK CARD PERMITS:
It is necessary that the city ascertain and keep itself informed of the
identity, prior activities and present location of taxicabs and bar business
employees in the city; and require the registration with the police department
and the fingerprinting of such employees; and to require the chief of police to
investigate the background and qualifications of each applicant for a work
permit under this chapter, before any such work permit is granted. The
following persons are declared to be unqualified, disqualified or unsuitable
persons to be granted or to hold such employee work permits under the
provisions of this chapter:
   A.   A person who, within the past ten (10) years, has been convicted of:
      1.   A felony or of any crime which, under the laws of this state is
punishable as a felony;
      2.   In this state, or elsewhere, of any crime of which fraud or intent
to defraud was an element;
      3.   Larceny in any degree;
      4.   Buying or receiving stolen property;
      5.   Unlawful entry of a building;
      6.   Unlawful possession, use, selling, dispensing, exchanging,
supplying, giving away or distribution of any controlled substance, as that
term is defined in the uniform controlled substance act, or any dangerous drug,
as that term is defined by Nevada Revised Statutes, or of a narcotic drug;
      7.   Any sex offense or crime involving moral turpitude;
      8.   The violation of any law, whether the same is or is not punishable
as a felony, regulating or prohibiting the use, carrying, possession or
ownership of any concealed weapon or deadly weapon;
   B.   A person under the age of twenty one (21) years;
   C.   A person who the chief of police determines is not a suitable person to
receive a work permit under the provisions of this chapter, having due
consideration for the proper protection of the public health, safety, morals,
good order and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city. (Ord. 207, 7-13-
2004)
7-2-5: UNLAWFUL TO BE EMPLOYED AS AN EMPLOYEE WITHOUT A WORK PERMIT:
It is unlawful for any person to be employed as such an employee unless such
person is the holder of a valid, current work permit issued in accordance with
this chapter. (Ord. 207, 7-13-2004)
7-2-6: APPLICATION, FINGERPRINTS, PHOTOGRAPH, TEMPORARY WORK PERMIT, DENIAL,
APPROVAL, RENEWAL AND REVOCATION OF WORK PERMITS AND FEES:
   A.   Application: Application for a work permit shall be submitted to the
chief of police in writing, under oath, setting forth the following
information: applicant's name, age, present permanent residence address, a list
of all residences for the past five (5) years prior to the date of such
application, a list of the names and addresses of all employers of the
applicant and of all jobs, occupations and businesses of the applicant for the
past five (5) years prior to the date of such application, a list of all
convictions within the past ten (10) years next preceding the date of filing
the application of those crimes enumerated in section
7-2-4 of this chapter.
   B.   Fingerprints And Photograph: At the time of filing such written
application, the applicant shall submit to the taking of his or her
fingerprints and photograph for use in processing the application and for
filing in the records of the Wells police department.
   C.   Temporary Work Permit: Whenever any person applies for the issuance or
renewal of a work permit under this chapter, the chief of police may, in the
discretion of the chief of police, issue a temporary work permit.
   D.   Duties Of Chief Of Police; Revocation: The chief of police shall:
      1.   Receive and process the applications for work permits provided in
this chapter.
      2.   Take or cause to be taken fingerprinting and photographs of all
applicants.
      3.   Investigate the qualifications of all applicants for work permits
under this chapter and grant or deny such application within forty five (45)
days from the date such application is filed.
      4.   The chief of police shall deny any application made by any applicant
who does not meet the requirements of this chapter, or who has failed to
disclose, misstated or otherwise misled the chief of police in respect to any
facts or statement contained within the application, or who has refused or
neglected to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter.
      5.   The chief of police may revoke any work permit issued under this
chapter when it shall appear to the satisfaction of the chief of police that:
         a.   The holder of the work permit has, subsequent to the issuance of
the work permit, been convicted of any of the crimes or offenses specified in
section
7-2-4 of this chapter;
         b.   The holder of the work permit failed to disclose, misstated or
otherwise misled the chief of police in respect of any fact or statement
contained in his or her application for a work permit;
         c.   The holder of the work permit refuses or neglects to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Fee; Renewal: Every person applying for a work permit under the
provisions of this chapter shall pay, at the time of application, the sum, as
set by resolution of the board of councilmen, as a condition precedent to
having issued to him or her the work permit provided in this chapter. Every
person who has been issued a work permit pursuant to this chapter must have
that work permit renewed every five (5) years thereafter and/or upon any change
at any time of place of employment, and/or upon any change of name, and such
work permit shall expire every five (5) calendar years from the date of
issuance. A holder of a work permit must apply for renewal of the permit from
the chief of police within ten (10) days following any change of place of
employment or change of name. Every person issued a work permit pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, seeking a replacement for reissuance of an original
work permit previously issued to him or her, because of a change of place of
employment and/or upon any change of name, shall not be required to pay an
additional fee. Every person holding a work permit pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter seeking a renewal of the original work permit previously issued
to him shall, after expiration of five (5) calendar years from the date of
issuance, pay to the city the sum as set by resolution of the board of
councilmen, for such renewal work permit and shall, if requested by the chief
of police, submit to fingerprinting and/or photographing and/or submit such
portions of an application as the chief of police shall specify. Issuance of
renewal work permits shall not be automatic but shall be subject to such search
of the Wells police department records, the Nevada criminal justice information
records, and other law enforcement agency records and such background
investigation as the chief of police shall determine is necessary to determine
the applicant's qualifications to hold such work permit. All said fees are
nonrefundable.
   F.   Issuance Upon Compliance: Upon complying with the provisions of this
chapter, and meeting all qualifications required, the chief of police shall
issue the applicant a work permit under this chapter, subject to revocation as
provided in this chapter. (Ord. 207, 7-13-2004)
7-2-7: APPEALS:
Any person whose application for a work permit has been denied or revoked by
the chief of police may appeal to the board of councilmen of the city for a
hearing to show cause why the work permit should be issued or should not be
revoked. Such appeal must be filed with the city clerk on or before the
thirtieth day following such denial or revocation. Such appeal shall be heard
by the board within thirty (30) days after the appeal is filed. At such
hearing, the board shall receive such evidence and take such testimony as it
deems necessary. After such hearing, the board shall review the testimony taken
and any other evidence submitted and shall, within thirty (30) days from the
date of the hearing, announce its decision sustaining the denial or revocation
of the work permit. Such board may, by majority vote, upon evidence of the good
moral character and rehabilitation of the applicant, waive any of the
disqualifications stated in section
7-2-4 of this chapter, and condition or restrict any such waiver having due
consideration for the proper protection of the public health, safety and
general welfare of the inhabitants of the city. The filing of such appeal shall
constitute consent by the applicant to use all criminal histories, records and
information that has been acquired or compiled in connection with the
application and the action taken thereon. (Ord. 207, 7-13-2004)
7-2-8: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in title 1, chapter 4
of this code. Each day's violation of the provisions of this chapter may be
deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 207, 7-13-2004)
CHAPTER 3
CURFEW
SECTION:
7-3-1: Minors' Curfew; Hours
7-3-2: Parent Responsibility
7-3-3: Enforcement Authority
7-3-4: Violations; Penalty
7-3-1: MINORS' CURFEW; HOURS:
It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of eighteen (18) years to be
or remain upon any of the public streets or alleys of the city, or to be or
remain in or about any pool hall, soft drink parlor, hotel, theater, or other
place within the city after the hour of ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. on
Sundays, Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays, and the hour of twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight on Fridays and Saturdays, and before the hour of six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. of each day unless said minor, with the permission of his
parents, is at, on his way to, or returning from gainful employment. (Ord. 85,
6-13-1972)
7-3-2: PARENT RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be unlawful for any parent or parents, or guardian, having charge or
custody of any minor under the age of eighteen (18) years to permit or allow
said child or ward, to be or remain upon any of the public streets or alleys of
the city, or to be or remain in or about any pool hall, soft drink parlor,
hotel, theater, or other public place within the city after the hour of ten
thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. on Sundays, Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays and
Thursdays, and the hour of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on Fridays and
Saturdays, and before the hour of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on each day unless
such permission is given for the purpose of allowing said minor to be at, go
directly to, or to return directly from gainful employment. (Ord. 85, 6-13-
1972)
7-3-3: ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:
It is hereby made the duty of the chief of police of the city to carry out the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 44, 12-14-1956; amd. 1982 Code)
7-3-4: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Fine Or Imprisonment: Any minor eighteen (18) years of age and/or any
parent or parents, or guardian, violating the provisions of this chapter, shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof before the
municipal judge of the city shall be punished by a fine of not less than ten
dollars ($10.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) or by imprisonment
in the city jail not less than five (5) nor more than twenty (20) days, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
   B.   Violators Referred To Juvenile Court: Should it appear, upon the
hearing of any person charged with a violation of this chapter, that any child
under the age of eighteen (18) in his custody or under his control has violated
the provisions of this chapter, in disobedience to parent or parents, or
guardian, and that such child cannot be controlled by parents or guardian, it
shall then be the duty of the municipal judge of the city, before whom such
person is tried, to forthwith order the chief of police of the city to deliver
such child to the juvenile court of the county to be proceeded against as a
child under the laws of the state. (Ord. 44, 12-14-1956; amd. 1982 Code)
CHAPTER 4
CONVICTED PERSONS, REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Convicted Persons; Felonies; Definitions
7-4-2: Registration Required
7-4-3: Fingerprints Required
7-4-4: Change Of Residence
7-4-5: False Information Prohibited
7-4-6: Officers And Agencies, Use Of Information
7-4-1: CONVICTED PERSONS; FELONIES; DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Convicted Persons: Any person who has been or who shall hereafter be
convicted of a felony, or of any offense punishable as a felony, or in any
court of the state, or in any other state of the United States or in any
federal court in the United States or in any court of competent jurisdiction in
any territory belonging to the United States, or who has or who shall
hereafter, be convicted of a violation of any law in any other court, whether
municipal, county, state, federal or territorial court other than the courts of
the state of Nevada, which offense if committed in the state of Nevada would
have been a felony or which would have been punishable as a felony under the
laws of the state of Nevada; also any person who has been or is hereafter
convicted in the state of Nevada, or elsewhere, of the violation of any law
relating to the following subject or subjects.
   B.   Narcotics: Relating to or regulating the possession, distribution,
furnishing or use of any narcotics.
   C.   Concealed Weapons, Etc: Regulating or prohibiting the carrying or
possession of or ownership of any concealed weapon or deadly weapon, or any
weapons capable of being concealed, or regulating or prohibiting the possession
of, sale of or use of any device, instrument or attachment designed to or
intended to be used for the purpose of silencing the report of, or concealing
the discharge or flash of any firearm.
   D.   Tear Gas: Regulating or prohibiting the use, possession, manufacture or
compounding of tear gas or any other gas which may be used for the purpose of
temporarily or permanently disabling any human being.
   E.   Attempt Or Conspiracy To Commit Described Offenses: Any attempt to
commit, or any conspiracy to commit, any offenses described or referred to in
this section.
   F.   Drug Addicts: Any person who has been or is hereafter convicted of or
is hereafter adjudicated as a drug addict, as defined by the laws of any state,
shall also be deemed a convicted person.
   G.   Probation: In the event any person who is now, or who has been, or who
may hereafter be placed on probation for the committing of any of the above
enumerated offenses whose conviction is set aside in the manner provided by
law, shall not be deemed a convicted person. (Ord. 53, 12-13-1960)
7-4-2: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Residents, Information: Convicted persons residing in the city are to
register with the chief of police. The following information is to be shown:
      1.   True Name And Aliases: His true name and all aliases which he has
used or under which he is or may have been known.
      2.   Description Of Person: A full and complete description of his
person.
      3.   Character Of Crime: The kind, character and nature of each crime of
which he has been convicted; place where such crime was, or crimes were,
committed and the place of conviction of the same.
      4.   Name Under Which Convicted; Date: The name under which he was
convicted in each instance and the date thereof.
      5.   Name And Location Of Penal Institutions: The name, if any, and the
location of each prison, reformatory, jail or other penal institution in which
he was confined or to which he was sentenced.
      6.   Location And Address Of Residence, Etc: The location and address of
his residence, stopping place, living quarters or place of abode in the city,
that fact must be stated and the location and address of each given.
      7.   Statement Of Kind Of Residence: A statement of the kind of
residence, stopping place, living quarters or place of abode in which he
resides, whether the same is temporary or permanent and whether the same is a
private residence, hotel, apartment house, or building or structure.
      8.   Time Residence Has Been Occupied; Time Expected To Remain In City:
The length of time he has occupied such place of residence, stopping place or
place of abode, and the length of time he expects or intends to remain in the
city.
      9.   Form Of Statement; Further Information: All such statements to the
chief of police shall be made upon city forms therefor prescribed by the chief
of police. Such statements shall contain such other and further information as
may be required by the chief of police for the purpose of aiding and assisting
him in carrying into effect the provisions and intent of this chapter. (Ord.
53, 12-13-1960)
   B.   Forty Eight Hour Stay, Information:
      1.   Convicted persons remaining in city forty eight (48) hours are to
register. The following statement is required and additional information is to
be shown.
      2.   Every convicted person who enters and remains in the city for forty
eight (48) hours shall, within forty eight (48) hours after the expiration of
such forty eight (48) hour period, furnish to the chief of police, a written
statement on like form and containing all of the information required by the
written statement referred to in subsection A of this section and shall, in
addition thereto, state in writing in such statement the date that he entered
the state and each of his places of residences or abodes for the three (3)
month period next preceding the date of his arrival in the city. (Ord. 53, 12-
13-1960; amd. 1982 Code)
7-4-3: FINGERPRINTS REQUIRED:
Every convicted person shall, at the time of registering and furnishing the
information required by section
7-4-2 of this chapter, be fingerprinted by the chief of police, who shall cause
such fingerprints to be made a part of the record provided for by the foregoing
sections and section
7-4-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 53, 12-13-1960; amd. Ord. 123, 4-27-1982)
7-4-4: CHANGE OF RESIDENCE:
Any convicted person who is required to register under the provisions of this
chapter, who changes his place of residence, stopping place or living quarters
shall, within forty eight (48) hours after the changing of his place of
residence, stopping place or living quarters, notify the chief of police of
such fact, and furnish to the chief of police the new address of his new
residence, stopping place or living quarters, in the same manner and with the
same detailed information as is required in the filing of the original
statement under the provisions of section
7-4-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 53, 12-13-1960; amd. Ord. 123, 4-27-1982)
7-4-5: FALSE INFORMATION PROHIBITED:
Any person required by any provision of this chapter to furnish a statement who
shall in such statement give any false or fictitious address, or any address
other than a true address, or furnish in the making of any such report any
false, untrue or misleading information or statement relating to any
information required by any of the provisions of this chapter to be made or
furnished shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 53, 12-13-1960; amd. Ord.
123, 4-27-1982)
7-4-6: OFFICERS AND AGENCIES, USE OF INFORMATION:
The statements and fingerprints hereinbefore provided shall at all times be
kept by the chief of police in files maintained and kept by the chief of
police, and shall not be open to inspection by the public or by any person
other than the regularly appointed qualified and acting deputies and employees
in the office of the city attorney and of the chief of police. Copies of such
statements, and fingerprints may be transmitted to any office of sheriff or
chief of police in the state or to the head of any department of the state
engaged in the enforcement of any criminal law of this state, or to the head of
any federal law enforcement agency, or to any sheriff or chief of police of any
municipality or head of any other law enforcement agency, in any state or
territory outside of the state, when request is made in writing by such sheriff
or any other head of any law enforcement agency asking for the record of a
certain person, or for the record of a person whose fingerprints reasonably
correspond with the fingerprints submitted with such request, and stating that
such record is deemed necessary for the use of such law enforcement officer or
agency in or concerning the investigation of any crime or any person who is
accused of committing a crime which is reported to have been committed, and
further stating that the record will be used for such purposes. Nothing
contained in this chapter shall prevent the chief of police from furnishing to
the sheriff of any county, the chief of police of any municipality or the head
of any other law enforcement agency which maintains any system of registration
of convicted persons, copies of the statements required to be filed under the
provisions of this chapter, together with fingerprints of the person making
such statements when and if such sheriff, chief of police, or other head of any
law enforcement agency furnished to the city attorney and chief of police of
the city, copies of statements and fingerprints procured by him, and it is
hereby made the duty of the chief of police of the city to arrange for the
exchange of such information. (Ord. 53, 12-13-1960; amd. Ord. 123, 4-27-1982)
CHAPTER 5
ANIMAL CONTROL CODE
SECTION:
7-5-1: Short Title
7-5-2: Definitions
7-5-3: City Animal Shelter
7-5-4: Animal Control Officer
7-5-5: Animal Control Officer; Duties
7-5-6: Independent Contractor
7-5-7: Purchases For City Animal Shelter
7-5-8: Financial Accounting By Animal Control Officer
7-5-9: Dog License And Inoculation Required
7-5-10: Dog Collar; License Tag
7-5-11: Animals Running At Large
7-5-12: Animals Trespassing
7-5-13: Dogs And Cats In Heat
7-5-14: Dangerous Or Vicious Animals
7-5-15: Animal Attacking Person, Another Animal Or Fowl
7-5-16: Poisonous Snakes; Wild Animals
7-5-17: Places Where Animals And Fowl May Be Kept
7-5-18: Impounding
7-5-19: Notice To Owner; Redemption
7-5-20: Disposition Of Unclaimed, Unredeemed Or Infected Animals Or Fowl
7-5-21: Adoption And Disposition Of Impounded Dogs Or Cats
7-5-22: Adoption And Disposition Of Impounded Animals Or Fowl Other Than Dogs
Or Cats
7-5-23: Proceeds Of Redemption, Sales And Adoptions
7-5-24: Impounding Large Animals
7-5-25: Animal Noises; Nuisance
7-5-26: Unlawful Practices
7-5-27: Duty To Stop, Render Aid And Notice
7-5-28: Veterinarian Certificates And Tags
7-5-29: Penalties
7-5-30: Disposition Of Animals And Fowl Upon Request Of Owner Or Custodian
7-5-31: Appointment Of Rabies Control Authority; Ordinances Providing For
Rabies Control Program
7-5-32: Rabies Control Authority, Investigate Report Of Person Bitten By Rabies
Susceptible Animal; Ensure Proper Procedures Carried Out For Confinement,
Testing, Quarantine Or Euthanasia Of Biting Animal
7-5-33: Rabies Control Authority To Investigate Case Or Suspected Case Of
Animal Rabies; Authority Of Rabies Control Authority To Enter Private Property;
Destruction Of Head Of Rabies Susceptible Animal Prohibited
7-5-34: Management Of Animals That Have Bitten Persons; Responsibility Of Owner
For Costs Of Quarantine, Veterinary Care And Examination
7-5-35: Management Of Animals That Have Been In Close Contact With Animal
Suspected Or Known To Have Rabies; Responsibility Of Owner For Costs Of
Quarantine, Veterinary Care And Examination
7-5-36: Owner Required To Maintain Dog, Cat Or Ferret Currently Vaccinated;
Exemption By Licensed Veterinarian; Proof That Cat Or Ferret Currently
Vaccinated Or Exempted From Vaccination Required Before Entering State;
Impoundment; State Veterinarian Required To Review Revisions Of Recommendations
For Vaccination
7-5-37: Veterinarians, Issuance Of Certificate Of Vaccination And Rabies
Vaccination Tags; Cooperation With Investigation By Rabies Control Authority
7-5-38: Prohibited Activities On Private Property Involving Bat, Skunk,
Raccoon, Fox Or Coyote; Relinquishment Of Animal; Exemptions
7-5-39: Keeping Of Inherently Dangerous And Vicious Dogs
7-5-40:   Keeping Of Backyard Chickens
7-5-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the ANIMAL CONTROL CODE of the
city of Wells. (Ord. 161, 1-14-1992)
7-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates:
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: The person appointed by the chief of police of the
city with the approval of the city council for the purposes of enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter, together with his deputies and authorized
representatives.
   ANIMALS: All types of livestock, dogs and all other animals, both domestic
and wild, male and female, singular and plural.
   COMMERCIAL KENNEL: Any licensed establishment at which dogs are bred, raised
for sale, trained, rented, boarded, cared for or quarantined for profit,
excluding dental, medical or surgical care. This definition shall not apply to
the premises of a private dog fancier and the animals raised thereon.
   CRUELTY OR TORTURE: Every act of omission or commission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused to any animal.
   CUSTODIAN: Any person who has custody of any animal or permits the same to
be kept or to stay on or about such person's premises.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL: Any animal which shall bite, attempt to bite or have a
propensity to bite any human or animal except that any animal that bites or
attempts to bite any person or other animal unlawfully upon its owner's
premises or which is provoked or teased, shall not be deemed a dangerous
animal.
   DOG: Intended to mean both male and female.
   DOG FANCIER: Any person owning, keeping or possessing at one location on his
property in safe and adequate cages in a completely enclosed building up to six
(6) adult dogs or cats for the purpose of showing in recognized dog or cat
shows, field trials or obedience trials; for working or hunting; or for
improving the variety of breed in temperament or conformation with a view to
exhibition in shows or trials.
   FOWL: All fowl and poultry, domesticated and wild, male and female, singular
and plural.
   IMPOUND: Shall not include the voluntary turning in of any animal or fowl by
the owner or custodian of such animal or fowl.
   NEUTERED DOG: A dog, whether male or female, which has been surgically
rendered incapable of producing offspring as evidenced by a signed statement to
that effect by a licensed veterinarian.
   NONNEUTERED DOG: A dog, whether male or female, which has not been
surgically rendered incapable of producing offspring, as evidenced by a signed
statement to that effect by a licensed veterinarian.
   PET SHOP: Any profit making or commercial establishment, premises or part
thereof, maintained for the purchase, sale, exchange or hire of animals of any
type; except that the term shall not include livestock auctions.
   PUBLIC PLACES: Includes streets, alleys, public buildings, parks,
schoolyards, and all other property owned or controlled by the city of Wells,
county of Elko or state of Nevada or other public entities or private
businesses to which the public has access.
   RUNNING AT LARGE: Except as herein expressly provided, shall mean within the
city and off the premises of the owner or custodian of the animal or fowl, and
not accompanied by the owner, a member of the immediate family of the owner, or
the custodian of such animal or fowl, and controlled by a leash (not to exceed
8 feet) or at "heel" beside a competent person and obedient to that person's
commands.
   VETERINARIAN: A person who is validly currently licensed to practice
veterinary medicine in the state of Nevada or any other state. (Ord. 161, 1-14-
1992)
7-5-3: CITY ANIMAL SHELTER:
A public city animal shelter is hereby provided and established, and the same
shall be located at such place in the city as shall be fixed from time to time
by the animal control officer by and with the consent of the city council.
(Ord. 161, 1-14-1992)
7-5-4: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
The chief of police of the city may appoint a part time or full time animal
control officer, with the approval of the city council, who shall have police
power and shall hold his office during the pleasure of the city council. The
animal control officer, before entering upon his office, shall execute a good
and sufficient bond to the city, to be approved by the city council, in such
sum as the council may require, for the faithful performance of the duties of
the office. If at any time there should be no duly appointed and acting animal
control officer in the city, the duties of animal control officer shall be
performed by a police officer appointed by the chief of police. (Ord. 161, 1-
14-1992)
7-5-5: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER; DUTIES:
   A.   The animal control officer is hereby empowered to enforce all
provisions of this chapter and all laws of the state of Nevada relating to the
care, treatment, control, regulations and impounding of animals. The animal
control officer is further empowered to take up, impound and safely keep any
animal found to be in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   The animal control officer shall keep a true and complete record of the
number and description of all animals and fowl taken into his custody, with the
date of their receipt, and the date and manner of their disposal, with the fees
and charges collected on account of the animals and fowl, and the disposition
thereof. The record shall be kept in a book or books provided for that purpose,
which shall be the record book or books of the office of the animal control
officer, and shall not be removed therefrom. He shall also keep conspicuously
posted at the entrance to the city animal shelter, and in his office, a list of
all animals and fowl impounded and detained by him. He shall also provide
necessary subsistence for all animals and fowl while in his custody.
   C.   The animal control officer is hereby authorized and directed to impound
any animal kept or found on private or public property if such animal has been
observed by said animal control officer to be in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, or if such animal is being subjected to torture or
cruelty as defined in Nevada Revised Statutes 574.050. The officer should
exercise caution when utilizing this right of entry. Force must not be used to
enter private property which may cause damage or destruction to property or
bodily harm. If the owner, by some act, bars the officer's way onto the
premises, the officer should retire from the scene. The animal control officer
shall leave written notice of impoundment on the premises from which the animal
is taken at the time it is taken.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere or attempt to
interfere with the animal control officer or any police officer in the
performance of any duty imposed by the provisions of this chapter and every
person who shall unlawfully take or attempt to take any dog seized pursuant to
the provisions hereof from the custody of the animal control officer or any
police officer and every person who shall remove or attempt to remove from the
city animal shelter any dog, cat or other animal or fowl impounded therein,
without having first redeemed the same as provided, or obtained permission from
the animal control officer to do so, shall be subject to the penalties provided
by this chapter. (Ord. 161, 1-14-1992)
   E.   All animals, except guide dogs and other similarly necessary animals,
are prohibited from entering or remaining in buildings owned or leased by the
city of Wells and occupied by city employees or officers, whether or not such
animals are accompanied by a person in the care or custody of the animal. Any
city employee or officer may prohibit the entry of animals into such buildings
and such animals must be removed upon request. If any person subsequently
contests a decision not to allow his or her animal into a building, the matter
may be submitted in writing to the city manager, whose decision shall be final.
Any person violating this provision is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 195, 1-8-
2002)
7-5-6: INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR:
The city council of the city shall have the authority to provide for by
contract the maintenance and operation of the city animal shelter by an
independent contractor. (Ord. 161, 1-14-1992)
7-5-7: PURCHASES FOR CITY ANIMAL SHELTER:
Unless such powers are otherwise provided for by contract by the city council,
the animal control officer shall have the power to purchase, on the credit of
the city, all necessary forage or feed for impounded animals and fowl, and
shall certify to all accounts therefor which upon presentation to the city
council, if found correct, shall be ordered paid. (Ord. 161, 1-14-1992)
7-5-8: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING BY ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
It shall be the duty of the animal control officer to make each month, and file
with the clerk on or before the second Monday of each month, a sworn statement
of the business transacted by him in connection with the city animal shelter,
showing in detail all animals and fowl received, sold or handled by him,
together with a detailed statement under oath of all monies received and
expended by him, and it shall be his duty to turn into the city treasurer on or
before the fifth day of each month all monies received by him by virtue of the
office during the preceding month. The animal control officer shall not be
responsible for the reporting of any of these duties that have been otherwise
provided for by contract by the city council. (Ord. 161, 1-14-1992)
7-5-9: DOG LICENSE AND INOCULATION REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, harboring or having the
care, custody or possession of any dog to keep or maintain any such dog in any
place in the city, unless such dog is licensed and such dog is inoculated as
provided in this chapter. Further, a license to keep or maintain a dog within
the city may only be issued to a person eighteen (18) years of age or older, or
an emancipated minor. The responsibility for compliance with the provisions of
this chapter shall rest upon the head(s) of household at which a dog or other
animal is kept or maintained. A husband or wife, or two (2) or more adults
living together, or any adult at the location, may be jointly or separately
charged as heads of the household. A parent or guardian of a minor claiming
ownership of any animal shall be requested to appear and assume full
responsibility for any actions or omissions of the minor in any action for a
violation of this chapter. (Ord. 195, 1-8-2002)
   B.   No person shall keep more than three (3) dogs or three (3) cats over
six (6) months of age at any place, on any premises or in any one residence
located within the city, used or occupied by human beings without first
obtaining a dog or cat fancier's permit from the city. Said application for a
permit may be refused for a time to meet the requirements of subsection E of
this section. If the application is granted, said permit shall be issued with
such restrictions or on such conditions as may be deemed necessary or advisable
by the animal control officer to prevent the keeping of such dogs or cats from
becoming a nuisance and is subject to revocation for violation of the
restrictions or conditions. A dog or cat fancier's permit shall be issued for
an annual fee as set by resolution of the city council, which is not subject to
proration or refund. Any dog or cat fancier meeting the provisions of this
subsection and having a validly issued permit in his possession need not have
the property where the dogs or cats are maintained rezoned. A dog or cat
fancier may not in any event keep and maintain on his property more than six
(6) adult dogs or cats over the age of six (6) months. Such permit shall be for
a term of one calendar year.
   C.   Every person owning, operating or maintaining a commercial kennel and/
or pet shop within the city must first obtain a kennel and/or pet shop license
in addition to any business license required from the city to operate said
kennel and/or pet shop. The issuance of any license therefor shall at all times
be subject to planning and zoning regulations of the city; provided, however,
that this section as to the business license shall not apply to quarters
maintained by political entities for the purpose of using animals in law
enforcement or animal control or to quarters maintained by veterinarians for
the purpose of surveillance or treatment of animals on a temporary basis.
   D.   Any person required to obtain any permit under any of the provisions of
this section shall permit their premises to be inspected by the animal control
officer at reasonable times and the animal control officer shall approve the
permit if he finds all of the following to be true:
      1.   Keeping the dogs or cats at the location specified in the
application will not violate any ordinance, rule or regulation of the city or
any law of the state; and
      2.   The premises contain an adequate enclosure for keeping the dogs or
cats; and
      3.   Maintenance of the dogs or cats will not endanger the peace, health
or safety of persons residing in the city; and
      4.   The premises are capable of being maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition and any dog or cat therein will not be subject to neglect, cruelty or
abuse; and
      5.   Keeping and maintenance of the dogs or cats will not constitute a
nuisance.
   E.   Every person owning or having the care, custody or control of, or
maintaining any dog or dogs, six (6) months old or older in the city, shall pay
to the clerk of the city an annual license fee as set by resolution of the city
council for each neutered dog and each nonneutered dog. All owners of dogs said
to be neutered must have proof of neutering or a certificate from a
veterinarian. Such license shall be for the calendar year, or the parts thereof
remaining after the date such license is obtained and shall be payable in
advance.
No prorations or deductions shall be made on fractional parts of any year. All
dog licenses shall expire on December 31 of the year in which issued. The
annual license fee of dogs not previously licensed hereunder shall be due and
payable when such dog reaches six (6) months of age or upon acquiring ownership
or possession of an unlicensed dog six (6) months of age or older, or upon the
owner or custodian of any dog six (6) months of age or older establishing
residency in the city. If any dog license fee payable hereunder is not paid
within sixty (60) days from the date it became due, a penalty as set by
resolution of the city council shall be paid to the clerk with and in addition
to the regular annual license fee for such dog. It shall be the duty of the
person making application for any dog license to provide the clerk with the
name and address of the owner or custodian of such dog and the name, breed and
color of any dog owned or kept by the owner or custodian. Upon proof, by the
applicant for any dog license, of the inoculation herein required, the payment
of the proper annual license fee and any penalties applicable and upon
providing the information herein required, the clerk shall issue an appropriate
dog license stating the calendar year for which such license fee is paid, the
date of payment, the name and residence address of the persons to whom such
license is issued, and the description of the dog and shall issue a metal or
plastic tag number to correspond with the license or certificate with the
calendar year stamped thereon. If such dog tag shall be lost at any time prior
to the expiration date thereof, it shall be the duty of the owner or person
having control of the dog for which said lost tag was issued to procure a new
tag and pay a fee as set by resolution of the city council to the clerk.
   F.   All dogs or cats kept in the city limits of the city, six (6) months of
age or older, shall be inoculated by a veterinarian with an antirabies vaccine
approved by and at such intervals as may be prescribed by the Nevada department
of agriculture, provided that every dog or cat shall be reinoculated at not
more than thirty six (36) month intervals thereafter if inoculated with killed
vaccine. It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of any dog or cat to
keep or allow such dog or cat to remain within the city limits of the city
unless such dog or cat shall have been inoculated with antirabies vaccine by a
veterinarian at the time and in the manner specified in this chapter.
   G.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to dogs or cats owned by
or in the custody or in the control of persons who are nonresidents of the city
and are temporarily within the city for a period not to exceed fifteen (15)
days, nor to dogs or cats brought into the city exclusively for the purpose of
participating in any dog or cat show or exhibition, nor to a dog which has been
trained and is actually used to act as a guide for the blind, provided that no
such dog shall run at large in the city and no owner or custodian of such dog
shall permit the same to run at large in the city.
   H.   Dog tags and licenses shall not be transferable from one dog to another
and no refund shall be made on any dog license fee because of death of the dog
or the owner's leaving the city before the expiration of the license.
   I.   All proceeds collected under the provisions of this section for the
licensing of dogs and cats shall be deposited in the general fund of the city
and budgeted for the use and benefit of the animal shelter. (Ord. 161, 1-14-
1992; amd. Ord. 168, 4-27-1993)
7-5-10: DOG COLLAR; LICENSE TAG:
Every owner or custodian of a dog licensed under the provisions of this chapter
shall provide such dog with a suitable collar or harness around the neck or
forepart of the body of such dog to which the license tag issued by the city
and the required inoculation tag shall be affixed. It shall be unlawful for the
owner or custodian of any dog to permit or allow such dog to run at large or to
be on the streets or public places in the city unless such dog is collared or
harnessed with the city license tag and inoculation tag and any dog which is
not wearing the city license tag, inoculation tag and collar or harness as
herein provided shall be impounded and disposed of in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 161, 1-14-1992)
7-5-11: ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE:
The running at large of all animals in the city is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and is hereby prohibited.
Except as provided in section
8-1-6 of this code, it shall unlawful for any owner or custodian of any animal,
whether licensed or unlicensed under this chapter, to suffer, permit or allow
such animal to run at large within the city. For the purposes of this chapter
all animals within the city and off of the premises of the owner or custodian
and not in an automobile, trailer or similar confinement, or which is not
effectively restrained by leash, chain, strap or cord not exceeding eight feet
(8') in length attached to the collar or harness of such animal and held by
some person or made fast to some stationary object, or unless accompanied by
and under the control and direction of the owner, member of the immediate
family of the owner or custodian of such animal so as to be effectively
restrained by command, shall be deemed running at large and not under the
immediate control of the owner or a member of the immediate family of the
owner, or the custodian of such animal. (Ord. 161, 1-14-1992)
7-5-12: ANIMALS TRESPASSING:
Any person observing any animal at large may apprehend, capture or take up the
same by any reasonable and humane means any animal or fowl trespassing upon his
property to his injury or annoyance and immediately turn it over to the owner
or custodian or to the animal control officer or to any police officer of the
city who shall impound and dispose of such animal or fowl pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any person to turn over
any animal or fowl to the animal control officer or a police officer of the
city without revealing who the owner or custodian of such animal or fowl is, if
such person knows the identity of the owner or custodian. It shall be unlawful
for any person other than the animal control officer or any police officer in
the performance of their official duties to apprehend, capture to take up any
animal or fowl under the provisions of this chapter and retain possession or
control of the same for more than eight (8) hours. (Ord. 161, 1-14-1992)
7-5-13: DOGS AND CATS IN HEAT:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of any female dog or cat in
heat to keep such dog or cat in the city, unless the same is confined in a
boarding kennel or veterinary hospital or on the owner's property in a totally
enclosed area, during the entire period such dog or cat is in heat. Any female
dog or cat in heat which is not so confined is hereby declared a public
nuisance and may be apprehended and impounded and disposed of under the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 161, 1-14-1992)
7-5-14: DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   It shall be prima facie evidence that an animal is dangerous or vicious
when it has bitten or aggressively pursued or harassed any person, other than a
person who was trespassing upon the property of the owner or custodian of the
animal, or when it has attacked and bitten, injured or killed any livestock or
other domestic animal, or when it is an animal of dangerous or vicious
character, habit or disposition.
   B.   Whenever the owner of any animal has knowledge that such animal has
bitten a human being, he shall immediately notify the police department of the
incident, and confine such animal for a period of fourteen (14) days or until a
written release is secured from the animal control officer or a licensed
veterinarian. If the owner is not present, the animal control officer or any
police officer may seize such animal, whether on or off the owner's premises,
and such animal shall be impounded, at owner's expense, for observation and
shall not be released for a period of fourteen (14) days or until a written
release is issued by said animal control officer or licensed veterinarian. If a
dog has been impounded and the owner appears and claims the dog and satisfies
the animal control officer that he or she can and will adequately confine the
dog, the animal control officer shall release the dog to the owner who shall
confine the dog on their premises for the remainder of the fourteen (14) day
period.
   C.   If any animal so impounded develops rabies, or becomes vicious beyond
control, said animal shall be destroyed in a humane manner.
   D.   No person shall kill, or cause to be killed, any rabid animal, any
animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies, or any animal biting a human
except as herein provided, nor shall any person remove the same from the city
limits without written permission from the animal control officer.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly own or keep any
vicious or dangerous animal within the city. It shall be no defense to a
violation of this section that the owner has obtained a license for such
animal.
   F.   A person under the age of ten (10) who is not directly threatening or
harassing an animal shall not be deemed to be a trespasser even if such person
is on the property where the animal is kept without permission of the custodian
or owner.
   G.   A dog is dangerous or vicious when it has bitten any person, other than
a person who was trespassing upon the property of the owner or custodian of the
animal, or when it has attacked or has bitten, injured or killed any pet,
livestock or other domestic animal, or when it is an animal of dangerous or
vicious character, habit or disposition.
   H.   A dog is dangerous or vicious when due to aggressive nature, training
or characteristic behavior, it presents a risk of serious physical harm or
death to human beings, or would constitute a danger to human life, physical
well being, or property if not kept under the direct control of the owner. This
definition shall not apply to dogs utilized by law enforcement officers in the
performance of their duties.
   I.   A dog is dangerous or vicious when it has been used primarily or in
part for the purpose of dogfighting, or is a dog trained for dogfighting. (Ord.
195, 1-8-2002)
7-5-15: ANIMAL ATTACKING PERSON, ANOTHER ANIMAL OR FOWL:
It shall be lawful for any person to kill or destroy any dangerous or vicious
animal when it has attacked any person who is not trespassing on the premises
of the owner or custodian of such animal and it is necessary for the protection
of any person, or to prevent the killing or injuring of another animal or fowl
by such vicious animal. (Ord. 161, 1-14-1992)
7-5-16: POISONOUS SNAKES; WILD ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, have, raise, harbor or maintain
any poisonous or dangerous snake or reptile, or any dangerous or vicious wild
animal anywhere within the limits of the city, except when properly confined to
prevent escape and is within the city for the purpose of public display in any
circus, zoo or educational display, or is being used for medical purposes by a
hospital or medical laboratory. (Ord. 161, 1-14-1992)
7-5-17: PLACES WHERE ANIMALS AND FOWL MAY BE KEPT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, raise, harbor, care for, graze,
feed or maintain any one or more goats, hogs or swine within the city limits,
except for reasonable times at commercially licensed slaughterhouses and
meatpacking houses for slaughter purposes only. It shall be unlawful for any
person to keep, raise, graze, feed, harbor, maintain or care for any one or
more horses, cows, sheep, mules, poultry, turkeys, geese, fowl, hares or
rabbits or any other animals or birds, other than dogs, cats and household pets
and birds, anywhere within the city limits except in compliance with subsection
10-6-6G of this code.
Nothing herein shall be deemed to permit or authorize any person to keep,
raise, own, maintain or have any animal, bird or fowl in violation of any
covenant, restriction, declaration or prohibition relating to any land, title
or area of any zoning.
Provided, in the above described areas, no such animals or fowl shall be kept
or maintained so that they are within one hundred feet (100') of any dwelling
house (other than that occupied by the owner of such animal or fowl), any
public building, park, school or hospital, or any other public place.
Keeping, having or maintaining any such animals or fowl in areas prohibited by
this chapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and a danger to the
public health and safety.
The keeping of animals and fowl by the owner thereof in areas prohibited by
this chapter which existed at the time of enactment of this chapter may be
continued upon the following terms and conditions and until terminated as
herein provided:
   A.   A certificate of nonconforming use shall be issued by the clerk to all
such owners of animals or fowl upon written application by such owner for such
certificate. The clerk shall designate the form for such application, but shall
at least require a statement of the name and address of the owner, the place
where such animal or fowl is being kept and sufficient information to identify
all such animals or fowl. The clerk shall keep a record of all such
certificates issued.
   B.   No such nonconforming use shall be made or continue without such
certificate.
   C.   No certificate of nonconforming use shall be issued to permit the
keeping of any animal or fowl within one hundred feet (100') of any dwelling,
house (other than that occupied by the owner of such animal or fowl), any
public building, park, school grounds, hospital grounds or any other public
place.
   D.   No such certificate will be issued unless the animals or fowl are, at
all times, kept in an outbuilding, coop or runway which shall, at all times, be
kept clean, free from offensive odors, animal waste, rodents, flies or any
other offensive or unwholesome condition.
   E.   Such certificate shall terminate and thereby terminate the use
thereunder upon the happening of any one or more of the following:
      1.   Death of the person to whom the certificate is issued.
      2.   The termination or abandonment of such use by the person to whom the
certificate is issued.
      3.   The sale, removal, death or other disposition of the animals or fowl
to which the certificate relates.
      4.   The person to whom such certificate is issued moves from or vacates
the premises on which such animal or fowl is kept or maintained.
   F.   No certificates issued hereunder shall be transferable.
   G.   Application for such certificate must be made at the clerk's office
within two (2) months from the date of enactment of this chapter. Any person
who fails to make such application within such time shall be deemed to have
terminated and abandoned the keeping of all animals and fowl on their premises
in areas prohibited by this chapter, and no such further nonconforming use
shall be made. (Ord. 161, 1-14-1992)
7-5-18: IMPOUNDING:
It shall be the duty of the animal control officer and every police officer in
the city to apprehend, seize and take into custody any animal or fowl found
running at large or trespassing contrary to the provisions of this chapter, any
unlicensed dog, any dog which is not wearing the license and inoculation tag
required, any dog or cat in heat which is not confined as required by this
chapter, any other animal or fowl which under the provisions of this chapter
are to be impounded, and, subject to the provisions of this chapter relating to
large animals, dangerous animals and animals attacking persons or livestock, to
impound such animals or fowl in the city animal shelter or other suitable
place. When impounded, licensed dogs shall be separated from unlicensed dogs.
When dogs or cats are found running at large and their ownership is known to
the animal control officer, such dogs or cats need not be impounded, but the
agent may, at his discretion, cite the owners of such dogs or cats to appear in
court to answer to charges of violation of this chapter. (Ord. 161, 1-14-1992)
7-5-19: NOTICE TO OWNER; REDEMPTION:
Not later than one day after the impounding of any animal or fowl, the owner or
custodian of such animal or fowl shall be notified by the animal control
officer, or if the owner or custodian of such animal or fowl is unknown or
cannot be found, written notice shall be posted for seven (7) days at the Wells
city police station. The notices are to describe the animal or fowl and the
place and time of taking and place where impounded.
The owner or custodian of any dog or cat so impounded may reclaim such dog or
cat upon inoculation or proof of inoculation as in this chapter required, the
payment of the license fee and penalties, if any, for such animal if unpaid,
and all costs and charges incurred by the city for impounding and maintenance
of such dog or cat. Dogs and cats may not be adopted from the city animal
shelter unless the prospective owner shall agree in writing to have such animal
neutered. The city council, by resolution, shall set the minimum charges that
shall be paid to the city for the animal shelter fund for: impounding any dog
or cat, and for keeping any dog or cat; for giving notice and reclaiming; for
destroying any dog or cat upon written release and request of the owner; all
fees and charges that may have been incurred by the city to have such dog or
cat examined by a veterinarian together with the costs of any inoculation,
treatment, medications and drugs deemed necessary or advisable by such
veterinarian; and any costs of advertising and sale. If the animal is
unvaccinated, the owner shall also be required to pay an addition sum (said sum
to be set by the fees charged by licensed veterinarians) to the city animal
shelter, for which he shall obtain a receipt. Said receipt may be presented to
any licensed veterinarian of the city within seventy two (72) hours after the
time the dog is released to his custody and the veterinarian will administer
the required vaccination. Said veterinarian shall then bill the inoculation
charge authorized by the animal control officer's receipt to the city of Wells
through the Wells city clerk's office.
The owner or custodian of any animal or fowl, other than dogs and cats, so
impounded may reclaim such animal or fowl upon payment of all costs and charges
incurred by the city for impounding, maintaining and selling such animals or
fowl. The city council, by resolution, shall set the minimum impounding charges
payable to the city at the time of redemption, including the capture, control
and transportation of such animals or fowl, all costs and charges incurred by
the city in connection therewith; for impounding and giving notice thereof; for
keeping and feeding; all fees and charges that may have been incurred by the
city to have such animal or fowl examined by a veterinarian, together with the
costs of any inoculation, treatment, medications and drugs deemed necessary or
advisable by such veterinarian, and any costs of advertising and sale.
The animal control officer, or the city animal shelter, or any police officer
may require proof of ownership from any person attempting to redeem any animal
or fowl (as the owner or custodian thereof). (Ord. 161, 1-14-1992)
7-5-20: DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED, UNREDEEMED OR INFECTED ANIMALS OR FOWL:
It shall be the duty of the animal control officer to keep all animals and fowl
impounded under the provisions of this chapter for a period of not less than
seven (7) days, unless sooner redeemed, released by the owner or disposed of
pursuant to this chapter. If at the expiration of seven (7) days from the date
of notice to the owner or the posting of notice, any animal or fowl is
unclaimed it may be adopted as herein provided and if no person requests to
adopt such animal or fowl under the procedures herein provided, such animal or
fowl may be destroyed in a humane manner. Any animal or fowl which appears to
be suffering from rabies, mange or other infections or dangerous disease shall
not be released but may be forthwith destroyed by humane means. (Ord. 161, 1-
14-1992)
7-5-21: ADOPTION AND DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED DOGS OR CATS:
If a dog or cat is not redeemed within seven (7) days, then such dog or cat may
be destroyed in a humane manner under the direction of the animal control
officer; provided, however, that any such unredeemed dog or cat hereby
authorized for destruction may be adopted by any person requesting the same,
who shall pay a pound fee, as set by resolution of the city council, the
appropriate license fee as provided in section
 7-5-9 of this chapter, the cost of rabies vaccination and shall agree to have
the adopted dog or cat neutered or spayed. (Ord. 161, 1-14-1992)
7-5-22: ADOPTION AND DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS OR FOWL OTHER THAN DOGS
OR CATS:
All animals and fowl, other than dogs or cats impounded and not redeemed within
seven (7) days by the owner, whether domestic or wild, may be destroyed in a
humane manner, but such animal may be given or sold to any person who shall pay
the costs of impoundment and any costs and expenses incurred by the city in
connection with any such animal or fowl.
All animals and fowl other than dogs or cats impounded and not redeemed within
the seven (7) days provided herein, or destroyed pursuant to this chapter, may
be advertised for adoption by the animal control officer by written notice
posted conspicuously at the entrance of the city animal shelter and at the
Wells city police station. The notice of adoption shall be substantially in the
following form and describe the kind and number of animals and fowl to be
adopted, with a full description of each animal including, generally, color,
age, marks, brands and owner if known, together with the date and place taken
into custody.
   NOTICE OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER'S SALE FOR ADOPTION
Notice is hereby given to the owner or owners of the animals and fowl
hereinafter described, and to whomsoever it may concern; that there are
impounded at the present time in the City Animal Shelter the following
described animals and fowl:
   (DESCRIPTIONS)
If said animal(s) and fowl are not claimed and redeemed pursuant to Title 7,
Chapter 5 of the Wells City Code within seven (7) days from the date of this
Notice, the same will be sold for adoption by the Animal Control Officer or
Deputy Animal Control Officer, at public sale for adoption at
                           in the City, at the hour of                      on
                       day of                       ,             to the
highest bidder. Any and all bids may be rejected.
If any animal is branded or is wearing an identification collar or other means
of identification, a copy of the above notice shall be sent to the owner of
such brand as determined by the "Official Brand Book" of the state of Nevada,
as compiled by the Nevada state department of agriculture, to the person so
identified. If the brand or other means of identification is not legible or the
owner cannot be determined, such mailing may be dispensed with.
The animal control officer shall conduct the auction sale at the time and place
specified in such notice. At such sale, the animal control officer shall sell
such animals or fowl to the highest bidder for cash; provided, that if all bids
received for any animal or fowl shall be less than the charges for redemption
plus any and all further costs and expenses incurred by the city in connection
with any such animal or fowl and the expense of the sale, the animal control
officer may reject any and all bids. If no bids for such animal or fowl have
been properly accepted pursuant hereto, such animal or fowl may be destroyed or
sold at private sale or otherwise disposed of by the animal control officer,
the city to retain all proceeds therefrom. (Ord. 161, 1-14-1992)
7-5-23: PROCEEDS OF REDEMPTION, SALES AND ADOPTIONS:
All proceeds collected under the provisions of this chapter and all proceeds
from the sale, adoption or disposition of animals or fowl pursuant hereto,
shall be deposited in the general fund of the city and budgeted for the use and
benefit of the animal shelter. (Ord. 161, 1-14-1992)
7-5-24: IMPOUNDING LARGE ANIMALS:
The animal control officer is authorized to enter into any agreements necessary
to capture, control, transport, care for, feed and maintain large animals such
as horses, cows, sheep and other animals which cannot be maintained in the city
animal shelter when it becomes necessary to take them into custody or impound
them pursuant to this code. All expenses thus incurred are to be charged to the
owner or owners upon redemption.
Should the animal control officer or any police officer be called upon to take
into custody or impound any large animals such as horses, cows, sheep, mules or
any other animal which cannot be maintained in the city animal shelter and the
owner of such animal is known to such officer or the name of the owner or
custodian can be reasonably obtained, then such officer in his discretion may,
prior to apprehending or impounding any such large animal, contact such owner
or custodian or any agent or representative thereof and notify them to
immediately take such animals into custody and immediately remove such animals
from the city limits. If such owner or agent has not caused such animals to be
removed from the city limits within one day from such notification, then such
officer shall take possession of and impound such animals pursuant to this
chapter. (Ord. 161, 1-14-1992)
7-5-25: ANIMAL NOISES; NUISANCES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor or possess any animal
which, by loud or frequent habitual barking, howling, yelping, braying or other
noise, causes annoyance to the neighbors or to any person in the vicinity.
(Ord. 161, 1-14-1992)
7-5-26: UNLAWFUL PRACTICES:
Except as herein otherwise provided, it shall be unlawful for any person to do
any of the following:
   A.   To maliciously or mischievously apprehend, detain, secret or impound
the animal or fowl of another person, or to knowingly aid or abet in the
commission of any such act by some other person. Any such person aiding or
abetting shall be considered a principal.
   B.   To maltreat, starve, torture, injure or poison any animal, or having
the right or authority under this chapter to kill any animal, to kill such
animal in any way except in a humane manner.
   C.   To trap any animal with other than a humane "live" trap which will
inflict no physical injury upon the animal; to lure or entice, by means of food
or otherwise, any animal into other than a humane "live" trap; to leave any
animal trapped by such person without food, water or shelter for an
unreasonable period of time.
   D.   To dispose of any trapped animal in any fashion not otherwise provided
by law. If disposal is not permitted by law, said person shall call the animal
control officer to have said animal picked up, deliver it to the city animal
shelter, or otherwise dispose of it as directed by the animal control officer.
   E.   To overcrowd any animal in any crate, box or other receptacle or fail
to provide food, water, shelter or sanitation for same.
   F.   To kill any animal running at large except as provided in this chapter
in connection with dangerous, fierce, vicious or infected animals or animals
attacking persons or livestock.
   G.   To take off or remove from any animal its collar or harness or city
license tag or inoculation tag without the consent of the owner or custodian of
such animal.
   H.   To place any city dog tag or inoculation tag on any dog other than the
dog to which such tag was registered.
   I.   To take any animal or fowl by stealth, fraud, force or falsely claiming
to be the owner or custodian of such animal or fowl out of the custody, control
or possession of the animal control officer or city animal shelter or any
police officer exercising his duty under this chapter.
   J.   To interrupt or hinder the animal control officer or any police officer
discharging his duties under the provisions of this chapter.
   K.   To abandon any animal, living or dead, in a public street, road, alley
or any other public place, or upon the private property of himself or another.
   L.   To unjustifiably administer any poisonous drug or substance with intent
that the same shall be taken by an animal, whether such animal be the property
of himself or another, or whether said drug or substance is exposed upon such
person's property, the private property of another, or any public place;
provided that nothing herein shall be construed to prevent or restrict the
animal control officer, or health officer in the exercise and performance of
the powers and duties in this chapter.
   M.   To wilfully throw, drop or place upon any road, highway, street, alley
or public place, or upon the private property of himself or another, any glass,
nails, pieces of metal or other substances or devices calculated to disable or
injure any animal.
   N.   To carry or enclose, or cause to be carried or enclosed, in or upon any
vehicle or conveyance, any animal in a cruel or inhumane manner.
      1.   No person having charge or custody of any animal, as owner or
otherwise, shall place or confine such animal or allow such animal to be placed
or confined or to remain in a motor vehicle under such conditions or for such
period of time as may endanger the health or well being of such animal due to
heat, cold, lack of food or drink, or such other circumstances as may
reasonably be expected to cause suffering, disability or death.
      2.   The animal control officer or any police officer of the city of
Wells who finds an animal in a motor vehicle in violation of this section may
break and enter the motor vehicle, if necessary, to remove the animal. The
officer removing the animal shall take the animal to the city animal shelter or
to a veterinarian clinic for safekeeping and shall, in the event the person
having custody cannot be contacted, leave in a prominent place in the motor
vehicle a written notice bearing his name and office and the address where the
animal may be claimed by the owner thereof. The animal will be surrendered to
the owner if the owner claims the animal within seven (7) days from the time
the animal was removed and pays all reasonable charges that have accrued for
the maintenance of the animal. In the event the owner cannot be contacted or
expresses no interest in reclaiming the animal within seven (7) days after
contact or efforts to contact, the animal shelter may dispose of the animal, in
a humane manner.
   O.   To display, sell or offer for sale, barter, give away or otherwise
dispose of any animal upon any street, sidewalk, public building, public park
or other public place, with the exception of the city animal shelter.
   P.   To use any live animal as or for a target.
   Q.   To dye or color any animal for purposes of concealing its identity.
(Ord. 161, 1-14-1992)
7-5-27: DUTY TO STOP, RENDER AID AND NOTICE:
Every operator of any vehicle upon the streets and ways of the city of Wells
shall, immediately upon injuring, striking, maiming or running down any animal,
stop and give such aid as he is reasonably able to render. He shall immediately
notify the owner, if present or known, and if not, the animal control officer,
furnishing facts relative to such injury. It is the duty of such operator to
remain at or near the scene until the owner or animal control officer arrives,
and such operator shall immediately identify himself to the owner or animal
control officer and give the owner or animal control officer his full name,
address and driver's license number. Alternatively, in the absence of the
owner, a person may give aid by taking the animal to a veterinary hospital and
thereafter notifying the animal control officer, furnishing sufficient facts
relative to such injury. (Ord. 161, 1-14-1992)
7-5-28: VETERINARIAN CERTIFICATES AND TAGS:
Every veterinarian inoculating any dog or cat against rabies shall upon such
inoculation issue a tag to the owner suitable for wearing by such dog on its
collar or harness or otherwise affixed and a certificate to the owner of such
dog or cat setting forth at least the name and address of the owner, a
description of the dog or cat sufficient to identify the dog or cat, the type
and lot of vaccine used, and the date reinoculation is required. Every
veterinarian spaying any female dog or cat shall, upon such spaying, issue a
certificate to the owner of such animal, stating the necessary information
relating to the operation. (Ord. 161, 1-14-1992)
7-5-29: PENALTIES:
The penalties provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code shall apply to this
chapter. In addition, any violation or continued violation of this chapter, or
any nuisance may be enjoined or abated by appropriate proceedings instituted by
the city. All penalties provided under this chapter shall double in amount or
term if succeeding similar offenses occur within a three (3) year period. The
receipt and conviction of three (3) violations of this chapter by the owner or
custodian of any animal within a three (3) year period shall constitute prima
facie evidence of a nuisance. All fines imposed by the municipal judge and/or
collected for the violation of this chapter shall be deposited in the general
fund of the city and budgeted for the use and benefit of the animal shelter.
(Ord. 161, 1-14-1992)
7-5-30: DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS AND FOWL UPON REQUEST OF OWNER OR CUSTODIAN:
The animal control officer may dispose of any animal or fowl immediately upon
receipt of a written request of the owner or custodian of such animal or fowl
in substantially the following form:
   CONSENT AND RELEASE
This consent and release executed by                                   (owner-
custodian) of                                     (address) City of Wells,
State of Nevada, as releasor to the City of Wells, its agents and employees,
releasee.
The animal/fowl with respect to which this release is executed is a male/female
                   (breed or description). Its license number is
                   (if applicable).
The releasor, set forth above, is the owner or custodian of the animal/fowl and
requests that the releasee perform euthanasia upon such animal/fowl and
releasee expressly consents thereto.
Releasor hereby releases and forever discharges releasee from all claims,
damages and causes of action that may arise from the death of such animal/fowl
and from the procedures employed therein.
In witness thereof, releasor executes this release this          day of
                    , 19    .
                                    
   RELEASOR
(Ord. 161, 1-14-1992)
7-5-31: APPOINTMENT OF RABIES CONTROL AUTHORITY; ORDINANCES PROVIDING FOR
RABIES CONTROL PROGRAM:
   A.   The city hereby establishes the police department as the rabies control
authority.
   B.   All dogs, cats and ferrets within the city must be vaccinated against
rabies as prescribed in section
7-5-36 of this chapter. The rabies control authority is authorized to issue a
citation to the owner of a dog, cat or ferret which is not vaccinated against
rabies as prescribed in section
7-5-36 of this chapter. Only a certificate of vaccination against rabies issued
pursuant to section
7-5-37 of this chapter shall be acceptable as proof of vaccination against
rabies. (Ord. 168, 4-27-1993)
7-5-32: RABIES CONTROL AUTHORITY, INVESTIGATE REPORT OF PERSON BITTEN BY RABIES
SUSCEPTIBLE ANIMAL; ENSURE PROPER PROCEDURES CARRIED OUT FOR CONFINEMENT,
TESTING, QUARANTINE OR EUTHANASIA OF BITING ANIMAL:
   A.   The rabies control authority shall investigate each report of a person
bitten by a rabies susceptible animal to confirm the report, to gather
information about the circumstances of the biting incident, to determine the
disposition of the biting animal and to make recommendations for postexposure
rabies prophylaxis.
   B.   The rabies control authority shall ensure that the proper procedures
are carried out for the confinement, testing, quarantine or euthanasia of the
biting animal as specified in section
7-5-34 of this chapter. Lagomorphs (rabbits and hares) and rodents must be
submitted for laboratory testing under exceptional circumstances such as an
unprovoked attack. (Ord. 168, 4-27-1993)
7-5-33: RABIES CONTROL AUTHORITY TO INVESTIGATE CASE OR SUSPECTED CASE OF
ANIMAL RABIES; AUTHORITY OF RABIES CONTROL AUTHORITY TO ENTER PRIVATE PROPERTY;
DESTRUCTION OF HEAD OF RABIES SUSCEPTIBLE ANIMAL PROHIBITED:
   A.   The rabies control authority shall investigate each report of a case
having animal rabies or suspected case considered to have animal rabies to
confirm the diagnosis, to identify the source of infection, to identify any
human or animal contacts, to order the disposition of rabid or suspected rabid
animals and to make recommendations for postexposure rabies prophylaxis.
   B.   The rabies control authority may enter private property for the purpose
of seizing an animal that has bitten a person, to determine if any animal kept
or harbored therein has rabies or has been exposed to rabies, or to implement
orders for quarantine, confinement, confiscation or euthanasia of an animal.
   C.   Unless authorized by the rabies control authority, a person shall not
destroy or allow to be destroyed the head of a rabies susceptible animal which
has bitten a person. (Ord. 168, 4-27-1993)
7-5-34: MANAGEMENT OF ANIMALS THAT HAVE BITTEN PERSONS; RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER
FOR COSTS OF QUARANTINE, VETERINARY CARE AND EXAMINATION:
   A.   The rabies control authority shall cause a dog or cat, regardless of
current vaccination against rabies, which has bitten a person, to be
quarantined and observed for ten (10) days following the bite under the
supervision of a licensed veterinarian or other person designated by the rabies
control authority. The observation must be within an enclosure or with
restraints deemed adequate by the rabies control authority to prevent direct
contact with a person or an animal.
   B.   The dog or cat must be examined by a licensed veterinarian at the first
sign of illness during the ten (10) days of observation. Any illness must be
reported immediately to the rabies control authority. If signs of rabies
develop during the ten (10) days of observation the dog or cat must be
euthanatized and its head removed and shipped under refrigeration for
examination at the laboratory of the department of agriculture. If at the end
of the quarantine period, the animal is free of all signs of rabies, the animal
must be returned to its owner upon payment of all costs of quarantine and
veterinary care and examination.
   C.   If, after a reasonable effort is made to locate the owner of an
unwanted or stray dog or cat, the owner is unknown or cannot be located, or if
the owner agrees, the unwanted or stray dog or cat which has bitten a person
may be euthanatized and the head submitted for laboratory examination without a
period of quarantine.
   D.   A bat, raccoon, skunk, fox or unvaccinated ferret which has bitten a
person must be euthanatized immediately without a period of quarantine and the
head submitted for laboratory examination.
   E.   A vaccinated ferret or other species of animal which has bitten a
person must be managed as deemed appropriate in the discretion of the rabies
control authority.
   F.   The owner of an animal quarantined pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter is responsible for all costs of quarantine and veterinary care and
examination. (Ord. 168, 4-27-1993)
7-5-35: MANAGEMENT OF ANIMALS THAT HAVE BEEN IN CLOSE CONTACT WITH ANIMAL
SUSPECTED OR KNOWN TO HAVE RABIES; RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER FOR COSTS OF
QUARANTINE, VETERINARY CARE AND EXAMINATION:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, a wild or exotic animal
that is rabies susceptible, including an unvaccinated ferret, in close contact
with an animal suspected or know to have rabies must be euthanatized
immediately. The rabies control authority may exempt a rare or valuable animal
from the provisions of this section.
   B.   Unless the owner of the animal objects, a dog or cat which has not been
vaccinated pursuant to subsection
7-5-36A of this chapter and which is considered by the rabies control authority
to have been in close contact with an animal suspected or known to have rabies,
must be euthanatized immediately. If the owner of the animal objects, the dog
or cat must be immediately vaccinated against rabies and quarantined within an
enclosure or with restraints deemed adequate by the rabies control authority to
prevent direct contact with a person or an animal for a period of one hundred
eighty (180) days, under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian or other
person designated by the rabies control authority. The dog or cat must be
vaccinated one month before release.
   C.   A dog, cat or ferret which has been vaccinated pursuant to subsection
7-5-36A of this chapter and which is considered by the rabies control authority
to have been in close contact with an animal suspected or known to have rabies
must be:
      1.   Immediately revaccinated and confined for ninety (90) days in a
manner prescribed by the rabies control authority; or
      2.   Upon the request of the owner of the dog, cat or ferret,
euthanatized.
   D.   A domesticated animal of a rabies susceptible species, other than a
dog, cat or ferret, which is considered by the rabies control authority to have
been in close contact with an animal suspected or known to have rabies, must be
managed according to the discretion of the rabies control authority.
   E.   The owner of an animal confined pursuant to the provisions of this
section is responsible for all costs of confinement and veterinary care and
examination.
   F.   As used in this section, "in close contact with an animal suspected or
known to have rabies" means, within the past one hundred eighty (180) days, to
have been bitten, mouthed or mauled by, or closely confined on the same
premises with an animal either suspected or known to have rabies. (Ord. 168, 4-
27-1993)
7-5-36: OWNER REQUIRED TO MAINTAIN DOG, CAT OR FERRET CURRENTLY VACCINATED;
EXEMPTION BY LICENSED VETERINARIAN; PROOF THAT CAT OR FERRET CURRENTLY
VACCINATED OR EXEMPTED FROM VACCINATION REQUIRED BEFORE ENTERING STATE;
IMPOUNDMENT; STATE VETERINARIAN REQUIRED TO REVIEW REVISIONS OF RECOMMENDATIONS
FOR VACCINATION:
   A.   An owner of a dog, cat or ferret shall maintain the dog, cat or ferret
currently vaccinated against rabies in accordance with the recommendations set
forth in "The Compendium Of Animal Rabies Control", a publication of the
National Association of State Public Health Veterinarians, Inc., which is
hereby adopted by reference. "The Compendium Of Animal Rabies Control" is
available, free of charge, from Virginia Department of Health, Office of
Epidemiology, 109 Governor Street, Room 701, Richmond, Virginia, 23219.
   B.   A licensed veterinarian may exempt a dog, cat or ferret from
vaccination for health reasons. The veterinarian shall record the reasons for
exemption and a specific description of the dog, cat or ferret, including name,
age, sex, breed and color on a rabies vaccination certificate which must bear
the owner's name and address. The veterinarian shall also record whether the
reason for exemption is permanent, and if it is not, the date the exemption
expires.
   C.   A dog, cat or ferret exempted from or too young for vaccination against
rabies must be confined to the premises of the owner or kept under physical
restraint by the owner.
   D.   If the owner of a dog, cat or ferret violates any provision of this
section, the rabies control authority may impound the dog, cat or ferret.
   E.   The director of the nevada division of animal industry of the
department of agriculture (state veterinarian) shall review any revision or
amendment of the recommendations for vaccination against rabies of dogs, cats
and ferrets set forth in "The Compendium Of Animal Rabies Control" to determine
whether the revision or amendment made to the recommendations is appropriate
for application in this state. For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of
this section, a revision or amendment of the recommendations is effective in
this state ten (10) days after its revision or amendment unless the director of
the Nevada division of animal industry of the department of agriculture (state
veterinarian) files an objection to the amendment or revision with the Nevada
state board of health. (Ord. 168, 4-27-1993)
7-5-37: VETERINARIANS, ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF VACCINATION AND RABIES
VACCINATION TAGS; COOPERATION WITH INVESTIGATION BY RABIES CONTROL AUTHORITY:
   A.   A veterinarian who vaccinates an animal against rabies shall complete
two (2) copies of a certificate of vaccination against rabies for the animal
vaccinated. The certificate of vaccination against rabies must include, but is
not limited to:
      1.   The name and address of the owner of the animal.
      2.   A description of the animal, including the name, age, sex, breed,
color and weight of the animal.
      3.   The date the vaccination was administered.
      4.   The type of vaccine used (killed or MLV).
      5.   The manufacturer and lot number of the vaccine.
      6.   The date the animal is due for revaccination based on the duration
of immunity provided by the vaccine according to its label.
      7.   The number on the rabies vaccination tag issued pursuant to
subsection C of this section.
      8.   The name and address of the veterinarian.
      9.   The signature of the veterinarian who administered the vaccine.
   B.   The veterinarian shall give the original copy of the certificate of
vaccination against rabies to the owner of the animal and retain one copy for
the period that the vaccination is current.
   C.   A veterinarian who vaccinates an animal against rabies shall issue to
the owner a metal rabies vaccination tag, serially numbered to match the number
on the certificate of vaccination against rabies. A rabies vaccination tag must
not conflict with the shape or color of local license tags.
   D.   A veterinarian shall cooperate with any investigation of an animal
bite, or of a case having rabies or suspected case considered to have rabies by
providing all information requested by the rabies control authority. (Ord. 168,
4-27-1993)
7-5-38: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY INVOLVING BAT, SKUNK,
RACCOON, FOX OR COYOTE; RELINQUISHMENT OF ANIMAL; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection B of this section:
      1.   A person shall not intentionally keep, harbor or in any way care
for, maintain, lodge or feed on private property, a bat, skunk, raccoon, fox or
coyote.
      2.   Any person violating the provisions of subsection A1 of this section
shall, upon request of the rabies control authority and the department of
wildlife, relinquish the animal to the rabies control authority or the
department of wildlife.
   B.   The rabies control authority with concurrence of the Nevada department
of wildlife may grant to any person an exemption from the provisions of this
section. (Ord. 168, 4-27-1993)
7-5-39: KEEPING OF INHERENTLY DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS DOGS:
   A.   An "inherently dangerous or vicious dog" is defined as a pit bull dog.
"Pit bull dog" means and includes any of the following dogs:
      1.   The Staffordshire bull terrier breed of dogs.
      2.   The American Staffordshire terrier breed of dogs.
      3.   The American pit bull terrier breed of dogs.
      4.   Dogs that have the appearance and characteristics of being
predominately of the dogs known as Staffordshire bull terrier, American
Staffordshire terrier, or American pit bull terrier. The aforementioned
appearance and characteristics are described by the publications of either the
American Kennel Club or the United Kennel Club, even if there should be
technical deficiencies in a particular dog's conformance thereto.
      5.   Any dog whose sire or dam is a dog of a breed prohibited by
subsections A1 through A4 of this section.
      6.   Any dog whose owner registers, admits, defines or otherwise
identifies it as being one of the categories of inherently dangerous dogs
described hereinabove.
   B.   The keeping of an inherently dangerous or vicious dog shall be subject
to the following requirements:
      1.   Leash: No person having charge, custody, control or possession of an
inherently dangerous or vicious dog shall allow the dog to exit its kennel, pen
or other proper enclosure unless such dog is securely attached to a leash not
more than four feet (4') in length. No such person shall permit an inherently
dangerous or vicious dog to be kept on a chain, rope or other type of leash
outside its kennel or pen unless a person capable of controlling the dog is in
physical control of the leash and such leash is not more than four feet (4') in
length.
      2.   Confinement: Except when leashed as provided in this section, an
inherently dangerous or vicious dog shall be securely confined indoors or
confined in a locked pen or other secure enclosure that is suitable as
determined by the supervisor of law enforcement of the city or his designee to
prevent the entry of children and is designed to prevent the dog from escaping.
The enclosure shall include shelter and protection from the elements and shall
provide adequate exercise room, light and ventilation. The enclosed structure
shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition and shall meet the following
minimum requirements:
         a.   The structure must have secure sides and a secure top, or all
sides must be at least eight feet (8') high; and
         b.   The structure must have a bottom permanently attached to the
sides or the sides must be embedded no less than one foot (1') into the ground;
and
         c.   The structure must be of such material and closed in such a
manner that the dog cannot exit the enclosure on its own or cannot be opened or
breached by children.
      3.   Indoor Confinement: No inherently dangerous or vicious dog shall be
kept on a porch, patio or in any way part of a house or structure that would
allow the dog to exit such building on its own volition or allow children
entering such structures to have contact with the dog. In addition, no such dog
shall be kept in a house or structure when the screen windows or screen doors
are the only obstacle preventing the dog from exiting the structure.
      4.   Liability Insurance, Surety Bond: The owner of an inherently
dangerous or vicious dog shall procure liability insurance or a surety bond in
the amount of not less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) covering
any damage or injury that may be caused by such inherently dangerous or vicious
dog. The dog owner shall sign a statement attesting that he shall maintain and
not voluntarily cancel the liability insurance policy as long as he owns the
dog.
      5.   Notification Of Escape, Bite Or Attack: The owner or keeper of an
inherently dangerous or vicious dog shall notify the city immediately if such
dog escapes from its enclosure or restraint and is at large. Such immediate
notification shall also be required if the dog bites or attacks a person or
domestic animal.
      6.   Warning Signs: The property at which any inherently dangerous or
vicious dog is kept shall be adequately and properly posted, as determined by
the chief law enforcement officer of the city, with conspicuous warning signs.
      7.   Failure To Comply: It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any
owner or person who has the care, custody and control of an inherently
dangerous or vicious dog to fail to comply with the requirements and conditions
set forth in this section. The dog of any owner, keeper or harborer found to be
in violation of this section shall be subject to immediate seizure and
impoundment. In addition, failure to comply with the requirements and
conditions set forth in this section shall result in the revocation of the
dog's license, restitution when applicable, a mandatory fine of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00), and the court shall order the inherently dangerous or
vicious animal euthanatized at the expense of the owner or custodian; except
that the court may order the animal permanently removed from the city if it has
yet to bite or attack, or attempt to bite or attack, a person or animal not
trespassing upon the property where it is kept. (Ord. 195, 1-8-2002)
7-5-40: KEEPING OF BACKYARD CHICKENS:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose and intent of this section to permit, but
strictly limit, the keeping of backyard chickens as an egg source in a clean
and sanitary manner which is not a nuisance to or detrimental to the public
health, safety, and welfare of the City of Wells.
   B.   Keeping Of Backyard Chickens Allowed: A person may keep up to four (4)
backyard chickens on property zoned R-1 and R-2 as an accessory use as long as
the standards herein are complied with
      1.   The city, upon written notice, may revoke the privilege of having
backyard chickens for failure to comply with provisions of this section.
      2.   The city may inspect the premises upon 24-hour written notice at
which the backyard chickens reside in order to ensure compliance with this
section.
      3.   Any person whose privilege for the keeping of backyard chickens is
revoked shall, within ten (10) days thereafter, humanely dispose of all
chickens owned, kept or harbored by such person on the subject property.
   D.   General Standards For The Keeping Of Backyard Chickens:
      1.   The keeping of roosters is prohibited under this section.
      2.   Backyard chickens shall not be raised or kept for the purpose of
fighting.
      3.   Backyard chickens shall not be kept in a dwelling, garage or
accessory structure other than those meeting the requirements of an enclosed
coop.
      4.   All backyard chickens must have access to an enclosed coop meeting
the following minimum standards:
         a.   The enclosed coop may not occupy a front or side yard.
         b.   A maximum of one coop per lot shall be permitted.
         c.   The enclosed coop shall have a minimum size of two (2) square
feet per chicken and shall not exceed a maximum of forty (40) square feet in
total area.
         d.   The enclosed coop shall be set back a minimum of at least five
feet (5') from all property lines and shall not encroach upon utility
easements.
         e.   The enclosed coop shall not exceed 6 feet (6') in height.
         f.   The enclosed coop shall be built to protect the backyard chickens
from extreme heat or cold.
         g.   The enclosed coop shall be at all times maintained in a good
condition.
      5.   All backyard chickens shall have access to a run area meeting the
following minimum standards:
         a.   The run shall be attached to and provided access to the coop.
         b.   The run shall be set back a minimum of at least five feet (5')
from all property lines and shall not encroach upon utility easements.
         c.   A maximum of one run per lot shall be permitted.
         d.   The run shall have a maximum size of twenty (20) square feet per
chicken.
         e.   The run shall be fully enclosed and covered with durable
materials. Structural components of the run shall be consistent with coop
materials.
         f.   Fencing materials used as run components shall be consistent with
fence requirements imposed in residential zoning districts as provided in this
code.
         g.   The run shall be maintained in a good condition at all times.
      6.   The following minimum sanitation standards shall be observed at all
times:
         a.   The slaughtering of backyard chickens on the property is
prohibited.
         b.   No chicken or chicken byproducts shall be sold upon the subject
property.
         c.   All premises on which backyard chickens are kept or maintained
shall be kept clean from filth, garbage, and any substances which attract
rodents and shall be odor free. The coop and its surrounding area shall be
cleaned frequently to control odor. Manure shall not be allowed to accumulate
in a way that causes an unsanitary condition or causes odors to be detectible
from another property. Failure to comply with these conditions may result in
the removal of backyard chickens from the premises.
         d.   All grain and food stored for backyard chickens shall be kept
indoors in a rodentproof container.
         e.   Backyard chickens shall be kept in such a manner which does not
constitute a nuisance as provided in the city code. (Ord. 240, 3-28-2023)
CHAPTER 6
PROHIBITING TEMPORARY HABITATION OF PUBLIC PLACES OR LANDS
SECTION:
7-6-1: Prohibiting Temporary Habitation Of Public Places Or Lands
7-6-2: Penalties
7-6-1: PROHIBITING TEMPORARY HABITATION OF PUBLIC PLACES OR LANDS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to temporarily inhabit, dwell, cohabit,
prepare and eat meals, sleep, trespass, camp or remain upon any public places
or public lands of the city of Wells, the county of Elko or the state of
Nevada, within the city limits, between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight to sunrise without the prior written permission of the city. (Ord.
139, 8-11-1987)
7-6-2: PENALTIES:
The penalties provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code shall apply to this
chapter. (Ord. 139, 8-11-1987)
CHAPTER 7
GAMING EMPLOYEES; WORK PERMITS
(Rep. by Ord. 204, 2-10-2004)
CHAPTER 8
ANTILITTER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-8-1: Short Title
7-8-2: Definitions
7-8-3: Litter In Public Places
7-8-4: Placement Of Litter In Receptacles So As To Prevent Scattering
7-8-5: Sweeping Litter Into Gutters Prohibited
7-8-6: Merchants' Duty To Keep Sidewalks Free Of Litter
7-8-7: Litter Thrown By Persons In Vehicles
7-8-8: Truck Loads Causing Litter
7-8-9: Litter In Parks
7-8-10: Litter In Fountains
7-8-11: Litter On Occupied Private Property
7-8-12: Owner To Maintain Premises Free Of Litter
7-8-13: Litter On Vacant Lots
7-8-14: Public Nuisance Declared
7-8-15: Penalties
7-8-16: Separability
7-8-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF WELLS ANTILITTER
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 167, 1-12-1993)
7-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future, words used in the
plural number include the singular number, and words used in the singular
number include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not
merely directory.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE: A litter storage and collection receptacle as
required and authorized in section
6-4-6 of this code.
   CITY: The city of Wells, Nevada.
   GARBAGE: Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   LITTER: Garbage, refuse and rubbish as defined herein and all other waste
material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a
danger to public health, safety and welfare.
   PARK: A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
public area in the city, owned or used by the city, and devoted to active or
passive recreation.
   PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PREMISES: Any dwelling, house, building or other structure, designed
or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall
include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox
belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building or other structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
   REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body
wastes), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals,
abandoned automobiles and solid market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
materials.
   VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks. (Ord. 167, 1-12-1993)
7-8-3: LITTER IN PUBLIC PLACES:
No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk or
other public place within the city except in public receptacles, in authorized
private receptacles for collection, or in official city dumps. (Ord. 167, 1-12-
1993)
7-8-4: PLACEMENT OF LITTER IN RECEPTACLES SO AS TO PREVENT SCATTERING:
Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or
upon private property. (Ord. 167, 1-12-1993)
7-8-5: SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS PROHIBITED:
Except when authorized by the city at specified times, no person shall sweep
into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within the city the
accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or private
sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying property shall keep the
sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter. (Ord. 167, 1-12-1993)
7-8-6: MERCHANTS' DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS FREE OF LITTER:
No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep into or deposit
in any gutter, street or other public place within the city the accumulation of
litter from any building or lot or from any public or private sidewalk or
driveway. Persons owning or occupying places of business within the city shall
keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of litter. (Ord.
167, 1-12-1993)
7-8-7: LITTER THROWN BY PERSONS IN VEHICLES:
No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city, or upon private
property. (Ord. 167, 1-12-1993)
7-8-8: TRUCK LOADS CAUSING LITTER:
No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the city unless
such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load, contents or
litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley or other public
place. (Ord. 167, 1-12-1993)
7-8-9: LITTER IN PARKS:
No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park within the city except in
public receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or upon
any street or other public place. Where public receptacles are not provided,
all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible
for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere as provided herein. (Ord.
167, 1-12-1993)
7-8-10: LITTER IN FOUNTAINS:
No person shall throw or deposit litter in any fountain, pond, stream or any
body of water in a park or elsewhere within the city. (Ord. 167, 1-12-1993)
7-8-11: LITTER ON OCCUPIED PRIVATE PROPERTY:
No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private property within
the city, whether owned by such person or not, except that the owner or person
in control of private property may maintain authorized private receptacles for
collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or
upon any private property. (Ord. 167, 1-12-1993)
7-8-12: OWNER TO MAINTAIN PREMISES FREE OF LITTER:
The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all times
maintain the premises free of litter. Provided, however, that this section
shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for
collection. (Ord. 167, 1-12-1993)
7-8-13: LITTER ON VACANT LOTS:
No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private property
within the city whether owned by such person or not. (Ord. 167, 1-12-1993)
7-8-14: PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED:
The existence of garbage, rubbish, refuse or litter of any kind, upon any
public or private highway, street, alley or road or any lot or parcel of land,
whether public or private, is a public nuisance, and the removal thereof is
necessary to protect the health and safety of the inhabitants of the city. Upon
conviction of any provision of this chapter, the municipal judge shall have the
authority to order the nuisance abated. (Ord. 167, 1-12-1993)
7-8-15: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined or
imprisoned as provided for in title 1, chapter 4 of this code. Each day such
violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 167, 1-12-1993)
7-8-16: SEPARABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions thereof. (Ord. 167, 1-12-1993)
CHAPTER 9
COMMERCIAL BREEDERS OF DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
7-9-1: Annual Permit Required
7-9-2: Permit Fee
7-9-3: Form Of Application For Permit
7-9-4: Definition
7-9-5: Approval, Denial, And Revocation
7-9-6: Inspection
7-9-7: Incorporation Of State Law
7-9-8: Penalties
7-9-1: ANNUAL PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any commercial breeder of dogs or cats to hereafter
conduct a commercial breeders business in the city unless such person shall
have first obtained an annual permit permitting the same from the city as
provided in this chapter. The provisions of this chapter shall supersede and
control in any conflict with other provisions of this code, if any. (Ord. 222,
7-23-2013)
7-9-2: PERMIT FEE:
The permit fee for the annual commercial breeders permit will be set by
resolution of the board of councilmen of the city of Wells. The fee should not
exceed the approximate cost of providing the service associated with the
issuance of the annual permits. (Ord. 222, 7-23-2013)
7-9-3: FORM OF APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
An application for the licenses required by this chapter shall be made to the
board of councilmen of the city, and filed with the city clerk. Each
application shall:
   A.   Be made on such form as the board shall prescribe.
   B.   Include the name and address of the applicant, who shall be all persons
having an interest in the business to be licensed. If the applicant is a
partnership, the application shall include the names and addresses of all
partners. If the applicant is a corporation, association or other organization,
the application shall include the names and addresses of all officers,
directors, stockholders, resident agents, and all other persons having an
interest in the business to be licensed, and the address of the principal place
of business of the corporation, and the name and address of the person or
persons who shall have the active management of its business.
   C.   Specify the location by street and number of the premises for which the
license is sought, and the name of the owner or owners of the premises where
the business is to be operated.
   D.   Be supplemented by such additional information or documents as the
board shall request from the applicant at any time, it being the duty of the
applicant to supply all such matter.
   E.   Be accompanied by the required annual license fee, which license fee
shall be returned by the city clerk to the applicant in the event the
application is denied.
   F.   Be signed by all persons who shall conduct or have any interest in the
business activities for which the license is required.
   G.   Contain a statement that if such application is approved and a license
fee issued, it will be accepted by the applicant subject to the terms,
conditions and provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 222, 7-23-2013)
7-9-4: DEFINITION:
 
                                    A dealer, operator or other person who is
                                    responsible for the operation of a
                                    commercial establishment engaged in the
COMMERCIAL BREEDER OF DOGS OR CATS: business of breeding dogs or cats for sale
                                    or trade. The term does not include a
                                    person who breeds dogs or cats as a hobby.
                                    (Ord. 222, 7-23-2013)
 
7-9-5: APPROVAL, DENIAL, AND REVOCATION:
The board of councilmen may suspend, revoke, or deny a permit sought under this
chapter as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 574.360 to 575.440, inclusive,
to the extent those provisions may be made to apply to breeders in the city.
(Ord. 222, 7-23-2013)
7-9-6: INSPECTION:
The animal control officer or his/her designee may enter and inspect the
premises specified on a permit issued pursuant to this chapter at any
reasonable hour. (Ord. 222, 7-23-2013)
7-9-7: INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW:
The provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes 574.356 to 574.510 are hereby
incorporated as if fully set forth and shall be applicable within the city to
the extent such provisions may be made applicable. Violations may be prosecuted
as violations of the city code. The titles of these Nevada Revised Statutes
provisions are as follows:
   A.   NRS 574.356 Prohibited acts.
   B.   NRS 574.360 Buildings and grounds: housing facilities.
   C.   NRS 574.370 Enclosures generally.
   D.   NRS 574.380 Dogs and cats kept outdoors.
   E.   NRS 574.390 Primary enclosures generally.
   F.   NRS 574.400 Floor space of primary enclosure.
   G.   NRS 574.410 Dogs or cats kept in primary enclosures together.
   H.   NRS 574.420 Food and water.
   I.   NRS 574.430 Sanitization.
   J.   NRS 574.440 Program to control disease and care for health.
   K.   NRS 574.450 Examination by veterinarian: sale of cat or dog that
requires immediate treatment prohibited: conditions under which presence of
parasites requires treatment.
   L.   NRS 574.460 Provision of written statement to purchase of cat: required
disclosures: signature of seller and purchaser.
   M.   NRS 574.470 Provision of written statement to purchaser of dog:
required disclosures: signature of seller and purchaser.
   N.   NRS 574.480 Posting of notice concerning dog or cat offered for sale.
   O.   NRS 574.485 Imposition of administrative fines for violation of NRS
574.460, 574.470 or 574.480: deposit in State General Fund.
   P.   NRS 574.490 Duties upon determination that pet was sold with condition
that requires immediate treatment.
   Q.   NRS 574.500 Separating dog or cat from mother: penalty.
   R.   NRS 574.510 Knowingly selling dog or cat with condition requiring
immediate treatment prohibited: penalties. (Ord. 222, 7-23-2013)
7-9-8: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, shall, upon
conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code. Each day's
violation of the provisions of this chapter may be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 222, 7-23-2013)
TITLE 8
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
General Provisions   1
Accidents And Reports Of Accidents   2
Rules Of The Road   3
Traffic Signs, Signals And Markings   4
Driving On Right, Overtaking And Passing, Use Of Highway   5
Right Of Way   6
Pedestrian's Rights And Duties   7
Turning And Starting And Signals On Stopping And Turning   8
Special Stops Required   9
Restrictions On Speed   10
Reckless Driving   11
Stopping, Standing Or Parking   12
Miscellaneous Rules   13
Operation Of Bicycles And Vehicles For Play   14
Equipment Of Vehicles   15
Lamps And Other Equipment For Lighting   16
Odometers   17
Other Equipment   18
Inspection Of Vehicles   19
Size, Weight And Load   20
Powers Of Local Authorities   21
Procedure Upon Arrest   22
Miscellaneous Provisions   23
Off Highway Vehicle Use And Operation   24
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Purpose, Amendment, Interpretation, And Conflict
8-1-2: Traffic Laws
8-1-3: Mandatory Motor Vehicle Insurance
8-1-4: "Administrative Roadblock", Defined
8-1-5: "Alley, Defined
8-1-6: "Authorized Emergency Vehicle", Defined
8-1-7: "Bicycle", Defined
8-1-8: "Bus", Defined
8-1-9: "Bus Stand", Defined
8-1-10: "Business District", Defined
8-1-11: "Center" And "Centerline", Defined
8-1-12: "Central Business District", Defined
8-1-13: "City", Defined
8-1-14: "Combination Of Vehicles", Defined
8-1-15: "Commercial Vehicle", Defined
8-1-16: "Controlled-Access Highway", Defined
8-1-17: "Crosswalk", Defined
8-1-18: "Curb Loading Zone", Defined
8-1-19: "Divided Highway", Defined
8-1-20: "Driveway Tow-A-Way Operation", Defined
8-1-21: "Driver", Defined
8-1-22: "Explosives", Defined
8-1-23: "Farm Tractor", Defined
8-1-24: "Flammable Liquid", Defined
8-1-25: "Freight Curb Loading Zone", Defined
8-1-26: "Funeral Procession", Defined
8-1-27: "Highway", Defined
8-1-28: "House Coach", Defined
8-1-29: "House Trailer", Defined
8-1-30: "Implement Of Husbandry", Defined
8-1-31: "Intersection", Defined
8-1-32: "Laned Highway", Defined
8-1-33: "License To Drive A Motor Vehicle", Defined
8-1-34: "Local Authority", Defined
8-1-35: "Manufactured Home", Defined
8-1-36: "Mobile Home", Defined
8-1-37: "Moped", Defined
8-1-38: "Motor Vehicle", Defined
8-1-39: "Motorcycle", Defined
8-1-40: "Nonresident", Defined
8-1-41: "Nonresident's Driving Privilege", Defined
8-1-42: "Official Traffic-Control Device", Defined
8-1-43: "Owner", Defined
8-1-44: "Park" And "Parking", Defined
8-1-45: "Parking Meter", Defined
8-1-46: "Passenger Car", Defined
8-1-47: "Passenger Curb Loading Zone", Defined
8-1-48: "Pedestrian", Defined
8-1-49: "Pole Trailer", Defined
8-1-50: "Police Officer", Defined
8-1-51: "Premises To Which The Public Has Access", Defined
8-1-52: "Private Way" And "Driveway", Defined
8-1-53: "Public Authority", Defined
8-1-54: "Railroad", Defined
8-1-55: "Railroad Sign" And "Railroad Signal", Defined
8-1-56: "Railroad Train", Defined
8-1-57: "Regulatory Agency", Defined
8-1-58: "Residence District", Defined
8-1-59: "Revocation Of Driver's License", Defined
8-1-60: "Right Of Way", Defined
8-1-61: "Roadway", Defined
8-1-62: "Rural Area", Defined
8-1-63: "Safety Zone", Defined
8-1-64: "School Bus", Defined
8-1-64.1: "School Crossing Zone", Defined
8-1-64.2: "School Zone", Defined
8-1-65: "Security Agreement", Defined
8-1-66: "Security Interest", Defined
8-1-67: "Semitrailer", Defined
8-1-68: "Sidewalk", Defined
8-1-69: "Special Mobile Equipment", Defined
8-1-70: "Stand" And "Standing", Defined
8-1-71: "Stop", Defined
8-1-72: "Stop" And "Stopping", Defined
8-1-73: "Street", Defined
8-1-74: "Taxicab", Defined
8-1-75: "Taxicab Stand", Defined
8-1-76: "Temporary Roadblock", Defined
8-1-77: "Through Highway", Defined
8-1-78: "Tow Car", Defined
8-1-79: "Towable Tools Or Equipment", Defined
8-1-80: "Traffic", Defined
8-1-81: "Traffic-Control Signal", Defined
8-1-82: "Trailer", Defined
8-1-83: "Traveled Portion Of Highway", Defined
8-1-84: "Truck", Defined
8-1-85: "Truck Tractor", Defined
8-1-86: "Two-Directional Highway", Defined
8-1-87: "Urban Area", Defined
8-1-88: "U-Turn", Defined
8-1-89: "Vehicle", Defined
8-1-1: PURPOSE, AMENDMENT, INTERPRETATION, AND CONFLICT:
   A.   The purposes of this Title are to adopt, by reference, the traffic laws
of NRS Chapters 484A through 484E, inclusive, as amended from time to time, to
apply to the City insofar as such may be made applicable. In the event the City
may not enact or exercise jurisdiction over various portions of any such laws
by reason of preemption by state law or otherwise, those portions shall be of
no force and effect within the Municipal Court of the City and may only be
enforced as allowed by state law.
   B.   The board of councilmen may amend the provisions adopted by reference
at any time by ordinance as provided by law. In the event any of the state laws
herein adopted are amended by the state, such amendments are hereby adopted by
the City to the extent permissible by law. If amendments are made by the state
and the foregoing is not sufficient to establish that the City Code herein is
thereby amended, the board of councilmen may adopt any such amendments as
deemed desirable by resolution, which changes to the Code shall be effective
upon approval thereof.
   C.   Whenever an adopted provision of the NRS Chapters incorporated herein
refer to another provision of the Nevada Revised Statutes, the referenced
provision is also adopted by reference to the extent it is consistent with the
purposes herein set forth. During the prosecution of a complaint involving a
substantially continuous event that involves at least one (1) misdemeanor
established by the Chapter and additional violations which are civil
infractions, the City may elect to treat all offenses/violations as
misdemeanors and/or may treat offenses/violations as a combination of
misdemeanors and/or civil infractions provided that the traffic laws of the
state of Nevada do not prohibit such prosecution.
   D.   Violations of adopted provisions of NRS Chapters 484A through 484E,
inclusive, within the City shall be deemed violations of this Chapter. The
Municipal Court may exercise jurisdiction over any violation of NRS Chapters
484A through 484E, inclusive, which occurs within the City, regardless of
whether the charging document alleges a specific violation of a provision of
this Chapter under the City Code or a specific violation of a provision of NRS
Chapters 484A through 484E, inclusive, and regardless of which law enforcement
agency investigated the violation or instituted the charging document.
   E.   In the event of a conflict between any state law and any City Code
adopted in this Chapter, the state law shall prevail. (Ord. 239, 12-13-2022)
8-1-2: TRAFFIC LAWS:
The City hereby adopts, by reference, NRS Chapters 484A through 484E,
inclusive, as amended from time to time. The commission of any act within the
limits of the City, or the failure to perform any act within the City, which is
made a civil infraction or a misdemeanor by NRS Chapters 484A through 484E,
inclusive, constitutes a violation of this section. Violations of any provision
or portions thereof of NRS 484A through 484E, inclusive, which may be made
misdemeanors under NRS 484A through 484E, inclusive, are hereby made
misdemeanors within the City under this City Code, which include, without
limitation, NRS 484B.100, 484B. 117, 484B.127, 484B.130, 484B.135, 484B. 150,
484B.157, 484B.267, 484B.317, 484B.330, 484B.600, 484B.607, 484B.650, 484B.653,
484B.657, and those provisions of NRS Chapter 484C and Chapter 484E. All other
violations shall constitute a civil infraction within the City. (Ord. 239, 12-
13-2022)
8-1-3: MANDATORY MOTOR VEHICLE INSURANCE:
The City hereby adopts the provisions of NRS 485.187 UNLAWFUL ACTS; FINES;
EXCEPTIONS concerning mandatory motor vehicle insurance to the full extent such
can be made applicable to the City. (Ord. 239, 12-13-2022)
Section Statute Catchline Ord. No.
Section   Statute       Catchline                          Ord. No.
8-1-4:    NRS 484.014:  "Administrative roadblock",        Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        defined.
8-1-5:    NRS 484.015:  "Alley", defined.                  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-6:    NRS 484.017:  "Authorized emergency vehicle",    Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        defined.
8-1-7:    NRS 484.019:  "Bicycle", defined.                Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-8:    NRS 484.021:  "Bus", defined.                    Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-9:    NRS 484.023:  "Bus stand", defined.              Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-10:   NRS 484.027:  "Business district", defined.      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-11:   NRS 484.029:  "Center" and "centerline",         Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        defined.
8-1-12:   NRS 484.031:  "Central business district",       Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        defined.
                        "City", defined. The definition of
                        "city" contained in NRS 484.033 is
8-1-13:   NRS 484.033:  hereby amended to read in its      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        entirety: "City means the
                        incorporated city of Wells,
                        Nevada.
8-1-14:   NRS 484.035:  "Combination of vehicles",         Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        defined.
8-1-15:   NRS 484.037:  "Commercial vehicle", defined.     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-16:   NRS 484.041:  "Controlled-access highway",       Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        defined.
8-1-17:   NRS 484.043:  "Crosswalk", defined.              Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-18:   NRS 484.045:  "Curb loading zone", defined.      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-19:   NRS 484.048:  "Divided highway", defined.        Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-20:   NRS 484.051:  "Driveway tow-a-way operation",    Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        defined.
8-1-21:   NRS 484.053:  "Driver", defined.                 Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-22:   NRS 484.057:  "Explosives", defined.             Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-23:   NRS 484.059:  "Farm tractor", defined.           Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-24:   NRS 484.061:  "Flammable liquid", defined.       Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-25:   NRS 484.063:  "Freight curb loading zone",       Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        defined.
8-1-26:   NRS 484.064:  "Funeral procession", defined.     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        "Highway", defined. The definition
                        of "highway" contained in NRS
                        484.065 is amended to read in its
                        entirety: "Highway" means the
                        entire width between the boundary
                        lines of every way dedicated to a
8-1-27:   NRS 484.065:  public authority within the city   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        boundaries when any part of the
                        way is open to the use of the
                        public for purposes of vehicular
                        traffic, or any premises to which
                        the public has access, whether or
                        not the public authority is
                        maintaining the way or premises.
8-1-28:   NRS 484.067:  "House coach", defined.            Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-29:   NRS 484.069:  "House trailer", defined.          Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-30:   NRS 484.071:  "Implement of husbandry", defined. Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        "Intersection", defined. Junction
8-1-31:   NRS 484.073:  of alley with street or road or    Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        highway does not constitute an
                        intersection.
8-1-32:   NRS 484.075:  "Laned highway", defined.          Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-33:   NRS 484.077:  "License to drive a motor          Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        vehicle", defined.
                        "Local authority", defined. The
                        definition of "local authority"
                        contained in NRS 484.079 is
8-1-34:   NRS 484.079:  amended to read in its entirety as Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        follows: "Local authority" means
                        the incorporated city of Wells,
                        Nevada.
8-1-35:   NRS 484.0792: "Manufactured home", defined.      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-36:   NRS 484.0795  "Mobile home", defined.            Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-37:   NRS 484.0798: "Moped", defined.                  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-38:   NRS 484.0781: "Motor vehicle", defined.          Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-39:   NRS 484.083:  "Motorcycle", defined.             Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-40:   NRS 484.085:  "Nonresident", defined.            Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-41:   NRS 484.087:  "Nonresident's driving privilege", Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        defined.
8-1-42:   NRS 484.089:  "Official traffic-control device", Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        defined.
8-1-43:   NRS 484.091:  "Owner", defined.                  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-44:   NRS 484.097:  "Park" and "parking", defined.     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-45:   NRS 484.099:  "Parking meter", defined.          Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-46:   NRS 484.101:  "Passenger car", defined.          Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-47:   NRS 484.109:  "Passenger curb loading zone",     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        defined.
8-1-48:   NRS 484.111:  "Pedestrian", defined.             Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-49:   NRS 484.116:  "Pole trailer", defined.           Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-50:   NRS 484.118:  "Police officer", defined.         Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-51:   NRS 484.122:  "Premises to which the public has  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        access", defined.
8-1-52:   NRS 484.124:  "Private way" and "driveway",      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        defined.
8-1-53:   NRS 484.126:  "Public authority", defined.       Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-54:   NRS 484.128:  "Railroad", defined.               Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-55:   NRS 484.131:  "Railroad sign" and "railroad      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        signal", defined.
8-1-56:   NRS 484.134:  "Railroad train", defined.         Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-57:   NRS 484.1345: "Regulatory agency", defined.      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-58:   NRS 484.136:  "Residence district", defined.     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-59:   NRS 484.138:  "Revocation of driver's license",  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        defined.
8-1-60:   NRS 484.141:  "Right of way", defined.           Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-61:   NRS 484.145:  "Roadway", defined.                Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        "Rural area", defined. The
                        definition of "rural area"
                        contained in NRS 484.1455 is
8-1-62:   NRS 484.1455: amended to read in its entirety:   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        "Rural area" means the area of the
                        city which is not included within
                        an urban area.
8-1-63:   NRS 484.146:  "Safety zone", defined.            Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-64:   NRS 484.148:  "School bus", defined.             Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-64.1: NRS 484.1485: "School crossing zone", defined.   Res. 94-2, 5-24-1994
8-1-64.2: NRS 484.149:  "School zone", defined.            Res. 94-2, 5-24-1994
8-1-65:   NRS 484.157:  "Security agreement", defined.     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-66:   NRS 484.159:  "Security interest", defined.      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-67:   NRS 484.168:  "Semitrailer", defined.            Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-68:   NRS 484.171:  "Sidewalk", defined.               Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-69:   NRS 484.173:  "Special mobile equipment",        Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        defined.
8-1-70:   NRS 484.183:  "Stand" and "standing", defined.   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-71:   NRS 484.185:  "Stop", defined.                   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-72:   NRS 484.187:  "Stop" and "stopping", defined.    Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-73:   NRS 484.189:  "Street", defined.                 Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-74:   NRS 484.191:  "Taxicab", defined.                Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-75:   NRS 484.193:  "Taxicab stand", defined.          Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-76:   NRS 484.194:  "Temporary roadblock", defined.    Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-77:   NRS 484.199:  "Through highway", defined.        Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-78:   NRS 484.201:  "Tow car", defined.                Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-79:   NRS 484.202:  "Towable tools or equipment",      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        defined.
8-1-80:   NRS 484.203:  "Traffic", defined.                Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-81:   NRS 484.205:  "Traffic-control signal", defined. Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-82:   NRS 484.207:  "Trailer", defined.                Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-83:   NRS 484.209:  "Traveled portion of highway",     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        defined.
8-1-84:   NRS 484.211:  "Truck", defined.                  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-85:   NRS 484.213:  "Truck tractor", defined.          Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-86:   NRS 484.215:  "Two-directional highway",         Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        defined.
                        "Urban area", defined (effective
                        on the date the secretary of
8-1-87:   NRS 484.2155: commerce reports the 1990 census   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
                        of population to the president of
                        the United States).
8-1-88:   NRS 484.216:  "U-turn", defined.                 Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-1-89:   NRS 484.217:  "Vehicle", defined.                Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
 
CHAPTER 2
ACCIDENTS AND REPORTS OF ACCIDENTS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Duty To Stop At Scene Of Accident Involving Death Or Personal Injury;
Penalty
8-2-2: Duty To Stop At Scene Of Accident Involving Damage To Vehicle Or
Property
8-2-3: Duty To Give Information And Render Aid
8-2-4: Duty Upon Damaging Unattended Vehicle Or Other Property
8-2-5: Immediate Notice To Police Officer Of Accident Involving Unattended
Vehicle Or Other Property
8-2-6: Seizure And Impoundment Of Vehicle For Failure To Surrender License
Plates And Certificate Of Registration Upon Suspension Of Registration
8-2-7: Written Report Of Accident To Department By Driver Or Owner; Exceptions;
Confidentiality; Use As Evidence At Trial
8-2-8: Failure To Report; False Report; Penalties
8-2-9: Garage Or Repair Shop To Maintain Record Of Repairs Made To Vehicle
Involved In Accident
Section Statute/Catchline Ord. No.
Section Statute/Catchline                                  Ord. No.
        NRS 484.219: Duty To Stop At Scene Of Accident
        Involving Death Or Personal Injury; Penalty.
        Section 3 of NRS 484.219 is hereby amended to read
        in its entirety: Any person failing to comply with
8-2-1:  the provisions of subsection 1 shall be punished   Res. 94-2, 5-24-1994
        in accordance with the Wells penalty provisions as
        provided in title 1, chapter 4 of the city code.
        The remainder of NRS 484.219 is adopted as it
        reads.
8-2-2:  NRS 484.221: Duty To Stop At Scene Of Accident     Res. 94-2, 5-24-1994
        Involving Damage To Vehicle Or Property.
8-2-3:  NRS 484.223: Duty To Give Information And Render   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Aid.
8-2-4:  NRS 484.225: Duty Upon Damaging Unattended Vehicle Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Or Other Property.
        NRS 484.227: Immediate Notice To Police Officer Of
8-2-5:  Accident Involving Unattended Vehicle Or Other     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Property.
        NRS 484.228: Seizure And Impoundment Of Vehicle
8-2-6:  For Failure To Surrender License Plates And        Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Certificate Of Registration Upon Suspension Of
        Registration.
        NRS 484.229: Written Report Of Accident To
8-2-7:  Department By Driver Or Owner; Exceptions;         Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Confidentiality; Use As Evidence At Trial.
        NRS 484.236: Failure To Report; False Report;
        Penalties.
         
        Subsection 2 of NRS 484.236 is hereby amended to
        read in its entirety: Any person who gives
8-2-8:  information in oral or written reports as required Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        in this chapter, knowing or having reason to
        believe that such information is false, is guilty
        of a misdemeanor and punishable as provided by the
        Wells general penalty provisions as provided in
        title 1, chapter 4 of the city code. The remainder
        of NRS 484.236 is adopted as it reads.
        NRS 484.241: Garage Or Repair Shop To Maintain
8-2-9:  Record Of Repairs Made To Vehicle Involved In      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Accident.
 
CHAPTER 3
RULES OF THE ROAD
SECTION:
8-3-1: Obedience To Traffic Laws; Attendance At School For Training Drivers;
Penalties
8-3-2: Obedience To Police Officer
8-3-3: Obedience To Authorized Flagman
8-3-4: Rights And Duties Of Person Riding Animal Or Driving Vehicle Drawn By
Animal
8-3-5: Applicability Of Chapter To Person, Motor Vehicle Or Other Equipment
Engaged In Work Upon Highway
8-3-6: Authorized Emergency Vehicle Or Official Vehicle Of Regulatory Agency
 
Section Statute/Catchline                                  Ord. No.
8-3-1:  NRS 484.251: Obedience To Traffic Laws; Attendance Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        At School For Training Drivers; Penalties.
8-3-2:  NRS 484.253: Obedience To Police Officer.          Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-3-3:  NRS 484.254: Obedience To Authorized Flagman.      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-3-4:  NRS 484.257: Rights And Duties Of Person Riding    Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Animal Or Driving Vehicle Drawn By Animal.
        NRS 484.259: Applicability Of Chapter To Person,
8-3-5:  Motor Vehicle Or Other Equipment Engaged In Work   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Upon Highway.
8-3-6:  NRS 484.261: Authorized Emergency Vehicle Or       Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Official Vehicle Of Regulatory Agency.
 
CHAPTER 4
TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Obedience To Devices For Control Of Traffic; Placement Of Devices
8-4-2: Colored Lights And Lighted Arrows As Signals On Device For Control Of
Traffic
8-4-3: Flashing Signals
8-4-4: Display Of Unauthorized Signs, Signals Or Markings; Removal As Public
Nuisance
8-4-5: Interference With Official Device For Control Of Traffic Or Sign Or
Signal For Railroad Prohibited
 
Section Statute/Catchline                                  Ord. No.
8-4-1:  NRS 484.278: Obedience To Devices For Control Of   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Traffic; Placement Of Devices.
8-4-2:  NRS 484.283: Colored Lights And Lighted Arrows As  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Signals On Device For Control Of Traffic.
8-4-3:  NRS 484.285: Flashing Signals.                     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-4-4:  NRS 484.287: Display Of Unauthorized Signs,        Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Signals Or Markings; Removal As Public Nuisance.
        NRS 484.289: Interference With Official Device For
8-4-5:  Control Of Traffic Or Sign Or Signal For Railroad  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Prohibited.
 
CHAPTER 5
DRIVING ON RIGHT, OVERTAKING AND PASSING, USE OF HIGHWAY
SECTION:
8-5-1: Driving On Right Side Required; Exceptions
8-5-2: Passing Vehicles Proceeding In Opposite Directions
8-5-3: Overtaking Vehicle On Left Side
8-5-4: When Overtaking On Right Side Permitted
8-5-5: Limitations On Overtaking On Left Side
8-5-6: No-Passing Zones
8-5-7: One-Way Highway; Rotary Traffic Island
8-5-8: Driving On Highway Having Lanes For Traffic
8-5-9: Following Too Closely
8-5-10: Driving On Divided Highway
8-5-11: Restricted Access Onto Or From Controlled-Access Highway
8-5-12: Restrictions On Use Of Controlled-Access Highway; Penalty
Section Statute/Catchline Ord. No.
Section Statute/Catchline                                Ord. No.
8-5-1:  NRS 484.291: Driving On Right Side Required;     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Exceptions.
8-5-2:  NRS 484.293: Passing Vehicles Proceeding In      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Opposite Directions.
8-5-3:  NRS 484.295: Overtaking Vehicle On Left Side.    Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-5-4:  NRS 484.297: When Overtaking On Right Side       Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Permitted.
8-5-5:  NRS 484.299: Limitations On Overtaking On Left   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Side.
8-5-6:  NRS 484.301: No-Passing Zones.                   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-5-7:  NRS 484.303: One-Way Highway; Rotary Traffic     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Island.
8-5-8:  NRS 484.305: Driving On Highway Having Lanes For Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Traffic.
8-5-9:  NRS 484.307: Following Too Closely.              Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-5-10: NRS 484.309: Driving On Divided Highway.         Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-5-11: NRS 484.311: Restricted Access Onto Or From      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Controlled-Access Highway.
8-5-12: NRS 484.313: Restrictions On Use Of Controlled-  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Access Highway; Penalty.
 
CHAPTER 6
RIGHT OF WAY
SECTION:
8-6-1: Vehicle Approaching Or Entering Intersection
8-6-2: Vehicle Turning Left
8-6-3: Vehicle Entering Intersection Marked Stop Or Yield
8-6-4: Vehicle Entering Highway From Private Way
8-6-5: Vehicle Entering Or Exiting Controlled-Access Highway
8-6-6: Operation Of Vehicle On Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicle Or
Official Vehicle Of Regulatory Agency
 
Section Statute/Catchline                                  Ord. No.
8-6-1:  NRS 484.315: Vehicle Approaching Or Entering       Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Intersection.
8-6-2:  NRS 484.317: Vehicle Turning Left.                 Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-6-3:  NRS 484.319: Vehicle Entering Intersection Marked  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Stop Or Yield.
8-6-4:  NRS 484.321: Vehicle Entering Highway From Private Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Way.
8-6-5:  NRS 484.322: Vehicle Entering Or Exiting           Res. 94-2, 5-24-1994
        Controlled- Access Highway.
        NRS 484.323: Operation Of Vehicle On Approach Of
8-6-6:  Authorized Emergency Vehicle Or Official Vehicle   Res. 94-2, 5-24-1994
        Of Regulatory Agency.
 
CHAPTER 7
PEDESTRIAN'S RIGHTS AND DUTIES
SECTION:
8-7-1: Right Of Way In Crosswalk; Obedience To Signals And Other Devices For
Control Of Traffic
8-7-2: Crossing Other Than At Crosswalk
8-7-3: Right Of Way Of Blind Person; Penalty
8-7-4: Use Of Right Half Of Crosswalk
8-7-5: Walking On Highway; Soliciting Ride Or Business Prohibited; Unlawful To
Be Under Influence Of Intoxicating Liquor Or Drug; Riders Of Animals
 
Section Statute/Catchline                                  Ord. No.
        NRS 484.325: Right Of Way In Crosswalk; Obedience
8-7-1:  To Signals And Other Devices For Control Of        Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Traffic.
8-7-2:  NRS 484.327: Crossing Other Than At Crosswalk.     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        NRS 484.328: Right Of Way Of Blind Person;
        Penalty.
         
        Subsection 2 of NRS 484.328 is hereby amended to
8-7-3:  read in its entirety: Any person who violates      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        subsection 1 shall be punished as provided for by
        Wells general penalty provisions as provided in
        title 1, chapter 4 of the city code. The remainder
        of NRS 484.328 is adopted as it reads.
8-7-4:  NRS 484.329: Use Of Right Half Of Crosswalk.       Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        NRS 484.331: Walking On Highway; Soliciting Ride
8-7-5:  Or Business Prohibited; Unlawful To Be Under       Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Influence Of Intoxicating Liquor Or Drug; Riders
        Of Animals.
 
CHAPTER 8
TURNING AND STARTING AND SIGNALS ON STOPPING AND TURNING
SECTION:
8-8-1: Required Position And Method Of Turning At Intersections
8-8-2: Disobedience Of Directions Of Device For Control Of Traffic Unlawful
8-8-3: U-Turns
8-8-4: Turning On Curve Or Crest Of Grade Prohibited
8-8-5: Starting Parked Vehicle
8-8-6: Movement And Signals For Turning; Signal For Stopping Or Decreasing
Speed
8-8-7: Signal By Hand And Arm Or Signal Lamp Or Device
8-8-8: Methods Of Giving Signals By Hand And Arm
Section Statute/Catchline Ord. No.
Section Statute/Catchline                                  Ord. No.
8-8-1:  NRS 484.333: Required Position And Method Of       Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Turning At Intersections.
8-8-2:  NRS 484.335: Disobedience Of Directions Of Device  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        For Control Of Traffic Unlawful.
        NRS 484.337: U-Turns.
         
8-8-3:  Subsection 4 of NRS 484.337 is hereby deleted and  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        subsection 5 shall become subsection 4. The
        remainder of NRS 484.337 is adopted as it reads.
8-8-4:  NRS 484.339: Turning On Curve Or Crest Of Grade    Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Prohibited.
8-8-5:  NRS 484.341: Starting Parked Vehicle.              Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-8-6:  NRS 484.343: Movement And Signals For Turning;     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Signals For Stopping Or Decreasing Speed.
8-8-7:  NRS 484.345: Signal By Hand And Arm Or Signal Lamp Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Or Device.
8-8-8:  NRS 484.347: Methods Of Giving Signals By Hand And Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Arm.
 
CHAPTER 9
SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
SECTION:
8-9-1: Stop Required On Signal Of Peace Officer; Penalties
8-9-2: Obedience To Signal Indicating Approach Of Railroad Train
8-9-3: Stop Required At Certain Grade Crossings Of Railroad
8-9-4: Certain Vehicles Required To Stop At All Grade Crossings Of Railroad;
Exceptions
8-9-5: Moving Heavy Equipment At Grade Crossing Of Railroad
8-9-6: Overtaking And Passing School Bus; Penalty
 
Section Statute/Catchline                                 Ord. No.
        NRS 484.348: Stop Required On Signal Of Peace
        Officer; Penalties.
         
        Subsection 3 of NRS 484.348 is hereby amended to
8-9-1:  read in its entirety: Any person who violates     Res. 94-2, 5-24-1994
        subsection 1 of this section shall be punished as
        provided for by the Wells general penalty
        provisions as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of
        the city code. The remainder of NRS 484.348 is
        adopted as it reads.
8-9-2:  NRS 484.349: Obedience To Signal Indicating       Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Approach Of Railroad Train.
8-9-3:  NRS 484.351: Stop Required At Certain Grade       Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Crossings Of Railroad.
8-9-4:  NRS 484.353: Certain Vehicles Required To Stop At Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        All Grade Crossings Of Railroad; Exceptions.
8-9-5:  NRS 484.355: Moving Heavy Equipment At Grade      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Crossing Of Railroad.
8-9-6:  NRS 484.357: Overtaking And Passing School Bus;   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Penalty.
 
CHAPTER 10
RESTRICTIONS ON SPEED
SECTION:
8-10-1: Basic Speed Rule
8-10-2: Duty Of Driver To Decrease Speed Under Certain Circumstances
8-10-3: School Bus: Maximum Speed
8-10-4: School Zone Or School Crossing Zone: Speed Limit; Designation; Signs
8-10-5: School Zone: Requirements For Signs
8-10-6: Slow Driving; Establishment Of Minimum Speed Limit
8-10-7: Restrictions On Impeding Forward Movement Of Traffic
8-10-8: Special Limitations On Speed
Section Statute/Catchline Ord. No.
Section Statute/Catchline                                  Ord. No.
8-10-1: NRS 484.361: Basic Speed Rule.                     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-10-2: NRS 484.363: Duty Of Driver To Decrease Speed      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Under Certain Circumstances.
8-10-3: NRS 484.365: School Bus: Maximum Speed.            Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        NRS 484.366: School Zone Or School Crossing Zone:
        Speed Limit; Designation; Signs.
8-10-4:                                                   Res. 94-2, 5-24-1994
        NRS 484.366 is hereby amended by deleting
        subsection 2 and subsection 3.
8-10-5: NRS 484.3665: School Zone: Requirements For Signs. Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-10-6: NRS 484.371: Slow Driving; Establishment Of        Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Minimum Speed Limit.
8-10-7: NRS 484.373: Restrictions On Impeding Forward      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Movement Of Traffic.
8-10-8: NRS 484.375: Special Limitations On Speed.         Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
 
CHAPTER 11
RECKLESS DRIVING
SECTION:
8-11-1: Reckless Driving; Penalty For Wilful Or Wanton Disregard For Safety
Causing Death Or Substantial Bodily Harm
 
Section Statute/Catchline                                  Ord. No.
        NRS 484.377: Reckless Driving; Penalty For Wilful
        Or Wanton Disregard For Safety Causing Death Or
        Substantial Bodily Harm.
        Subsection 2 of NRS 484.377 is hereby amended to
8-11-1: read in its entirety: Any person who violates      Res. 94-2, 5-24-1994
        subsection 1 is guilty of a misdemeanor and is
        punishable as provided for in the Wells general
        penalty provisions as provided in title 1, chapter
        4 of the city code. The remainder of NRS 484.377
        is adopted as it reads.
 
CHAPTER 12
STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING
SECTION:
8-12-1: Stopping, Standing Or Parking Outside Of Business Or Residence District
8-12-2: Police Officer Authorized To Remove Certain Vehicles
8-12-3: Preservation Of Criminal Evidence On Removal Of Vehicle From Highway
8-12-4: Stopping, Standing Or Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
8-12-5: Prohibited Parking In Front Of Theaters, Hotels And Other Buildings
8-12-6: Parallel And Angle Parking; Stopping, Standing And Parking On Highways
8-12-7: Obedience To Devices Permitting Angle Parking
8-12-8: Special Or Temporary Parking Placards Or Special License Plates: Use By
Person With Disability Which Limits Or Impairs Ability To Walk Or By Disabled
Veteran; Limitations
8-12-9: Parking Space Designated For Handicapped: Signs, Required Plates,
Permit Or Emblem For Parking; Penalty
8-12-10: Parked Vehicle At Nighttime: Reflectors; Lights
8-12-11: Stopping, Standing Or Parking In Alley
8-12-12: All-Night Parking Prohibited
8-12-13: Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited
8-12-14: Parking Adjacent To School
8-12-15: Parking On Narrow Highway
8-12-16: Standing Or Parking On One-Way Street
8-12-17: Standing Or Parking On One-Way Roadway
8-12-18: Stopping, Standing Or Parking Near Hazardous Or Congested Place
8-12-19: Stopping, Standing Or Parking In Zone For Loading Passengers At Curb
8-12-20: Stopping, Standing Or Parking In Zone For Loading Freight At Curb
8-12-21: Stopping, Standing Or Parking In Restricted Parking Zone
8-12-22: Stopping, Standing Or Parking Of Bus Or Taxicab
8-12-23: Restricted Use Of Bus And Taxicab Stands
8-12-24: Regulation Of Stopping, Standing Or Parking By Local Authority
8-12-25: Stopping, Standing Or Parking In Metered Parking Zone, Unlawful
Tampering With Meter
8-12-26: Parking Of Recreational Vehicles And Trailers
 
Section Statute/Catchline Ord. No.
Section  Statute/Catchline                                 Ord. No.
8-12-1:  NRS 484.395: Stopping, Standing Or Parking        Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Outside Of Business Or Residence District.
8-12-2:  NRS 484.397: Police Officer Authorized To Remove  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Certain Vehicles.
8-12-3:  NRS 484.398: Preservation Of Criminal Evidence On Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Removal Of Vehicle From Highway.
8-12-4:  NRS 484.399: Stopping, Standing Or Parking        Res. 94-2, 5-24-1994
         Prohibited In Specified Places.
8-12-5:  NRS 484.401: Prohibited Parking In Front Of       Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Theaters, Hotels And Other Buildings.
         NRS 484.403: Parallel And Angle Parking;
         Stopping, Standing And Parking On Highways.
8-12-6:  NRS 484.403 Is Hereby Amended By Deleting         Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Subsections 2, 3 And 4. The Remainder Of NRS
         484.403 Is Adopted As It Reads.
8-12-7:  NRS 484.405: Obedience To Devices Permitting      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Angle Parking.
         NRS 484.407: Special Or Temporary Parking
8-12-8:  Placards Or Special License Plates: Use By Person Res. 94-2, 5-24-1994
         With Disability Which Limits Or Impairs Ability
         To Walk Or By Disabled Veteran; Limitations.
         NRS 484.408: Parking Space Designated For
8-12-9:  Handicapped: Signs, Required Plates, Permit Or    Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Emblem For Parking; Penalty.
8-12-10: NRS 484.409: Parked Vehicle At Nighttime:         Res. 94-2, 5-24-1994
         Reflectors; Lights.
8-12-11: NRS 484.411: Stopping, Standing Or Parking In     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Alley.
8-12-12: NRS 484.413: All-Night Parking Prohibited.        Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-12-13: NRS 484.418: Parking For Certain Purposes         Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Prohibited.
8-12-14: NRS 484.421: Parking Adjacent To School.          Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-12-15: NRS 484.423: Parking On Narrow Highway.           Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-12-16: NRS 484.425: Standing Or Parking On One-Way       Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Street.
8-12-17: NRS 484.427: Standing Or Parking On One-Way       Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Roadway.
8-12-18: NRS 484.429: Stopping, Standing Or Parking Near   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Hazardous Or Congested Place.
8-12-19: NRS 484.431: Stopping, Standing Or Parking In     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Zone For Loading Passengers At Curb.
8-12-20: NRS 484.433: Stopping, Standing Or Parking In     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Zone For Loading Freight At Curb.
8-12-21: NRS 484.435: Stopping, Standing Or Parking In     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Restricted Parking Zone.
8-12-22: NRS 484.437: Stopping, Standing Or Parking Of Bus Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Or Taxicab.
8-12-23: NRS 484.439: Restricted Use Of Bus And Taxicab    Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Stands.
8-12-24: NRS 484.441: Regulation Of Stopping, Standing Or  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Parking By Local Authority.
         NRS 484.443: Stopping, Standing Or Parking In
8-12-25: Metered Parking Zone, Unlawful Tampering With     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Meter.
 
8-12-26: PARKING OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND TRAILERS:
No person shall park a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE as defined in Nevada Revised
Statutes 482.101, or a TRAILER as defined in Nevada Revised Statutes 482.125,
on any city street or alley within the city limits of the city for more than
five (5) days. (Ord. 227, - -2015)
CHAPTER 13
MISCELLANEOUS RULES
SECTION:
8-13-1: Unattended Motor Vehicle: Stopping Engine, Locking Ignition And
Removing Key
8-13-2: Unattended Motor Vehicle: Standing On Grade
8-13-3: Drinking Intoxicating Liquor While Driving Motor Vehicle Unlawful
8-13-4: Limitations On Backing
8-13-5: Driving Upon Sidewalk
8-13-6: Obstruction To Driver's View Or Interference With Driving Mechanism
8-13-7: Riding In House Trailer
8-13-8: Coasting Prohibited
8-13-9: Following Fire Apparatus Prohibited
8-13-10: Crossing Fire Hose
8-13-11: Putting Glass Or Other Injurious Substance On Highway Prohibited
8-13-12: Driving Through Funeral Or Other Procession
8-13-13: Driving In Procession
8-13-14: Permits Required For Certain Parades And Processions, Sound Trucks And
Oversized Or Overweight Vehicles Or Equipment; Penalty For Violation
8-13-15: Unlawful Riding
8-13-16: Child Riding In Motor Vehicle: Device To Restrain Child Under Five
Years Of Age Required; Penalty; Exceptions
8-13-17: Boarding Or Alighting From Vehicle; Opening Door Of Vehicle
8-13-18: Motor Must Be Shut Off When Supply Tank Being Filled With Fuel
8-13-19: Highway Closed To Traffic: Removal Of Barriers And Signs Unlawful;
Driving On Highway Unlawful
8-13-20: Fusee: Limitation On Color
8-13-21: Police Officer To Remove Lights And Sirens Unlawfully Installed Or
Operated
8-13-22: Driving Through Safety Zone Prohibited
8-13-23: Reflective Material Required For Person Directing Or Controlling
Traffic Near School
8-13-24: Operator Of Tow Car: Placement Of Warning Signs When Rendering
Assistance To Disabled Vehicle On Certain Roadways
8-13-25: Operator Of Tow Car: Placement Of Flares, Warning Lights Or Reflectors
Near Warning Signs When Rendering Assistance To Disabled Vehicle On Highway
During Darkness
Section Statute/Catchline Ord. No.
Section  Statute/Catchline                                 Ord. No.
8-13-1:  NRS 484.445: Unattended Motor Vehicle: Stopping   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Engine, Locking Ignition And Removing Key.
8-13-2:  NRS 484.447: Unattended Motor Vehicle: Standing   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         On Grade.
8-13-3:  NRS 484.448: Drinking Intoxicating Liquor While   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Driving Motor Vehicle Unlawful.
8-13-4:  NRS 484.449: Limitations On Backing.              Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-13-5:  NRS 484.451: Driving Upon Sidewalk.               Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-13-6:  NRS 484.453: Obstruction To Driver's View Or      Res. 94-2, 5-24-1994
         Interference With Driving Mechanism.
8-13-7:  NRS 484.455: Riding In House Trailer.             Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-13-8:  NRS 484.459: Coasting Prohibited.                 Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-13-9:  NRS 484.461: Following Fire Apparatus Prohibited. Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-13-10: NRS 484.463: Crossing Fire Hose.                  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-13-11: NRS 484.465: Putting Glass Or Other Injurious     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Substance On Highway Prohibited.
8-13-12: NRS 484.467: Driving Through Funeral Or Other     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Procession.
8-13-13: NRS 484.469: Driving In Procession.               Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         NRS 484.471: Permits Required For Certain Parades
8-13-14: And Processions, Sound Trucks And Oversized Or    Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Overweight Vehicles Or Equipment; Penalty For
         Violation.
8-13-15: NRS 484.473: Unlawful Riding.                     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         NRS 484.474: Child Riding In Motor Vehicle:
8-13-16: Device To Restrain Child Under Five Years Of Age  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Required; Penalty; Exceptions.
8-13-17: NRS 484.475: Boarding Or Alighting From Vehicle;  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Opening Door Of Vehicle.
8-13-18: NRS 484.477: Motor Must Be Shut Off When Supply   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Tank Being Filled With Fuel
         NRS 484.479: Highway Closed To Traffic: Removal
8-13-19: Of Barriers And Signs Unlawful; Driving On        Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Highway Unlawful.
8-13-20: NRS 484.491: Fusee: Limitation On Color.          Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-13-21: NRS 484.493: Police Officer To Remove Lights And  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Sirens Unlawfully Installed Or Operated.
8-13-22: NRS 484.495: Driving Through Safety Zone          Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Prohibited.
         NRS 484.496: Reflective Material Required For
8-13-23: Person Directing Or Controlling Traffic Near      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         School.
         NRS 484.497: Operator Of Tow Car: Placement Of
8-13-24: Warning Signs When Rendering Assistance To        Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Disabled Vehicle On Certain Roadways.
         NRS 484.499: Operator Of Tow Car: Placement Of
8-13-25: Flares, Warning Lights Or Reflectors Near Warning Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Signs When Rendering Assistance To Disabled
         Vehicle On Highway During Darkness.
 
CHAPTER 14
OPERATION OF BICYCLES AND VEHICLES FOR PLAY
SECTION:
8-14-1: Penalty; Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian Of Minor; Applicability
To Bicycle
8-14-2: Traffic Laws Apply To Person Riding Bicycle
8-14-3: Riding On Bicycle
8-14-4: Clinging To Another Vehicle On Roadway Prohibited
8-14-5: Riding On Roadway Or Path For Bicycles
8-14-6: Carrying Articles
8-14-7: Lamp, Reflector And Other Equipment On Bicycle
Section Statute/Catchline Ord. No.
Section Statute/Catchline                                 Ord. No.
8-14-1: NRS 484.501: Penalty; Responsibility Of Parent Or Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Guardian Of Minor; Applicability To Bicycle.
8-14-2: NRS 484.503: Traffic Laws Apply To Person Riding  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Bicycle.
8-14-3: NRS 484.505: Riding On Bicycle.                   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-14-4: NRS 484.507: Clinging To Another Vehicle On       Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Roadway Prohibited.
8-14-5: NRS 484.509: Riding On Roadway Or Path For        Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Bicycles.
8-14-6: NRS 484.511: Carrying Articles.                   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-14-7: NRS 484.513: Lamp, Reflector And Other Equipment  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        On Bicycle.
 
CHAPTER 15
EQUIPMENT OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
8-15-1: General Requirements For Equipment
 
Section Statute/Catchline                                Ord. No.
8-15-1: NRS 484.541: General Requirements For Equipment. Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
 
CHAPTER 16
LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT FOR LIGHTING
SECTION:
8-16-1: When Lighted Lamps Are Required
8-16-2: Distance Of Visibility And Mounted Height Of Lamps
8-16-3: Head Lamps On Motor Vehicles And Special Mobile Equipment
8-16-4: Tail Lamps
8-16-5: Reflectors
8-16-6: Stop Lamps
8-16-7: Turn Signals
8-16-8: Requirements For Pole Trailer
8-16-9: Additional Equipment For Lighting Required On Certain Vehicles
8-16-10: Colors Of Certain Lamps, Lights And Reflectors
8-16-11: Mounting Of Reflectors, Clearance Lamps And Side Marker Lamps
8-16-12: Visibility Requirements For Reflectors, Clearance Lamps,
Identification Lamps And Marker Lamps
8-16-13: Obstructed Lights
8-16-14: Lamps On Parked Vehicle
8-16-15: Lamps And Reflectors On Farm Tractors, Farm Equipment And Implements
Of Husbandry
8-16-16: Lamps And Reflectors On Other Vehicles
8-16-17: Spot Lamps, Auxiliary Lamps And Lamps For Fog
8-16-18: Flashing Amber Warning Light: Limitations On Operation And Display;
Permit To Mount On Certain Vehicles
8-16-19: Display Of Flashing Amber Warning Light And Signs By Certain Vehicles
Used To Sell Food Or Beverage
8-16-20: Display Of Flashing Amber Warning Light By Vehicle Of Public Utility
8-16-21: Additional Equipment For Lighting
8-16-22: Equipment For Lighting Road With Multiple Beams
8-16-23: Use Of Equipment For Lighting Road With Multiple Beams
8-16-24: Number Of Intensity Of Lamps On Front Of Vehicle
8-16-25: Equipment Required
8-16-26: Requirements For Performance
8-16-27: Maintenance
8-16-28: Equipment For Towing Vehicle
8-16-29: Arrangement Of System; Device For Control
8-16-30: Reservoirs
8-16-31: Warning Signals And Devices For Certain Buses, Trucks And Truck
Tractors
Section Statute/Catchline Ord. No.
Section  Statute/Catchline                                 Ord. No.
8-16-1:  NRS 484.545: When Lighted Lamps Are Required.     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-16-2:  NRS 484.547: Distance Of Visibility And Mounted   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Height Of Lamps.
8-16-3:  NRS 484.549: Head Lamps On Motor Vehicles And     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Special Mobile Equipment.
8-16-4:  NRS 484.551: Tail Lamps.                          Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-16-5:  NRS 484.553: Reflectors.                          Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-16-6:  NRS 484.555: Stop Lamps.                          Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-16-7:  NRS 484.557: Turn Signals.                        Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-16-8:  NRS 484.559: Requirements For Pole Trailer.       Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-16-9:  NRS 484.561: Additional Equipment For Lighting    Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Required On Certain Vehicles.
8-16-10: NRS 484.563: Colors Of Certain Lamps, Lights And  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Reflectors.
8-16-11: NRS 484.565: Mounting Of Reflectors, Clearance    Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Lamps And Side Marker Lamps.
         NRS 484.567: Visibility Requirements For
8-16-12: Reflectors, Clearance Lamps, Identification Lamps Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         And Marker Lamps.
8-16-13: NRS 484.569: Obstructed Lights.                   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-16-14: NRS 484.571: Lamps On Parked Vehicle.             Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         NRS 484.573: Lamps And Reflectors On Farm
8-16-15: Tractors, Farm Equipment And Implements Of        Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Husbandry.
8-16-16: NRS 484.575: Lamps And Reflectors On Other        Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Vehicles.
8-16-17: NRS 484.577: Spot Lamps, Auxiliary Lamps And      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Lamps For Fog.
         NRS 484.579: Flashing Amber Warning Light:
         Limitations On Operation And Display; Permit To
         Mount On Certain Vehicles.
8-16-18:                                                  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         NRS 484.579 is hereby amended by deleting
         subsections 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. The remainder of
         NRS 484.579 is adopted as it reads.
         NRS 484.582: Display Of Flashing Amber Warning
8-16-19: Light And Signs By Certain Vehicles Used To Sell  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Food Or Beverage.
8-16-20: NRS 484.583: Display Of Flashing Amber Warning    Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Light By Vehicle Of Public Utility.
8-16-21: NRS 484.585: Additional Equipment For Lighting.   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-16-22: NRS 484.587: Equipment For Lighting Road With     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Multiple Beams.
8-16-23: NRS 484.589: Use Of Equipment For Lighting Road   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         With Multiple Beams.
8-16-24: NRS 484.591: Number Of Intensity Of Lamps On      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Front Of Vehicle.
8-16-25: NRS 484.593: Equipment Required.                  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-16-26: NRS 484.595: Requirements For Performance.        Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-16-27: NRS 484.597: Maintenance.                         Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-16-28: NRS 484.599: Equipment For Towing Vehicle.        Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-16-29: NRS 484.601: Arrangement Of System; Device For    Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Control.
8-16-30: NRS 484.603: Reservoirs.                          Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-16-31: NRS 484.605: Warning Signals And Devices For      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         Certain Buses, Trucks And Truck Tractors.
 
CHAPTER 17
ODOMETERS
SECTION:
8-17-1: Definitions
8-17-2: Unlawful Devices
8-17-3: Unlawful Change Of Mileage
8-17-4: Operation With Intent To Defraud Unlawful
8-17-5: Conspiracy
8-17-6: Lawful Service, Repair Or Replacement; Notice To Be Attached To Vehicle
When Odometer Adjusted To Read Zero
8-17-7: Statement Of Mileage Required On Transfer Of Vehicle; Exemption;
Transferee To Retain Statement
8-17-8: Criminal Penalties
Section Statute/Catchline Ord. No.
Section Statute/Catchline                                  Ord. No.
8-17-1: NRS 484.606: Definitions.                          Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-17-2: NRS 484.6061: Unlawful Devices                     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-17-3: NRS 484.6062: Unlawful Change Of Mileage.          Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-17-4: NRS 484.6063: Operation With Intent To Defraud     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Unlawful.
8-17-5: NRS 484.6064: Conspiracy.                          Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        NRS 484.6065: Lawful Service, Repair Or
8-17-6: Replacement; Notice To Be Attached To Vehicle When Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Odometer Adjusted To Read Zero.
        NRS 484.6066: Statement Of Mileage Required On
8-17-7: Transfer Of Vehicle; Exemption; Transferee To      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Retain Statement.
        NRS 484.6067: Criminal Penalties.
        NRS 484.6067 is hereby amended to read in its
8-17-8: entirety: Any person who violates NRS 484.606 to   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        NRS 484.609, inclusive, is guilty of a
        misdemeanor.
 
CHAPTER 18
OTHER EQUIPMENT
SECTION:
8-18-1: Horns And Warning Devices
8-18-2: Unlawful To Operate Out-Of-State Or Foreign Privately Owned Motor
Vehicle Equipped With Red Light Or Siren; Exception; Penalty
8-18-3: Standards And Regulations For Noise Emission; Compliance
8-18-4: Mufflers: Prevention Of Emissions
8-18-5: Mudguards
8-18-6: Mirrors On Trucks
8-18-7: Mirrors On All Motor Vehicles
8-18-8: Windshield And Windows Must Be Unobstructed
8-18-8.1: Restriction On Tinting Of Windshield Or Side Or Rear Window
8-18-9: Windshield Wipers
8-18-10: Safety Glazing Material In Motor Vehicles And Campers
8-18-11: Replacement Of Glazing Materials
8-18-12: Certain Vehicles To Carry Pot Torches, Lanterns Or Reflectors; Display
Of Devices When Vehicle Is Disabled
8-18-13: Display Of Warning Devices By Vehicle Of Public Utility Parked At Site
Of Work
8-18-14: Equipment For Tow Car: Broom, Shovel And Fire Extinguisher; Duties Of
Driver
8-18-15: Equipment For Tow Car: Flashing Amber Warning Lamp; Flares, Lanterns,
Lights Or Reflectors
8-18-16: Equipment For Tow Car: Rear And Stop Lamps; Portable Electric
Extension Cord
8-18-17: Receiver For Television
8-18-18: Safety Belts And Shoulder Harness Assembly; Requirements For Child And
Other Passenger; Penalty; Exemptions
8-18-19: Safety Belts And Shoulder Harness Assembly
8-18-20: Pneumatic Tires: Standards; Sale Or Use Of Nonconforming Tire
Prohibited
8-18-21: Use Of Certain Studded Tires Prohibited
8-18-22: Traction Devices, Tire Chains Or Snow Tires: Use Required Where
Highway Marked Or Posted
8-18-23: Traction Devices, Tire Chains Or Snow Tires: Requirements Under
Certain Circumstances
8-18-24: Traction Devices, Tire Chains Or Snow Tires: Installation And Mounting
8-18-25: Mechanical Device To Provide Traction
8-18-26: Device For Control Of Pollution: Use Required; Disconnection Or
Alteration Prohibited; Exceptions
8-18-27: Device For Control Of Pollution: Penalty; Proof Of Conformity May Be
Required
8-18-28: Emblem For Slow Moving Vehicle Displayed On Certain Vehicles;
Standards
Section Statute/Catchline Ord. No.
Section   Statute/Catchline                                Ord. No.
8-18-1:   NRS 484.607: Horns And Warning Devices.          Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          NRS 484.609: Unlawful To Operate Out-Of-State Or
          Foreign Privately Owned Motor Vehicle Equipped
          With Red Light Or Siren; Exception; Penalty.
           
          Subsection 1 of NRS 484.609 is hereby amended to
          read in its entirety: It is unlawful for any
8-18-2:   person to operate or cause to be operated upon   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          the public highways of this city any out-of-
          state or foreign privately owned motor vehicle
          equipped with a red light or siren attached
          thereto as a part of the equipment of the
          vehicle. The remainder of NRS 484.609 is adopted
          as it reads.
          NRS 484.6101: Standards And Regulations For
          Noise Emission; Compliance.
           
          NRS 484.6101 is hereby amended by deleting
          subsections 1, 2, 3 and 4 and the remainder of
          the statute is amended to read in its entirety:
8-18-3:   On or after the effective date of the rules and  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          regulations adopted pursuant to NRS 484.6101 it
          shall be unlawful to operate on the highways of
          this city or to sell or offer for sale in this
          city any vehicle which fails to comply with the
          emission levels established by such rules and
          regulations.
8-18-4:   NRS 484.611: Mufflers: Prevention Of Emission.   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-18-5:   NRS 484.612: Mudguards.                          Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-18-6:   NRS 484.613: Mirrors On Trucks.                  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-18-7:   NRS 484.617: Mirrors On All Motor Vehicles.      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-18-8:   NRS 484.619: Windshield And Windows Must Be      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          Unobstructed.
8-18-8.1: NRS 484.6195: Restriction On Tinting Of          Res. 94-2, 5-24-1994
          Windshield Or Side Or Rear Window.
8-18-9:   NRS 484.621: Windshield Wipers.                  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          NRS 484.623: Safety Glazing Material In Motor
          Vehicles And Campers.
8-18-10:                                                  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          NRS 484.623 is hereby amended by deleting
          subsection 4. The remainder of NRS 484.623 is
          adopted as it reads.
8-18-11:  NRS 484.625: Replacement Of Glazing Materials.   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          NRS 484.627: Certain Vehicles To Carry Pot
8-18-12:  Torches, Lanterns Or Reflectors; Display Of      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          Devices When Vehicle Is Disabled.
          NRS 484.629: Display Of Warning Devices By
8-18-13:  Vehicle Of Public Utility Parked At Site Of      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          Work.
8-18-14:  NRS 484.631: Equipment For Tow Car: Broom,       Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          Shovel And Fire Extinguisher; Duties Of Driver.
          NRS 484.633: Equipment For Tow Car: Flashing
8-18-15:  Amber Warning Lamp, Flares, Lanterns, Lights Or  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          Reflectors.
8-18-16:  NRS 484.637: Equipment For Tow Car: Rear And     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          Stop Lamps; Portable Electric Extension Cord.
8-18-17:  NRS 484.639: Receiver For Television.            Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          NRS 484.641: Safety Belts And Shoulder Harness
          Assembly; Requirements For Child And Other
          Passenger; Penalty; Exemptions. (Effective until
          the date the federal government rescinds the
8-18-18:  requirement for the installation of automatic    Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          restraints in new private passenger motor
          vehicles, if that action is based upon the
          enactment or continued operation of certain
          amendatory and transitory provisions contained
          in chapter 480, statutes of Nevada 1987.)
          NRS 484.641: Safety Belts And Shoulder Harness
          Assembly. (Effective until the date the federal
          government rescinds the requirement for
          installation of automatic restraints in new
8-18-19:  private passenger motor vehicles, if that action Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          is based upon the enactment or continued
          operation of certain amendatory and transitory
          provisions contained in chapter 480, statutes of
          Nevada 1987.)
          NRS 484.642: Pneumatic Tires: Standards; Sale Or
          Use Of Nonconforming Tire Prohibited.
           
          NRS 484.642 is hereby amended by deleting
          subsection 1 and thereby amending subsection 2
          to become subsection 1 and amending subsection 3
          to become subsection 2. The remainder of statute
          is amended to read in its entirety:
           
          1. After the adoption of the rules and
8-18-20:  regulations pursuant to NRS 484.642, no dealer   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          or person holding a retail seller's license
          shall sell, offer for sale, expose for sale or
          install on a vehicle for use on a highway a
          pneumatic tire which is not in compliance with
          such rules and regulations.
           
          2. After adoption of the rules and regulations
          pursuant to NRS 484.642, no person shall use on
          a highway a pneumatic tire which is not in
          conformance with the rules and regulations.
8-18-21:  NRS 484.6425: Use Of Certain Studded Tires       Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          Prohibited.
          NRS 484.643: Traction Devices, Tire Chains Or
          Snow Tires: Use Required Where Highway Marked Or
          Posted.
8-18-22:                                                  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          NRS 484.643 is hereby amended by deleting
          subsection 2. The remainder of the statute is
          adopted as it reads.
          NRS 484.6432: Traction Devices, Tire Chains Or
8-18-23:  Snow Tires: Requirements Under Certain           Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          Circumstances.
8-18-24:  NRS 484.6434: Traction Devices, Tire Chains Or   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          Snow Tires: Installation And Mounting.
8-18-25:  NRS 484.6436: Mechanical Device To Provide       Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          Traction.
          NRS 484.644: Device For Control Of Pollution:
8-18-26:  Use Required; Disconnection Or Alteration        Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          Prohibited; Exceptions.
8-18-27:  NRS 484.6441: Device For Control Of Pollution:   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          Penalty; Proof Of Conformity May Be Required.
8-18-28:  NRS 484.646: Emblem For Slow Moving Vehicle      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          Displayed On Certain Vehicles; Standards.
 
 
CHAPTER 19
INSPECTION OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
8-19-1: Inspection By Peace Officer Or Inspector; Citation Or Notice Of
Violation
8-19-2: Operation Of Vehicle Without Required Equipment Or In Unsafe Condition
Prohibited; Exceptions
8-19-3: Penalty For Failure Or Refusal To Stop And Submit To Inspection Or Test
 
Section Statute/Catchline                                  Ord. No.
        NRS 484.695: Inspection By Peace Officer Or
        Inspector; Citation Or Notice Of Violation.
8-19-1:                                                   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        NRS 484.695 is hereby amended by deleting
        subsections 3 and 4.
        NRS 484.697: Operation Of Vehicle Without Required
8-19-2: Equipment Or In Unsafe Condition Prohibited;       Res. 94-2, 5-24-1994
        Exceptions.
8-19-3: NRS 484.701: Penalty For Failure Or Refusal To     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Stop And Submit To Inspection Or Test.
 
CHAPTER 20
SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD
SECTION:
8-20-1: Prohibited Acts Concerning Size Or Weight Of Vehicle; Special Permit;
Exceptions
8-20-2: Height Of Vehicle: Maximum Heights With Load; Exception; Unlawful Acts
8-20-3: Height Of Vehicle: Maximum Ground Clearance; Exceptions
8-20-4: Length Of Vehicle: Restrictions; Special Permit; Exceptions
8-20-5: Length Of Vehicle: Penalty
8-20-6: Load On Vehicle
8-20-7: Display Of Red Lights Or Flag On Load
Section Statute/Catchline Ord. No.
Section Statute/Catchline                                  Ord. No.
8-20-1: NRS 484.737: Prohibited Acts Concerning Size Or    Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Weight Of Vehicle; Special Permit; Exceptions.
        NRS 484.738: Height Of Vehicle: Maximum Heights
        With Load; Exception; Unlawful Acts.
         
        NRS 484.738 subsection 1 is hereby amended to read
        in its entirety:
         
        1. Except as otherwise provided in subsections 2
        and 3, a vehicle must not be operated on any
        highway of this city if its height, including
        load, exceeds 14' measured from the surface on
        which the vehicle stands.
8-20-2:                                                   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        NRS 484.738 is further amended by deleting
        subsection 3 and amending subsection 4 to become
        subsection 3 which shall read in its entirety:
         
        3. It is unlawful to operate a vehicle over any
        portion of a highway where the free clearance of
        any structure or encroachment is less than the
        actual height of the vehicle and load.
         
        The remainder of NRS 484.738 is adopted as it
        reads.
        NRS 484.7385: Height Of Vehicle: Maximum Ground
        Clearance; Exceptions.
         
        Subsection 1 of NRS 484.7385 is hereby amended to
        read in its entirety: A motor vehicle must not be
        operated on a highway within the city if the
        lowest portion of its body, as measured from the
        surface on which the vehicle stands, exceeds, for
        passenger cars, 24 inches, and for a truck or
        other motor vehicle having manufacturer's gross
8-20-3: vehicle weight rating:                             Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
         
        (a) Of 4,500 pounds or less, 28 inches.
         
        (b) Of more than 4,500 pounds but not less than
        7,501 pounds, 30 inches.
         
        (c) Of 7,501 pounds but not less than 10,001
        pounds, 32 inches.
         
        The remainder of NRS 484.7385 is adopted as it
        reads.
        NRS 484.739: Length Of Vehicle: Restrictions;
        Special Permit; Exceptions.
         
8-20-4: NRS 484.739 is amended by deleting subsections 5   Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        and 6 and amending subsection 7 to be subsection
        5, amending subsection 8 to be subsection 6, and
        amending subsection 9 to be subsection 7.
8-20-5: NRS 484.741: Length Of Vehicle: Penalty.           Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-20-6: NRS 484.771: Load On Vehicle.                      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-20-7: NRS 484.775: Display Of Red Lights Or Flag On      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Load.
 
 
CHAPTER 21
POWERS OF LOCAL AUTHORITIES
SECTION:
8-21-1: Local Device For Control Of Traffic
8-21-2: Designation Of Through Highways And Intersections Requiring Stop Or
Yield; Vehicle Entering Intersection
8-21-3: Designation Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles; Equipment; Limitations On
Use Of Warning Devices
 
Section Statute/Catchline                                  Ord. No.
8-21-1: NRS 484.783: Local Device For Control Of Traffic.  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        NRS 484.785: Designation Of Through Highways And
8-21-2: Intersections Requiring Stop Or Yield; Vehicle     Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Entering Intersection.
        NRS 484.787: Designation Of Authorized Emergency
8-21-3: Vehicles; Equipment; Limitations On Use Of Warning Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
        Devices.
 
CHAPTER 22
PROCEDURE UPON ARREST
SECTION:
8-22-1: Release Of Defendant When Magistrate Not Available
8-22-1.1: Citation For Operation Of Vehicle Without Security Or For Failure To
Present Proof Of Security
8-22-2: Failure To Obey Citation
8-22-3: Procedures Prescribed For Arrest Without Warrant Not Exclusive
8-22-4: Issuance Of Warrant For Failure To Obey Citation For Parking Violation
8-22-5: Form For Traffic Citations
8-22-6: Disposition And Records Of Traffic Citations
8-22-7: Audit Of Records Of Traffic Citations
8-22-8: Copy Of Citation Deemed Lawful Complaint
Section Statute/Catchline Ord. No.
Section   Statute/Catchline                                Ord. No.
8-22-1:   NRS 484.805: Release Of Defendant When           Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          Magistrate Not Available.
          NRS 484.792: Citation For Operation Of Vehicle
8-22-1.1: Without Security Or For Failure To Present Proof Res. 94-2, 5-24-1994
          Of Security.
8-22-2:   NRS 484.807: Failure To Obey Citation.           Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-22-3:   NRS 484.809: Procedures Prescribed For Arrest    Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          Without Warrant Not Exclusive.
8-22-4:   NRS 484.810: Issuance Of Warrant For Failure To  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          Obey Citation For Parking Violation.
8-22-5:   NRS 484.811: Form For Traffic Citations.         Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
8-22-6:   NRS 484.813: Disposition And Records Of Traffic  Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          Citations.
8-22-7:   NRS 484.815: Audit Of Records Of Traffic         Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          Citations.
8-22-8:   NRS 484.817: Copy Of Citation Deemed Lawful      Ord. 166, 11-10-1992
          Complaint.
 
 
CHAPTER 23
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-23-1: Sponsor Of Special Event To Provide For Control Of Vehicular Traffic
8-23-2: Mandatory Motor Vehicle Insurance
8-23-3: Imprudent Driving
8-23-4: Emerging From Alley, Driveway Or Building
8-23-5: Repeal
8-23-6: Amendment
8-23-7: Publication
8-23-1: SPONSOR OF SPECIAL EVENT TO PROVIDE FOR CONTROL OF VEHICULAR TRAFFIC:
   NRS 484.900: Sponsor Of Special Event To Provide For Control Of Vehicular
Traffic. (Ord. 166, 11-10-1992)
8-23-2: MANDATORY MOTOR VEHICLE INSURANCE:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection F of this section, the owner
of a motor vehicle shall not:
      1.   Operate a motor vehicle, if it is registered or required to be
registered in this state, without having security for payment of liabilities
arising from maintenance or use of the vehicle as required by Nevada Revised
Statutes 484.185.
      2.   Operate or knowingly permit the operation of a motor vehicle without
having evidence of current insurance of the operator of the vehicle within the
vehicle.
      3.   Fail or refuse to surrender, upon demand, to a peace officer or to
an authorized representative of the department of motor vehicles proof of
security.
      4.   Knowingly permit the operation of the motor vehicle in violation of
subsection 3 of Nevada Revised Statutes 485.186.
   B.   A person shall not operate the motor vehicle of another unless:
      1.   He first ensures that the required evidence of current proof of
financial responsibility is present in the motor vehicle; or
      2.   He has his own proof of financial responsibility which covers him as
the operator of the motor vehicle.
   C.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection D of this section, any
person who violates subsection A or B of this section shall be punished by a
fine of not less than six hundred dollars ($600.00) nor more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for each violation. The fine must be reduced to one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for the first violation if the required proof of financial
responsibility is obtained not later than thirty (30) days after the fine is
imposed.
   D.   A court:
      1.   Shall not fine a person for a violation of subsection A1, A2 or A3
of this section or for a violation of subsection B of this section if he
presents evidence to the court that the proof of financial responsibility
required by Nevada Revised Statutes 485.185 was in effect at the time demand
was made for it.
      2.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection D1 of this section, may
impose a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for a violation of subsection
A1, A2 or A3 of this section and suspend the fine on the condition that the
person presents proof to the court each month for twelve (12) months that the
security required by Nevada Revised Statutes 485.185 is currently in effect.
   E.   Failure to deposit security if so required by the provisions of Nevada
Revised Statutes 485.190 is prima facie evidence of violation of the provisions
of this section.
   F.   The provisions of subsections A2 and A3 of this section do not apply if
the motor vehicle in question displays a valid permit issued by the department
pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 482.3212, 482.396, 482.3965, 482.423 or
482.424 authorizing the movement or operation of that vehicle within the state
for a limited time. (Ord. 173, 5-24-1994)
8-23-3: IMPRUDENT DRIVING:
Every person operating, riding or in charge of any vehicle upon any public
highway in the city, who shall operate, drive or propel such vehicle upon such
highway in other than a careful and prudent manner and without due regard for
the safety and convenience of persons, vehicles or other property shall be
guilty of imprudent driving. (Ord. 166, 11-10-1992)
8-23-4: EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING:
The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging from
an alley, driveway or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to
driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway
or driveway, and shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian as may be
necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the
right of way to all vehicles approaching on said roadway. (Ord. 166, 11-10-
1992)
8-23-5: REPEAL:
All ordinances or codes and parts of ordinances or codes in conflict herewith
are hereby repealed. Further, title 8 of the current Wells city code, and each
and all provisions therein passed prior to ordinance 166, are hereby expressly
repealed. (Ord. 166, 11-10-1992)
8-23-6: AMENDMENT:
As expressly provided for herein, Nevada Revised Statutes 484, as modified, is
adopted as the traffic code of the city. All revisions by the state legislature
approved by resolution of the city council shall become a part of this title.
Otherwise, the city council may amend this title as provided by law. (Ord. 166,
11-10-1992)
8-23-7: PUBLICATION:
Upon adoption, the city clerk of the city is hereby directed to have ordinance
166 published, by title only, together with the councilmen voting for or
against its passage, in the "Elko Daily Free Press" newspaper, a newspaper
published in the city, for at least one publication. (Ord. 166, 11-10-1992)
CHAPTER 24
OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE USE AND OPERATION
SECTION:
8-24-1: Definitions
8-24-2: Operator Requirements
8-24-3: Additional Restrictions Regarding Driving Or Operating Off Highway
Vehicle
8-24-4: General Rules And Regulations
8-24-5: Designated Routes And Trails
8-24-6: Parent/Adult Responsibility
8-24-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   As used in this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise, the
words and terms hereafter shall have the following meanings ascribed to them:
   HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every city of Wells
highway maintained by the city of Wells when any part of such way is open to
the public for purposes of vehicular traffic.
   OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE: A motor vehicle that is designed primarily for off
highway and all-terrain use, including, but not limited to:
      1.   An all-terrain motor vehicle,
      2.   An all-terrain motorcycle,
      3.   A dune buggy,
      4.   A snowmobile,
      5.   A four-wheeler,
      6.   Any motor vehicle used on public lands for the purpose of
recreation,
      7.   Mopeds, Go-Peds, minibikes, go-carts, golf carts and the like.
The term does not include vehicles registered by the department of motor
vehicles. (Ord. 213, 11-12-2008)
8-24-2: OPERATOR REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No person sixteen (16) years of age or older may operate an off highway
vehicle on any land, trail, street, or highway designated for open off highway
vehicle use unless the person possesses:
      1.   A valid motor vehicle operator's license, as provided by Nevada law
or a safety instruction certificate from a valid program authorized for safety
instruction by the manufacturer of the off highway vehicle; and
      2.   Concerning off highway vehicles which are off highway vehicles as
defined by Nevada Revised Statutes 490.060, a certificate of operation attached
to the vehicle as required by Nevada Revised Statutes 490.080.
   B.   No person under the age of sixteen (16) may operate an off highway
vehicle on any land, trail, street or highway designated for open off highway
vehicle use.
   C.   Any person convicted of a violation of subsection A or B of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than fifty
dollars ($50.00) for each offense.
   D.   It is a defense to a charge under subsection A of this section if the
person charged produces, at or before the time of trial, a license or an
appropriate safety certificate issued to him or her and valid at the time of
his or her alleged operation. (Ord. 213, 11-12-2008)
8-24-3: ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS REGARDING DRIVING OR OPERATING OFF HIGHWAY
VEHICLE:
   A.   No owner or other person in the care or custody of an off highway
vehicle may give another person who is under sixteen (16) years of age
permission to operate any off highway vehicle on any public land, trail, street
or highway of the city or may suffer, allow or permit such operation by a
person who is under sixteen (16) years of age.
   B.   Any person convicted of a violation of the above provisions is guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than fifty dollars ($50.00) for
each offense.
   C.   Mistake of age shall not be a defense to charge under subsection B of
this section. (Ord. 213, 11-12-2008)
8-24-4: GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   There shall be a maximum speed limit for the operation of every off
highway vehicle of twenty five (25) miles per hour (mph) within the city
limits.
   B.   There shall be no more than the approved number of occupants per
vehicle design riding the off highway vehicle.
   C.   Any off highway vehicle that is equipped with any driving, tail or
other operational lighting shall have such lighting "on" during operation.
   D.   Every off highway vehicle being operated under this chapter shall be
maintained, equipped and operated with appropriate safety and operational
equipment as designed by the manufacturer (i.e., mufflers, brakes, lighting,
etc.) and as required by Nevada Revised Statutes 490.120.
   E.   To the fullest extent practicable, the traffic laws of chapters 1
through 23 of this title are hereby made applicable to the operation of off
highway vehicles under this chapter on any highways of the city.
   F.   The mandatory motor vehicle insurance provision of chapter 23 of this
title is specifically applicable to the operator of any off highway vehicle
pursuant to this chapter.
   G.   Any person convicted of a violation of any of the above rules and
regulations is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in accordance with
the general penalty provision of this code. (Ord. 213, 11-12-2008)
8-24-5: DESIGNATED ROUTES AND TRAILS:
   A.   Off highway vehicles shall be used and operated within the city of
Wells only over such public lands, trails, streets, roads or highways that are
designated by ordinance or resolution of the city council as open to such off
highway vehicle use and operation.
   B.   The city council shall adopt by resolution appropriate map(s) or in
writing the designated roadways which describe where off highway vehicle use is
permitted under this chapter.
   C.   Any person convicted of failing to operate an off highway vehicle on
the above designated roadway is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
more than fifty dollars ($50.00) for each offense. (Ord. 213, 11-12-2008)
8-24-6: PARENT/ADULT RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   In addition to any juvenile culpability which may be imposed due to
violations of this chapter, the responsibility for complying with the
provisions of this chapter shall rest upon the adult owner or custodian of any
off highway vehicle or the head of household where any off highway vehicle is
kept, whether or not ownership of the off highway vehicle is claimed by any
other person residing in said household. A husband or wife, or two (2) or more
adults living together, may jointly or separately be charged as heads of the
household where an off highway vehicle is kept.
   B.   If the true owner of an off highway vehicle is of such minor age as to
prohibit the minor from being required to answer in court, the parent or
guardian of such minor may be required to appear and assume full responsibility
for the actions or omissions of the minor. The age of the minor is no defense
to a violation of the provisions of this chapter, and the parent, guardian,
owner/custodian of the off highway vehicle or the head of the household where
the off highway vehicle is kept may be held responsible for the actions or
omissions of a minor's violation of this chapter. (Ord. 213, 11-12-2008)
TITLE 9
MASTER PLAN
Master Plan   1
CHAPTER 1
MASTER PLAN
SECTION:
9-1-1: Preparation
9-1-2: Subject Matter Required
9-1-3: Form Of Plan, Map
9-1-4: Adoption Procedure, Hearings
9-1-5: Coordination Of Plans
9-1-6: Promotion Of Plan
9-1-7: Implementation By Governing Body
9-1-8: School Sites, Notice
9-1-9: Public Land, Facilities Acquired Or Abandoned
9-1-10: Land Use, Districts
9-1-11: Land Use, Changes, Hearing
9-1-1: PREPARATION:
The planning commission 1  shall prepare and adopt a comprehensive long term
general plan for the physical development of the city, which, in the
commission's judgment, bears relation to the planning thereof. The plan shall
be known as the master plan, shall be so prepared that all or portions thereof
may be adopted by the board of councilmen, as provided in this chapter, and in
Nevada Revised Statutes 278.010 to 278.630, inclusive, as a basis for the
development of the city for such reasonable period of time next ensuing after
the adoption thereof as may practically be covered thereby. (Ord. 91, 2-12-
1973)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 1 of this code.
9-1-2: SUBJECT MATTER REQUIRED:
The master plan, with the accompanying charts, drawings, diagrams, schedules
and reports, shall include such of the following subject matter or portions
thereof as are appropriate to the city and as may be made the basis for the
physical development thereof:
   A.   Community Design: Standards and principles governing the subdivision of
land and suggestive patterns for community design and development.
   B.   Conservation Plan: For the conservation, development and utilization of
natural resources, including water and its hydraulic force, underground water,
water supply, forest, soils, rivers and other waters, harbors, fisheries,
wildlife, minerals and other natural resources. The plan shall also cover the
reclamation of land and waters, flood control, prevention and control of the
pollution of streams and other waters, regulation of the use of land in stream
channels and other areas required for the accomplishment of the conservation
plan, prevention, control and correction of the erosion of soils through proper
clearing, grading and landscaping, beaches and shores and protection of
watersheds. The plan shall also indicate the maximum tolerable air pollution
level.
   C.   Economic Plan: Showing recommended schedules for the allocation and
expenditure of public funds in order to provide for the economical and timely
execution of the various components of the plan.
   D.   Housing: Survey of housing conditions and needs and plans and procedure
for improvement of housing standards and for the provision of adequate housing.
   E.   Long Use Plan: An inventory and classification of natural land types
and of existing land cover and uses, and comprehensive plans for the most
desirable utilization of land.
   F.   Population Plan: An estimate of the total population which the natural
resources of the city, county or region will support on a continuing basis
without unreasonable impairment.
   G.   Public Buildings: Showing locations and arrangement of civic centers
and all other public buildings, including the architecture thereof and the
landscape treatment of the grounds thereof.
   H.   Public Services And Facilities: Showing general plans for sewage,
drainage and utilities and rights of way easements and facilities therefor.
   I.   Recreation Plan: Showing a comprehensive system of recreation areas,
including natural reservations, parks, parkways, reserved riverbank strips,
beaches, playgrounds and other recreation areas, including when practicable,
the locations and proposed development thereof.
   J.   Seismic Safety Plan: Consisting of an identification and appraisal of
seismic hazards such as susceptibility to surface ruptures from faulting, to
ground shaking or to ground failures.
   K.   Solid Waste Disposal Plan: Showing general plans for disposal of solid
waste.
   L.   Streets And Highways Plan: Showing the general locations and widths of
a comprehensive system of major traffic thoroughfares and other trafficways and
of streets and the recommended treatment thereof, building line setbacks, and a
system of street naming or numbering, and house numbering, with recommendations
concerning proposed changes.
   M.   Transit Plan: Showing a proposed system of transit lines, including
rapid transit, streetcar, motor coach, and trolley coach lines and other
related facilities.
   N.   Transportation Plan: Showing a comprehensive transportation system,
including location of rights of way, terminals, viaducts and grade separations.
The plan may also include port, harbor, aviation and related facilities.
The commission may prepare and adopt, as part of the master plan, other and
additional plans and reports dealing with such other subjects as may in its
judgment relate to the physical development of the city and nothing contained
in this chapter or in Nevada Revised Statutes 278.010 to 278.630 inclusive,
shall be deemed to prohibit the preparation and adoption of any such subject as
a part of the master plan. (Ord. 91, 2-12-1973)
9-1-3: FORM OF PLAN, MAP:
The master plan shall be a map, together with such charts, drawings, diagrams,
schedules, reports, ordinances or other printed or published material, or any
one or a combination of any of the foregoing, as may be considered essential to
the purpose of Nevada Revised Statutes 278.010 to 278.630, inclusive. (Ord. 91,
2-12-1973)
9-1-4: ADOPTION PROCEDURE, HEARINGS:
   A.   Planning Commission Action: Before adopting the master plan or any part
of it, or any substantial amendments thereof, the commission shall hold at
least one public hearing thereon, notice of the time and place of which shall
be given at least by one publication in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city, at least ten (10) days before the date of the hearing.
The adoption of the master plan, or of any amendments, extensions, or additions
thereof, shall be by resolution of the commission carried by the affirmative
votes of not less than two-thirds (2/3) of the total membership of the
commission. The resolution shall refer expressly to the maps, descriptive
matter and other matter intended by the commission to constitute the plan or
any amendment, addition or extension thereof, and the action taken shall be
recorded on the map and plan and descriptive matter by the identifying
signatures of the secretary and chairman of the commission.
No plan or map, hereafter, shall have indicated thereon that it is a part of
the master plan until it shall have been adopted as part of the master plan by
the commission as herein provided for the adoption thereof, whenever changes,
conditions or future studies by the commission require such amendments,
extensions or additions.
An attested copy of any part, amendment, extension of or addition to the master
plan adopted by the commission shall be certified to the board of councilmen.
   B.   Governing Board Action: Upon receipt of a certified copy of the master
plan, or of any part thereof as adopted by the commission, the board of
councilmen may adopt such parts thereof as may practicably be applied to the
development of the city for a reasonable period of time next ensuing.
The part shall thereupon be endorsed and certified as master plans thus adopted
for the territory covered, and are hereby declared to be established to
conserve and promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
Before adopting any plan or part hereof, the board of councilmen shall hold at
least one public hearing thereon, notice of the time and place of which shall
be published at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the city at
least ten (10) days before the date of hearing.
No change in or addition to the master plan or any part thereof, as adopted by
the commission, shall be made by the board of councilmen in adopting the same
until the proposed change or additions shall have been referred to the
commission for a report thereon and an attested copy of the report shall have
been filed with the board of councilmen. Failure of the commission to so report
within forty (40) days, or such longer period as may be designated by the board
of councilmen after such reference, shall be deemed to be approval of the
proposed change or addition. (Ord. 91, 2-12-1973)
9-1-5: COORDINATION OF PLANS:
The commission may prepare and adopt all or any part of the master plan or any
subject thereof for all or any part of the city; but master regional plans
shall be coordinated with similar plans of adjoining regions, and master county
and city plans within each region shall be coordinated so as to fit properly
into the master plan for the region. (Ord. 91, 2-12-1973)
9-1-6: PROMOTION OF PLAN:
The commission shall endeavor to promote public interest in and understanding
of the master plan or official plans and regulations relating thereto. As a
means of furthering the purpose of a master plan, the commission shall annually
make recommendations to the governing body for the implementation of the plan.
It also shall consult and advise with public officials and agencies, public
utility companies, civic, educational, professional and other organization, and
with citizens generally with relation to the carrying out of such plans.
The commission, and its members, officers and employees, in the performance of
their functions, may enter upon any land and make examinations and surveys and
place and maintain necessary monuments and marks thereon.
In general, the commission shall have such power as may be necessary to enable
it to fulfill its functions and carry out the provisions of this chapter and of
Nevada Revised Statutes 278.010 to 278.630, inclusive. (Ord. 91, 2-12-1973)
9-1-7: IMPLEMENTATION BY GOVERNING BODY:
Whenever the board of councilmen shall have adopted a master plan or part
thereof for the city, or for any major section or district thereof, the board
of councilmen of the city shall, upon recommendation of the commission,
determine reasonable and practical means for putting into effect the master
plan or part thereof, in order that the same will serve as a pattern and guide
for that kind of orderly physical growth and development of the city or county
which will cause the least amount of natural resource impairment and will
conform to the adopted population plan, where required, and as a basis for the
efficient expenditure of funds thereof relating to the subjects of the master
plan.
The board of councilmen may adopt and use such procedures a may be necessary
for this purpose. (Ord. 91, 2-12-1973)
9-1-8: SCHOOL SITES, NOTICE:
The commission shall, during the formulation of plans for community design and
public buildings, notify the board of trustees of the Wells County School
District of the preparation of such plans to the end that adequate and properly
located school sites may be provided for. (Ord. 91, 2-12-1973)
9-1-9: PUBLIC LAND, FACILITIES ACQUIRED OR ABANDONED:
Whenever the board of councilmen shall have adopted a master plan, or one or
more subject matters thereof, no street, square, park or other public way,
ground or open space shall be acquired by dedication or otherwise, except by
bequest, and no street or public way shall be closed or abandoned, and no
public building or structure shall be constructed or authorized in the area for
which the master plan or one or more subject matter thereof shall have been
adopted by the board of councilmen until the location, character and extent
thereof shall have been submitted to and shall have been approved by the
commission.
In case of disapproval thereof by the commission, the commission shall
communicate its reasons to the board of councilmen which may overrule the
disapproval by a majority vote of its entire membership.
If the authorization, acquisition, financing or acceptance of such public
street, square, park or other public way, grounds or open space, or the
construction or authorization of such public building or structure be vested by
law or charter provisions in some governmental body, commission or board other
than the board of councilmen, then such governmental body, commission or board
having jurisdiction shall first submit to the commission the location,
character and extent of the proposed public improvement for its approval. In
the event that the commission shall disapprove the same, its disapproval may
only be overruled by such other governmental body, board or commission by a
vote of not less than two-thirds (2/3) of its entire membership.
Failure of the commission to act upon such submission within forty (40) days
from and after the date of the official submission to the commission by the
board of councilmen or by such other governmental body, board or commission,
shall be deemed approval by the commission. (Ord. 91, 2-12-1973)
9-1-10: LAND USE, DISTRICTS:
For any or all of the purposes of this chapter and of Nevada Revised Statutes
278.010 to 278.630, inclusive, the board of councilmen of the city may divide
the city into districts of such number, shape and area as may be deemed best
suited to carry out the purposes of this chapter and of Nevada Revised Statutes
278.010 to 278.630, inclusive. Within such districts it may regulate and
restrict the erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair or use
of the buildings, structures or land.
Such regulations shall be made in accordance with the master plan for land use
and shall be designed:
   A.   To preserve the quality of air and water resources.
   B.   To promote the conservation of open space and the protection of other
natural and scenic resources from unreasonable impairment.
   C.   To provide for recreational needs.
   D.   To protect life and property in areas subject to floods, landslides and
other natural disasters.
   E.   To conform to the adopted population plan, if required by Nevada
Revised Statutes 278.170.
   F.   To develop a timely, orderly and efficient arrangement of
transportation and public facilities and services.
   G.   To ensure that the development on land is commensurate with the
character and the physical limitations of the land.
   H.   To take into account immediate and long range financial impact of the
application of particular land to particular kinds of development, and the
relative suitability of such land for such development.
   I.   To promote health and the general welfare.
Such regulations shall be made with reasonable consideration, among other
things, to the character of the district and its peculiar suitability for
particular uses, and with a view to conserving the value of the buildings and
encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the city. (Ord. 91, 2-
12-1973)
9-1-11: LAND USE, CHANGES, HEARING:
The board of councilmen shall provide for the manner in which such regulations
and restrictions and the boundaries of such districts shall be determined,
established and enforced, and from time to time amended, supplemented, or
changed. However, no such regulation, restriction or boundary shall become
effective until after a public hearing in relation thereto, at which parties in
interest and citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard. At least ten (10)
days' notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city. (Ord. 91, 2-12-1973)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
Administrative Regulations   1
General Definitions   2
Permits And Certificates   3
Variances   4
Amendments   5
General Regulations   6
Zoning Districts; Allowable And Special Uses   7
Landscaping   8
Parking   9
Recreational Vehicle Parks   10
Floodplain Management   11
Mobile Home Parks   12
Sexually Oriented Business Zoning Ordinance   13
Appeals Of Land Use Decisions   14
CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title, Purpose, Interpretation
10-1-2: Land Development, Regulations Applied
10-1-3: Administration And Enforcement Of Regulations
10-1-4: Maps, Boundaries
10-1-5: Violations, Penalty
10-1-1: TITLE, PURPOSE, INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Title And Short Title: This title shall be known as the ZONING
ORDINANCE OF WELLS, NEVADA, and may be referred to herein and in other
ordinances simply as the zoning ordinance.
   B.   Purpose: These regulations have been prepared in accordance with a
master plan for the city which shall be reexamined every five (5) years
beginning July 1, 1990. The purpose of this title is to do the following:
      1.   Regulate the use of land, buildings, and other structures in the
city, including residences, agriculture, commerce, industry, recreation,
outdoor advertising, parking, landscaping and flood control.
      2.   Regulate population density.
      3.   Regulate the location, height, size and lot coverage of buildings
and structures.
      4.   Regulate the appearance of land, buildings and structures.
      5.   Prevent nuisances and unsafe and unhealthy conditions.
      6.   Divide the city into zoning districts of such size, shape and number
to best carry out these regulations and provide for their enforcement.
      7.   Provide for the administration of the Wells master plan.
   C.   Necessity: These regulations are necessary in order to:
      1.   Encourage the most appropriate use of land.
      2.   Conserve, improve and stabilize the value of property.
      3.   Provide adequate open spaces for light and air.
      4.   Control the distribution of population.
      5.   Protect and promote the health, safety and the general welfare.
      6.   Enhance and protect the environment and attractiveness of the city.
      7.   Administer and enforce the Wells master plan.
   D.   Interpretation: Where a condition imposed by any provision of this
title is less restrictive than a comparable condition imposed by any other
provision of this title, or of any other ordinance, statute, resolution, law,
or regulation, the provisions which are the most restrictive shall govern.
Whenever there is doubt as to the classification of a use not specifically
mentioned in this title, or the intent of a provision in this title, a
determination shall be made by the planning commission 1 . Such determination
shall be based upon a detailed description of the use and such other
information as may be required. The planning commission shall make such
investigations as are necessary to compare the nature and characteristics of
the use with those of listed uses in the various use district categories of
this title. The commission shall determine that the use, in all essentials, is
of the same character as a use listed as allowed, or as a special permit use,
in one or more districts. No use added by such commission determination shall
be permitted outright in any district in which it would more logically be a
special permit use; nor shall the commission permit a use which is a
specifically listed use in one zone to be located in a more restrictive zone.
All uses shall be consistent with the Wells master plan. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 1 of this code.
10-1-2: LAND DEVELOPMENT, REGULATIONS APPLIED:
The design and construction standards plus all other requirements of the "Land
Development Ordinance Of Wells, Nevada," 1  and its amendments provide the
criteria for improvement of land as permitted and further regulated by this
title. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
 
Notes
1 2. See title 11 of this code.
10-1-3: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   Administrator: An employee of the city, capable of administrative work,
and who is knowledgeable in construction, be vested with the duty of
administering the regulations contained herein, and may prepare such forms for
board approval as are essential to the administration of said regulations.
   B.   Planning Commission: If the planning commission fails to act or carry
out its responsibilities in accordance with the regulations contained herein,
the board of councilmen shall assume the duties of the commission herein
specified in relation to the matter concerned.
   C.   Officers, Attorney: It shall be the duty of the city attorney and all
officials and others vested with the duty or authority to issue permits, to
enforce all of the provisions of this title. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-1-4: MAPS, BOUNDARIES:
   A.   Maps Provided: The official zoning maps are a part of this title and
are subject to amendment in accordance with the provisions of chapter 5 of this
title.
   B.   Interpretation Of Boundaries: Whenever any uncertainty exists as to the
boundary of any district shown on any zoning map of this title, the following
rules shall apply:
      1.   Where any boundary line is indicated as following a street, alley,
public way, or other easement or right of way, it shall be construed as
following the centerline thereof.
      2.   Where a boundary line is indicated as approximately following a lot
or section line, such line shall be construed to be the boundary line.
      3.   Where a boundary line divides a lot or crosses unsubdivided
property, the location of such boundary shall be an extension of a line as
described in subsections B1 and B2 of this section, or its distance from such a
line running parallel with it shall be indicated.
      4.   Boundary interpretations shall be consistent with the Wells master
plan. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-1-5: VIOLATIONS, PENALTY:
It shall be the duty of all persons having to do with the establishment of any
use of land or the erection, altering, changing or remodeling of any building
or structure to see that a proper permit has been granted before such work is
begun. Any such person involved in, or performing any such work without a
permit having been issued is in conflict with the requirements of this title
and is guilty of a misdemeanor in the same manner and to the same extent as the
owner of the premises or the persons for whom the use is established, or for
whom such buildings are erected or altered.
Any person whether as principal, agent, employee or otherwise, who fails to
comply with any notice to correct within the time specified or who shall erect,
construct or reconstruct any building within any district within the city,
without first obtaining a permit therefor from the zoning administrator, or who
fails to maintain or comply with conditions as required herein, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor. Any person whether as principal, employee or otherwise, who
shall change the use of any building or other structure, or use of any land, or
shall fail to comply with conditions applicable to the use of any land within
the city, in violation of the provisions of this title, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Upon conviction for any of the separate violations listed above,
such person shall be punished by a fine of not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00), nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), or by imprisonment for
a term not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
Such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for every day during
any portion of which any violation of any provisions of this title is
permitted, continued or committed by such person, and shall be punishable,
therefor, as provided in this section. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Construction
10-2-2: Definitions
10-2-1: CONSTRUCTION:
The following rules of construction shall apply unless inconsistent with the
plain meaning of the context of this title:
   A.   Gender: The masculine shall include the feminine and neuter.
   B.   Headings: In the event there is any conflict or inconsistency between
the heading of an article, section, or paragraph of this title and the contents
thereof, the said heading shall not be deemed to affect the scope, meaning, or
intent of such content.
   C.   Number: Words used in the singular include the plural, and words used
in the plural include the singular.
   D.   Shall And May: The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is
permissive.
   E.   Tense: Words used in the present tense include the future tense. (Ord.
138, 1-26-1988)
10-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
   ACCESS: A clear and unobstructed usable approach of not less than twenty
feet (20') in width to a legally dedicated public way.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING: A subordinate building, such as a carport, garage, tool
shed or storage shed, the use of which is incidental to that of the main
building on the same lot.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE: A use or structure subordinate to the primary
use or structure, located on the same property and serving a purpose
customarily incidental to the primary use thereof. The accessory use or
structure shall be of such a nature as to not alter the essential
characteristics of the primary use, considered as a whole and as related to
other uses permitted in the same district.
   ADMINISTRATOR: The city manager or other agent of the planning staff acting
in the capacity of administrator.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES: Includes all theaters, bookstores, cabarets,
model studios or similar businesses which are established for the primary
purpose of offering its patrons services, goods or entertainment characterized
by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or related to "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   A.   For the purposes of this chapter, "specified sexual activities" shall
include any form of actual or simulated sexual intercourse, copulation,
bestiality, masochism and fondling or touching "specified anatomical areas".
   B.   For the purposes of this chapter, "specified anatomical areas" shall
include exposed human genitals, pubic region, buttock and female breast below a
point immediately above the areola.
   ALLEY: A public thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of access
to abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   ALTERATIONS: A change or rearrangement of the structural parts of existing
facilities or an enlargement by extending the sides or increasing the height or
depth or moving from one location to another. In buildings for business the
installation or rearrangement of partitions affecting more than one-third (1/3)
of a single floor area shall be considered an alteration.
   APARTMENT: The same as a multiple dwelling. A building or portion of a
building arranged or designed to be occupied by three (3) or more families
living independently of each other.
   AREA OF BUILDING: The total ground coverage of a building or structure which
provides shelter measured from the outside of its external walls or supporting
members.
   AREA OF SITE: The total horizontal area within the property lines.
   AUTO SERVICE STATION: An area used exclusively for retail sales of fuels and
oils, having storage tanks and pumps located thereon and including automotive
repairs, body repairs and washing, but not including battery rebuilding.
   BAR: A counter at which alcoholic drinks are served and sometimes food may
be served.
   BED AND BREAKFAST FACILITY: Sleeping and dining accommodations designed for
the motoring public within a single-family dwelling limited to a maximum of
five (5) bedrooms, which are used by not more than a total of five (5) guests,
with required parking to be located off street.
   BILLBOARD: Outdoor advertising signs containing a message, commercial or
otherwise, which is unrelated to the merchandise for sale or services performed
by the person or business on whose property the sign is located, posted for a
fee by the sign framework.
   BOARD OF COUNCILMEN: The board of councilmen of Wells, Nevada.
   BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and used
for the enclosure of persons, animals or chattels.
   BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance above grade to the highest point of
the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof or to the
average height of the highest gable of a pitched or hipped roof. The
measurement may be taken from the highest adjoining sidewalk or ground surface
within a five foot (5') horizontal distance of the exterior wall of the
building, when such sidewalk or ground surface within a five foot (5')
horizontal distance of the exterior wall of the building, when such sidewalk or
ground surface is not more than ten feet (10') above grade. The height of a
steeped or terraced building is the maximum height of any segment of the
building.
   BUILDING LINE: That face, corner, wall or column nearest the property line.
   BUILDING SETBACK: The distance between the property line and the nearest
portion of a structure on the property.
   CEMETERY: Land used for burial of dead, including columbariums,
crematoriums, mausoleums and mortuaries.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY: An establishment operated and maintained for the
purpose of furnishing care on a temporary or permanent basis, during the day or
overnight, to five (5) or more children under eighteen (18) years of age, if
compensation is received for the care of any of those children; or outdoor
youth program.
   CLEAR VISION TRIANGLE: See subsection
10-6-5K of this title.
   CLINIC: A building designed and used for the medical and surgical diagnosis
and treatment of patients under the care of doctors and nurses. Includes
medical and dental but does not include veterinarian.
   CLUB: An incorporated or unincorporated association of persons organized for
a social, educational, literary, charitable or commercial purpose other than
gaming.
   COMMERCIAL MODULAR BUILDING: An office, school, motel or other commercial
building, whether it is a total building or a room which is either wholly
manufactured or is in a substantial part manufactured at any off site location
to be wholly or partially assembled on site in accordance with regulations
adopted pursuant to section 461.170 of the Nevada Revised Statutes, but does
not include a mobile home.
   COMMISSION: The planning commission of Wells, Nevada.
   COOPERATIVE GROUP HOUSE: A building occupied and maintained as a
housekeeping unit by five (5) or more unrelated persons.
   CORNER LOT: A parcel of land abutting two (2) or more streets at their
intersection, or upon two (2) parts of the same street forming an interior
angle of less than one hundred thirty five degrees (135°).
   COURT: An unoccupied open space bounded on three (3) or more sides by
buildings.
   COVERAGE: The percentage of the area of a lot which is built upon.
   DETACHED BUILDING: A building surrounded on all sides by open space.
   ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION SUBSTATION: An assemblage of equipment designed to
receive energy from a high voltage distribution system to convert it to a form
suitable for local distribution and to distribute the energy to feeders through
switching equipment.
   FACTORY BUILT HOME OR MANUFACTURED HOME ON A PERMANENT FOUNDATION: A
residential building, dwelling unit or habitable room thereof which is either
wholly manufactured or is in substantial part manufactured at an off site
location to be wholly or partially assembled on site in accordance with
regulations adopted by the division pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes
461.170, but does not include a mobile home 1 .
   FACTORY BUILT HOUSING: A residential building, dwelling unit or habitable
room thereof which is either wholly manufactured or is in substantial part
manufactured at an off site location to be wholly or partially assembled on
site in accordance with regulations adopted by the division pursuant to Nevada
Revised Statutes 461.170, but (shall) does not include a mobile home.
   FAMILY: One person living alone, or two (2) or more persons related by
blood, marriage or legal adoption.
   FLOOR AREA: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the floors of a
building or buildings, measured from the exterior faces of exterior walls and
from centerline of division walls. Floor area includes: basement space,
elevator shafts and stairwells at each floor, mechanical equipment rooms or
attic spaces with headroom of seven feet six inches (7'6") or more, penthouse
floors, interior balconies and mezzanines, enclosed porches. Floor area shall
not include: accessory water tanks and cooling towers, mechanical equipment or
attic spaces with headroom of less than seven feet six inches (7'6"), exterior
steps or stairs, terraces, breezeways and open spaces.
   FRONT LOT LINE: The dimension fronting on a major street.
   FRONT YARD: A yard lying between the main building and the front lot line
and extending across the full width of the lot or parcel. The front yard of a
corner lot may face either street frontage.
   GAMING: Any legally constituted gambling enterprise authorized under the
Nevada state law, other than slot machines when such machines are operated
incidental to the conduct of a licensed retail business.
   GRANDFATHERED: A use which was legally in existence at the time of the
adoption of the original Wells city land use ordinance dated January 2, 1980,
of this title or any amendment thereto.
   GUEST BUILDING: A structure occupying an accessory position on a lot which
does not contain kitchen facilities and which is used exclusively for housing
members of a single family or their nonpaying guests. No reduction of side
yards shall be allowed for this regardless of other provisions of this title.
   HOME OCCUPATION: A use customarily carried on by a dwelling occupant and
incidental to the primary residential purpose, providing such residential
character is not changed. Uses which shall not be construed to be home
occupations include food processing or packing, restaurants, kennels (except
for certified training of 3 or less seeing eye or hearing dogs), vehicle repair
and similar uses.
   HOSPITAL: A building designed and used for the medical and surgical
diagnosis, treatment and housing of persons under the care of doctors and
nurses. Rest homes, nursing homes, convalescent homes and clinics are not
included.
   HOTEL: A building occupied as a temporary residence of individuals, lodged
with or without meals and where there are generally no provisions for cooking
in any individual unit.
   JUNKYARD: Any space used for collecting, storage, abandonment or sale of
junk, wastepaper, rags, scrap metal, discarded material or similar waste
including the dismantling, demolition or abandonment of automobiles, other
vehicles, machinery or parts.
   KENNEL: Where dogs or animals are boarded for hire, bought and sold, and
raised for sale. One litter of unweaned pups is exempt.
   KITCHEN: A room used for cooking and preparation of food.
   LIVING UNIT: Any building or portion thereof used for residential purposes.
   LOADING SPACE: A parking space or berth on the same lot with a building or
contiguous to a group of buildings for the temporary parking of vehicles while
handling merchandise or materials, each such space shall be not less than ten
feet (10') wide, forty five feet (45') long, with a fourteen foot (14') height
clearance.
   LOT: A distinct part or parcel of land divided with the intent to transfer
ownership or for building purposes.
   LOT DEPTH: The average distance between the front and rear lot lines
measured in the direction of the side lot lines.
   LOT OF RECORD: See section
10-6-3 of this title.
   LOT WIDTH: The average distance between the side lot lines measured at right
angles to the lot depth.
   MANAGER: See subsection
10-1-3A of this title.
   MANUFACTURED HOME 2 : A structure which is built on a permanent chassis, is
designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation as a dwelling when
connected to utilities, is transportable in one or more sections and is eight
feet (8') or more in body width or forty feet (40') or more in body length when
transported, or, when erected on site, contains three hundred twenty (320)
square feet or more. This includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and
electrical systems of the structure.
   MOBILE HOME 3 : A structure which is built on a permanent chassis, is
designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation as a dwelling when
connected to utilities and is transportable in one or more sections.
   MOBILE HOME LOT: A portion of land within a mobile home subdivision used or
intended to be used for parking of one mobile home or factory built home,
including required yards, parking area, attached or detached accessory building
and open space.
   MOBILE HOME PARK: A parcel or tract of land having as its principal use the
rental, leasing or occupancy of space by two (2) or more mobile homes on a
permanent or semipermanent basis.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE: A portion of land within a mobile home park used or
intended to be used for the parking of one mobile home, including required
yards, parking areas, attached or detached accessory buildings and open spaces.
   MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision of land platted in conformance with
chapter 278 of the Nevada Revised Statutes and applicable city ordinances for
the purpose of providing mobile home lots for sale.
   MODULAR COMPONENT: Any closed unit of construction which bears or requires
any electrical, plumbing, heating, air conditioning or any other mechanical
connection.
   MOTEL: Two (2) or more sleeping accommodations designed for and used by the
motoring public with private on site parking attached or accessible to each
unit.
   MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A building designed and/or used to house three (3)
or more families, living independently of each other.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING: A building or structure which does not conform in
its construction, area, yard requirements or height with the regulations of the
district in which it is located or to the requirement of the currently adopted
uniform building code.
   NONCONFORMING USE: The use of a building, structure or land which does not
conform to the regulations of the district in which the use exists.
   OCCUPANCY PERMIT: A permit issued by the Building Department indicating that
a newly constructed building is complete and safe for occupancy or use.
   PARCEL OF LAND: Any unit of land recorded by the Elko County recorder and
shown on the Elko County assessor's map.
   PARKING SPACE: A permanently maintained space on a lot or parcel, suitable
for the parking of one vehicle. See chapter 9 of this title.
   PAWNSHOP: A business in which money is loaned on the security of pledges,
deposits or other secured transactions in personal property.
   PERMITTED USE: A use authorized or permitted alone or in conjunction with
other uses in a specified district and subject to the limitations of the
regulations of such use districts.
   PICKUP COACH: A structure designed to be mounted on a truck chassis for use
as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation or vacation use.
   PREDOMINANT LAND USE: That land use which is fifty one percent (51%) or
greater of the total area of an assessor's parcel.
   PRIMARY BUILDING: A building devoted to the principal use of the lot on
which it is situated.
   PRIMARY STABLE: Accessory building in which personal livestock are kept.
   PRIMARY USE: The use for which a lot, structure or building, or the major
portion thereof, is designed.
   PRIVATE GARAGE: A sheltered or enclosed space designed and used for the
storage of motor vehicles or boats of residents of the premises.
   PROFESSIONAL OCCUPATION: The occupation of licensed engineer, licensed
architect, certified public accountant, attorney, real estate broker, doctor,
dentist, optometrist or similar profession.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE: The office of a licensed engineer, licensed architect,
certified public accountant, attorney, real estate broker, doctor, dentist,
optometrist or similar profession.
   PUBLIC GARAGE: A building or portion thereof designed and used for the
storage, repair or servicing of motor vehicles or boats as a commercial
venture.
   REAR YARD: A yard between the rear lot line and extending across the full
width of the lot or parcel. The rear yard of a corner parcel is that portion of
the lot opposite the front yard.
   REQUIRED LAND AREA: The minimum area of a lot or parcel necessary to permit
its use under the provisions of this title.
   REQUIRED WIDTH: The minimum area of a lot or parcel necessary to permit its
use under the provisions of this title.
   RESORT: A facility which:
   A.   Includes both recreational components and rest areas designed primarily
for convenience of guests.
   B.   Has at least fifteen percent (15%) of its land area devoted to usable
open space or landscaping.
   REST HOME, CONVALESCENT HOME, NURSING HOME, HOME FOR AGED: A home operated
similarly to a boarding house, but not restricted to any number of guests or
guestrooms, and in which nursing, dietary and other personal services are
furnished to convalescents, invalids and aged persons. The operator of a rest
home shall be licensed by the state and/or Wells city to give special care and
supervision to his or her charges. In these homes, no person suffering from a
communicable or contagious disease will be kept. No surgery, maternity or other
major treatments provided by hospitals shall be performed in a rest home.
   RIDING ACADEMY: Any establishment where horses are kept for riding, driving
or stabling for compensation or as an accessory use in the operation of a club,
association, ranch or similar establishment.
   ROOM: A divided portion of the interior of a dwelling, excluding bathroom,
kitchen, closets, hallways and porches.
   ROOMING OR BOARDING HOUSE: A building or portion thereof where, for
compensation meals and lodging are provided for more than two (2) guests (not a
motel or hotel).
   SCHOOL: An institution of learning which offers instruction in several
branches of learning required to be taught in public schools in the state of
Nevada.
   SECONDARY USE: A minor or secondary use for which a lot, structure or
building is designed or employed in conjunction with, but subordinate to, its
primary use.
   SETBACK: The distance that structures, buildings or uses must be removed
from their lot lines.
   SHOPPING CENTER: A group of five (5) or more commercial establishments
planned and developed as a unit on a single parcel or commonly managed parcels
of land. Said development shall utilize an undivided or unsegregated parking
area.
   SIDE YARD: A yard lying between the side lot line and the main building and
extending from the front yard line to the rear yard line.
   SIGHT DISTANCE AREA: The area included within that triangular area between
the property line and the diagonal line joining points of the property line
forty feet (40') from their intersection, or, in the case of rounded corners,
the triangular area between the tangents to the curve and the diagonal line
joining points on the tangent forty feet (40') from their intersection. The
tangents referred to are those at the beginning and the end of the corner.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING OR RESIDENCE: A detached building containing only one
dwelling unit and which is constructed under the uniform building code or
manufactured homes developed to specific standards in accordance with section
 10-7-19 of this title or group homes for ten (10) or fewer unrelated persons
with disabilities as defined by Nevada Revised Statutes.
   STABLE: A building in which horses or livestock are sheltered or fed.
   STORY: That part of a building lying between two (2) floors or between the
floor and the ceiling of the highest usable level in the building.
   STREET: A public thoroughfare which affords a primary means of access to
abutting property.
   STRUCTURE: A combination of materials constructed and erected permanently on
the ground or attached to something having a permanent location on the ground.
Not included are residential fences, retaining walls, rockeries and similar
improvements of a minor character.
   TRACT SALES OFFICE: A temporary or tract subdivision office located on the
property to which it is appurtenant, and only authorized until the sales of
homes in the subdivision are completed.
   TRAVEL TRAILER 4 : A portable structure mounted on wheels, constructed on a
vehicular type chassis primarily designed as temporary living quarters for
recreational, camping or travel use and designed to be drawn by another vehicle
and designated by the manufacturer as a travel trailer. A vehicle is not a
travel trailer if, when equipped for highway use, it is more than eight feet
(8') wide.
   TWO-FAMILY DWELLING: A building containing not more than two (2) kitchens,
designed for and occupied exclusively by two (2) families living independently
of each other.
   UTILITY SUBSTATION: An assemblage of equipment for electrical, telephone or
gas company used to provide local distribution of services.
   YARD: An open space on the same lot or parcel with a building and extended
from the building to the nearest lot line.
   ZONING CERTIFICATE-BUILDING PERMIT: See section
10-3-1 of this title. (Ord. 179, 6-24-1997; amd. Ord. 186, 6-29-1999; Ord. 194,
10-23-2001; Ord. 206, 3-9-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. NRS 461.080.
2 1. NRS 489.113.
3 2. NRS 489.120.
4 1. NRS 482.127.
CHAPTER 3
PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES
SECTION:
10-3-1: Zoning Certificate-Building Permit
10-3-2: Special Use Permits
10-3-1: ZONING CERTIFICATE-BUILDING PERMIT 1 :
   A.   Requirement, Exceptions: A zoning certificate-building permit shall be
required for the construction of all buildings and structures, including the
installation of underground utilities. However, no building permit shall be
required for fences in agricultural zones, but this exemption in no way reduces
or eliminates the requirement to comply with all other regulations pertinent to
fences contained herein.
   B.   Issuance, Fees: A zoning certificate-building permit shall be provided
and enforced by the planning commission or an authorized city employee. Fees
for the certificate-permits shall be established and amended by the board of
councilmen by means of a resolution.
   C.   Penalty: Failure to secure a zoning certificate-building permit prior
to commencing work shall result in a penalty fee three (3) times the original
cost of the permit, or shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
10-1-5 of this title. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  4-1-4 of this code for building permit, fee regulation.
10-3-2: SPECIAL USE PERMITS:
   A.   Qualifications And Purpose: A special use permit is a zoning instrument
used primarily to review the location, appropriateness, site development,
building design, landscaping, parking, right of way and easement sizes and
improvements of a proposed land use. Special use permit uses generally have an
impact on the area in which they are located and are capable of creating
special problems for bordering properties or the community as a whole unless
given special attention. A special use permit is granted at the discretion of
the board of councilmen upon the recommendation of the planning commission, and
is not an automatic right of any applicant.
   B.   Guidelines And Standards For Consideration: In considering an
application for special use permit, all design and improvement standards
established in this title, the land development ordinance and other city
ordinances plus the following guidelines shall be observed:
      1.   A special use permit shall be granted upon sound principles of land
use and in response to services required by the neighborhood community.
      2.   A special use permit shall not be granted if it will cause
deterioration of bordering land uses or create special problems for the area in
which it is located.
      3.   A special use permit shall be considered in relationship to its
effect on the community or neighborhood plan for the area in which it is to be
located, and with the master plan.
      4.   A special use permit shall be required for any regular use which
will require a well or a septic system.
      5.   Conditions: A special use permit, if granted, shall be made subject
to those conditions deemed necessary to preserve the general public welfare
instead of the individual welfare of any particular applicant. These include
health, safety, values of adjoining property, landscaping and other aesthetic
considerations, and preservation or enhancement of the environment.
      6.   Suspension: A special use permit may be granted for a specific
period of time and may be terminated at any time by the board of councilmen.
The board of councilmen of this title shall have the authority to suspend any
special use permit which in his judgment is not being complied with or which is
or will have an unexpected or undesirable effect upon land or living things. A
suspension of a special use permit by the board of councilmen shall cause the
permit to become null and void after one hundred eighty five (185) accumulative
days unless the applicant files an appeal with the board of councilmen within
that time period.
      7.   Right Of Access Required: Application for a special use permit is
deemed to be a granting of access for city officials to survey and gather
information on the subject property. Approval of a special use permit shall
grant access for city officials to enter, inspect and gather information
periodically for the purpose of enforcing the permit conditions.
   C.   Application: The proposal shall be submitted in the form of plats
showing site design (including contours) and specific landscaping. A list
containing the names and addresses of all property owners within a three
hundred foot (300') radius of the edges of the subject property, as they are
recorded in the Elko County assessor's records, shall be provided.
   D.   Fee Required: The fee for processing special use permits shall be fifty
dollars ($50.00) plus three dollars ($3.00) per dwelling unit, building site,
or in the case of nonresidential developments, per six hundred (600) square
feet of gross building area.
   E.   Notice Of Hearing: Upon receipt of an application for a special use
permit, the administrator shall set the date of hearing for the earliest
planning commission regular meeting which will allow sufficient time for
publication of notice and review and response from appropriate departments and
agencies.
Notice shall be published at least once in a newspaper of local distribution
not less than ten (10) calendar days prior to the meeting stating the date,
time and place, and giving the purpose of the hearing. A similar notice shall
be placed on the subject property, or on the street right of way adjacent to
it.
A notice shall be mailed to all persons whose names, addresses, and property
descriptions appear on the list of property owners (within 300 feet) submitted.
This notice must be mailed ten (10) days prior to the date of the hearing.
Any failure to give notice as required by this title or any irregularity in
connection therewith or in any procedure required by this title shall not
invalidate the proceedings if there shall have been compliance with the minimum
requirements of Nevada state law.
   F.   Hearing, Action By Commission: At the established date and time for a
hearing, the commission shall hear the proposal of the application and the
statements of other interested or affected persons. The commission may make its
recommendation to the council for approval, conditional approval, or denial of
the application after considering the testimony heard and evaluating the merits
of the application based upon the provisions of this and other applicable
ordinances of the city.
   G.   Hearing, Action By Board Of Councilmen: Upon receipt of the planning
commission's recommendation on the application, the city clerk shall set a date
for public hearing of the matter by the board of councilmen, and shall give ten
(10) days' notice of hearing published as required by law to the public and to
the property owners.
The board of councilmen shall at such public hearing on the application
consider the planning commission's recommendation and hear all evidence offered
by the applicant and parties in interest.
At the public hearing, or within fifteen (15) days thereafter, the board of
councilmen shall approve or deny the special use permit. If the board of
councilmen's decision is to approve the special use permit without conditions,
or to approve it subject to conditions agreed to by the petitioner, the special
use permit shall be approved as provided by the board of councilmen.
   H.   Reconsideration: In the event that an application is denied by the
board of councilmen, or is withdrawn after the planning commission hearing, the
planning commission or board of councilmen shall not reconsider the application
or any other application as it applies to the same property described in the
original application, or any part thereof, within a period of one year from the
date of such denial action.
   I.   Expiration:
      1.   Where a use permitted by a special use permit is not made on the
property within the time specified in the permit, then without further action
the permit shall be null and void and such use shall not be made of the
property except upon the granting of a new special use permit.
      2.   Where a use permitted by a special use permit which has no specified
time condition, is not made on the property within two (2) years after the date
of granting thereof, then the planning department shall contact the applicant
to determine if development of the use is still anticipated. If the applicant
no longer intends to develop such use, then without further action the permit
shall be null and void and such use shall not be made of the property except
upon the granting of a new special use permit.
      3.   A special use permit is void six (6) months after the use permitted
by such permit is discontinued. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
CHAPTER 4
VARIANCES
SECTION:
10-4-1: Variances Authorized
10-4-2: Application, Fee
10-4-3: Planning Commission Review, Hearing
10-4-4: Board Of Councilmen Hearing, Action
10-4-5: Reconsideration
10-4-6: Expiration
10-4-1: VARIANCES AUTHORIZED:
Specific variances, unrestricted or conditional to the regulations prescribed
by this title shall be reviewed by the planning commission in accordance with
section
10-4-3 of this chapter for its recommendation to the board of councilmen. (Ord.
138, 1-26-1988)
10-4-2: APPLICATION, FEE:
   A.   Application: Application for a variance shall be made to the planning
commission in writing. The applicant shall state fully the grounds of the
application, the facts relied upon, and any other data pertinent to the
findings prerequisite to the granting of a variance prescribed in section
10-4-3 of this chapter. The application shall be filed with the city clerk in
the same procedure as a special permit to be advertised and then heard in a
public hearing.
   B.   Fee: The fee shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
   C.   Procedure For Application:
      1.   Any person requesting a variance shall file an application with the
planning commission. Such application shall include:
         a.   Provisions of this title from which the property or building is
sought to be excepted.
         b.   A legal description of the property involved.
         c.   Ground plans showing the location of all existing and proposed
buildings.
         d.   Elevations of all proposed buildings or alterations in sufficient
detail to meet all requirements.
         e.   No change shall be made in the final plan as approved by the
board of councilmen.
      2.   All applications shall be verified before a notary public by the
owner of the land or building or by his authorized agent.
      3.   The applicant shall present adequate evidence showing:
         a.   That there are special circumstances or conditions applying to
the property under consideration which makes compliance with the provisions of
this title a cause of hardship to, and an abridgement of a property right of,
the owner of said property.
         b.   That such circumstances or conditions do not apply generally to
other properties in the same land use district.
         c.   That the granting of the variance will not result in material
damage or prejudice to the other properties in the vicinity nor be detrimental
to the public health, safety and general welfare. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-4-3: PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW, HEARING:
   A.   Request Referred: The administrator shall transmit copies of the
application for a variance to the planning commission together with requests
for recommendations on the proposed variance. Any variance requested by the
applicant shall be made subject to study and report by the planning commission.
Because of the additional time the commission may require to properly evaluate
a variance request, the time for commission action may extend up to sixty five
(65) calendar days.
   B.   Hearing:
      1.   The planning commission shall hold a public hearing, not later than
sixty five (65) days after the filing of the application, and shall give notice
of the time and place and purpose thereof by mailing a ten (10) day written
notice of such hearing to the applicant, city manager and the owners of the
property which lies within three hundred feet (300') in a direct line as shown
on the records of the Elko County assessor's records.
      2.   The commission shall hear and consider evidence and facts from any
person at the public hearing or shall consider written communication from any
person relative to the variance. The right to present such evidence shall not
be denied because of nonrequirement of notification as herein stipulated.
      3.   The commission may hear facts from any person appearing and may
consider written communication relative to any application which states facts
and are signed by submitting party.
      4.   Any protest against the granting of the variance shall be
considered, but no protest or combination of protests is binding upon the
commission.
   C.   Action: At the established date and time for the hearing, the
commission shall hear the proposal for the application and the statements of
other interested parties or affected persons. The commission may make its
recommendations to the board of councilmen for approval, conditional approval,
or denial of the application after considering the testimony heard and
evaluating the merits of the application based upon other applicable ordinances
of the city, and specifically upon the following considerations:
      1.   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property that do not normally apply to other property similarly situated, and
that such circumstances or conditions make it impossible or impractical to
comply with this title.
      2.   That the variance is necessary for the proper design and/or function
of the proposed development.
      3.   That the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the area in which the property
is situated.
      4.   That the granting of the variance is in accordance with the purposes
and objectives described in chapter 1 of this title, and will not result in a
change of land use in the subject zone which is first listed in a less
restrictive zone or is the same in nature as a use listed in a less restrictive
zone.
      5.   That the variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of
a substantial property right within the intent of this title because of an
extraordinary hardship which would result from strict compliance with the
strict literal requirement of this title.
      6.   Any such condition must be complied with and violation of the same
shall result in revocation of the permission granted by the variance.
      7.   Further use shall constitute a violation of this title and shall be
punishable as herein provided. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-4-4: BOARD OF COUNCILMEN HEARING, ACTION:
Upon receipt of the planning commission's recommendations on the application,
the city clerk shall set a date for public hearing of the matter by the board
of councilmen, and shall give ten (10) days' notice of hearing published as
required by law to the public and property owners.
The board of councilmen shall at such public hearing on the application,
consider the planning commission's recommendation and hear all evidence offered
by the application and parties in interest.
At the public hearing, or within thirty (30) days thereafter, the board of
councilmen shall approve or deny the variance. If the board of councilmen's
decision is to approve the variance without conditions or to approve it subject
to conditions agreed to by the petitioner, the variance shall be approved as
provided by the board of councilmen. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-4-5: RECONSIDERATION:
In the event an application is denied by the board of councilmen, or is
withdrawn after the planning commission hearing, the planning commission or
board of councilmen shall not reconsider the application or any other
application as it applies to the same property described in the original
application, or any part thereof, within a period of one year after the date of
such denial action. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-4-6: EXPIRATION:
   A.   Where a use, permitted by a variance permit, is not made on the
property within the time specified in the permit, then without further action
the permit shall be null and void and such use shall not be made of the
property except on the granting of a new variance permit.
   B.   Where a use permitted by a variance permit on a property is not made on
the property within one year after the date of granting thereof, then the
manager shall contact the applicant to determine if development of the use is
still anticipated. If the applicant no longer intends to develop such use, then
without further action the permit shall be null and void and such use shall not
be made of the property except upon the granting of a new variance permit.
   C.   A variance permit is void six (6) months after the use permitted by
such permit is discontinued. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
CHAPTER 5
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Provision For Changes
10-5-2: Initiation Of Action
10-5-3: Hearing, Planning Commission Action
10-5-4: Hearing, Board Of Councilmen Action
10-5-1: PROVISION FOR CHANGES:
Whenever the board of councilmen deems it to be in the public interest, this
title may be amended by changing the boundaries of the districts, or by
changing any of its provisions, after giving notice in a local newspaper of
general circulation a minimum of ten (10) calendar days prior to a public
hearing on the proposed amendment. (Ord. 110, 1-22-1980)
10-5-2: INITIATION OF ACTION:
   A.   An amendment may be initiated by a passed motion of the board of
councilmen or of the planning commission, or in the case of a change in the
district boundaries, by an application of a property owner or owners.
   B.   In the event a property owner files the application for an amendment, a
fee for processing the application for the amendment shall be paid to the city
in the amount of seventy five dollars ($75.00). (Ord. 153, 5-9-1989)
10-5-3: HEARING, PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
Upon passage of a motion or upon receipt of an application in proper form for a
change in district boundaries, the proposal shall be set for public hearing
before the planning commission. Notice of the time and place of the hearing
shall be given as required by the chapter 278 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.
The notice shall make known the nature and the extent of the proposed
amendment.
After the conclusion of the hearing on a proposed amendment, the planning
commission shall make a report and recommendation to the board of councilmen
with respect to the same, and shall file with the city clerk an attested copy
thereof. (Ord. 110, 1-22-1980)
10-5-4: HEARING, BOARD OF COUNCILMEN ACTION:
Upon receipt of the report of the planning commission on a proposed amendment,
the board of councilmen shall set the matter for public hearing after notice
thereof is given as required by law. After the conclusion of the hearing, the
board of councilmen may adopt the amendment proposed, or may amend it to a more
restrictive form as the board of councilmen may deem to be in the public
interest. (Ord. 110, 1-22-1980)
CHAPTER 6
GENERAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Conformity Required
10-6-2: Nonconforming Uses
10-6-3: Nonconforming Lots
10-6-4: Access To Streets
10-6-5: Setback And Yard Regulations
10-6-6: Prohibited And Restricted Uses
10-6-7: Minimum Distance Between Residential Establishments
10-6-1: CONFORMITY REQUIRED:
Except as otherwise provided herein, land, buildings, and structures in any
district shall hereafter be used only in accordance with the regulations herein
established for that district and the following general provisions:
   A.   Buildings: No building or structure shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, relocated or structurally altered to have a greater height, or
proportion of lot coverage, or smaller yards or open spaces about it than is
permissible under the limitations set forth herein for the district in which
such buildings or structures are located.
   B.   Required Spaces: No yards, open spaces, off street parking space or
loading space, existing or provided about any building or structure shall be
hereafter reduced below the minimum requirements of this title, or further
reduced if already less than said minimum requirements.
   C.   Land Use: If a land use existing at the effective date of this title is
nonconforming to the requirements of this title, it shall not be expanded or
made further nonconforming. No land use shall be placed upon land within the
city unless such use shall conform to the regulations and limitations set forth
herein for the district in which such land uses are located. (Ord. 138, 1-26-
1988)
10-6-2: NONCONFORMING USES:
A lawful use of land or building not in conformance with the regulations herein
prescribed, existing at the time of the adoption of the original city of Wells
land use ordinance, this title, or any amendments hereto, may be continued.
   A.   Expansion Of Nonconforming Building: A nonconforming use of land or
building shall not be extended or expanded except by special use permit. Minor
modifications and maintenance necessary to said continuing condition are
permitted.
   B.   Abandonment Of Nonconforming Use: A lawful use of nonconforming land or
buildings, including house trailers and/or mobile homes, which is operationally
abandoned or discontinued for a period of twelve (12) consecutive months or
more shall not be resumed.
   C.   Changing To Another Nonconforming Use: A nonconforming use may be
changed to another nonconforming use only if the new use:
      1.   Is not specifically prohibited in that land use district; and
      2.   Does not deviate from the pattern of uses more than does the
existing nonconforming use. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-6-3: NONCONFORMING LOTS:
Except as provided herein, no dwelling or structure shall be placed upon any
lot or parcel which does not conform to the area, dimension and street access
requirements of this title.
A lot of record when this title is adopted which is nonconforming to this title
may be developed to a maximum density of one dwelling unit provided sanitation
requirements are fully complied with.
No lot of record shall be reduced in area, dimension or street access
requirements in relation to any building thereon, or the requirement herein, so
as to be smaller than required by this title. If a lot of record is already
nonconforming to the requirements of this title, it shall not be made further
nonconforming.
A lot of record, by commission policy, may be interpreted to be a small parcel
separated from the bulk of the ownership by a road, state or federal highway or
drainageway which is unfeasible to bridge, even though it does not meet the
area and dimension requirements of the district. Under such policy, a single-
family dwelling may be placed upon it. However, no compromise or reduction in
land area shall be permitted relative to the sanitation or street access and
setback requirements. Regardless of the maximum density that may be permitted
in the district, no more than one dwelling unit may be constructed upon a lot
which is substandard in size as established within that district. (Ord. 138, 1-
26-1988)
10-6-4: ACCESS TO STREETS:
No building shall be constructed, erected, or placed upon any lot unless such
lot abuts upon a public street, the adjacent one-half (1/2) of which complies
with the right of way width required by the land development ordinance, except
lots of record which have a permanent access easement or private street which
was approved in accordance with this title.
Buildings may be constructed, erected or placed upon lots abutting upon private
streets provided such street has been approved in conformance with the
provisions and standards of this title and the land development ordinance. No
lot or parcel created after the adoption of this title based upon the recording
date of the deed when filed with the Elko County recorder, shall be deemed to
abut upon a street unless it has a frontage (straight line measurement) thereon
of not less than thirty feet (30') and a minimum driveway width consistently
not less than thirty feet (30') wide.
No building permit may be issued for any building or structure on a proposed
building site unless that site conforms with this title and the land
development ordinance. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-6-5: SETBACK AND YARD REGULATIONS:
   A.   Overlapping Requirements: Occasionally these regulations overlap one
another or two (2) separate requirements may apply to the same piece of land.
When this happens, the more restrictive requirement shall take precedence.
   B.   Open Space Interpretation: No required yard or other open space around
one building shall be construed as providing open space for any other building.
   C.   Swimming Pool: A swimming pool shall not be located in a required
setback or yard area except for the rear yard, provided it is placed no closer
to the rear property line than ten feet (10').
   D.   Setback Measurements: All setback measurements shall be perpendicular
to the street or property line forming the required minimum yard area. The
setback distance shall be measured to the closest vertical element of the
building or structure from the property line.
   E.   Setbacks On Subdivision Plats: Where setbacks have been established on
a recorded map of a subdivision, the setbacks so established shall govern if
they are more restrictive than those contained herein.
   F.   Projection Into Required Yards: Every part of a required yard shall be
open and unobstructed from its lowest point to the sky, except for building
eaves, which may project therein a maximum of two feet (2'); approved accessory
buildings; fences; and landscaping including trees.
   G.   Where commercial or industrial uses abut residential zones on side or
rear lot lines, fence, wall or view screen seven feet (7') in height shall be
required except in the front yard setback.
   H.   Yard Condition: All yards adjacent to dwellings shall be free of
clutter, unused vehicles or parts thereof, trash, building waste or other
materials which are not conducive to improving land values or which may be an
attractive nuisance or offensive to the senses. The only vehicles or materials
permitted on a property are those which are accessory to its permitted or
special use permit uses.
   I.   Yard Landscaping: All required or provided yards exposed to view from
adjoining property or streets shall contain vegetation, either natural or
highly manicured. Required yards of commercial, industrial, rented, or quasi-
commercial uses shall be maintained with a ground cover and landscaping for
aesthetic reasons and prevention of dust and other soil erosion.
   J.   Through Lots And Odd Shaped Lots: Through lots shall have the rear yard
adjacent to the street which is designated as a collector, arterial, highway,
or street most likely to serve in that capacity as determined by the planning
commission. The allowable fence heights and setbacks shall be the same as for
street side yards. Access to the most intensively used or designated street
shall be prohibited. Where the application of yard regulations cannot be
determined on lots of peculiar shape or location, such regulations may be
modified as determined by the administrator of this title.
   K.   Clear Vision: A clear vision triangle shall be provided on all lots at
the intersection of two (2) streets or with the intersection of any two (2)
types of right of way, except an alley, for vehicular movement. The height of
vegetation and manmade structures in clear vision triangles shall in no case be
greater than four feet (4') in height. Vegetation may be required to be no more
than the height of average, mowed lawn grass when, because of topography, a
particular hazard may exist as determined by the administrator. Trees with
trunks trimmed so that limbs do not block vision for a height of ten feet (10')
or greater from the ground are permitted in clear vision triangles.
A clear vision triangle shall be the area within a triangle adjacent to
intersecting street rights of way which is thirty feet (30') in length along
each leg, the apex of which shall be the projected or actual (property corner)
intersection of the two (2) property lines adjacent to the two (2) street
rights of way.
Clear vision triangles at the intersection of an alley with any other right of
way shall be as described above except each leg of the triangle shall be a
minimum of ten feet (10') in length. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-6-6: PROHIBITED AND RESTRICTED USES:
   A.   Trailers, Etc.:
      1.   No tent, boxcar, passenger coach, bus or streetcar body may be
erected or occupied in any use district. A mobile home may be used for
permanent living or sleeping quarters only in mobile home parks or mobile home
subdivisions, or R2-MH.
      2.   A mobile home or travel trailer may be used for office, retail or
any other commercial purpose only in the following situations:
         a.   As a sales office for a mobile home or automobile sales business
if placed on the same lot or parcel of land that mobile homes or automobiles
are sold.
         b.   As a construction building only at the site of the construction
project and for the duration of such project.
         c.   As temporary office space when accessory to an established
business and used in accordance with current adopted standards, and when
approved by the board of councilmen.
   B.   Sanitary Conveniences: In all districts, the existence or use of
outhouses or privies is prohibited. Sanitary conveniences must be incorporated
within a building and must consist of a chemical toilet or installed plumbing
properly connected to a septic tank and disposal field or to a city sewer line.
   C.   Radio Antennas: In all residential districts, antennas shall not exceed
forty feet (40') in height unless granted a special use permit.
   D.   Heliports:
      1.   No area of land, water, parking lot, rooftop or other site or
structure within the city shall be used as a heliport without a special use
permit issued in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   As used in this chapter, "heliport" means any area of land, water,
parking lot, rooftop or other site or structure which is regularly or
permanently used for the landing and takeoff of helicopters or other rotary
wing aircraft.
   E.   Extraction Operations: Any extraction operation is permitted only if:
      1.   The operation is specifically listed in that use district.
      2.   A special use permit is granted.
      3.   The site is restored at the completion of the operation and bonding
of the same.
   F.   Water, Oil, Gas Or Geothermal Drilling Operations: Any oil, gas or
geothermal drilling operation is permitted in any zone only if a special use
permit is granted.
   G.   Animal And Fowl:
      1.   Horses, fowl or other uses of a similar nature shall not be
permitted on any lot or parcel less than twenty one thousand (21,000) square
feet 1 .
      2.   Exclusive of area devoted to residential use, the following area
shall be required for each animal to be raised or kept on the building site:
         a.   For each horse or head of cattle or hog, seven thousand (7,000)
square feet;
         b.   For each sheep, goat or other permitted large animal, two
thousand (2,000) square feet;
         c.   For rabbits, chinchillas, poultry and other similar permitted
small animals, fifty (50) square feet for each animal.
      3.   No pig, sheep, goat, horse, cow or bull shall be kept within fifty
feet (50'), and no fowl shall be kept within thirty feet (30'), of any
residence not occupied by the owner of such animals and fowl.
      4.   Keeping Of Hazardous Or Offensive Animals Prohibited: No person
shall keep, maintain or have in his possession or permit on any property owned
or controlled by him any household pet or pets or any other animal or animals
in such manner, number or kind as to cause damage or hazard to persons or
property in the vicinity or to generate offensive noise, dust or odor.
      5.   Bees may be kept on large parcels provided:
         a.   The parcel on which the bees are kept shall be at least one acre
in size and a special use permit is obtained for parcels under five (5) acres
in size;
         b.   Adequate freshwater supply is available for bees on the subject
property at all times;
         c.   The location shall be not less than two hundred feet (200') from
any public road, street or highway, residence or other occupied building other
than that of the property owner or occupant of said property;
         d.   Approval by appropriate state agencies shall be obtained.
   H.   Accessory Structures:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to construct, erect or locate in any
residential district private garages or other accessory buildings without a
permissible main building; except a temporary building may be constructed and
occupied as a legal use pending construction of a permanent use providing that
no permit shall be issued for such temporary structure unless a permit also be
issued at the same time for the permanent building.
      2.   A detached accessory building within residential districts, not
exceeding fifteen feet (15') in height, may be built within a required rear or
side yard setback provided such structure is at least five feet (5') from
property lines.
      3.   On a corner lot facing two (2) streets, no accessory building shall
be erected so as to encroach upon the front or street side yard setbacks.
      4.   An accessory building may be connected to the main building by a
breezeway or structure in which case it is considered attached and full yards
as might otherwise be required will apply.
      5.   A detached accessory addition shall be located not closer than six
feet (6') to any other building on the same or adjoining lot.
   I.   Fences, Walls And Hedges:
      1.   Fences, walls and hedges are a permitted accessory use in all use
districts so long as such uses are consistent with health, safety and welfare
of the community, as outlined in this section.
      2.   All fences and walls shall meet the requirements of the uniform
building code.
      3.   Electrically charged or barbed wire fences are a permitted accessory
use in AG and R1-E districts.
      4.   The height of a fence, wall or hedge shall be measured from the
highest adjacent ground, either natural or filled, upon which it is located,
except within fifteen feet (15') of any front property line or within thirty
feet (30') of any street intersection, wherein all base measurement shall be
considered from an extension of street grade.
      5.   A fence, wall or hedge not exceeding six feet (6') in height may be
located within any yard except as follows:
         a.   No fences, walls or hedges exceeding four feet (4') in height
within fifteen feet (15') of any front property line or within a street side
yard setback, except when such fence is constructed of a sight obscuring
material it shall not exceed three feet (3') in height; and
         b.   No fences, walls or hedges exceeding two feet (2') in height
which obstruct vision to any significant degree shall be permitted within sight
distance areas.
      6.   The height of fences, walls or hedges which in no way encroach upon
setback requirements and conform with the uniform building code shall be
governed by building height restrictions for each use district.
      7.   Fences within setbacks may be permitted in excess of six feet (6')
in height by special use permit.
      8.   Cornices, eaves, canopies, fireplaces, bay windows and similar
architectural features, but not including flat walls, may extend into any
required setback a distance not to exceed two feet (2').
      9.   Uncovered porches, landing places or outside stairways may project
not more than three feet (3') into any required side yard setback and not more
than six feet (6') into any required front or rear yard setback. (Ord. 138, 1-
26-1988)
 
Notes
  1. See sections
1 10-7-4, "R-1E Residential Single-Family Estate District", and
  10-7-2, "AG Agricultural District", of this title.
10-6-7: MINIMUM DISTANCE BETWEEN RESIDENTIAL ESTABLISHMENTS:
A minimum distance of at least one thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320')
shall be required between residential establishments. A "residential
establishment" is defined in Nevada Revised Statutes 278.021(7)(d) as:
"Residential establishment" means (1) a home for individual residential care in
a county whose population is 100,000 or more, (2) a halfway house for
recovering alcohol and drug abusers or (3) a residential facility for groups".
   A.   The definition of "Individual residential care" is not applicable as
the population of Elko County is less than one hundred thousand (100,000).
   B.   "Halfway house for recovering alcohol and drug abusers" is defined in
Nevada Revised Statutes 458.010 as: "Halfway house for recovering alcohol and
drug abusers" means a residence that provides housing and a living environment
for alcohol and drug abusers and is operated to facilitate their reintegration
into the community, but does not provide treatment for alcohol or drug abuse.
The term does not include a facility for the treatment of abuse of alcohol or
drugs as defined in Nevada Revised Statutes 449.00455.
   C.   "Residential facility for groups" is defined in Nevada Revised Statutes
449.017 as: Except as otherwise provided in subsection 2, "residential facility
for groups" means an establishment that furnishes food, shelter assistance and
limited supervision to an aged, infirm, mentally retarded or handicapped
person. The term does include:
         (a)   An establishment which provides care only during the day;
         (b)   A natural person who provides care for no more than two persons
in his own home;
         (c)   A natural person who provides care for one or more persons
related to him within the third degree of consanguinity or affinity;
         (d)   A halfway house for alcohol and drug abusers; or
         (e)   A facility funded by a division or program of the department of
human resources.
(Ord. 194, 10-23-2001)
CHAPTER 7
ZONING DISTRICTS; ALLOWABLE AND SPECIAL USES
SECTION:
10-7-1: Districts Established
10-7-2: AG Agricultural District
10-7-3: R-1 Residential Single-Family District
10-7-4: R-1E Residential Single-Family Estate District
10-7-5: R-2 Residential Medium And High Density District
10-7-5.1: R-3 Agricultural/Residential District
10-7-6: MH Mobile Home Combining District
10-7-7: BC Buffer Commercial District
10-7-8: GC General Commercial District
10-7-9: TC Tourist Commercial District
10-7-10: RC Restricted Commercial District
10-7-11: MI-1 Warehouse - Light Industrial District
10-7-12: MI-2 Heavy Industrial District
10-7-13: P Public District
10-7-14: AP Airport District
10-7-15: WM Water Management District
10-7-16: H Historical Area Combining District
10-7-17: Zoning District References
10-7-18: Allowable And Special Uses
10-7-19: Development Standards For Factory Built Homes And Manufactured Homes
10-7-20: Administration And Enforcement Of Development Standards
10-7-21: Nonconforming Factory Built Or Manufactured Homes
10-7-22: Special Area Overlay District For Factory Built And Manufactured Homes
10-7-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
This title establishes the following zoning district classifications, the
permitted uses, the uses requiring a special use permit, the requirements for
structure locations, area, height and bulk. The boundaries of these districts
are shown on the zoning map incorporated herein by reference and made a part
hereof and hereby designated as the "official zoning map". (Ord. 138, 1-26-
1988)
10-7-2: AG AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT:
This district is for the purpose of providing for and protecting intensive
agricultural areas whether cultivated or used for grazing, and providing and
protecting open space for present and future generations.
   A.   Regularly Permitted Uses And Limitations:
      Farming, ranching and/or crop production.
      Flood control.
      Horticultural nursery.
      Outdoor recreation.
      Residence for farm or domestic workers.
      Single-family residence.
   B.   Uses Permitted With Special Use Permit:
      Animal hospital, kennel.
      Broadcasting station.
      Cemetery.
      Church.
      Commercial livestock feed or sales yard.
      Convalescent home or elderly housing.
      Dairy products processing.
      Fish, gun, riding clubs, dude ranch.
      Gravel excavation.
      Home occupation.
      Labor camp.
      Mining and/or raw material processing.
      Nursery, kindergarten, daycare.
      School, private/parochial. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
   C.   Requirements For Structural Locations, Area, Height And Bulk:
 
1. Minimum parcel size 5 gross acres
2. Maximum density     1 residential dwelling per 5 acres
3.MR:1>Setback requirements:
   a. Front yard       Minimum 50 feet
   b. Side yard        Minimum 50 feet
   c. Rear yard        Minimum 30 feet
 
(Ord. 179, 6-24-1997)
      4.   Setback distances shall be measured from the property line, not the
pavement. The edge of the road right of way shall be considered to be one-half
(1/2) of the width of the right of way from the centerline of the road right of
way.
 
5. Height limitation    45 feet
6. Maximum lot coverage 5 percent
 
(Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-7-3: R-1 RESIDENTIAL SINGLE-FAMILY DISTRICT:
This district is primarily for the purpose of providing single-family homes on
individual lots.
   A.   Regularly Permitted Uses And Limitations:
      Accessory building or structure.
      Single-family residences which meet the development standards set forth
in section
10-7-19 of this chapter.
   B.   Accessory Permitted Uses: The accessory permitted uses, incidental to
the primary uses, within the single-family district are:
      Children's playhouse.
      Garage (private).
      Greenhouse (private).
      Home occupation.
      Recreation (swimming pool, tennis court) for individual or subdivision
use.
      Toolhouse or workshop (private).
   C.   Uses Permitted With A Special Use Permit:
      Church.
      Convalescent home.
      Horticultural nursery.
      Nursery, kindergarten, daycare.
      Public well, fire station, police station.
      Residence for domestic workers.
      School, private/parochial.
   D.   Requirements For Structural Location, Area, Height And Bulk:
 
1. Minimum parcel size:
   a. Interior lots      6,000 square feet
   b. Corner lots        7,000 square feet
2. Setback requirements:
   a. Front yard         Minimum 20 feet
   b. Side yard          Minimum 5 feet
   c. Rear yard          Minimum 15 feet
 
      3.   Accessory buildings may be constructed within a rear yard and rear
one-half (1/2) of a side yard if all surfaces of the building or structure are
constructed to one hour fire rating, are at least twenty feet (20') from the
property line and provided the owner of the adjoining property approves in
writing.
 
4. Height limitation    Maximum 35 feet
5. Maximum lot coverage 35 percent
6. Minimum lot width    50 feet
 
(Ord. 179, 6-24-1997)
10-7-4: R-1E RESIDENTIAL SINGLE-FAMILY ESTATE DISTRICT:
This district is primarily for the purpose of providing single-family homes on
individual lots that may utilize on site water and sewer facilities subject to
approval of the state health officer.
   A.   Regular Permitted Uses And Limitations:
      Normal household pets - no livestock or farm animals.
      Orchard crops.
      Single-family residence.
   B.   Accessory Permitted Uses: The accessory permitted uses incidental to
primary uses within the single-family district are this list plus other uses of
similar nature:
      Children's playhouse.
      Garage (private).
      Greenhouse (private).
      Guest building.
      Home occupation.
      Recreation (swimming pool, tennis court) for individual or subdivision
development use.
      Toolhouse or workshop (private).
   C.   Permitted With A Special Use Permit:
      Church.
      Convalescent home.
      Home occupation.
      Nursery, kindergarten, daycare.
      Public well, fire station, police station.
      Residence for domestic workers.
   D.   Requirements For Structural Locations, Area, Height And Bulk:
 
1. Minimum parcel size   1 acre gross
2. Setback requirements:
   a. Front yard         Minimum 20 feet
   b. Side yard          Minimum 10 feet
   c. Rear yard          Minimum 30 feet
3. Height limitation     Maximum 35 feet
4. Minimum lot width     60 feet
 
(Ord. 179, 6-24-1997)
10-7-5: R-2 RESIDENTIAL MEDIUM AND HIGH DENSITY DISTRICT:
This district is for multiple permanent residential dwellings:
   A.   Regular Permitted Uses And Limitations:
      Mobile residences - with MH combining district.
      Multiple permanent residences - apartments or condominiums not to exceed
six (6) dwelling units.
      Single-family residences which meet the development standards set forth
in section
10-7-19 of this chapter.
      Two-family residential dwellings. (Ord. 179, 6-24-1997)
   B.   Accessory Permitted Uses:
      Children's playhouse.
      Garage or carport (private).
      Greenhouse (private).
      Home occupation.
      Recreation (swimming pool, tennis court) for individual or subdivision
use.
      Workshop (private).
   C.   Uses Permitted With A Special Use Permit:
      Church.
      Convalescent home or elderly housing.
      Home occupation.
      Horticultural nursery.
      Mortuary.
      Multiple permanent residences - apartments or condominiums exceeding six
(6) dwelling units.
      Nursery, kindergarten, daycare.
      Rooming-boarding house.
      School, private/parochial.
      Service or fraternal club or lodge.
   D.   Requirements For Structural Locations, Area, Height And Bulk:
1. Minimum parcel size:
   a. Interior lots     6,000 square feet
   b. Corner lots       7,000 square feet
2.MR:1>Setback requirements:
   a. Front yard        Minimum 20 feet
   b. Side yard         Minimum 10 feet
   c. Rear yard         Minimum 10 feet
3. Height limitation    Maximum 40 feet
 
(Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-7-5.1: R-3 AGRICULTURAL/RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent: The purpose of the agricultural/residential zoning district is
to provide and preserve low density, single-family residential living areas
that are semirural or agricultural in character and transitional in
relationship to more urbanized residential areas of higher density; to allow
for the sheltering of large domestic or farm animals on a lot or parcel in
conjunction with an established residential use; and to preclude the
encroachment of land use activities that may be incompatible with the character
of the semirural residential environment.
   B.   Principal Uses Permitted:
      One single-family dwelling of a permanent character in a permanent
location with each dwelling unit on its own parcel of land and provided all
area and setback requirements are met.
      Publicly owned and operated parks and recreation areas and centers.
      Sheltering of farm animals:
      1.   This area shall be exclusive of the area dedicated for residential
use.
      2.   The keeping of domestic horses, cattle, donkeys, llamas and alpacas
under the ownership of the resident occupant of the lot or parcel shall be
considered as a permitted principal use; provided that any combination of such
animals on any one lot shall be limited to one animal for the first forty three
thousand six hundred fifty (43,650) square feet (1 acre) of lot area. One
additional large animal may be maintained for each additional fifteen thousand
(15,000) square feet of lot area contained in the same lot.
      3.   The keeping of domestic sheep, potbelly pigs, miniature horses and
goats under the ownership of the resident occupant of the lot or parcel shall
be considered as a permitted principal use; provided that any combination of
such animals on any one lot shall be limited to six (6) animals for the first
twenty one thousand (21,000) square feet of lot area. One additional small
animal be maintained for each additional ten thousand (10,000) square feet of
lot area contained in the same lot.
      4.   The keeping of such farm animals shall conform to all other
provisions of law governing same, and no animal, nor any pen, stable, barn, or
corral shall be kept or maintained within fifty feet (50') of any principal
dwelling (other than that occupied by the owner of such domestic animal), any
public building, park, school, hospital, or any other public plan. There shall
be no killing or dressing of any such animal for commercial purposes.
      5.   Poultry like chickens, turkeys, pheasants, peacocks, pigeons, ducks,
geese, or other domestic fowl and rabbits raised for food, education,
scientific or furbearing purposes; provided not more than twelve (12) per one-
half (1/2) acre of any one or combination of such animals and fowl may be
maintained on one lot.
      6.   The keeping of such domestic animals or fowl shall conform to all
other provisions of law governing same, and no fowl or animals, nor any pen or
coop, shall be kept or maintained within fifty feet (50') of any window or door
of any residence, dwelling or any other building used for human habitation
(other than that occupied by the owner of such animals or fowl).
      7.   Pigs may be allowed with a special use permit only.
   C.   Special Use Permits: Any of the following uses may be permitted as
principal uses upon approval of a special use permit in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and those set forth in section
10-3-2 of this title regarding special use permits. In reviewing special use
permit applications, the planning commission shall ensure that adequate light
and air, ingress and egress, and compatibility with other uses in the
neighborhood are maintained.
      Churches, church facility complexes and places of religious worship.
      Public buildings provided cultural, educational, administrative and fire
and police service to residents of the district.
   D.   Accessory Uses Permitted: Accessory buildings, structures, and uses
customarily incidental to a permitted use such as the following may be
permitted, except as otherwise provided in this chapter:
      Childcare family home.
      Garden house, tool house, ramada; outdoor swimming pool and similar home
recreational facilities provided that such facilities are used solely by
occupants of the premises and their guests.
      Guesthouse or servants' quarters.
      Home occupations in accordance with other provisions of this chapter.
      Private garage or carport.
      Storage parking for recreational vehicles owned by the occupant provided
that it is located in a garage, carport, rear or interior side yard, and is not
provided water and sewer connections.
      Storage parking of boat, utility trailer, horse trailer and similar
equipment owned by the occupant provided that such equipment is located in
garage, carport or rear or interior side yard.
   E.   Property Development Standards:
      1.   Development standards shall adhere to factory built and manufactured
homes as set forth in section
10-7-19 of this chapter. Noncomplying situations may be allowed, only with a
special use permit.
      2.   Subdivisions within an agricultural/residential district which are
essentially independent and self-contained, and which are characterized by lots
which are no less than one- half (1/2) acre in size, may utilize rural road
standards upon recommendation by the planning commission and approval of the
Wells board of councilmen. (Ord. 198, 10-22-2002)
10-7-6: MH MOBILE HOME COMBINING DISTRICT:
This is a suffix that may be added to the R-2 districts, such as R-2MH. The
owner of property in the R-2MH district may thereafter utilize permanent built
dwellings, modular or prefabricated dwellings, mobile homes on foundations, or
mobile homes as a dwelling in the R-2MH districts according to the regulations
for minimum lot sizes, setbacks, offsets, heights, parking, landscaping,
access, density, attachment to sewer and water or other regulations applicable
to dwellings in the R-2 district, except as provided by section
10-10-13 of this title. The MH district is to allow property owners to rent or
sell lots of record for the placement of mobile homes and by paying a permit
fee as set by the board of councilmen by resolution. (Ord. 179, 6-24-1997)
   A.   Limitations: Campers, travel trailers, camping trailers, pickup
coaches, tents, motor homes or other vehicles or devices not defined as
permanent dwellings or mobile homes shall not be used as permanent dwelling
structures. All structures and uses allowed by the underlying district may be
built or placed upon the site of the dwelling.
   B.   Mobile Home Zone Subclassifications: There shall be only one mobile
home combining district, with four (4) subdistricts each permitting a different
minimum density in the mobile home combining district.
      These use densities may include mobile home-5 (MH-5), which shall require
five thousand (5,000) square feet of lot size per mobile home unit; mobile
home-6 (MH-6), which shall require six thousand (6,000) square feet of lot
space per mobile home unit, which classifications are intended for singlewide
mobile homes only. Mobile home-8 (MH-8), which shall require a minimum of eight
thousand (8,000) square feet of lot space per mobile home unit; mobile home-10
(MH-10), which shall require a minimum of ten thousand (10,000) square feet of
lot space per mobile home unit, which classifications are intended for
doublewide mobile homes only.
   C.   Regular Permitted Uses And Limitations:
      Mobile residences - with MH combining districts.
      Multiple permanent residences - apartments or condominiums not to exceed
six (6) dwelling units.
      Single-family residences.
      Two-family residential dwellings.
   D.   Accessory Permitted Uses:
      Children's playhouse.
      Garage or carport (private).
      Greenhouse (private).
      Home occupation.
      Recreation (swimming pool, tennis court) for individual or subdivision
use.
      Workshop (private).
   E.   Uses Permitted With A Special Use Permit:
      Church.
      Convalescent home or elderly housing.
      Home occupation.
      Horticultural nursery.
      Mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions.
      Mortuary.
      Multiple permanent residences - apartments or condominiums exceeding six
(6) dwelling units.
      Nursery, kindergarten, daycare.
      Rooming-boarding house.
      School, private/parochial.
      Service or fraternal club or lodge.
   F.   Requirements For Mobile Home Location, Area, Height And Bulk:
      1.   Minimum lot size, width and yard requirements:
         a.   On all corner lots in any MH districts add one thousand (1,000)
square feet.
 
District Lot Size (In Square Feet) Lot Width (In Feet) Yards (In Feet)
                                                       Front Side      Rear
MH-5     5,000                     50                  20    5 and 10  10
MH-6     6,000                     60                  20    5 and 10  10
MH-8     8,000                     75                  20    5 and 10  10
MH-10    10,000                    100                 25    10 and 10 20
      2.   Height limitations: Maximum forty feet (40').
   G.   Modification Of Restrictions:
      1.   Side Yards: The side yard setback on a "street side" yard shall be
the same as a front yard setback.
      2.   Garages And Accessory Buildings: Private garages and accessory
buildings located at least ten feet (10') behind the main dwelling may have a
side yard and rear yard of two feet (2') provided that all corner lots shall
maintain a twenty five foot (25') setback on the street side.
      3.   Mobile Homes: No mobile homes on adjacent lots shall be closer
together than fifteen feet (15').
      4.   Mobile Home Skirting: All mobile homes shall be skirted within
thirty (30) days, with an approved appearance skirting. All skirts shall be
kept in place and in good repair at all times. Skirting material shall be
approved by the Building Inspector. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-7-7: BC BUFFER COMMERCIAL DISTRICT:
The primary purpose and application of the buffer commercial district shall be
to establish a buffer zone to protect the R districts from high level noise,
flashing lights and heavy traffic. This district shall provide suitable lands
and locations for various retail, service and commercial activities which
involve a relatively low volume of direct consumer contact.
   A.   Regular Permitted Uses: All uses permitted in R-1, R-2 and the
following:
      Art studios.
      Barber and beauty shops.
      Banks, financial institutions.
      Childcare centers.
      Florists.
      Healing art, health care facilities, including medical and dental
offices.
      Laboratories: medical, dental, optical.
      Laundry or dry cleaning pick up outlets.
      Lodges, fraternal organizations, recreation, social and service clubs.
      Offices: both business and professional, including accountants,
architects, collection agencies, chiropractors, employment agencies, engineers,
health services, insurance agencies, law offices, real estate, stenographic
services, title insurance firms.
      Pharmacies when operated in conjunction with, and within the same
building of a medical clinic.
      Photographic studios.
      Schools for music, dance, teaching and creative arts.
      Trade schools.
      Travel agencies.
      Uses determined to be functionally comparable to principal permitted uses
in this zone.
   B.   Uses Permitted With A Special Use Permit:
      Churches, church facility complexes and places of religious worship.
      Convalescent hospitals, sanitariums, nursing homes, homes for the aged.
      Funeral homes and mortuaries.
      Multiple-family residential developments which contain five (5) or more
units located on a single lot or parcel; townhouse, condominium or attached
housing developments.
      Restaurants, sandwich and beverage shops, delicatessens.
      Theaters, indoor.
      Similar uses determined to be functionally comparable to conditional
permitted uses in this zone.
   C.   Property Development Standards:
      1.   Lot Area: The minimum lot area shall be fifteen thousand (15,000)
square feet.
      2.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width shall be one hundred feet (100').
      3.   Lot Coverage: The maximum lot coverage shall be fifty percent (50%).
      4.   Front Yard: A minimum setback of thirty feet (30') shall be
required.
      5.   Rear Yard: A minimum setback of ten feet (10') shall be required.
      6.   Interior Side: A minimum setback of zero feet to five and one-half
feet (51/2) shall be required. Interior side yards which abut any residential
district shall observe the five and one-half foot (51/2) setback required as
part of the R zoning district.
      7.   Exterior Side: A minimum setback of thirty feet (30') shall be
required.
      8.   Building Height: Building height shall not exceed thirty five feet
(35'), or requirements contained within the airport master plan, whichever is
the most restrictive.
   D.   General Regulations:
      1.   The outdoor storage of goods or materials shall be prohibited.
      2.   Warehousing or the indoor storage of goods or materials beyond that
normally incidental to permitted uses shall be prohibited. (Ord. 179, 6-24-
1997)
10-7-8: GC GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT:
The purpose of the general district is to preserve a commercial district
limited primarily to offices and retail sales of merchandise. All uses within
the retail commercial district shall be conducted within a building and aside
from display windows, be screened from view. Temporary outside display and sale
of merchandise on city property for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days may
be authorized by the mayor and board of councilmen.
   A.   Regular Permitted Uses And Limitations: All uses permitted in R-1, R-2:
      Retail stores, including:
      Antique stores.
      Apparel and department stores.
      Bakery.
      Bar, cocktail lounge, eating and drinking establishments.
      Book or stationery store.
      Confectionery store.
      Drugstore, pharmacy.
      Dry good or notions store.
      Florist or gift shop.
      Furniture stores.
      Gaming and gambling establishments, including off premises liquor sales.
      Grocery, fruit or vegetable store.
      Hardware or electrical appliance store.
      Horticultural nursery, greenhouse (retail only).
      Jewelry store.
      Meat market or delicatessen.
      Secondhand stores, if conducted wholly within completely enclosed
buildings.
      Services:
         Amusement enterprises.
         Art gallery.
         Bank.
         Barbershop and beauty parlor.
         Blueprinting and photostating.
         Cafe or restaurant (including dancing or entertainment).
         Car and RV (lot sales only).
         Car or self-moving automobile rental agencies.
         Carpenter shop, if conducted wholly within a completely enclosed
building and no more than five (5) persons are employed on the premises.
         Church.
         Clinic (human or animal).
         Clothes cleaning agency and/or pressing establishment.
         Club or lodge (nonprofit), fraternal or religious association.
         Community center.
         Conservatory of music.
         Dance studio.
         Dressmaker or millinery shop.
         Drive-in business.
         Fortune telling, clairvoyance or astrology.
         Hotel, motel.
         Indoor commercial recreational facilities.
         Interior decorating store
         Locksmith.
         Lumberyard (retail and contractor sales only, with enclosed yard).
         Medical and dental laboratories.
         Mortuary.
         Newspaper, printing, lithographing, reproducing.
         Office or office buildings for the conduct of business, professional
or administrative services.
         Paint store (retail only).
         Photographer.
         Plumbing shop (same stipulations as carpenter shop).
         Post office.
         Public garage, including automobile repairing and incidental body
work, painting, upholstery, if all operations are conducted wholly within a
completely enclosed building; and provided that where a public garage is
located on a lot which does not abut an alley and is within sixty five feet
(65') of a lot in any R district, the garage wall which parallels the nearest
line of such district shall have no opening other than stationary windows.
         Self-service automatic laundry, and/or dry cleaning, pick up agency.
         Service station, including facilities for general repair (indoor) and/
or mechanical washing.
         Shoe store and repair.
         Tailor.
         Theater (indoor), live or motion picture.
         Wedding chapel.
      Other uses similar to above if approved by the planning commission.
   B.   Uses Permitted With A Special Use Permit:
      Frozen food locker plants (excluding wholesale processing or cold
storage).
      Hospital (human or small animals).
      Parking lot (metered).
      Public services, including electric distributing substations, fire or
police station, telephone exchange and similar uses.
      Schools, private, trade, parochial, daycare.
      Truck service (maintenance and repair).
      Other uses found by the planning commission to be functionally similar to
those uses permitted in this district.
   C.   Requirements For Structure Location, Area, Height And Bulk:
1. Minimum parcel size:
   a. Interior lots      6,000 square feet
   b. Corner lots        7,000 square feet
2. Setback requirements:
   a. Front yard         0
   b. Side yard          0
   c. Exterior side yard 0
   d. Rear yard          0
3. Height limitations    45 feet. Additional height may be allowed with a
                         special use permit
 
   D.   Outside Sales And Storage: Outside sales and storage of other bulk
building materials which shall not be stored outside, may be allowed as
accessory use to any of the principal uses listed in this chapter.
      1.   Storage areas shall be enclosed by a sight obscuring fence, wall or
hedge permanently installed and maintained at a minimum height of six feet
(6'); provided that the design of any such wall or sight obscuring fence shall
be first approved by the planning commission prior to installation. No
materials and/or equipment shall be stored therein to a height exceeding that
of the wall or fence, except vehicles rented or leased from the premises.
      2.   Storage areas shall not occupy more than twenty percent (20%) of the
lot area.
      3.   Storage areas shall not be located within any required yard setback,
nor shall they be located in any way which interferes with normal traffic flow
onto, within or from the lot or which impedes sight distance in intersections,
or which otherwise impedes driver visibility. In the case of gasoline service
stations, storage areas shall not be permitted in the setback distance
applicable to pump islands.
   E.   Outside Uses: All outside storage, sales of merchandise and repair
operations in the general commercial district shall be screened from adjacent
residential use districts by a sight obscuring fence, wall or hedge permanently
installed and maintained at a minimum height of six feet (6'). Temporary
unscreened outside display and sale of merchandise adjacent to residential use
districts for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days may be authorized by the
manager. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-7-9: TC TOURIST COMMERCIAL DISTRICT:
The tourist commercial district is established to provide space for highway and
tourist related enterprises adjacent to major routes of travel so regulated as
to prevent the impairment of safe and efficient movement of traffic and to
encourage attractive development compatible with adjacent residential land
uses.
   A.   Regular Permitted Uses: All uses permitted in R-1, R-2 and GC
districts.
   B.   Uses Permitted With A Special Use Permit: Same as in BC (subsection
10-7-7B of this chapter).
   C.   Requirements For Structure Location, Height And Bulk:
1. Minimum parcel size:
   a. Interior lots      6,000 square feet
   b. Corner lots        7,000 square feet
2. Setback requirements:
   a. Front yard         30 feet
   b. Side yard          0
   c. Rear yard          0, unless abutting another use, then the setback shall
                         be 20 feet
3. Height limitations    45 feet. Additional height may be allowed with a
                         special use permit
4. Minimum lot width     100 feet
 
(Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-7-10: RC RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Principal Uses Permitted: Licensed houses of prostitution and limited
residential uses associated therewith and sexually oriented principal and
accessory business uses as defined in section
10-13-2 of this title shall be permitted in restricted commercial zoned areas.
   B.   Relocation Restrictions: It shall be unlawful to locate or relocate any
house of prostitution or any sexually oriented principal business uses in any
area within the city except within a restricted commercial district.
   C.   General Regulations:
      1.   The planning commission may require with approval of the board of
councilmen landscaping sufficient to promote the compatibility with the
neighborhood.
      2.   The outdoor storage of goods or material shall be prohibited.
   D.   Special Use Permits Required: Houses of prostitution and all principal
sexually oriented businesses in RC zoning district shall be subject to the
special use permit procedure as set forth in section
10-3-2 of this title.
   E.   Requirements:
 
1. Minimum parcel size   6,000 square feet
2. Setback requirements:
   a. Front yard         20 feet
   b. Side yard          10 feet
   c. Rear yard          15 feet
3. Minimum lot width     60 feet
 
(Ord. 182, 11-12-1997)
10-7-11: MI-1 WAREHOUSE - LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
This district permits warehouses, moving and storage terminals, manufacturing
and processing plants as defined.
   A.   Regular Permitted Uses And Limitations:
      Air express office or depot.
      Animal boarding, breeding, kennel.
      Automobile body repairs.
      Automobile storage (no dismantling).
      Bicycle racetrack.
      Bottle collecting, storage or sorting.
      Building materials storage yard and sales.
      Cabinet shop.
      Construction equipment and supplies.
      Contractor's equipment and supplies, retail and wholesale.
      Crating and hauling depot, crate storage.
      Electric light and power company yard.
      Equipment rental, storage, servicing and repair.
      Fish distributor, wholesale or stock wagon operation.
      Ice plant.
      Ironworks, decorative custom shop ornamental.
      Laboratories (medical, dental, optical, chemist, veterinary).
      Laundry, steam or wetwash (processing plant).
      Lumberyard.
      Manufacture and assembly of products.
      Mobile home, camper, RV sales.
      Packaging.
      Paint storage, shop.
      Plumbing shop (storage yard).
      Printing or stenciling designs on fabric, cloth or wallpaper.
      Recycle center.
      Road building equipment, wholesale and storage.
      Roofing contractor's yard.
      Service station.
      Sheet metal shop, custom work.
      Spraying equipment yard.
      Storage units, consisting of storage for the following:
         Art, coin, antique collections.
         Carpet, tile, textile, flooring and the like.
         Hardware or home shop equipment.
         Home firewood storage.
         Home furnishings and appliances.
         Home repair equipment and supplies.
         Lawn, garden and yard maintenance equipment.
         Motorboats.
         Off road vehicles.
         Recreational vehicles.
         Riding equipment.
         Sailboats.
         Sporting equipment such as golf, tennis, archery and the like.
      Termite or pest control business.
      Tire repair (no recapping).
      Toys, wholesale.
      Transformer station.
      Truck depot, parking service.
      Warehousing, motor freight, dry goods, liquor, tobacco, mover, mail order
and the like.
      Welding shop.
      Wood storage yard.
   B.   Accessory Permitted Uses:
      Automobile parking.
      Mechanical equipment building.
   C.   Uses Permitted With A Special Use Permit:
      Amusement park, miniature golf, pitch and putt.
      Broadcasting stations including transmitting facilities.
      Cemetery.
      Commercial livestock feed or sales yard.
      Gravel excavation.
      Mining and/or raw materials processing.
      Outside storage facility.
      Playground or community center.
      Other kinds of uses found by the planning commission to be functionally
similar to those permitted in this district.
   D.   Requirements For Structure Location, Areas, Height And Bulk:
1. Minimum parcel size:
   a. Interior lots           10,000 square feet
   b. Corner lots             12,000 square feet
2. Setback requirements:
   a. Front yard              Minimum 10 feet
   b. Side yard:
   Interior side              0
   Exterior, side street yard 10 feet
                              No setback required except that along an alley a
   c. Rear yard               10 foot setback or other means shall be provided
                              for large commercial solid waste containers to be
                              stored, picked up and replaced
3. Height limitation          50 feet
4. Minimum lot width          100 feet
 
(Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-7-12: MI-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
This district permits in general the uses permitted in the MI-1 district plus
heavier industrial uses.
All open storage in the heavy industrial district which abuts the entrances of
the city shall be screened from public view.
   A.   Regular Permitted Uses And Limitations: The primary permitted uses in
the light industrial district and this list plus other uses of a similar
nature:
      Any uses permitted in light industrial zone but not R districts use
except as watchman's quarters in conjunction with those uses permitted
exclusively in heavy industrial districts.
      Assembly plant (assembly of products).
      Bronze, retail and wholesale.
      Butane storage and sales.
      Cannery.
      Cement or direct products sale.
      Coal storage.
      Cold storage plant.
      Crane storage yard.
      Creamery.
      Die casting.
      Distillation of liquor.
      Drilling company equipment yard.
      Extrusion of metals.
      Farm products storage.
      Flour mill.
      Forge plant.
      Frozen food processing, wholesale.
      Grain elevator.
      Granite grinding, dressing or cutting.
      Honey processing and packing.
      House mover, wrecking yard.
      Laundry, steam or wetwash (processing plant).
      Livestock, sales and shipping.
      Machine shop.
      Marble grinding, dressing or cutting.
      Metal working plant, shaping and bending process.
      Milk, bottling, condensed, manufacturing.
      Mobile home, camper manufacturing.
      Outdoor theater.
      Paving, contractor equipment, storage and wholesale.
      Pipe storage.
      Planing mill.
      Power plant (electrical or gas).
      Radio broadcasting station including antenna towers.
      Rental stores and agencies for heavy equipment and machinery exceeding
the maximum size and type for limited and general commercial districts.
      Salvage company equipment yard.
      Septic tank service.
      Television sending and receiving tower.
      Tire rebuilding, retreading.
      Wood preserving.
      Wrecker's contractor's yard.
      Uses not specified above as regular permitted uses are considered uses
permitted with a special use permit.
   B.   Accessory Permitted Uses:
      Automobile parking.
      Mechanical equipment building.
   C.   Uses Permitted With A Special Use Permit:
      Acetylene manufacturing and sale.
      Acid manufacturing and sale.
      Ammunition manufacturing.
      Asphalt manufacturing.
      Bulk fuel station.
      Chemical manufacturing.
      Chromium plating.
      Coal and coke yard.
      Concrete batch plant.
      Creosote manufacturing.
      Disinfectant manufacturing.
      Dump refuse or disposal yard.
      Dye manufacturing.
      Electroplating.
      Foundry.
      Gravel and sand pit, gravel and sand excavation.
      Hide and tallow processing, leather tanning.
      Incineration of animals and garbage.
      Insecticide manufacturing.
      Junk dealer's yard.
      Lubrication compound manufacturing.
      Meatpacker.
      Metal ore reduction.
      Metal plating bulk and custom.
      Milling company.
      Mining and/or raw material processing.
      Ore dump.
      Oxygen manufacturing.
      Paint manufacturing.
      Plastic products manufacturing.
      Processing of products.
      Quarry, stone.
      Rock crushing and stripping.
      Scrap metal processing.
      Sewer service equipment yard.
      Slaughterhouse.
      Stockyard.
      Tire manufacturing.
      Topsoil stripping.
      Other uses requiring a special use permit are those which may produce
excessive noise, gaseous byproducts, obnoxious odors, by or of an inflammable
or explosive nature, cause dust which may be offensive to adjoining property
owners, or which the planning commission may consider to be detrimental to the
public health and safety.
   D.   Prohibited Uses:
      Church.
      Institutions.
      Residential.
      School.
   E.   Requirements For Structure Location, Area, Height And Bulk:
1. Minimum parcel size:
   a. Interior lots           10,000 square feet
   b. Corner lots             12,000 square feet
2. Setback requirements:
   a. Front yard              Minimum 10 feet
   b. Side yard:
   Interior side              0
   Exterior, side street yard 10 feet
                              No setback required except that along an alley a
   c. Rear yard               10 foot setback or other means shall be provided
                              for large commercial solid waste containers to be
                              stored, picked up and replaced
3. Height limitation          50 feet
4. Minimum lot width          100 feet
                              Required minimum lot area in the heavy industrial
5. Minimum area               district shall be 12,000 square feet for each
                              primary building
 
(Ord. 185, 2-9-1999)
10-7-13: P PUBLIC DISTRICT:
The purpose of the P district is to achieve the following:
      1.   To accommodate the wide range of public institutional and auxiliary
uses which are established in response to the health, safety, cultural and
welfare needs of the citizens of the city;
      2.   To organize the assemblage of specific, nonprofit and profit public
facilities into efficient, functionally compatible and attractively planned
administrative centers in conformance with the master plan; and
      3.   To establish site plan approval for many uses thereby insuring
compatibility with adjacent more restrictive districts.
   A.   Regularly Permitted Uses And Limitations:
      Campgrounds.
      City, county, state and federal buildings.
      Library.
      Playground, community center, public recreation facilities.
      Police, fire stations.
      Public schools.
   B.   Uses Permitted with Special Use Permit:
      Cemetery.
      Civic auditoriums and theaters.
      Convalescent home or elderly housing.
      Historical sites.
      Hospitals.
      Military sites.
      Museums.
      Public parking lots.
      Schools, private/parochial.
      Wastewater treatment facilities.
      Other uses found by the planning commission to be functionally similar to
uses permitted in this district.
   C.   Requirements For Structure Location, Area, Height And Bulk:
 
1. Minimum parcel size   6,000 square feet
2. Setback requirements:
   a. Front yard         30 feet
   b. Side yard          30 feet
   c. Rear yard          10 feet
3. Height limitations    40 feet
4. Minimum lot width     50 feet
 
   D.   Development Standards: All public district development standards
relative to lot area, setbacks, building height, landscaping, off street
parking and signs shall be based on requirements and conditions of the use
permit. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-7-14: AP AIRPORT DISTRICT:
This is a special district for the purpose of limiting the use of land on and
adjacent to the airport for aviation and nonstructural uses in order to
maintain public safety.
   A.   Regular Permitted Uses:
      Aircraft fueling facilities.
      Aircraft landing facilities and equipment.
      Aircraft maintenance facilities.
      Aircraft parking.
      Aircraft passenger and visitor waiting facilities.
      Automobile and truck parking.
      Eating and lodging facilities.
      Outdoor storage.
   B.   Uses Permitted With Special Use Permit:
      Grazing of livestock.
      Livestock shelters and food storage.
      Open air spectator sporting events.
   C.   Requirements For Structure Locations, Area, Height And Bulk:
Requirements will be in accordance with the FAA regulations and the city of
Wells approved airport master plan on file with the FAA. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-7-15: WM WATER MANAGEMENT DISTRICT:
This is a special district for the purpose of limiting land use in areas where
flash flooding may occur and where pollution of public water sources is
possible without proper management of the land and its uses. The Humboldt
Springs area will be the primary area for application of this district. The
Humboldt River is a public trust and must be protected for the future benefit
of everyone including the owners of lands through which it passes. The uses in
this district are limited to specific agricultural activities conducted at the
time this title is put into effect and are hereby subject to further regulation
by the county and the state to protect the water source from pollution.
   A.   Regular Permitted Uses And Limitations:
      Open space.
   B.   Uses Permitted With Special Use Permit:
      Accessory buildings.
      Farming, only alfalfa and other animal food crops that require minimum
tilling of the soil.
      Grazing of livestock, provided that the number of animals is sufficiently
low to prevent pollution or soil erosion.
      Parks and recreation.
      Single-family residences, permanent or manufactured.
   C.   Restricted Uses: No chemicals shall be used on the vegetation or soil
unless those chemicals are approved by state and federal agencies involved in
water quality regulation.
   D.   Requirements For Structure Location, Area, Height And Bulk:
 
1. Minimum parcel size   40 acres
2. Setback requirements:
   a. Front yard         100 feet
   b. Side yard          100 feet
   c. Rear yard          100 feet
3. Height limitation     45 feet
 
(Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-7-16: H HISTORICAL AREA COMBINING DISTRICT:
This is a suffix that may be added to any district, such as GCH, R-2H or TCH,
etc. The city of Wells shall hereafter apply historical area standards to new
development and redevelopment in such districts.
   A.   The purpose of this district is to preserve buildings or protect
districts which have a historical, architectural, cultural or landmark value.
It is also the purpose of this district to preserve, protect and enhance the
historical characteristics of structures, uses and areas so designated in order
to provide fiscally sound, functional, quality tourist business attractions.
This designation may provide for appropriate uses heavier than those permitted
in the underlying zone as an aid to owner/community effort to preserve the
historical, architectural, cultural or landmark value.
   B.   Permitted Uses: None
   C.   Uses Allowed With A Special Use Permit: A special use permit review
will include, but shall not be limited to, architectural design, color,
construction, materials, density, site development including lot coverage,
landscaping, off street parking and on site advertising. All uses in the
underlying zone will be allowed with a special use permit. The planning
commission, when reviewing a proposed use, shall approve, deny or conditionally
approve such use.
   D.   Historical Designation Criteria:
      1.   Any building, structure, object, site, grounds or garden may be
designated a "historical place" by the board if:
         a.   The thing so designated has existed in basic form for more than
fifty (50) years; and
         b.   It is not unsound, dangerous or offensive; and
         c.   It is possessed of one or more of the following characteristics:
            (1)   Exemplifies or reflects special elements of the city's
cultural, social, economic, political, aesthetic, engineering or architectural
past;
            (2)   Embodies the distinguishing characteristics of a style,
period, method of construction or development in the city or serves as a
valuable example of the use of indigenous materials or craftsmanship;
            (3)   Represents the notable work of a master builder, designer or
architect;
            (4)   Represents a rare building type, style, design, or indigenous
building form;
            (5)   Is identifiable with persons or events significant in local,
state or national history.
      2.   Specific street faces, interrelated groupings of buildings,
structures and grounds or other geographically designated areas of the city may
be designated a "historical district" by the planning commission if:
         a.   It appears to constitute a fairly distinct section of the city;
and
         b.   It is worthy of preservation and protection for significance in
the historical past of the city.
      3.   A historical place may be located within or without a historical
district.
   E.   Historical Designation Procedure:
      1.   No historical place or district shall be so designated except by
resolution of the planning commission adopted after notice to owners of the
property or properties which may be designated, publication and public hearing,
all as provided in law.
      2.   Any historical district shall be identified upon the land use map of
the city with a superimposed symbol "H", but no modification of the underlying
zone or permitted uses is intended or allowed except as provided in this code.
      3.   Any historical designation may be removed or boundaries modified
after notice, publication and public hearing as provided above.
   F.   Historical Place Or District, Regulation:
      1.   No permit authorizing construction, alteration, remodelling,
demolition, removal, the placement of signs or other activity affecting the
public appearance of a historical place or a historical district shall issue
except as provided in this chapter.
      2.   Permits for interior work and maintenance, repairs or other
activities for which no permit is required whether or not outward appearances
are affected, are not governed by this chapter.
   G.   Application Requirements:
      1.   The applicant for any permit governed by this chapter, other than
demolition or removal, shall submit to the appropriate permit authority such
forms, plans and fees as may be required by other provisions of this code.
      2.   Additionally, each applicant shall submit photographs, plans,
descriptions, dimensions, drawings, sketches or other information and materials
significant in scope and detail to allow meaningful review and determination of
the ultimate appearance and impact of the proposed project.
      3.   The permit authority shall offer suggestions in the preparation of
an adequate application.
      4.   Professional quality plans, renderings or materials shall not be
required but the permit authority or committee may demand additional or
clarified information.
      5.   No additional fees shall be charged.
   H.   Review Procedures:
      1.   Without delay, the permit authority shall forward the additional
materials to the planning commission for its consideration which shall follow
within fourteen (14) days of receipt.
      2.   The planning commission shall cause notice to be given to at least
all owners of property within three hundred feet (300') of the proposed
project. Notice may be accomplished by mail, telephone or personal contact.
      3.   The planning commission shall meet with the applicant and interested
persons to review and discuss the proposed project, suggest alterations if
appropriate, define with particularity the intentions of the applicant and act
upon the application by recommending to the permit authority:
         a.   Approval with a certificate of appropriateness.
         b.   Approval.
         c.   Approval with specified conditions.
         d.   Denial.
      4.   Unless time is extended with the consent of the applicant, the
failure of the planning commission to transmit a recommendation to the permit
authority within twenty (20) days of receipt of an application shall be deemed
as approval of the project.
      5.   Within three (3) days of receipt of the planning commission's
recommendation and upon satisfaction of other code requirements, the permit
authority may accept the recommendation to include a certificate of
appropriateness.
      6.   If recommendation is rejected or modified, the applicant and the
planning commission or any person aggrieved by the decision may give notice of
appeal to the board.
      7.   The applicant may appeal to the board of councilmen for a
certificate of appropriateness.
      8.   No permit shall issue while an appeal is pending.
   I.   Standard Of Review:
      1.   The planning commission shall make its recommendations of projects
based upon the guidelines found in the U.S. department of interior publication
entitled "Standards For Historic Preservation Projects", and copies of the
guidelines shall be made available for public inspection by the planning
commission and permit authority.
      2.   The planning commission may formulate and after approval by the
board of councilmen, adopt and utilize additional standards and guidelines.
   J.   Grounds For Planning Commission Action:
      1.   A proposal shall receive a recommendation of denial only if, after
due consideration of individual taste and property rights it appears that the
proposed project fails to address the purpose of this chapter and, if
accomplished, will serve to intrude upon and detract from the place or district
in which it is to be found to an extent that the purpose of this chapter could
be debased.
      2.   All other proposals shall be approved.
   K.   Certificate Of Appropriateness:
      1.   The endorsement of a proposed project with a certificate of
appropriateness shall be reserved by the planning commission for only those
projects, large or small, which in all comprehensive detail including
materials, colors and method is not only aesthetically compatible but will
truly enhance the place or area involved and clearly reflects an effort on the
part of the applicant to further the purposes of this chapter.
      2.   Upon completion of a project substantially conforming with a plan
receiving a certificate of appropriateness all monies paid by the applicant to
the city for plan checks and as residential construction tax, but not including
utility related fees, shall be refunded.
   L.   Historical Place Demolition:
      1.   No permit to demolish all or part of a historical place shall issue
until the matter has been submitted to the planning commission for
consideration.
      2.   The planning commission shall recommend approval or shall endeavor
to arrange a sale of the property, removal or some other alternative to
demolition.
      3.   Unless time is extended with the consent of the applicant, an
application shall be deemed recommended for approval after sixty (60) days.
   M.   Signs:
      1.   All signs on historical places or in historical districts must
conform with the sign code and in addition must have an appearance, color,
size, position, method of attachment, texture of materials and design in
keeping with the character of the place or district.
      2.   Signs shall be further limited as follows:
         a.   No off site signs are permitted.
         b.   Business signs shall be limited to a single sign for each street
frontage.
         c.   No sign may extend above the top of the nearest facade, eaves or
firewall of a building or structure.
         d.   No sign which flashes, blinks, revolves or is otherwise in motion
or which is connected to audio equipment shall be permitted, and no visible
bulbs, neon tubing, luminous paints or backlight will be permitted as part of
any sign.
         e.   Buildings and signs may be illuminated by remote light sources,
provided that these light sources are shielded to protect adjacent properties.
      3.   The planning commission may approve exception to the limitations
described above for good cause. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-7-17: ZONING DISTRICT REFERENCES:
   A.   A "home occupation" is any gainful occupation engaged in by an occupant
of a dwelling unit which meets all of the following conditions:
      1.   Such use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling for dwelling purposes and must be owner occupied.
      2.   Any use not conducted entirely within the dwelling or other
outbuildings requires a special use permit.
      3.   Additional traffic created does not interfere with normal
neighborhood activities and any additional needed parking for employees must be
provided for off street.
      4.   Working hours of the person or persons employed by the home business
must be compatible with the neighborhood.
      5.   External alterations or construction features intended to
accommodate the home occupation which are not customary in dwellings or
outbuildings shall be permitted only through means of a special use permit.
      6.   One sign, attached to the wall of the dwelling or outbuilding, no
larger than four (4) square feet in area, is the maximum that may be permitted.
No lighted signs are permitted. Any sign must be professional in appearance and
no hand lettered signs constructed of plywood or other nonprofessional
materials will be allowed.
      7.   Light commercial deliveries and pick ups are restricted to those
common to residential use.
      8.   Such use will not constitute a nuisance or an adverse aesthetic
alteration to the neighborhood.
      9.   Such use shall not produce any offensive noise, vibration, smoke,
dust, odor, heat, glare, litter, electrical disturbances or in any other way
interfere with the peace, contentment or general welfare of the neighborhood.
      10.   Such use shall not create any illegal discharge of materials,
fluids or gases into the air or ground.
      11.   Such use shall not have any adverse effect upon abutting property.
      12.   Every person having a "home occupation", as defined in this
subsection, shall obtain a business license from the city clerk.
      13.   The city clerk shall require approval by the planning department
prior to issuance of a home occupation business license.
      14.   The business license fee shall be established by resolution of the
city council.
      15.   No home occupation may conduct business upon any street, public
right of way within the city or public property owned by the city without prior
permission, and where necessary, execution of any agreement with the city to
conduct the business.
      16.   Yard sales conducted at any residence that do not extend for more
than two (2) days and do not occur at the same residence more than twice per
year are not considered a home occupation and do not require prior approval or
a license from the city.
      17.   Any yard sale which extends for more than two (2) days or a yard
sale at the same residence which occurs more than twice during any calendar
year is defined as a "home occupation" and must comply with all home occupation
requirements set forth in this subsection A. Any such home occupation yard sale
must be conducted entirely within the dwelling or other outbuilding unless a
special use permit is obtained. (Ord. 217, 7-28-2009)
   B.   A children's nursery, kindergarten or daycare center may be permitted
by means of a special use permit and shall comply with the following criteria:
      1.   All state requirements and regulations.
      2.   A minimum of thirty five (35) square feet of usable indoor activity
space per child, exclusive of halls, bath and toilet facilities, and food
preparation facilities.
      3.   A minimum of one hundred (100) square feet of usable outdoor
activity space per child.
      4.   Adequate fencing and/or screening of the play area to protect the
children and provide for a separation of the facility from the adjoining
residential properties.
      5.   A maximum of two (2) signs, not to exceed an accumulative total of
six (6) square feet in area may be permitted, provided they be either attached
to the building below the eaves or parapet line or be freestanding and not
greater than four feet (4') in height from the average ground level and not be
located in a required setback or yard area.
      6.   Other conditions as may be required by a special use permit.
   C.   A convalescent, nursing, rest or other home or elderly housing shall
comply with the following criteria:
      1.   All state requirements and regulations.
      2.   A minimum of one hundred (100) square feet of centrally located yard
area per occupant bed for the purpose of landscaping, gardening, patios and
outdoor recreation.
      3.   Signs must conform to zoning district regulations.
      4.   Other conditions as may be required for a conditional use permit.
   D.   Broadcasting stations are a permitted use in some zones. However, their
transmitters and tower may be permitted by special use permit only and provided
it is totally surrounded by a security fence or hedge.
   E.   Outdoor storage areas shall be screened from view by means of a sight
obscuring fence or hedge.
   F.   Fuel storage yards where bulk gasoline, oil, kerosene, oxygen, natural
or other gas and any other highly flammable supplies are to be stored may be
permitted by special use permit provided:
      1.   All state regulations are met.
      2.   That no such storage facility be closer to a property or right of
way line than one hundred feet (100') or twice its height, whichever is
greater. At the above distance a dike shall be constructed totally around the
facility of sufficient height and strength to contain one and one-half (11/2)
times the contents of any combustible fluid that can be stored on the site. If
more than one tank or container will be used, each may be required to have
independent diking.
   G.   Fishing, gun, riding clubs and dude ranches may be permitted by special
use permit provided there is strict density control, adequate improvements,
suitable access and provided that the use is supplemental to grazing or
farming. In no case shall density exceed one dwelling unit per ten (10) acres.
(Ord. 186, 6-29-1999)
10-7-18:   ALLOWABLE AND SPECIAL USES:
A.   Allowable And Special Use Chart:
Allowable And Special Uses AG R-1 R-1E R-2 MH BC GC TC RC MI-1 MI-2 P AP WM H
Allowable And Special Uses   AG R-1 R-1E R-2 MH BC GC TC RC MI-1 MI-2 P AP WM H
Accessory building or        2  2   2    2   2
structure
Amusement centers, indoors                      S  X  S     X
only
Amusement park, miniature                       S  S  S     S
golf, pitch and putt
Animal hospital, kennel                            S        X    X
Automobile, boat, motorcycle                    X  X  X     X
retail
Bakery - larger volume and                                  X    X
wholesale
Bank                                            X  X  X
Barber, beauty, shoe repair                     X  X  X
Bottling plant                                                   X
Broadcasting station         S                  X  X  X     S
Cabinet shop                                    X  X  X     X    X
Campgrounds, recreation
resort boat launching,       X
mooring and rental
Cemetery                     S                              S         X
Church                       S  S   S    S      X  X  X
Cleaning, laundering agency                     X  X  X
Cleaning plant, volume                                      X    X
commercial
Clothing, retail                                X  X  X
Coin operated laundry and                       X  X  X
cleaning establishment
Commercial livestock feed or S                                   X
yard sales
Concrete and asphalt batch                                       S
plant
Contractor's shop and yard                                  X    X
Convalescent home or elderly 5  5   5    5                            5
housing
Dairy products processing    S                                   X
Density transfer (planned       1   1    1   1  1  1  1
unit development)
Drive-in restaurant                             S  X  S
Equipment service and repair                    X  X  X     X
Farm and other heavy                                        X
equipment retail
Farming and ranching         X  X   X                                 X X  X
Florist                                         X  X  X
Food product processing                                          X
Fuel storage yards                                               S
Furniture refinishing and                                   X    X
upholstering
Furniture, retail                               X  X  X
Gravel excavation            S                              S    S
Grocery, retail                                 X  X  X
Hardware, automotive parts                      X  X  X     X
Home occupation              3  3   3    3
Horticultural nursery        X  S   S    S
Hospital                                 S      S  S  S               X
Household appliance repair                      X  X  X
Ice manufacture and cold                                    X    X
storage plants
Jewelry retail                                  X  X  X
Labor camp                   S
Livery stable, hunting,
fishing, gun and riding      S
club, dude ranch
Medical laboratory                              X  X  X     X
Medical profession,                             X  X  X
executive offices
Mining and/or raw material   S                              S    S
processing
Mobile home, camper retail                      X  X  X     X
Mobile home on individual                    X
lot
Mobile home park or                      6
subdivision
Mortuary                                 S      X  X  X
Motel, hotel                                    S  X  S
Multi-family apartment                   X   X  X  X
building
Newspaper and printing                          X  X  X     X
establishment
Nursery, kindergarten,       4  4   4    4
daycare
Outside storage facilities                      S  S  S     S
Photography shop                                X  X  X
Prescription pharmacy,                          X  X  X
optician shop
Public golf course, swimming
pool, park, playground or       S   S    S      S  S  S               X
community center
Public well, fire station,      S   S
police station
Reducing salon - masseur                        X  X  X
Residence for farm or        X  S   S
domestic workers
Restaurant                                      S  X  S
Retail bakery                                   X  X  X
Rooming-boarding house                   S      S  X  S
School, public, private or   S  S   S    S      S  S  S               S
parochial
Service or fraternal club or             S      S  X  S
lodge
Service station                                 S  X  S
Sign and billboard shop                                     X    X
Single-family residence      X  X   X    X   X  X  X                       X  S
Tavern, lounge                                  S  X  S
Theater                                         S  X  S
Tire shop, excluding                            S  X  S          X
recapping
Tire shop, including                                        X    X
recapping
Travel trailer park                             S  S  S
Two-family residence                     X   X  X  X
 
   B.   Definitions For Chart:
      X:   A permitted use. There may be special design requirements which must
be met.
      S:   A special use permit is required; the procedure for processing a
special use permit application shall be as provided in chapter 3 of this title.
   1.   Density transfer, the cluster of dwelling units, may be required by the
planning commission as a matter of policy or it may be required as a result of
review investigation of the proposed development which concludes that there are
substantial reasons for requiring cluster development.
   2.   An accessory building is one which is of secondary importance to the
primary use, such as a garage for a residence, a small shed for garden tools, a
sauna or bathhouse, a barn for a farm operation, a pump house, etc.
   3.   A "home occupation" as defined and set forth in subsection
10-7-17A of this chapter may be permitted by means of a special use permit and
shall comply with the conditions set forth in subsection
10-7-17A of this chapter.
   4.   Children's nursery, kindergarten or day care center may be permitted by
means of a special use permit and shall comply with the conditions set forth in
subsection
10-7-17B of this chapter.
   5.   Convalescent, nursing, rest or other home or elderly housing may be
permitted by means of a special use permit and shall comply with the conditions
set forth in subsection
10-7-17C of this chapter.
   6.   Mobile home parks may be permitted by means of a special use permit and
shall comply with the following criteria:
      a.   All State requirements and regulations.
      b.   Density requirements of the district in which it is located.
      c.   The design features set out in section
10-7-6 of this chapter.
      d.   Other conditions as may be required by a conditional use permit.
   7.   Broadcasting stations are a permitted use and shall comply with the
conditions set forth in subsection
10-7-17D of this chapter.
   8.   Outdoor storage areas shall comply with the conditions set forth in
subsection
10-7-17E of this chapter.
   9.   Fuel storage yards shall comply with the conditions set forth in
subsection
10-7-17F of this chapter.
   10.   Fishing, gun, riding clubs and dude ranches may be permitted by
special use permit and shall comply with the conditions set forth in subsection
10-7-17G of this chapter.
   11.   A mobile home on an agricultural parcel of a minimum of twenty (20)
acres or greater is permitted. A mobile home on an agricultural parcel less
than twenty (20) acres in area may be permitted by special use permit only.
(Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-7-19: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR FACTORY BUILT HOMES AND MANUFACTURED HOMES:
The use of a factory built or manufactured home as a permanent residential
dwelling on an individual lot shall be permitted in any zoning district of the
chapter which permits installation of a single-family site built dwelling,
provided the following standards are met:
   A.   Is multisection and at least twenty feet (20') wide.
   B.   Has a minimum floor area of one thousand (1,000) square feet.
   C.   The factory built or manufactured home shall be built or manufactured
within the five (5) years immediately preceding the date on which it is affixed
to the residential lot.
   D.   Has roofing materials which are generally acceptable for site built
housing. Any roofing materials may be used provided it has the appearance of a
nonmetallic shingle, shake or tile roof. Roofs shall also have a minimum slope
of twenty five percent (25%) (3:12) and overhanging eaves.
   E.   Has siding materials which are generally acceptable for site built
housing. Any siding materials may be used provided it has the appearance of
wood, masonry or horizontal metal siding. Reflection from horizontal metal
siding shall be no greater than that from siding coated with white, gloss
enamel.
   F.   Has a foundation of concrete or other material allowed by the uniform
building code for site built homes which is aesthetically compatible with the
factory built or manufactured home having the appearance of site built
construction. This means the fascia shall be an extension of the siding or be
of materials having the appearance of site built foundations such as brick,
concrete or concrete block.
   G.   Is permanently affixed to a permanent foundation. Footings shall be of
poured masonry extending twenty four inches (24") below grade.
   H.   Has a crawl space with the following minimum measurements: 1) eighteen
inches (18") of clearance; 2) twelve inches (12") of clearance under beams; and
3) an eighteen inch by twenty four inch (18" x 24") door.
   I.   Complies with all applicable lot size, setback, and other requirements
of the zoning district in which it is to be located.
   J.   Provides one off street parking space and shall be improved with such
material to provide a durable and dust free surface.
   K.   Provides right of way improvements in the same manner as site built
construction, in accordance with city policy.
   L.   Manufactured or factory built home, owners or purchasers shall own or
be purchasing the land upon which their home is to be placed. The owner or
purchaser shall record with the county recorder the appropriate document
declaring the factory built or manufactured home as real property. These
requirements shall not apply within any duly approved mobile home park.
   M.   Factory built or manufactured homes shall be provided with smoke
detectors as required in the uniform building code, section 1210, "Smoke
Detectors And Sprinkler Systems", before final inspection and occupancy. Smoke
detectors required in addition to those provided for in the department of
housing and urban development, part 3280 of 24 CFR, "Manufactured Home
Construction And Safety Standards", may be of the battery operated type.
   N.   Manufactured homes not meeting standards in subsection B, F or M of
this section shall only be allowed in mobile home parks or other areas zoned
for mobile homes and manufactured homes.
   O.   The city council, as part of the special use permit process, pursuant
to section
10-3-2 of this title, and where just cause or circumstance warrants, may vary
or modify the development standards and requirements of this section. (Ord.
206, 3-9-2004)
10-7-20: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Application: Application for placement of a factory built or
manufactured home in accordance with section
 10-7-19 of this chapter shall be made with the city on a prescribed form. The
completed application shall be filed with the city clerk. The application shall
include all information necessary to determine conformity with required
development standards of this chapter, including: exterior dimensions, siding
material, foundation fascia material, roofing material, eaves overhang and any
other applicable information. The applicant shall also attach to the
application: 1) a copy of the manufacturer's instructions for installation of
the home on permanent footings; and 2) a plot plan showing existing conditions
and the proposed location of the home and other improvements at a scale of at
least one inch equals twenty feet (1" = 20').
   B.   Certificates And Inspection:
      1.   The applicant shall sign the completed application certifying the
factory built or manufactured home meets the required development standards of
this chapter and that site development will be in accordance with said
standards and the plot plan submitted stating that once the factory built or
manufactured home is permanently affixed the applicant will comply with the
requirement for the home to be declared as real property for taxation purposes.
These certifications shall be made prior to the moving of the home to the
building site.
      2.   Following application and plot plan approval by the city building
official, the official may issue a building permit for the footings and
foundation. Upon satisfactory inspection of the footings and foundation for the
attachment of the manufactured home, the building official shall verify, in
writing, that all development standards have been met as certified by the
applicant. The home may then be attached to the foundation in accordance with
the manufacturer's instruction, city codes for permanent utility connections,
and other building requirements.
      3.   Prior to occupancy, a final inspection shall be made to assure
proper attachment of the home to the foundation and placement of a proper
foundation fascia. (Ord. 179, 6-24-1997)
10-7-21: NONCONFORMING FACTORY BUILT OR MANUFACTURED HOMES:
A factory built or manufactured home which has been placed and maintained upon
an individual lot prior to July 1, 1997, shall be a legal nonconforming use.
Such manufactured home shall not be relocated within the city without
conforming to all applicable provisions contained herein. (Ord. 179, 6-24-1997)
10-7-22: SPECIAL AREA OVERLAY DISTRICT FOR FACTORY BUILT AND MANUFACTURED
HOMES:
The purpose of this special area overlay district is to recognize certain areas
as having unique or extraordinary circumstances or history related to
established areas of land use; and, to provide the opportunity to use certain
factory built and manufactured homes as single-family dwellings on nonpermanent
foundations.
   A.   Areas Specified: The special area for the overlay district is
established for the following described property:
      1.   All areas zoned residential single-family estate district (R-1E) and
agricultural/residential (R-3) north of the Southern Pacific Railroad tracks.
      2.   All of the area zoned agricultural (AG) abutting the north side of
Metropolis Road north of the Union Pacific Railroad right of way and north of
the Southern Pacific Railroad tracks.
   B.   Creation Of Additional Area For Overlay District: Whenever the board of
councilmen deems it to be in the public interest and in accordance with zoning
principles, it may establish other special areas for the overlay district by
amending the official zoning map pursuant to the provisions of section
10-1-4 and chapter 5 of this title, and Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 278.
   C.   Development And Use Standards: The use of a factory built or
manufactured home as a single-family residential dwelling on an individual lot
or parcel of land shall be permitted in the above specified overlay zone area,
provided the following development and use standards are met. The factory built
or manufactured home must:
      1.   Be at least fourteen feet (14') wide.
      2.   Have a minimum floor area of seven hundred twenty five (725) square
feet.
      3.   Have roofing materials which are generally acceptable for site built
housing. Any roofing materials may be used, provided it has the appearance of a
nonmetallic shingle, shake or tile roof. Roofs shall also have a minimum slope
of twenty five percent (25%).
      4.   Have siding materials which are generally acceptable for site built
housing. Any siding materials may be used, provided it has the appearance of
wood, masonry or horizontal metal siding. Reflection from horizontal metal
siding shall be no greater than that from siding coated with white, gloss
enamel.
      5.   Be tied down in accordance with state manufactured housing
standards, and include facie that shall be an extension of the siding
standards. However, it may have a foundation of concrete, concrete block or
brick or other material allowed by the uniform building code which is
aesthetically compatible with the factory built or manufactured home.
      6.   Comply with all applicable lot size, setback, and other requirements
of the zoning district in which it is to be located.
      7.   Provide one off street parking space and shall be improved with such
material to provide a durable and dust free surface.
      8.   Provide right of way improvements in the same manner as site built
construction, in accordance with city policy.
      9.   If the manufactured or factory built home is permanently affixed to
a permanent foundation, owners or purchasers shall own or be purchasing the
land upon which their home is to be placed. The owner or purchaser shall record
with the county recorder the appropriate document declaring the factory built
or manufactured home as real property. These requirements shall not apply
within any duly approved mobile home park, or to a nonpermanent factory built
or manufactured home.
      10.   Factory built or manufactured homes shall be provided with smoke
detectors as required in the uniform building code section 1210, "Smoke
Detectors And Sprinkler Systems", before final inspection and occupancy. Smoke
detectors required in addition to those provided for in the department of
housing and urban development, part 3280 of 24 CFR, "Manufactured Home
Construction And Safety Standards", may be of the battery operated type.
      11.   All manufactured or factory built homes must be constructed or
manufactured within ten (10) years of the year on which it is placed on the lot
or parcel of land. Manufactured or factory built homes constructed within
eleven (11) to fifteen (15) years may be permitted by obtaining a special use
permit as provided in chapter 3 of this title. (Ord. 202, 4-8-2003)
CHAPTER 8
LANDSCAPING
SECTION:
10-8-1: Purpose And Scope
10-8-2: Definitions
10-8-3: Landscape Plan
10-8-4: Specific Standards
10-8-5: Maintenance
10-8-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety and general
welfare of the people of the city by generally controlling the placement,
amount and type of landscaping material installed at developed projects within
the city in order to:
   A.   Enhance the aesthetics of the community.
   B.   Conserve natural and energy resources.
   C.   Provide environmental controls such as, but not limited to, the
reduction of noise, dust and erosion. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the words and terms defined shall have the meanings
ascribed to them herein.
   DEVELOPMENT PROJECT: The use of land, buildings and structures on any
property in the city subject to title 10, except individual single-family and
two-family dwellings.
   LANDSCAPING MATERIAL: Any of the following materials:
   A.   Living material including, but not limited to, grass, ground covers,
shrubs, vines, hedges or trees.
   B.   Nonliving material including, but not limited to, rocks, gravel, sand,
tile, bricks and wood. Plastic is not considered a landscaping material.
   PARKING AREA: Those portions of a site area designated for motor vehicle use
including, but not limited to, parking stalls, parking spaces, driveways and
access driveways.
   SITE AREA: The total surface area of a development project including those
unimproved portions of adjoining public right of way. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-8-3: LANDSCAPE PLAN:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, a landscape plan for any
development project in the city shall be filed concurrently with the submission
of a tentative subdivision map, or the application for a special use permit or
a building permit in the event a tentative subdivision map or special use
permit is not required.
   B.   Unless otherwise required by the manager, the landscape plan shall
include the following:
      1.   Identification and location of irrigation and drainage system
components.
      2.   Construction details including the specific identification,
location, height and architectural elevation of all landscaping material.
      3.   A complete planting list outlining the botanical and common name of
all living landscaping material. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-8-4: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
All landscaping materials shall aesthetically enhance and be environmentally
compatible with the site area.
   A.   The minimum portions of a site area to be permanently landscaped shall
be as follows:
      1.   Subdivision developments, R-1, R-1E, R-2: Thirty percent (30%) of
the site area for all permitted uses, with or without a special use permit,
except for individual single-family and two- family dwellings.
      2.   Buffer commercial district, BC: Fifteen percent (15%) for all
residential developments, except individual single-family or two- family
dwellings. Twenty percent (20%) for all permitted commercial uses.
      3.   General commercial district, GC: Ten percent (10%).
      4.   Tourist commercial district, TC: Ten percent (10%).
      5.   Restricted commercial district, RC: Twenty percent (20%).
      6.   Warehouse-industrial, MI-1, MI-2: Landscaping strips shall be
provided along the public street frontages at the appropriate width that will
result in the landscaping of a minimum of six percent (6%) of the site area.
   B.   All landscaping material for a development project shall be installed
in accordance with the landscape plan. The manager may require a good and
sufficient surety bond written by a surety company authorized to do business in
this state, cash or a letter of credit issued by a bank to be filed with the
city clerk prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
      1.   All landscaping material installed in accordance with the
landscaping plan shall be inspected and approved by the manager.
      2.   If the landscaping material is not installed in accordance with the
landscaping plan, the city council may cause the bond, cash deposit or letter
of credit to be forfeited in an amount necessary to complete the installation.
(Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-8-5: MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Each owner, operator or other person in control of a development
project shall be required at all times to keep all landscaping materials in
good repair and maintenance.
   B.   If any portion of the landscaping material is damaged, destroyed or
otherwise injured, the owner, operator or person in control of the development
project shall replace it within thirty (30) days. If the particular season
makes such replacement unfeasible then it shall be accomplished within a
reasonable period of time but not to exceed six (6) months. (Ord. 138, 1-26-
1988)
CHAPTER 9
PARKING
SECTION:
10-9-1: Off Street Parking
10-9-2: Number Of Spaces Required
10-9-3: General Requirements
10-9-4: Off Street Loading And Unloading
10-9-5: Minimum Dimensions
10-9-6: Landscaping
10-9-7: Maintenance
10-9-8: Permit Required
10-9-1: OFF STREET PARKING:
All off street parking areas shall be developed and completed to the adopted
building codes before an occupancy permit for the building is issued. All
traffic control devices such as parking stripes designating car stalls,
directional arrows or signs, bull rails, curbs and other developments shall be
installed and completed as shown on the approved plans. Hard surfaced parking
areas shall use paint or similar devices to delineate car stalls and
directional arrows. Where pedestrian walks are used in parking lots for the use
of foot traffic only, they shall be curbed, or raised six inches (6") above the
lot surface. All driveways, off street parking areas and public off street
areas immediately adjacent to a service driveway which leads to a hard surfaced
public street shall be developed in accordance with department of public works
standards. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-9-2: NUMBER OF SPACES REQUIRED:
The minimum number of off street parking spaces for each use is set forth in
the following sections. If there are a number of uses on a single parcel, the
parking for each individual use is calculated and the total required is the sum
of the separate individual requirements except as provided in subsection G of
this section.
These parking requirements are mandatory for the various buildings and uses
irrespective of the zoning districts in which they occur except existing uses
within existing buildings in the downtown area shall be exempted from said
requirements. When higher occupancy uses are developed within existing downtown
buildings, the following parking ratios shall apply:
                                         2 spaces per dwelling unit or suite
 All single- and multiple-family         designed and containing 2 or more
 residential dwellings                   bedrooms; 11/2 spaces per dwelling
                                         unit or suite designed and containing
                                         not more than 1 bedroom.
 Rooming or boarding houses, fraternity  1 parking space for each guest
 or other group dwelling                 bedroom, plus 1 parking space for each
                                         staff member.
 Senior citizen housing developments     1 space per unit.
                                         21/2 parking spaces per dwelling unit.
 Planned unit development                20 percent of the total parking space
                                         requirement shall be classified as
                                         guest parking.
                                         1 space for every 2 employees, plus a
                                         permanently maintained loading/
 Childcare centers                       unloading area installed in accordance
                                         with department of public works
                                         standards.
                                         1 space for every 5 fixed seats or
                                         every 10 feet of bench length. Where
 Churches and funeral homes              no permanent seats or benches are
                                         maintained, 1 space for every 30
                                         square feet of principal assembly
                                         area.
 Commercial or business schools          1 space for every 150 square feet of
                                         classroom area.
                                         11/2 spaces for each employee or
 Elementary and junior high schools      faculty member, plus 1 space for every
                                         50 square feet of seating area in
                                         auditorium or assembly area.
                                         2 spaces for every 3 employees or
 High schools and colleges               faculty members, plus 1 space for
                                         every 4 students.
 Hospitals                               1 space for each bed.
 Libraries, museums and art galleries    1 space for every 400 square feet of
                                         gross floor area.
 Nursing homes, homes for the aged,
 group care homes, convalescent          1 space for every 3 occupants.
 hospitals, etc.
 Amusement parks                         1 space for every 500 square feet of
                                         park area.
 Automobile, boat, recreational vehicle  1 space for every 500 square feet of
 or machinery sales and service          gross floor area, plus 1 space for
 garages; nursery and garden supply;     every 2,000 square feet of outdoor
 building materials yards                sales or service area.
 Automobile service stations             2 spaces per bay, plus 1 space for
                                         each employee.
                                         1 space for every 400 square feet of
 Banks, post offices                     gross floor area. Drive-up windows
                                         shall have at least 80 linear feet of
                                         driveway per window.
 Barber and beauty shops or schools      1 space for every 100 square feet of
                                         gross floor area.
 Bowling, racquetball and handball       3 spaces for each alley or court.
 facility
                                         1 space for every 325 feet of gross
 Business and professional offices or    floor area for business offices, and 1
 clinics:                                space for every 250 square feet of
                                         gross floor area for medical offices
                                         and clinics.
 Commercial recreation; indoor (except   1 space for every 150 square feet of
 as otherwise provided)                  gross floor area.
                                         1 space for every 4 fixed seats. Where
 Dance halls, assembly halls and         no fixed seats are provided, 1 space
 sporting arenas:                        for every 100 square feet of floor
                                         area used for assembly or dancing.
 Furniture and large appliance stores    1 space for every 150 square feet of
 or repair shops and similar uses which  gross floor area.
 handle only bulky merchandise
 Gaming                                  1 pace for every 150 square feet of
                                         gross floor area.
 Hotels, motels                          1 space for each guestroom.
 Laundromats                             1 space for every 5 washing machines.
                                         1 space for every 4 seats. Drive- in
 Restaurants, beer parlors and           restaurants shall provide 1 space for
 nightclubs                              every 100 square feet of gross floor
                                         area and 1 space for every 2
                                         employees.
 Retail stores, secondhand shops,        1 space for every 300 square feet of
 grocery stores, repair shops, etc.,     gross floor area.
 except as otherwise specified herein
                                         1 space for every 300 square feet of
                                         gross floor area for centers with less
                                         than 30,000 square feet of floor area
 Shopping center                         and 1 space for every 400 square feet
                                         of gross floor area for centers with
                                         more than 30,000 square feet of floor
                                         area.
 Theaters                                1 space for every 4 seats.
 Warehouse, storage building, wholesale  1 space for every 2,000 square feet of
 operations and light manufacturing      gross floor area, plus 1 space for
 plants                                  every 2 employees on the largest
                                         shift.
 Laboratory and research facilities      1 space for every 400 square feet of
                                         gross floor area.
 Machinery and equipment sales           1 space for every 600 square feet of
                                         gross floor area.
 
   E.   Other Uses: Off street parking requirements for uses not herein
specified shall be determined by the manager.
   F.   Handicapped Parking: Each reserved parking space shall not be less than
twelve feet (12') wide. Where a curb exists between a parking surface and a
sidewalk surface, an inclined approach or curb cut with a gradient of not more
than one foot (1') in twelve feet (12') and a width of not less than four feet
(4') shall be provided for wheelchair access. Parking spaces for the physically
handicapped shall be located as close as possible to walkways and entrances.
Signs shall be provided when necessary indicating the direction of travel to an
accessible entrance.
 
Required Number Of
Handicap Parking Spaces
   Up to 501
   51 to 102
   101 to 230
   201 to 450
   401 to 670
   Over 6001.25 percent of total
 
   G.   Modification - Joint Uses And Ancillary Uses:
      1.   Where adjoining parcel owners wish to cooperate in the establishment
and operation of joint parking facilities in situations where the maximum
parking demands are generated at different times by the established uses,
application may be made for a special use permit to combine facilities and to
thereby reduce the total number of off street parking spaces required.
      2.   Where a motel or hotel use includes ancillary restaurant, bar,
gaming and convention facility uses, application may be made for a special use
permit to reduce the off street parking space requirements up to a maximum of
thirty percent (30%) of the off street parking required for ancillary uses
only. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-9-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Any off street parking shall be paved with concrete or asphalt or will
have acceptable dust abatement controls until such time as paving can be
accomplished. Acceptable control will be determined by the board of councilmen.
   B.   Any off street parking area which abuts or faces a residential use
shall provide a planting screen, landscaped fence or wall at least four feet
(4') in height along the side abutting or fronting on such a residential use.
   C.   In residential and office districts, required parking may be located
within the front and/or street side yard setback area only when the property is
used for single-family or two-family dwellings. All other uses may provide
parking lots in the front or street side yards, provided said lot is located at
least six feet (6') behind the front and street side property lines, and
provided that the area between the parking lot and the property line is not
surfaced in whole or in part with concrete, asphalt or other surface material
except to provide driveway access to the parking area and walkways. In all
other zoning districts, parking lots are not required to be set back from
property lines unless required to do so by use or variance permit conditions.
   D.   Off street parking spaces in residential districts shall not occupy any
part of a "sight distance area".
   E.   When off street parking facilities are located adjacent to a public
right of way, the width of the right of way may be assumed to be a portion of
the maneuvering space. No more than three (3) parking spaces on any parcel may
require backing out directly onto a public street right of way.
   F.   If there is no parking area available on the building site, off street
parking as required by this chapter may be provided on a parcel within one
thousand feet (1,000') of the building site upon first securing a special use
permit in each case.
   G.   If suitable and available public parking places exist within one
thousand feet (1,000') of the proposed use, the board of councilmen may permit
modification in specific off street parking requirements.
   H.   Parking areas shall be used solely for automobile parking with no
sales, storage of inoperable unlicensed vehicles, repair work, dismantling or
servicing of any kind.
   I.   Driveways or other areas required to move cars in or out of parking
spaces shall not be considered as meeting off street parking requirements.
Tandem spaces shall only be authorized for individual mobile home units within
a mobile home park or planned unit development.
   J.   Off street parking may be permitted in any use district which is more
restrictive than the use district appropriate to the major land use it is
intended to service, if:
      1.   A special use permit is granted; and
      2.   No advertising signs are erected or used in connection therewith.
   K.   Lights provided in any parking lot shall be hooded or beamed so as not
to create undesirable glare or illumination of adjacent residential property.
   L.   When the required number of off street spaces results in a fractional
space, fractions to one-half (1/2) shall be discarded and fractions over one-
half (1/2) shall require an additional space.
   M.   Open parking of cars accessory to a residential use shall be limited to
those actually used by the residents or for temporary parking of guests.
   N.   No truck, commercial trailer or vehicular equipment of a commercial or
industrial nature shall be parked regularly on a lot in any district except:
      1.   Where permitted as a use in an industrial or commercial district, or
      2.   A single panel or pickup truck, when used for transportation.
   O.   Recreation vehicles shall not be parked for living purposes except in
approved recreation vehicle parks.
   P.   When an existing building or buildings are converted to a use requiring
more parking than the existing use, on street curb parking on a residential
street may be considered as a part of the required parking, provided:
      1.   Adequate off street space is not available, or the planning
commission determines that strict compliance with the requirements would
adversely affect the character of the neighborhood.
      2.   At least fifty percent (50%) of the required parking shall be off
street.
      3.   Allowable on street parking shall be restricted to fifty percent
(50%) curb parking space adjacent to the exterior boundaries of the subject
property.
      4.   On street parking shall be restricted to fifty percent (50%) curb
parking space adjacent to the exterior boundaries of the subject property.
      5.   All required parking for new construction must be located off
street. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-9-4: OFF STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING:
   A.   In any commercial or industrial area outside the downtown area, off
street loading and unloading space shall be provided in addition to the
required off street parking area for every building used for commercial or
industrial purposes which exceeds three thousand (3,000) square feet of area,
exclusive of storage areas.
   B.   An individual loading space shall be at least twelve feet (12') wide by
forty five feet (45') long and have a minimum height clearance of fourteen feet
(14').
   C.   The number of spaces provided shall be based upon the operating
characteristics. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-9-5: MINIMUM DIMENSIONS:
Off street parking area dimensions shall not be less than as shown on plates 1,
2 and 3.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0586649c910311b2e08b8e63c850573d7cf5ffb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2229.png]
 
                               8'
   -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -
                       14.8   8.5        14.5'
          18.5'             13.2   8.5     15'2'
                       12.0   8.5        15.5'
          19.5'             11.1   8.5        16.5'
                       10.4   8.5        17.5'
                       9.8'   8.5        17.5'
                       9.7'   8.5     18'3'
                       9.6'9'               18.5'
   -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -
   -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -
 
Note:   Compact car spaces with a minimum width of 7 feet and a minimum length
of 16 feet may be considered authorized parking spaces within parking lots of
more than 10 spaces provided such compact space shall not exceed 20 percent of
the total required number of off street parking spaces and be appropriately
identified as "compact parking only".
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0586649c910311b2e08b8e63c850573d7cf5ffb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2231.png]
 
                               8'
   -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -
                       14.8   8.5        14.5'
          18.5'             13.2   8.5     15'0'
                       12.0   8.5        15.5'
          19.5'             11.1   8.5        16.5'
                       10.4   8.5        17.5'
                       9.8'   8.5        17.5'
                       9.7'   8.5     18'6'
                       9.6'9'               18.5'
   -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -
                       9'     9'    -      -
 
Note:   Compact car spaces with a minimum width of 7 feet and a minimum length
of 16 feet may be considered authorized parking spaces within parking lots of
more than 10 spaces provided such compact space shall not exceed 20 percent of
the total required number of off street parking spaces and be appropriately
identified as "compact parking only".
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0586649c910311b2e08b8e63c850573d7cf5ffb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2233.png]
 
(Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-9-6: LANDSCAPING:
Parking areas shall include landscaping as part of their design as shown on the
plan submitted to the planning commission and shall include living tree and
shrub planting within the parking area. Existing trees and shrubs shall be
preserved to the fullest extent possible. At least five percent (5%) of the
total area used for parking and related activity shall be established in
permanent living landscaping. Desert landscaping and artificial turf are
permitted. Landscaping adjacent to the parking area on public property, planted
and maintained by the parking lot owner, will be considered as part of the
landscaping required. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-9-7: MAINTENANCE:
Shrubs and trees in the landscaping and screening areas shall be maintained in
a healthy growing condition. Dead or dying trees or shrubs shall be replaced
immediately and the planting area shall be maintained free of weeds and trash
on public as well as private property. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-9-8: PERMIT REQUIRED:
A permit shall be obtained for construction of any off street parking areas.
Applications for such permit, together with plans necessary to establish
conformance with the provisions of this chapter shall be made to the public
works department. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
CHAPTER 10
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS
SECTION:
10-10-1: Purpose
10-10-2: Conflicting Regulations
10-10-3: Severability
10-10-4: Enforcement
10-10-5: Definitions
10-10-6: Penalty
10-10-7: Permits Required
10-10-8: Permit Application Requirements
10-10-9: Park Requirements
10-10-10: Water System
10-10-11: Sewage Disposal
10-10-12: Electrical System
10-10-13: Accessory Buildings And Service Facilities
10-10-14: Refuse Handling And Insect Control
10-10-15: Fuel Supply And Storage
10-10-16: Fire Protection Standards
10-10-17: General Regulations
10-10-18: Zoning Requirements
10-10-19: Violations
10-10-1: PURPOSE:
The purposes of this chapter are to promote the health, safety, morals and
general welfare of the city by providing minimum standards to prevent
overcrowding of land, to avoid congestion in the streets, to facilitate the
adequate provision of water supply, sewage disposal, and sanitation for all
recreational vehicle parks and their related uses. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-10-2: CONFLICTING REGULATIONS:
Wherever any provision of this chapter imposes more stringent regulations,
requirements or imitations than are required by the provisions of any other law
or ordinance, the provisions of this chapter shall govern. (Ord. 138, 1-26-
1988)
10-10-3: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, clause or provisions of this chapter be declared by the courts
to be invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions of this
chapter as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so declared invalid
and, to this extent, the provisions of this chapter are declared to be
severable. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-10-4: ENFORCEMENT:
Responsibility for enforcement shall be the duty of the city engineer or his
authorized representative. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-10-5: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
   BUILDINGS: Any structure having a roof or built for the shelter or enclosure
of persons, chattels or property of any kind, including, but not limited to,
awnings, carports, ramadas, or patios.
   CABANA: Any portable, demountable or permanent cabin, room, enclosure or
other building erected, constructed or placed on any recreational vehicle on
the same space in a recreational vehicle park.
   CARPORT: An accessory building having one or more open sides; used by
occupants of a recreational vehicle park.
   CENTRAL ACCESSORY BUILDING: A structure housing toilet, lavatory and such
other facilities as required or permitted by this chapter.
   HARD SURFACED: Four inches (4") of decomposed granite or gravel graded and
compacted.
   RAMADA: Any roof, or shade structure installed, erected or used above a
recreational vehicle and vehicle space of any portion thereof.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Includes, but is not limited to, the following:
   A.   Camping Trailer: A canvas, folding structure, mounted on wheels and
designed for travel, recreational and vacation use;
   B.   Motor Home: A portable, temporary dwelling to be used for travel,
recreation and vacation, constructed as an integral part of a self- propelled
vehicle;
   C.   Pickup Coach: A structure designed to be mounted on a truck chassis for
use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation; and
   D.   Travel Trailer: A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation
uses. It shall have a body width not exceeding eight feet (8'); body length not
exceeding forty feet (40').
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: A parcel or tract of land containing one gross
acre minimum land area, having as its principal use the transient rental of two
(2) or more spaces for recreational vehicles including accessory buildings and
structures and uses.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKING SPACE: The area within a vehicle space utilized
for vehicle parking and having a minimum width of ten feet (10'), and a minimum
length of twenty feet (20').
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SPACE: A lot or parcel of land in a recreational
vehicle park containing a net minimum area of one thousand (1,000) square feet
for the placement of a single recreational vehicle for the exclusive use of its
occupants for transient dwelling purposes, including permitted accessory uses
and structures.
   SANITARY STATION: A facility used for removing and disposing of wastes from
recreational vehicle holding tanks.
   TRANSIENT DWELLING PURPOSES: The continual rental of a recreational vehicle
space or spaces to the same persons for a period not to exceed thirty (30)
days, unless plumbing has been converted to permanent type hookup. (Ord. 138,
1-26-1988)
10-10-6: PENALTY:
It is unlawful for any person to do any conversion, erection, alteration,
addition, moving or construction within a recreational vehicle park unless a
permit has been applied for and obtained from the city, for all building,
plumbing and electrical work in compliance with this or any other applicable
chapter. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-10-7: PERMITS REQUIRED:
Permits shall be required for all concrete curbs, gutters, sidewalks, patios,
accessory buildings, structures and service facilities from the city engineer
prior to their installation. The city engineer shall inspect each recreational
vehicle park and the installation and/or construction thereon of any item
required herein by this chapter for compliance with approved plans. (Ord. 138,
1-26-1988)
10-10-8: PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
No recreational vehicle park shall hereafter be constructed or occupied in the
city, unless the required permits have been first obtained. All applications
for permits shall be submitted to the planning department and shall be
accompanied by all of the following information:
   A.   Plans And Specifications: Eight (8) sets of plans and specifications,
together with complete mechanical and structural plans of work to be performed,
drawn to scale of not less than one-eighth inch equals one foot (1/8" = 1')
showing all vehicle spaces, roadways, walks, leaching fields, sewer and water
lines, electrical lines, outlets and voltage, buildings, patios, other
structures, fences, septic tank location and capacity or other method of
sanitation, trash disposal locations and type of enclosure, building
elevations. All plans are to be submitted to the planning department.
   B.   Fees:
      1.   Site plan check fee: One hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per
recreational vehicle park, plus one dollar for each recreational vehicle space
exceeding twenty five (25) spaces.
      2.   Plan check fee: One dollar ($1.00) per each vehicle space over
twenty five (25) spaces in addition to above fee.
   C.   Permits:
      1.   Prior to the issuance of any building permit or construction to any
recreational vehicle park, the planning department shall circulate the proposed
plot plans and specifications to the department of public works, fire
department and health department for compliance with city codes and ordinances,
said plans shall be approved by the public works, planning and health directors
and fire chief.
      2.   No construction or issuance of building permits shall take place
until the proposed plans have been approved by all of the above departments. No
modifications or revision to final approved plans can be made unless all the
above departments approved said modifications or revisions.
      3.   It is unlawful for any person to do any conversion, erection,
alteration, addition, moving or construction within a recreational vehicle park
unless a permit has been applied for and obtained from the city department of
public works, for all building, plumbing and electrical work in compliance with
this or any other applicable chapters.
      4.   Permits shall be required for all concrete curbs, gutters,
sidewalks, patios, accessory buildings, structures and service facilities from
the department of public works prior to their installation. The department of
public works shall inspect each recreational vehicle park and the installation
and/or construction thereon of any item for compliance with provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-10-9: PARK REQUIREMENTS:
The standards provided in this section are intended to encourage development
providing sufficient open space and complimentary uses under conditions which
assure protection of the character of the district in which the recreational
vehicle park is located. Each recreational vehicle park constructed and
operated under the provisions of this chapter shall provide for the following
in the manner herein specified.
   A.   All recreational vehicle parks shall be developed in accordance with
the existing codes, requirements and standards of public works, public health,
planning and fire departments.
   B.   The standards of development for the location, width, course and
servicing of public and private streets and highways, alleys, ways for public
service facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, streetlights, parks,
playgrounds, school grounds, storm water drainage, water supply and
distribution, sanitary sewers and sewage collection for recreational vehicle
parks shall be in accordance with those standards adopted by the city.
   C.   All recreational vehicle parks shall also be developed in accordance
with the state of Nevada board of health, recreational vehicle park
regulations.
   D.   The park shall be located on a well drained site, properly graded in
accordance to department of public works standards.
   E.   The recreational vehicle parks shall not be exposed to adverse
influences and no portion subject to flooding, subsistence or erosion.
   F.   One recreational vehicle and tow vehicle shall be permitted per vehicle
space.
   G.   Accessory uses permitted are:
      1.   One detached carport, one detached cabana, ramada or patio, and one
detached storage room per recreational vehicle space.
      2.   Community recreation buildings and facilities, laundry, car and
truck wash, boat or storage facilities serving the recreational park only.
      3.   Management offices, one single-family dwelling and one mobile home
used for living quarters by the operators or manager of the park.
   H.   Property development standards are:
      1.   Minimum park site area: One acre gross.
      2.   Maximum building height: Two (2) stories or thirty feet (30'),
whichever is greater.
      3.   Minimum net site area per recreational vehicle space: One thousand
feet (1,000').
      4.   Minimum setback of any building or recreational vehicle from any
public street line: Ten feet (10').
      5.   Minimum setback from exterior boundary line of the recreational
vehicle park for any building or recreational vehicle: Ten feet (10').
   I.   Placements required for recreational vehicle on individual spaces are:
      1.   Minimum setbacks from private access street: Five feet (5').
      2.   Minimum distance between recreational vehicles: Between fronts with
two-way access street, twenty feet (20'); and twenty two feet (22') between
fronts with one-way access street between.
      3.   Between two (2) opposing sides or between a side and an opposing
end, or between a recreational vehicle and a central accessory building:
Fifteen feet (15').
      4.   Between two (2) opposing ends of recreational vehicles: Ten feet
(10').
      5.   Private access streets within park shall have a minimum pavement
width of twenty feet (20') for two-way streets and twelve feet (12') for one-
way access streets.
      6.   Expandable sections of recreational vehicles shall be considered a
part of the recreational vehicle proper.
   J.   General requirements for a recreational vehicle park are:
      1.   Soil And Ground Cover Requirements For Vehicle Parking Space:
Exposed ground surfaces in all parts of every recreational vehicle parking
space shall be paved with concrete or asphalt or will have acceptable dust
abatement controls until such time as paving can be accomplished. Acceptable
control will be determined by the board of councilmen. Each vehicle parking
space shall have a minimum width of ten feet (10').
      2.   Soil And Ground Cover Requirements For All Other Parts: Exposed
ground surfaces in all other parts of recreational vehicle park shall be
covered with stone screenings or other approved organic material or protected
with a vegetative growth that is capable of preventing soil erosion and
eliminating dust.
      3.   Density Requirements: Density shall not exceed twenty five (25)
recreational vehicle spaces per gross acre of park site.
   K.   Open areas:
      1.   All recreational vehicle parks shall have at least one recreation
open space area accessible from all spaces; the cumulative size of which
recreation area shall not be less than five percent (5%) of the gross
recreational vehicle park area.
      2.   Landscaping requirements shall apply to all new developments and
shall meet the policy requirements of parks department.
      3.   Bike paths may be incorporated into the overall development plan.
Minimum construction standards are set by the department of public works.
   L.   Requirements for a recreational vehicle park street system are:
      1.   Street Access: All vehicle spaces shall be provided with safe and
convenient vehicular access from public or private streets to each vehicle
parking space. Alignment and grading shall be properly adapted to topography.
      2.   Surfacing: All streets and individual vehicle parking spaces shall
be hard surface and shall be well drained in accordance with department of
public works standards.
      3.   Vehicle Park Access: Access to recreational vehicle parks shall be
designed to minimize congestion and traffic hazards on adjacent streets. All
traffic ingress and egress from such parks shall be through controlled
entrances or exits.
      4.   Internal Streets, Off Street Parking And Maneuvering:
         a.   Twenty feet (20') minimum hard surface width for internal streets
having two-way traffic; one-way streets shall have a minimum hard surface width
of twelve feet (12').
         b.   Noncontinuous streets in excess of five hundred feet (500') shall
be prohibited, and all noncontinuous streets shall provide a sufficient
turnaround area to facilitate by forward motion to complete turnaround.
         c.   Each recreational vehicle space shall provide one parking space
and also maneuvering space so that the parking, loading or maneuvering of
vehicles incidental to parking shall not necessitate the use of any public
street, sidewalk or right of way or any private grounds not part of the
recreational vehicle park. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-10-10: WATER SYSTEM:
   A.   An adequate, safe and potable supply of water shall be provided for
each recreational vehicle space. Where a public supply of water is available,
connection shall be made thereto.
   B.   All water distribution systems shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with applicable laws and regulations, including, but not limited to,
the following:
      1.   Water riser pipes shall be three-quarter inch (3/4") minimum with
frost free shutoff valves.
      2.   Adequate provisions shall be made to prevent freezing of service
lines.
   C.   Approval of the proposed water system from the department of public
works and state health department shall be a condition of final approval. (Ord.
138, 1-26-1988)
10-10-11: SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   An adequate and safe sewage system shall be provided in all
recreational vehicle parks for conveying and disposing of all sewage. Such
system shall be designed, constructed and maintained in accordance with
applicable laws. Where a public sewage is available, connection shall be made
thereto.
   B.   Fifty percent (50%) of the recreational vehicle spaces within a
recreational vehicle park shall be provided with individual sewer connections.
   C.   One sanitary station shall be provided for every twenty five (25)
recreational vehicle spaces or fractional part thereof not having individual
sewer connections and shall conform to the following minimum standards:
      1.   Each sanitary station shall contain a tapped four inch (4") sewer
riser pipe, connected to the recreational vehicle park sewage system,
surrounded at the inlet end by a concrete apron sloped to the drain, and
provided with a hinged cover; and a water outlet, with the necessary
appurtenances, connected to the recreational vehicle park water supply system
to permit periodic washdown of the drain area;
      2.   Sanitary stations shall be screened from view by fencing or
landscaping and shall be located at least fifty feet (50') away from any
recreational vehicle space.
   D.   Approval of the sewage disposal system from the department of public
works and state health department shall be a condition of final approval. (Ord.
138, 1-26-1988)
10-10-12: ELECTRICAL SYSTEM:
   A.   Every public restroom, public bath, laundry room and sink or building
for public use shall be supplied with lights which may be turned on by the
person using such facility in accordance with applicable codes and laws.
   B.   Adequate and protective lighting shall be provided subject to approval
by the city engineer within each recreational vehicle park and shall be lighted
from sunset to sunrise.
   C.   The minimum requirements for electrical installations shall be as
follows:
      1.   Service and feeders shall be calculated on the basis of one thousand
eight hundred (1,800) watts per travel trailer lot and the maximum demand
factors allowable shall be in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Recreational Vehicle Lots Demand Factor (2)
1 through 10              100
11 through 20             80
21 through 30             50
31 through 40             40
All over 40               20
 
      2.   Recreational vehicle lot branch circuit conductors shall have
adequate current carrying capacity to safely conduct the current for the loads
supplied and in no event shall be smaller than no. 12 SWG.
   D.   Approval of the proposed electrical system from the department of
public works shall be a conditional of final approval. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-10-13: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND SERVICE FACILITIES:
   A.   A central accessory building containing the necessary toilet and other
plumbing fixtures shall be provided in recreational vehicle parks. Accessory
buildings shall be conveniently located within a radius of three hundred feet
(300') to the vehicle spaces to be served and shall conform to the following
standards:
 
No. Of    Toilets: Men/             Lavatories: Showers: Men/
Vehicle   Women         Urinals Men Men/Women   Women         Other Fixtures
Spaces
2 to 15   1 1           1           1 1         1 1
16 to 30  1 2           1           2 2         1 1           1 service sink
31 to 45  2 2           1           3 3         1 1           with a
46 to 60  2 3           2           3 3         2 2           flushing rim
61 to 80  3 4           2           3 3         2 2
81 to 100 3 4           2           4 4         3 3
 
For recreational vehicle parks having more than one hundred (100) vehicle
spaces, there shall be provided: One additional toilet and lavatory for each
sex per additional thirty (30) vehicle spaces; one additional shower for each
sex per additional forty (40) vehicle spaces; and one additional urinal for
each additional one hundred (100) vehicle spaces.
   B.   All uses and related facilities shall be subject to approval by the
board of councilmen and shall be shown on the plot plan when application for a
permit is filed. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-10-14: REFUSE HANDLING AND INSECT CONTROL:
   A.   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the recreational
vehicle park shall be so conducted as to create no health hazards or air
pollution. The minimum standards for the handling of refuse shall be as
follows:
      1.   All refuse shall be stored in containers which are watertight and
rodentproof and shall be located not less than fifty feet (50') and not more
than one hundred feet (100') from any recreational vehicle space. Containers
shall be provided in sufficient number and capacity to properly store all
refuse.
      2.   Refuse collection areas shall be screened from view by fencing or
landscaping.
      3.   All refuse containing garbage shall be collected at least twice
weekly or as necessary and transported in covered containers to a disposal site
approved by local law.
   B.   Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained free of insect
and rodent harborage and infestation. Extermination methods and other measures
to control insects/rodents shall conform to requirements of existing law. (Ord.
138, 1-26-1988)
10-10-15: FUEL SUPPLY AND STORAGE:
   A.   Liquefied petroleum gas containers installed on a recreational vehicle
space shall be securely but not permanently fastened to prevent overturning.
Such containers shall not contain a gross capacity of more than sixty (60) U.S.
gallons and shall be located in approved storage areas.
   B.   All fuel oil storage tanks or cylinders installed on a recreational
vehicle space shall be securely fastened in place and shall be located in
approved storage areas. A gross capacity in excess of sixty (60) U.S. gallons
is prohibited. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-10-16: FIRE PROTECTION STANDARDS:
   A.   General: All recreational vehicle parks shall be subject to the rules
and regulations of the city of Wells fire department.
   B.   Fire Department Approval: Fires shall be made only in equipment
intended for such purposes and approved by the fire department.
   C.   Fire Protection: In every recreational vehicle park there shall be
installed and maintained fire hydrants, and fire extinguishers of the number
and size, and in such locations as may be required by the fire department.
   D.   Maintenance Of Flammable Materials: Recreational vehicle parks shall be
kept free of weeds, litter, rubbish and other flammable materials. (Ord. 138,
1-26-1988)
10-10-17: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Every owner or operator of a recreational vehicle park shall maintain a
register containing a record of all recreational vehicles and occupants. Such
register shall be made available to authorized persons inspecting the
recreational vehicle parks. Such register shall contain:
      1.   The names and addresses of the vehicle occupants;
      2.   The make, model and license number of the vehicle and the tow
vehicle; and
      3.   The arrival and departure date of the vehicle.
   B.   All accessory buildings for public use shall have each room clearly
signed as to its particular use by an illuminated sign not exceeding two (2)
square feet in area, naming the use only.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to operate, maintain or permit the
operation or maintenance of any recreational vehicle park unless there is a
caretaker, owner or manager in the park to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
   D.   Every recreational vehicle park shall be enclosed with a fence, wall or
hedge, except that fences shall not be required on front property line of said
parks.
   E.   No recreational vehicle park shall be used for occupancy until and
unless a certificate of use and occupancy has been applied for and received.
   F.   No recreational vehicle park shall be used or occupied unless a final
inspection and written approval is obtained by the state health department and
a certificate of use occupancy has been obtained from the city building
inspector. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-10-18: ZONING REQUIREMENTS:
The uses herein described are subject to any and all restrictions imposed by
the zoning codes. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-10-19: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Any structure upon which construction is started or any structure which
is altered, enlarged or repaired, or the use of land which is begun or changed
after enactment of this chapter regulating recreational vehicle parks and which
is in violation of any of its provisions, is hereby declared a public nuisance.
   B.   Any person who violates or fails to comply with the provisions of this
chapter, the owner of any structure or land or part thereof, and any
contractor, builder or agent employed in connection therewith, who has assisted
knowingly in the commission of any such violation, shall be guilty of a
separate offense and upon conviction thereof, shall be liable to the penalties
provided in this code. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
CHAPTER 11
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
10-11-1: Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Facts, Purpose And Methods
10-11-1-1: Statutory Authorization
10-11-1-2: Finding Of Fact
10-11-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
10-11-1-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
10-11-2: Definitions
10-11-3: General Provisions
10-11-3-1: Lands To Which This Chapter Applies
10-11-3-2: Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
10-11-3-3: Compliance
10-11-3-4: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
10-11-3-5: Interpretation
10-11-3-6: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
10-11-3-7: Declaration Of Public Nuisance
10-11-3-8: Abatement Of Violations
10-11-3-9: Unlawful Acts
10-11-3-10: Severability
10-11-4: Administration
10-11-4-1: Designation Of The Local Floodplain Administrator
10-11-4-2: Establishment Of Development Permit
10-11-4-3: Permit Application
10-11-4-4: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Local Floodplain Administrator
10-11-4-4-1: Permit Application Review
10-11-4-4-2: Use Of Other Flood Data
10-11-4-4-3: Alteration Of Watercourses
10-11-4-4-4: Inspections
10-11-4-4-5: Stop Work Orders
10-11-4-4-6: Retaining Floodplain Development Documentation
10-11-4-4-7: Map Determinations
10-11-4-4-8: Appeals
10-11-4-4-9: Submission Of New Technical Data To FEMA
10-11-4-4-10: Nonconversion Of Enclosed Areas Below The Lowest Floor
10-11-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
10-11-5-1: Standards Of Construction
10-11-5-1-1: Anchoring
10-11-5-1-2: Construction Materials And Methods
10-11-5-1-3: Elevation Requirements For Lowest Floor
10-11-5-1-4: Lowest Floor Certification Requirements
10-11-5-1-5: Nonresidential Floodproofing Requirements
10-11-5-1-6: Requirements For Areas Below The Lowest Floor
10-11-5-1-7: Crawl Space Construction
10-11-5-1-8: Garages And Low Cost Accessory Structures
10-11-5-2: Standards For Utilities
10-11-5-3: Standards For Subdivisions
10-11-5-4: Standards For Critical Structures
10-11-5-5: Standards For Manufactured Homes
10-11-5-6: Standards For Recreational Vehicles
10-11-5-7: Floodways
10-11-5-8: Mudslide (Mudflow) Prone Areas
10-11-5-9: Flood Related Erosion Prone Areas
10-11-6: Variance Procedures
10-11-6-1: Nature Of Variances
10-11-6-2: Appeal Board
10-11-6-3: Conditions For Variances
10-11-7: Map Revision/Amendment Procedures
10-11-7-1: Letters Of Map Revision/Amendment
10-11-8: Alluvial Fan Advisory
10-11-8-1: Hazards Of Alluvial Fan Development
10-11-8-2: Alluvial Fans And LOMRs
10-11-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACTS, PURPOSE AND METHODS:
10-11-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state of Nevada in Nevada Revised Statutes 278.020,
244A.057, and 543.020 confers upon local government units authority to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare
of its citizenry. Therefore, the board of councilmen of the city of Wells does
hereby adopt the following floodplain management regulations. (Ord. 218, 11-22-
2011)
10-11-1-2: FINDING OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the city of Wells are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are caused by structures that are inadequately
elevated, floodproofed, or protected from flood damage. The cumulative effects
of obstructions in areas of special flood hazards, which increase flood heights
and velocities, also contribute to flood losses. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, and streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazards;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future blighted
areas caused by flood damage;
   G.   Ensure potential buyers are notified of property located in areas of
special flood hazards;
   H.   Ensure those who occupy the areas of special flood hazards assume
responsibility for their actions; and
   I.   Maintain qualifying standards for participation in the national flood
insurance program. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
To accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and provisions to:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases
in erosion or flood heights or velocities;
   B.   Require that land uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, alluvial fans, stream
channels, and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel
floodwaters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure used solely for parking (2 car detached
garages or smaller) or limited storage (small, low cost sheds).
   ACCESSORY USE: A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ALLUVIAL FAN: A geomorphologic feature characterized by a cone or fan shaped
deposit of clay, silt, sand, gravel, and boulders that have been eroded from
mountain slopes, transported by flood flows, and deposited on the valley floor.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high
velocity flows: active processes of erosion, sediment transport, deposition,
and unpredictable flow paths.
   ANCHORING: A series of methods used to secure a structure to its footings or
foundation wall so that it will not be displaced by flood or wind forces.
   APEX: The highest point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which
the flow path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and
alluvial fan flooding can occur.
   APPEAL: A request for a review of the local floodplain administrator's
interpretation of any provisions of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: Designated zones AO and AH on a community's flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or greater annual chance of
flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (3') where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: See definition of Special Flood Hazard Area
(SFHA).
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD RELATED EROSION HAZARD: The land within a community
which is most likely to be subject to severe flood related erosion losses. This
area may be designated as zone E on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM).
   AREA OF SPECIAL MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) HAZARD: The area subject to severe
mudslides (i.e., mudflows). This area is designated as zone M on the flood
insurance rate map (FIRM).
   BASE FLOOD: A flood which has a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. (Also called the "100-year flood".)
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The height in relation to mean sea level expected to
be reached by the waters of the base flood at pertinent points in the
floodplain of riverine areas.
   BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides. A subgrade crawl space is considered a basement unless it
meets the minimum technical requirements defined in FEMA technical bulletin 11-
01 (crawlspace construction for buildings located in special flood hazard
areas, 2001) and the community has adopted the standards of FEMA technical
bulletin 11-01.
   BUILDING: See definition of Structure.
   COMMUNITY: Any state or area or political subdivision thereof, or any Indian
tribe or authorized tribal organization, or authorized native organization,
which has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for
the areas within its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS): A program developed by FIA to provide
incentives for those communities in the regular program that have gone beyond
the minimum floodplain management requirements to develop extra measures to
provide protection from flooding.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (CLOMA): A letter from FEMA stating that
a proposed structure that is not to be elevated by fill would not be inundated
by the base flood if built as proposed.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (Based On Fill) (CLOMR-F): A letter from
FEMA stating that a parcel of land or proposed structure that is to be elevated
by fill would not be inundated by the base flood if fill is placed on the
parcel as proposed or the structure is built as proposed.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): Procedures by which contractors,
developers and communities can request review and determination by the federal
insurance administrator of scientific and technical data for a proposed
project, when complete and functioning effectively would modify the elevation
of individual structures and parcels of land, stream channels, and floodplains
on the FIRM.
   CRITICAL STRUCTURES: Any structure for which even a slight chance of
flooding would reduce or eliminate its designed function of supporting a
community in an emergency. Fire stations, hospitals, municipal airports, police
stations, communication antennas or towers, eldercare facilities (retirement
homes), fuel storage facilities, schools designated as emergency shelters,
fresh water and sewage treatment facilities are some examples of critical
structures.
   DATE OF CONSTRUCTION: The date that the building permit was issued provided
the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, or improvement was
within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date.
   DESIGNATED FLOODWAY: The channel of a stream and the portion of the
adjoining floodplain designated by a regulatory agency to be kept free of
further development to provide for unobstructed passage of flood flows.
   DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials located within the area of special flood hazard.
   DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM): The official map, in digital
format, on which the federal emergency management agency or federal insurance
administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the
risk premium zones applicable to the community. The DFIRM is the legal
equivalent of the FIRM in communities where a DFIRM is available (see
definition of Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)).
   DRY FLOODPROOFING: A floodproofing method used to design and construct
buildings so as to prevent the entrance of floodwaters.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE: The elevation certificate is required in order to
properly rate post-FIRM buildings, which are buildings constructed after
publication of the flood insurance rate map (FIRM), for flood insurance zones
A1-A30, AE, AH, A (with BFE), VE, V1-V30, V (with BFE), AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-
A30, AR/AH, and AR/AO. The elevation certificate is not required for pre-FIRM
buildings unless the building is being rated under the optional post-FIRM flood
insurance rules.
   ENCLOSURE: That portion of an elevated building below the lowest elevated
floor that is either partially or fully shut in by rigid walls.
   ENCROACHMENT: The advance or infringement of uses, plant growth, excavation,
fill, buildings, permanent structures or development, storage of equipment and
materials, or any other physical object placed in the floodplain, that hinders
the passage of water or otherwise affects flood flows.
   EROSION: The process of the gradual wearing away of any landmass. This peril
is not per se covered under the program. (See definition of Flood Related
Erosion.)
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO A MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) PARK: The preparation of
additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA): The federal agency under which
the national flood insurance program (NFIP) is administered.
   FEDERAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION (FIA): The government unit, a part of
federal emergency management agency (FEMA) that administers the national flood
insurance program (NFIP).
   FLASH FLOOD: A flood that crests in a short period of time and is often
characterized by high velocity flows. It is often the result of heavy rainfall
in a localized area.
   FLOOD CONTROL: Keeping floodwaters away from specific developments or
populated areas, areas by the construction of flood storage reservoirs, channel
alterations, dikes and levees, bypass channels, or other engineering works.
   FLOOD, FLOODING OR FLOODWATERS: A general and temporary condition of partial
or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of
floodwaters; the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source and mudslides (i.e., mudflows) and the condition resulting from
flood related erosion.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM): An official map of a community, issued by
the administrator, where the boundaries of the flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow)
related erosion areas having special hazards have been designated as zones A,
M, and/or E.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): Official map on which the federal emergency
management agency or federal insurance administration has delineated both the
areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the
community. Includes digital flood insurance rate map (DFIRM) in communities
where a DFIRM is available (see definition of Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map
(DFIRM)).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RISK ZONE DESIGNATIONS: The zone designations indicating the
magnitude of the flood hazard in specific areas of a community. See definition
of Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
      Zone A: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood; base
flood elevations are not determined.
      Zone A1-30 And Zone AE: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-
year flood; base flood elevations are determined.
      Zone AO: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood; with
flood depths of one to three feet (3') (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain);
average depths are determined. For areas of alluvial fan flooding, velocities
are also determined.
      Zone AH: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood;
flood depths of one to three feet (3') (usually areas of ponding); base flood
elevations are determined.
      Zone AR: Special flood hazard areas that result from the decertification
of a previously accredited flood protection system that is in the process of
being restored to provide a 100-year or greater level of flood protection.
      Zones AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO, And AR/A: Special flood hazard areas
that result from the decertification of a previously accredited flood
protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a 100-
year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete, these
areas will still experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
      Zone A99: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood to
be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system under
construction; no base flood elevations determined.
      Zone B And Zone X (Shaded): Areas of 500-year flood; areas subject to the
100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot (1') or with
contributing drainage area less than one square mile; and areas protected by
levees from the base flood.
      Zone C And Zone X (Unshaded): Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
      Zone D: Areas in which flood hazards are undetermined.
      Zone E: Area of special flood related erosion hazards.
      Zone M: Area of special mudslide or mudflow hazards.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): The official report provided by the federal
insurance administration that includes flood profiles, the flood insurance rate
map, and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD RELATED EROSION: The collapse or subsidence of land along a stream or
wash, the shore of a lake or other body of water as a result of undermining
caused by waves or currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or
suddenly caused by an unusually high water level in a natural body of water,
accompanied by a severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as
a flash flood or an abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and
unforeseeable event which results in flooding.
   FLOOD RELATED EROSION PRONE AREA: A land area adjoining the shore of a lake
or other body of water, which due to the composition of the shoreline or bank
and high water levels or wind driven currents, is likely to suffer flood
related erosion damage.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: The community official designated by title to
administer and enforce the floodplain management regulations. The floodplain
administrator for the city of Wells is defined in section
10-11-4-1, "Designation Of The Local Floodplain Administrator", of this chapter
to be the city manager or designated staff member.
   FLOODPLAIN AND FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being
inundated by waters from any source. (See definition of Flood, Flooding Or
Floodwaters.)
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
plans, regulations and ordinances.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: This chapter, and any federal, state or
local regulations plus community zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as grading
and erosion control) and other applications of police power which control
development in flood prone areas to prevent and reduce flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and
their contents. Refer to FEMA technical bulletins TB-1 (openings in foundation
walls and walls of enclosures, 2008), TB-3 (nonresidential floodproofing -
requirements and certification, 1993), and TB-7 (wet floodproofing
requirements, 1993) for guidelines on dry and wet floodproofing.
   FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
area that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation. Also referred to as
"regulatory floodway".
   FOOTING: The enlarged base of a foundation wall, pier, or column, designed
to spread the load of the structure so that it does not exceed the soil bearing
capacity.
   FOUNDATION: The underlying structure of a building usually constructed of
concrete that supports the foundation walls, piers, or columns.
   FOUNDATION WALLS: A support structure that connects the foundation to the
main portion of the building or superstructure.
   FRAUD/VICTIMIZATION: Related to variances of this chapter, the variance
granted must not cause fraud on or victimization to the public. In examining
this requirement, the board of councilmen will consider the fact that every
newly constructed building adds to government responsibilities, and remains a
part of the community for fifty (50) to one hundred (100) years. Buildings
permitted to be constructed below the base flood elevation are subject during
all those years to increased risk of damage from floods, while future owners of
the property and the community as a whole are subject to all the costs,
inconvenience, danger, and suffering that those increased flood damages bring.
Additionally, future owners may be unaware of the risk potential to the
property due to flood damage and the extremely high rates for flood insurance.
   FREEBOARD: A margin of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave
action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the
watershed.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only marina facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and boat building and boat repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY: The local governing unit, county or municipality that is
empowered to adopt and implement regulations to provide for public health,
safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   HARDSHIP: Related to variances of this chapter. The exceptional hardship
would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The board of
councilmen requires the variance be exceptional, unusual, and pertain only to
the property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not
exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences, or the disapproval of one's neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a
listing maintained by the department of interior) or preliminarily determined
by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either
by an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the interior or
directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved programs.
   HYDRAULICS: The science that deals with practical applications of water in
motion.
   HYDRODYNAMIC LOADS: Forces imposed on structures by floodwaters due to the
impact of moving water on the upstream side of the structure, drag along its
sides, and eddies or negative pressures on its downstream side.
   HYDROLOGY: The science of the behavior of water in the atmosphere, on the
earth's surface and underground.
   HYDROSTATIC LOADS: Forces imposed on a flooded structure due to the weight
of the water.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): The procedure by which any owner or lessee
of property who believes his property has been inadvertently included in a
special flood hazard area can submit scientific and technical information to
the federal insurance administrator for review to remove the property from said
area. The administrator will not consider a LOMA if the information submitted
is based on alteration of topography or new hydrologic or hydraulic conditions
since the effective date of the FIRM.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (Based On Fill) (LOMR-F): A letter from FEMA stating
that an existing structure or parcel of land that has been elevated by fill
would not be inundated by the base flood.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): An official revision to a currently effective
FIRM. A LOMR officially changes flood zone, floodplain and floodway
designations, flood elevations and planimetric features.
   LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system, which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including
basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that the enclosure does
not violate applicable nonelevation design requirements.
   MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME): A structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or
without a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The
term "manufactured home" does not include "recreational vehicles".
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel or contiguous parcels of
land divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE: For the purposes of determining substantial improvement,
market value pertains only to the structure in question. It does not pertain to
the land, landscaping or detached accessory structures on the property. For
determining improvement, the value of the land must always be subtracted.
Market value shall be determined by estimating the cost to replace the
structure in new condition and adjusting that cost figure by the amount of
depreciation which has accrued since the structure was constructed.
   A.   The cost of replacement of the structure shall be based on a square
foot cost factor determined by reference to a building cost estimating guide
recognized by the building construction industry.
   B.   The amount of depreciation shall be determined by taking into account
the age and physical deterioration of the structure and functional obsolescence
as approved by the floodplain administrator, but shall not include economic or
other forms of external obsolescence.
Use of replacement costs or accrued depreciation factors different from those
contained in recognized building cost estimating guides may be considered only
if such factors are included in a report prepared by an independent
professional appraiser and supported by a written explanation of the
differences.
   MOBILE HOME: Having the same meaning as the definition of Manufactured Home
(Mobile Home).
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW): A condition where there is a river, flow or
inundation of liquid mud down a hillside usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover, and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
mudslide may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide is in progress,
and will be recognized as such by the federal insurance administrator only if
the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage that
occurs.
   MUDSLIDE PRONE AREA: An area with land surfaces and slopes of unconsolidated
material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a potential for
mudflows.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD): As corrected in 1929, is a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the
floodplain. Flood elevations on flood insurance rate maps published for Nevada
communities prior to 2007 were typically referenced to NGVD 29.
   NATURAL GRADE: The grade unaffected by construction techniques such as fill,
landscaping, or berming.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION: Buildings for which the "start of construction" commenced
on or after the effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974,
whichever is later, including any subsequent improvements.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads is completed on or after the effective
date of these floodplain management regulations adopted by the city of Wells.
   NONRESIDENTIAL: Includes, but is not limited to: small business concerns,
churches, schools, farm buildings (including grain bins and silos), pool
houses, clubhouses, recreational buildings, mercantile structures, agricultural
and industrial structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room
rentals for less than six (6) months' duration.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD): A vertical control used as a reference
for establishing various elevations within the floodplain based upon the
general adjustment of the North American datum of 1988. Flood elevations on
digital flood insurance rate maps for Nevada communities are referenced to NAVD
88.
   OBSTRUCTION: Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation,
channelization, bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel
refuse, fill, structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or
projecting into any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the
direction and/or velocity of the flow of water, or due to its location, its
propensity to snare or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its
likelihood of being carried downstream.
100-YEAR FLOOD: Having the same meaning as the definition of Base Flood.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISIONS (PMR): A reprinted NFIP map incorporating changes to
floodplains, floodways, or flood elevations. Because of the time and cost
involved to change, reprint, and redistribute an NFIP map, a PMR is usually
processed when a revision reflects large scope changes.
   PONDING HAZARD: A flood hazard that occurs in flat areas when there are
depressions in the ground that collect "ponds" of water. The ponding hazard is
represented by the zone designation AH on the FIRM.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION: Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial flood insurance rate map (FIRM)
of the community or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION: Construction or substantial improvement which started
on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the initial
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) of the community, whichever is later.
   PRINCIPAL RESIDENCE: A single-family dwelling in which at the time of loss,
the named insured or the named insured's spouse has lived for either: a) eighty
percent (80%) of the calendar year, or b) eighty percent (80%) of the period of
ownership, if less than one year.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE: A structure used for the principal use of the property
as distinguished from an accessory use.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY: A defect in a community's floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management regulations.
   PROPER OPENINGS FOR ENCLOSURES (Applicable To Zones A, A1-A30, AE, AO, AH,
AR, And AR Dual): All enclosures below the lowest floor must be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of two (2) openings, with
positioning on at least two (2) walls, having a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding must
be provided. The bottom of all openings must be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade.
   PUBLIC SAFETY/NUISANCE: Related to variances of this chapter. The granting
of a variance must not result in anything which is injurious to safety or
health of the entire community or neighborhood, or any number of persons, or
unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any
navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle built on a single chassis, four hundred
(400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection,
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck, and
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   RIVERINE: Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river including
tributaries, stream, brook, etc.
   SHEET FLOW AREA: Having the same meaning as the definition of Area Of
Shallow Flooding.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): Darkly shaded area on a flood hazard
boundary map (FHBM) or a flood insurance rate map (FIRM) that identifies an
area that has a one percent (1%) chance of being flooded in any given year
(100-year floodplain). Over a thirty (30) year period, the life of most
mortgages, there is at least a twenty six percent (26%) chance that this area
will be flooded. The FIRM identifies these shaded areas as FIRM zones A, AO,
AH, A1-A30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, AR/AO, V, V1-V30, and
VE. See definition of Flood Insurance Risk Zone Designations.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days from
the date of the permit. The actual start means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation, or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include
the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building that is principally aboveground and
includes gas or liquid storage tanks and manufactured homes.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Substantial damage includes:
   A.   Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of
restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed
fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred; or
   B.   Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2) separate
occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs at the
time of each such event, on the average, equals or exceeds twenty five percent
(25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred. This is
also known as "repetitive loss".
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other proposed new development of a structure, the cost of which equals or
exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
"start of construction" of the improvement. This term includes structures which
have incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The term does not, however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure" provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure".
   VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which
permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this
chapter.
   VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development in a special
flood hazard area, without an elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in this chapter is presumed to be in
violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the North American
vertical datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE: A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, arroyo, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
10-11-3-1: LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES:
This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the
jurisdiction of the city of Wells. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-3-2: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal insurance
administration (FIA) of the federal emergency management agency (FEMA) in the
flood insurance study (FIS) dated July 16, 1991, and accompanying flood
insurance rate maps (FIRM) and flood boundary and floodway maps (FBFM), dated
July 16, 1991, and all subsequent amendments and/or revisions, are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The FIS and
attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability of this chapter and may
be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow implementation of this
chapter and which are recommended to the board of councilmen by the floodplain
administrator. The FIS, FIRMs and FBFMs are on file at Wells City Hall located
at 1279 Clover Avenue, Wells, NV 89835. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-3-3: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this chapter
by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof, be fined not
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned for not more than six
(6) months, or both, for each violation, and in addition shall pay all costs
and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein shall prevent the city of
Wells from taking such lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-3-4: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
other ordinances, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposed the more stringent restrictions or that imposing the higher
standards, shall prevail. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-3-5: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-3-6: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the city of Wells, any officer or
employee thereof, the state of Nevada, or the federal insurance administration,
federal emergency management agency, for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-3-7: DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Every new structure, building, fill, excavation or development located or
maintained within any area of special flood hazard after July 16, 1991, in
violation of this chapter is a public nuisance per se and may be abated,
prevented or restrained by action of this political subdivision. (Ord. 218, 11-
22-2011)
10-11-3-8: ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS:
Within thirty (30) days of discovery of a violation of this chapter, the
floodplain administrator shall submit a report to the board of councilmen which
shall include all information available to the floodplain administrator which
is pertinent to said violation. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of this
report, the board of councilmen shall either:
   A.   Take any necessary action to effect the abatement of such violation; or
   B.   Issue a variance to this chapter in accordance with the provisions of
section
10-11-6, "Variance Procedures", of this chapter; or
   C.   Order the owner of the property upon which the violation exists to
provide whatever additional information may be required for their
determination. Such information must be provided to the floodplain
administrator within thirty (30) days of such order, and he shall submit an
amended report to the board of councilmen within twenty (20) days. At their
next regularly scheduled public meeting, the governing body shall either order
the abatement of said violation or they shall grant a variance in accordance
with the provisions of section
10-11-6, "Variance Procedures", of this chapter.
   D.   Submit to the administrator of federal insurance administration a
declaration for denial of insurance, stating that the property is in violation
of a cited statute or local law, regulation or ordinance, pursuant to section
1316 of the national flood insurance act of 1968 as amended. (Ord. 218, 11-22-
2011)
10-11-3-9: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to divert, retard or obstruct the flow of
waters in any watercourse whenever it creates a hazard to life or property
without securing the written authorization of the floodplain administrator.
Where the watercourse is a delineated floodplain, it is unlawful to excavate or
build any structure affecting the flow of waters without securing written
authorization of the floodplain administrator.
   B.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
a class 2 misdemeanor. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-3-10: SEVERABILITY:
This chapter and the various parts thereof are hereby declared to be severable.
Should any section of this chapter be declared by the courts to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such decisions shall not affect the validity of
this chapter as a whole, or any portion thereof other than the section so
declared to be unconstitutional or invalid. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-4: ADMINISTRATION:
10-11-4-1: DESIGNATION OF THE LOCAL FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The Wells city manager or designated staff member is hereby appointed local
floodplain administrator to administer and implement this chapter by granting
or denying floodplain development permits in accordance with its provisions.
(Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-4-2: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A floodplain development permit is hereby established for all construction and
other development to be undertaken in areas of special flood hazard in the city
of Wells for the purpose of protecting its citizens from increased flood
hazards and ensuring new development is constructed in a manner that minimizes
its exposure to flooding. It shall be unlawful to undertake any development in
an area of special flood hazard, as shown on the flood insurance rate map
enumerated in section
10-11-3-2, "Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard", of this
chapter, without a valid floodplain development permit. Applications for a
permit shall be made on forms furnished by the local floodplain administrator
and may include, but not be limited to: plans in duplicate drawn to scale
showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevation of the area in
question, existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities, and the location of the foregoing. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-4-3: PERMIT APPLICATION:
The applicant shall provide at least the following information, where
applicable. Additional information may be required on the permit application
forms.
   A.   The proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest
floor (including basement) of all residential and nonresidential structures
whether new or substantially improved to be located in zones A, A1-A30, AE, and
AH, if base flood elevations data are available.
   B.   In zone AO the proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the
lowest floor (including basement) and the elevation of the highest adjacent
grade of all residential and nonresidential structures whether new or
substantially improved.
   C.   The proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, to which any new
or substantially improved nonresidential structure will be floodproofed.
   D.   A certificate from a licensed professional engineer or architect in the
state of Nevada that any utility floodproofing meets the criteria in section
10-11-5-2, "Standards For Utilities", of this chapter.
   E.   A certificate from a licensed professional engineer or architect in the
state of Nevada that any nonresidential floodproofed structures meet the
criteria in section
10-11-5-1-5, "Nonresidential Floodproofing Requirements", of this chapter.
   F.   When a watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the
proposed development, the applicant must submit the maps, computations, and
other materials required by the federal emergency management agency (FEMA) to
process a letter of map revision (LOMR) and pay any fees or other costs
assessed by FEMA for processing the revision.
   G.   A technical analysis, by a professional engineer licensed in the state
of Nevada, showing the proposed development located in the special flood hazard
area will not cause physical damage to any other property.
   H.   When there is no base flood elevation data available for zone A from
any source, the base flood elevation data will be provided by the permit
applicant for all proposed development of subdivisions, manufactured homes and
recreational vehicle parks in the special flood hazard areas, for all
developments of fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, whichever is less. (Ord.
218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-4-4: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
Duties and responsibilities of the local floodplain administrator shall
include, but not be limited to, the following. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-4-4-1:   PERMIT APPLICATION REVIEW:
The floodplain development permit will not be issued by the local floodplain
administrator until the following has been accomplished:
   A.   Review all applications for completeness, particularly with the
requirements of section
10-11-4-3, "Permit Application", of this chapter, and for compliance with the
provisions and standards of this chapter.
   B.   Review all subdivision and other proposed new development, including
manufactured home and recreational vehicle parks to determine whether the
proposed development site will be reasonably safe from flooding. When the
proposed building site is located in the special flood hazard area, all new
construction and substantial improvements will meet the applicable standards of
section
10-11-5-1, "Standards Of Construction", of this chapter.
   C.   Determine whether any proposed development in the special flood hazard
area may result in physical damage to any other property to include stream bank
erosion and any increase in velocities or that it does not adversely affect the
carrying capacity of the areas where base flood elevations have been determined
but a floodway has not been designated. For purposes of this chapter,
"adversely affects" means the cumulative effect of the proposed development
when combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one-half foot (1/2') at
any point. To assist the local floodplain administrator in making this
determination, the permit applicant may be required to submit additional
technical analyses.
   D.   Ensure all other required state and federal permits have been received.
   E.   For construction on an existing structure, determine if proposed
construction constitutes substantial improvement or repair of a substantially
damaged structure. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-4-4-2:   USE OF OTHER FLOOD DATA:
   A.   When the federal emergency management agency has designated special
flood hazard areas on the community's flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) but has
neither produced water surface elevation data nor identified a floodway, the
local floodplain administrator shall attempt to obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state or other source, including data developed pursuant to section
10-11-4-4-6, "Retaining Floodplain Development Documentation", of this chapter,
as criteria for requiring new construction, substantial improvements or other
proposed development meets the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   When base flood elevations are not available, the local floodplain
administrator may use flood information from any other authoritative source,
such as historical data, to establish flood elevations within the special flood
hazard areas. This information shall be submitted to the board of councilmen
for adoption.
   C.   When base flood elevations are not available from any other source,
base flood elevations shall be obtained using one of two (2) methods from the
FEMA publication, FEMA 265, "Managing Floodplain Development In Approximate
Zone A Areas - A Guide For Obtaining And Developing Base (100-Year) Flood
Elevations", dated July 1995. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-4-4-3:   ALTERATION OF WATERCOURSES:
Prior to issuing a permit for any alteration or relocation of watercourse the
local floodplain administrator must:
   A.   Have processed letter of map revision (LOMR).
   B.   Notify all adjacent communities, Nevada's national flood insurance
program coordinator, and submittal of evidence of such notification to the
federal insurance administration, and the federal emergency management agency.
   C.   Determine that the potential permit recipient has provided for
maintenance within the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse so that
the flood carrying capacity is not diminished. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-4-4-4:   INSPECTIONS:
The local floodplain administrator or designee shall make periodic inspections
throughout the period of construction to monitor compliance with the
requirements of the floodplain development permit or any variance provisions.
(Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-4-4-5:   STOP WORK ORDERS:
The local floodplain administrator shall issue, or cause to be issued, a stop
work order for any floodplain development found noncompliant with the
provisions of this chapter or conditions of the development permit and all
development found ongoing without a floodplain development permit. Disregard of
a stop work order shall subject the violator to the penalties described in
section
10-11-3-3, "Compliance", of this chapter. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-4-4-6:   RETAINING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT DOCUMENTATION:
The local floodplain administrator shall obtain and retain for public
inspection and have available for the national flood insurance program
coordinator or the federal emergency management agency representative
conducting a community assistance visit, the following:
   A.   Floodplain development permits and certificates of compliance.
   B.   Elevation certificates with record of certification required by section
10-11-5-1-4, "Lowest Floor Certification Requirements", of this chapter.
   C.   Certifications required by section
10-11-5-1-5, "Nonresidential Floodproofing Requirements", of this chapter.
   D.   Elevation certificates with record of certification required by section
10-11-5-1-6, "Requirements For Areas Below The Lowest Floor", of this chapter.
   E.   Elevation certificates with record of certification of elevation
required by section
10-11-5-3, "Standards For Subdivisions", of this chapter.
   F.   Certification required by section
10-11-5-7, "Floodways", of this chapter.
   G.   Variances issued pursuant to section
10-11-6, "Variance Procedures", of this chapter.
   H.   Notices required under section
10-11-4-4-3, "Alteration Of Watercourses", of this chapter.
   I.   Reports required by section
10-11-5-8, "Mudslide (Mudflow) Prone Areas", of this chapter. (Ord. 218, 11-22-
2011)
10-11-4-4-7:   MAP DETERMINATIONS:
The local floodplain administrator may make map interpretations where needed,
in writing with appropriate documentation, as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard and where there appears to be a
conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions. (Ord. 218, 11-
22-2011)
10-11-4-4-8:   APPEALS:
The board of councilmen of the city of Wells shall hear and decide appeals when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-4-4-9:   SUBMISSION OF NEW TECHNICAL DATA TO FEMA:
When the city of Wells base flood elevations either increase or decrease
resulting from physical changes affecting flooding conditions, as soon as
practicable, but not later than six (6) months after the date such information
becomes available, the city of Wells will submit the technical or scientific
data to FEMA. Such submissions are necessary so that upon confirmation of the
physical changes affecting flooding conditions, risk premium rates and
floodplain management requirements will be based upon current data. (Ord. 218,
11-22-2011)
10-11-4-4-10:   NONCONVERSION OF ENCLOSED AREAS BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR:
To ensure that the areas below the BFE shall be used solely for parking
vehicles, limited storage, or access to the building and not be finished for
use as human habitation without first becoming fully compliant with the
floodplain management ordinance in effect at the time of conversion, the
floodplain administrator shall:
   A.   Determine which applicants for new construction and/or substantial
improvements have fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are five
feet (5') or higher;
   B.   Enter into a "nonconversion agreement for construction within flood
hazard areas" or equivalent with the city of Wells. The agreement shall be
recorded with the Elko County recorder as a deed restriction. The nonconversion
agreement shall be in a form acceptable to the floodplain administrator and
county counsel; and
   C.   Have the authority to inspect any area of a structure below the base
flood elevation to ensure compliance upon prior notice of at least seventy two
(72) hours. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
10-11-5-1: STANDARDS OF CONSTRUCTION:
In all areas of special flood hazard the following standards are required.
(Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-5-1-1:   ANCHORING:
   A.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy.
   B.   All manufactured homes shall meet the anchoring standards of section
10-11-5-5, "Standards For Manufactured Homes", of this chapter. (Ord. 218, 11-
22-2011)
10-11-5-1-2:   CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS AND METHODS:
All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed:
   A.   With materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
   B.   Using methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   C.   Ensure electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities are designed or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   D.   Within zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-5-1-3:   ELEVATION REQUIREMENTS FOR LOWEST FLOOR:
Residential construction, new or substantial improvements, shall have the
lowest floor, including basement:
   A.   In zone AO, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a height two
feet (2') above the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or elevated at
least three feet (3') above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is
specified.
   B.   In zone A, elevated two feet (2') above the base flood elevation, as
determined by this community.
   C.   In all other zones, elevated two feet (2') above the base flood
elevation. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-5-1-4:   LOWEST FLOOR CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:
Upon completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest floor including
basement shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor
and verified by the community building inspector to be properly elevated. The
certification shall be provided to the floodplain administrator using the
current FEMA elevation certificate. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-5-1-5:   NONRESIDENTIAL FLOODPROOFING REQUIREMENTS:
Nonresidential construction shall either be elevated to conform with section
10-11-5-1-3, "Elevation Requirements For Lowest Floor", of this chapter or
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities:
   A.   Will be floodproofed below the elevation recommended under section
10-11-5-1-3, "Elevation Requirements For Lowest Floor", of this chapter so that
the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water;
   B.   Will have the structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic
and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
   C.   Will be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the standards of section
10-11-5-1-3, "Elevation Requirements For Lowest Floor", of this chapter are
satisfied. The certification shall be provided to the floodplain administrator.
(Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-5-1-6:   REQUIREMENTS FOR AREAS BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR:
All new construction and substantial improvements with fully enclosed areas
below the lowest floor (excluding basements) that are usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are subject to flooding,
shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on
exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for
meeting this requirement shall follow the guidelines in FEMA technical
bulletins TB-1 (openings in foundation walls and walls of enclosures, 2008) and
TB-7 (wet floodproofing requirements, 1993) and must either be certified by a
licensed professional engineer or architect to meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
   A.   Must have a minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
   B.   The bottom of all such openings will be no higher than one foot (1')
above the lowest adjacent finished grade.
Openings may be equipped with louvers, valves, screens or other coverings or
devices provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. (Ord.
218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-5-1-7:   CRAWL SPACE CONSTRUCTION:
This section applies to buildings with crawl spaces up to two feet (2') below
grade. Below grade crawl space construction in accordance with the requirements
listed below will not be considered basements.
   A.   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy. Crawl
space construction is not allowed in areas with flood velocities greater than
five feet (5') per second unless the design is reviewed by a qualified design
professional, such as a registered architect or professional engineer;
   B.   The crawl space is an enclosed area below the BFE and, as such, must
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. For guidance on flood openings, see FEMA
technical bulletin TB-1 (openings in foundation walls and walls of enclosures,
2008);
   C.   Crawl space construction is not permitted in V zones. Open pile or
column foundations that withstand storm surge and wave forces are required in V
zones;
   D.   Portions of the building below the BFE must be constructed with
materials resistant to flood damage. This includes not only the foundation
walls of the crawl space used to elevate the building, but also any joists,
insulation, or other materials that extend below the BFE; and
   E.   Any building utility systems within the crawl space must be elevated
above BFE or designed so that floodwaters cannot enter or accumulate within the
system components during flood conditions.
   F.   Requirements for all below grade crawl space construction, in addition
to the above requirements, to include the following:
      1.   The interior grade of a crawl space below the BFE must not be more
than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent exterior grade (LAG), shown as D
in figure 3 of FEMA technical bulletin 11-01 (crawlspace construction for
buildings located in special flood hazard areas, 2001);
      2.   The height of the below grade crawl space, measured from the
interior grade of the crawl space to the top of the crawl space foundation wall
must not exceed four feet (4') (shown as L in figure 3 of technical bulletin
11-01, crawlspace construction for buildings located in special flood hazard
areas, 2001) at any point;
      3.   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes floodwaters
from the interior area of the crawl space within a reasonable period of time
after a flood event, not to exceed seventy two (72) hours; and
      4.   The velocity of floodwaters at the site should not exceed five feet
(5') per second for any crawl space. For velocities in excess of five feet (5')
per second, other foundation types should be used. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-5-1-8:   GARAGES AND LOW COST ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
   A.   Attached Garages:
      1.   A garage attached to a residential structure, constructed with the
garage floor slab below the BFE, must be designed to allow for the automatic
entry of floodwater in accordance with section
10-11-5-1-6, "Requirements For Areas Below The Lowest Floor", of this chapter.
Areas of the garage below the BFE must be constructed with flood resistant
material in accordance with subsection
10-11-5-1-2A of this chapter.
      2.   A garage attached to a nonresidential structure must meet the above
requirements or be floodproofed. For guidance on below grade parking areas, see
FEMA technical bulletin TB-6 (below- grade parking requirements, 1993).
   B.   Detached Garages And Accessory Structures:
      1.   "Accessory structures" used solely for parking (2 car detached
garages or smaller) or limited storage (small, low cost sheds), as defined in
section
10-11-2, "Definitions", of this chapter, may be constructed such that its floor
is below the base flood elevation (BFE), provided the structure is designed and
constructed in accordance with the following requirements:
         a.   Use of the accessory structure must be limited to parking or
limited storage;
         b.   The portions of the accessory structure located below the BFE
must be built using flood resistant materials;
         c.   The accessory structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse and lateral movement;
         d.   Any mechanical and utility equipment in the accessory structure
must be elevated or floodproofed to or above the BFE;
         e.   The accessory structure must comply with floodplain encroachment
provisions in section
10-11-5-7, "Floodways", of this chapter; and
         f.   The accessory structure must be designed to allow for the
automatic entry of floodwaters in accordance with section
10-11-5-1-6, "Requirements For Areas Below The Lowest Floor", of this chapter.
      2.   Detached garages and accessory structures not meeting the above
standards must be constructed in accordance with all applicable standards in
section
10-11-5-1-6, "Requirements For Areas Below The Lowest Floor", of this chapter.
(Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-5-2: STANDARDS FOR UTILITIES:
   A.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   B.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters or discharge from the systems
into floodwaters. Sanitary sewer and storm drainage systems for buildings that
have openings below the base flood elevation shall be provided with automatic
backflow valves or other automatic backflow devices that are installed in each
discharge line passing through a building's exterior wall.
   C.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-5-3: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood.
   B.   All subdivision plans will provide the elevation of proposed structures
and pads. If the site is filled above the base flood, the final lowest floor
and pad elevation shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
surveyor and provided to the floodplain administrator.
   C.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage.
   D.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   E.   All subdivisions shall provide adequate drainage to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
   F.   Additionally all subdivision proposals will demonstrate, by providing a
detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses that the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any
point within the community. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-5-4: STANDARDS FOR CRITICAL STRUCTURES:
Critical structures are not authorized in a special flood hazard area, unless:
   A.   All alternative locations in flood zone X have been considered and
rejected.
   B.   All alternative locations in flood zone shaded X have been considered
and rejected.
If the floodplain administrator determines the only practical alternative
location for the development of a new or substantially improved critical
structure is in a special flood hazard area he must:
   A.   Give public notice of the decision and reasons for the elimination of
all alternative locations. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-5-5: STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES:
   A.   All manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved,
within zones A, AH, AE, and on the community's flood insurance rate map, on
sites located:
      1.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
      2.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
      3.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
      4.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site upon
which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a
flood:
         a.   Shall be elevated on a permanent foundation so that the lowest
floor will be elevated at least two feet (2') above the base flood elevation
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but
are not to be limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors.
This requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring
requirements for resisting wind forces.
   B.   All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved on sites
in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within zones A, AH, and AE
on the community's flood insurance rate map that are not subject to the
provisions of section
10-11-5-4, "Standards For Critical Structures", of this chapter will be
elevated so that either:
      1.   The bottom of the structural frame or the lowest point of the
manufactured home is at least two feet (2') above the base flood elevation; or
      2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
thirty six inches (36") in height above grade and securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement.
   C.   Within zone A, when no base flood elevation data is available, new and
substantially improved manufactured homes shall have the floor elevated at
least three feet (3') above the highest adjacent grade.
   D.   Within zone AO, the floor of all new and substantially improved
manufactured homes will be elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least
two feet (2') above the depth number specified on the FIRM, or at least three
feet (3') above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
(Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-5-6: STANDARDS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
All recreational vehicles placed on sites within the floodplain on the
community's flood insurance rate map will either:
   A.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days;
   B.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has
no permanently attached additions; or
   C.   Will meet the permit requirements of section
10-11-4-3, "Permit Application", of this chapter and the elevation and
anchoring requirements for manufactured homes in section
 10-11-5-5, "Standards For Manufactured Homes", of this chapter. (Ord. 218, 11-
22-2011)
10-11-5-7: FLOODWAYS:
Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of
floodwaters, which carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential,
the following provisions apply:
   A.   If a floodway has not been designated within the special flood hazard
areas established in section
10-11-3-2, "Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard", of this
chapter, no new construction, substantial improvement, or other development
(including fill) shall be permitted within zones A1-30 and AE, unless it has
been demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any
point within the community.
   B.   In designated floodways located within the special flood hazard areas
established in section
10-11-3-2, "Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard", of this
chapter encroachment shall be prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, storage of equipment or supplies, and any other
development within the adopted regulatory floodway; unless it has been
demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses, performed in accordance
with standard engineering practice that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in flood levels within the community during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge, and the federal emergency management
agency has issued a conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR).
   C.   If subsections A and B of this section have been satisfied, all
proposed new development and substantial improvements will comply with all
other applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this section
10-11-5, "Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction". (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-5-8: MUDSLIDE (MUDFLOW) PRONE AREAS:
   A.   All permit applications will be reviewed by the floodplain
administrator to determine if the proposed development will be located within a
mudslide area.
   B.   The reviewing process will determine if the proposed site and
improvements will be reasonably safe from mudslide hazards. Factors to be
considered in making this determination include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      1.   Type and quality of soils.
      2.   Evidence of groundwater or surface water problems.
      3.   Depth and quality of any fill.
      4.   The overall slope of the site.
      5.   The weight that any proposed structure will impose on the slope.
   C.   When a proposed development is located in an area that may have
mudslide hazards, the following will be the minimum requirements:
      1.   A site investigation and further review be made by persons qualified
in geology and soils engineering.
      2.   The proposed grading, excavations, new construction, and substantial
improvements are adequately designed and protected against mudslide damages.
      3.   The proposed grading, excavations, new construction and substantial
improvements do not aggravate the existing hazard by creating either on site or
off site disturbances.
      4.   Drainage, planting, watering, and maintenance be such as not to
endanger slope stability.
   D.   When a proposed development is determined to be within a mudslide
hazard area, the following requirements will include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Adopting and enforcing a grading ordinance in accordance with data
supplied by the federal emergency management agency.
      2.   Regulate the location of foundation systems and utility systems of
new construction and substantial improvements.
      3.   Regulate the location, drainage and maintenance of all excavations,
cuts and fills and planted slopes.
      4.   Provide special requirements for protective measures including, but
not necessarily limited to, retaining walls, buttress fills, subdrains,
diverted terraces, and benching.
      5.   Require engineering drawings and specifications to be submitted for
all corrective measures, accompanied by supporting soils engineering and
geology reports. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-5-9: FLOOD RELATED EROSION PRONE AREAS:
   A.   All permit applications will be reviewed by the floodplain
administrator to determine if the proposed development will be located within a
special flood related erosion hazard area.
   B.   The reviewing process will determine if the proposed site alterations
and improvements will be reasonably safe from flood related erosion and will
not cause flood related erosion hazards or otherwise aggravate the existing
flood related erosion hazard.
   C.   When the proposed development is found to be in the path of flood
related erosion or to increase the erosion hazard, require the improvement to
be relocated or adequate protective measures to be taken which will not
aggravate the existing erosion hazard.
   D.   When it has been determined the proposed development is in a special
flood related erosion hazard, as delineated zone E on the community FIRM,
require:
      1.   A setback for all new development from the lake, bay, riverfront or
other body of water, to create a safety buffer consisting of a natural
vegetative or contour strip. This buffer will be designated according to the
flood related erosion hazard and erosion rate, in conjunction with the
anticipated "useful life" of structures, and depending upon the geologic,
hydrologic, topographic and climatic characteristics of the community's land.
The buffer may be used for suitable open spaces purposes, such as for
agricultural, forestry, outdoor recreation and wildlife habitat areas, and for
other activities using temporary and portable structures only. (Ord. 218, 11-
22-2011)
10-11-6: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
10-11-6-1: NATURE OF VARIANCES:
The variance criteria set forth in this section
 10-11-6 are based on the general principle of zoning law that variances
pertain to a piece of property and are not personal in nature. A variance may
be granted for a parcel of property with physical characteristics so unusual
that complying with the requirements of this chapter would create an
exceptional hardship to the applicant or the surrounding property owners. The
characteristics must be unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent
parcels. The unique characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the
structure, its inhabitants, or the property owners.
It is the duty of the board of councilmen to help protect its citizens from
flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below flood level are so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood ordinance are quite
rare. The long term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can
only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance
guidelines provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple
provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The
criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate.
If, upon review, the administrator of FEMA determines that community practices
indicate a pattern of issuing variances that is inconsistent with the
objectives of sound floodplain management, the community may be suspended from
the national flood insurance program. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-6-2: APPEAL BOARD:
   A.   In passing upon requests for variances, the board of councilmen shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified
in other sections of this chapter, and:
      1.   The danger of materials being swept onto other lands and injuring
others;
      2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      5.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      6.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      9.   The safety of access to the property in time of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters expected at the site;
      11.   The cost of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water system, and streets and bridges.
   B.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official that:
      1.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars
($100.00) of insurance coverage;
      2.   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to life
and property. It is recommended that a copy of the notice shall be recorded by
the floodplain administrator in the office of the Elko County recorder and
shall be recorded in a manner so that it appears as an exception on the title
of the affected parcel of land.
   C.   The floodplain administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such variances
issued in its biennial report submitted to the federal insurance administration
and the federal emergency management agency. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-6-3: CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES:
   A.   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvements, and other proposed new development to be erected on a lot of one-
half (1/2) acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the base flood level, providing that the
procedures of sections
10-11-4, "Administration" and 10-11-5, "Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction",
of this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond
one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for issuing the
variance increases.
   B.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of "historic
structures", as defined in section
 10-11-2, "Definitions", of this chapter, upon a determination that the
proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued
designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary
to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   C.   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   D.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the "minimum necessary" considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
"Minimum necessary" means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation from the
requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to an
elevation requirement, this means the board of councilmen need not grant
permission for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation
the applicant proposed, but only to that elevation which the board of
councilmen believes will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the
local ordinance.
   E.   Variances shall only be issued upon a:
      1.   Showing of good and sufficient cause such as renovation,
rehabilitation, or reconstruction. Variances issued for economic
considerations, aesthetics, or because variances have been used in the past are
not good and sufficient cause;
      2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional "hardship", as defined in section
10-11-2, "Definitions", of this chapter, to the applicant;
      3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or extraordinary
public expense, create a nuisance, as defined in the definition of "public
safety/nuisance" of section
10-11-2, "Definitions", of this chapter, cause fraud or victimization, as
defined in section
10-11-2, "Definitions", of this chapter of the public, or conflict with
existing local laws or ordinances.
   F.   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial improvement,
and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
dependent use provided that the provisions of subsections A through E of this
section are satisfied and that the structure or other development is protected
by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does not
result in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public
nuisance.
   G.   Upon consideration of all the factors of section
10-11-6-2, "Appeal Board", of this chapter and the purposes of this chapter,
the board of councilmen may attach such conditions to the granting of variances
as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   H.   The board of councilmen shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variance to the federal emergency management agency upon
request.
   I.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest flood
elevation below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-7: MAP REVISION/AMENDMENT PROCEDURES:
10-11-7-1: LETTERS OF MAP REVISION/AMENDMENT:
National flood insurance program regulations provide procedures to remove
property from the 100-year floodplain or from a special flood hazard area.
Amendments and revisions to community flood insurance rate maps cannot
adversely impact the floodplain or floodway delineations of the level of the
100-year flood.
There are several procedures provided whereby the federal insurance
administrator will review information from the community, an owner, or a lessee
of property where it is believed the property should not be included in a
special flood hazard area.
Submissions to FEMA for revisions to effective flood insurance studies (FISs)
by individual and community requesters will require the signing of application/
certification forms. These forms will provide FEMA with assurance that all
pertinent data relating to the revision is included in the submittal. They will
also assure that: a) the data and methodology are based on current conditions;
b) qualified professionals have assembled data and performed all necessary
computations; and c) all individuals and organizations impacted by proposed
changes are aware of the changes and will have an opportunity to comment on
them. FEMA procedures permit the following types of request:
A request for a revision to the effective FIS information (FIRM, FBFM, and/or
FIS report) is usually a request that FEMA replace the effective floodplain
boundaries, flood profiles, floodway boundaries, etc., with those determined by
the requester. Before FEMA will replace the effective FIS information with the
revised, the requester must: a) provide all of the data used in determining the
revised floodplain boundaries, flood profiles, floodway boundaries, etc.; b)
provide all data necessary to demonstrate that the physical modifications to
the floodplain have been adequately designed to withstand the impacts of the
one percent (1%) annual chance flood event and will be adequately maintained;
c) demonstrate that the revised information (e.g., hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses and the resulting floodplain and floodway boundaries) are consistent
with the effective FIS information.
Requests for amendments or revisions to FEMA maps must be reviewed and
submitted to FEMA by the board of councilmen of the city of Wells with the
applicant for a map amendment or revision required to prepare all the
supporting information and appropriate FEMA forms.
The scientific or technical information to be submitted with these requests may
include, but is not limited to, the following:
   A.   An actual copy of the recorded plat map bearing the seal of the
appropriate recordation official, county clerk or recorder of deeds indicating
the official recordation and proper citation, deed or plat book volume and page
number, or an equivalent identification where annotation of the deed or plat
book is not the practice.
   B.   A topographical map showing:
      1.   Ground elevation contours in relation to the NGVD (national geodetic
vertical datum).
      2.   The total area of the property in question.
      3.   The location of the structure or structures located on the property
in question.
      4.   The elevation of the lowest adjacent grade to a structure or
structures.
      5.   An indication of the curvilinear line which represents the area
subject to inundation by a base flood. The curvilinear line should be based
upon information provided by an appropriate authoritative source, such as a
federal agency, department of water resources, a county water control district,
a county or city manager or designated staff member, a federal emergency
management agency flood insurance study, or a determination by a registered
professional engineer.
   C.   A copy of the FHBM or FIRM indicating the location of the property in
question.
   D.   A certification by a registered professional engineer or licensed land
surveyor that the lowest grade adjacent to the structure is above the base
flood elevation.
   E.   The completion of the appropriate forms in the federal emergency
management agency's packets, amendments and revisions to national flood
insurance program maps (MT-1 FEMA form 81-87 series and MT-2 FEMA form 81-89
series). (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
10-11-8: ALLUVIAL FAN ADVISORY:
10-11-8-1: HAZARDS OF ALLUVIAL FAN DEVELOPMENT:
Alluvial fans present a unique flood hazard environment where the combination
of sediment, slope, and topography create an ultra hazardous condition for
which elevation on fill will not provide reliable protection. Active alluvial
fan flooding is characterized by flow path uncertainty combined with abrupt
deposition and erosion. As a result, any area of an alluvial fan may be subject
to intense flood hazards.
The technology of mathematically modeling the hydrodynamics of water and debris
flows for alluvial fans is still in the early development stage. The federal
emergency management agency (FEMA) has formulated a mapping procedure for the
purpose of defining the likelihood of flood hazards on inundated alluvial fan
zones to be used for flood insurance purposes and general floodplain
regulation, referred to as the FEMA alluvial fan methodology.
An active alluvial fan flooding hazard is indicated by three (3) related
criteria:
   A.   Flow path uncertainty below the hydrographic apex;
   B.   Abrupt deposition and ensuing erosion of sediment as a stream or debris
flow loses its competence to carry material eroded from a steeper, upstream
source area; and
   C.   An environment where the combination of sediment availability, slope,
and topography creates an ultra hazardous condition for which elevation on fill
will not reliably mitigate the risk.
Inactive alluvial fan flooding is similar to traditional riverine flood
hazards, but occurs only on alluvial fans. It is characterized by flow paths
with a higher degree of certainty in realistic assessments of flood risk or in
the reliable mitigation of the hazard. Counter to active alluvial fan flooding
hazards, an inactive alluvial fan flooding hazard is characterized by
relatively stable flow paths. However, areas of inactive alluvial fan flooding,
as with active alluvial fan flooding, may be subject to sediment deposition and
erosion, but to a degree that does not cause flow path instability and
uncertainty.
An alluvial fan may exhibit both active alluvial fan flooding and inactive
alluvial fan flooding hazards. The hazards may vary spatially or vary at the
same location, contingent on the level of flow discharge. Spatially, for
example, upstream inactive portions of the alluvial fan may distribute flood
flow to active areas at the distal part of the alluvial fan. Hazards may vary
at the same location, for example, with a flow path that may be stable for
lower flows, but become unstable at higher flows.
More detailed information can be found at FEMA's website: "Guidelines For
Determining Flood Hazards On Alluvial Fans" at http://www.fema.gov. (Ord. 218,
11-22-2011)
10-11-8-2: ALLUVIAL FANS AND LOMRs:
The NFIP does not allow for the removal of land from the floodplain based on
the placement of fill (LOMR-F) in alluvial fan flood hazard areas. The NFIP
will credit a major structural flood control project, through the LOMR process,
that will effectively eliminate alluvial fan flood hazards from the protected
area. Details about map revisions for alluvial fan areas can be found in the
code of federal regulations at title 44, part 65.13. (Ord. 218, 11-22-2011)
CHAPTER 12
MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
10-12-1: Definitions
10-12-2: Permitted Uses Of Travel Trailers And Mobile Homes
10-12-3: Permits
10-12-4: Mobile Home Park Requirements
10-12-5: Registry Of Occupants And Vehicles
10-12-6: Violation And Penalties
10-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
   MOBILE HOME: Any factory built, nonmotive, but mobile facility with or
without wheels, so designed and contrived as to permit occupancy thereof for
living or sleeping purposes.
   MOBILE HOME PARK: A plot of ground divided into lots, under the ownership or
management of one person, firm or corporation for the purpose of locating two
(2) or more mobile homes for dwelling or sleeping purposes.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE: A parcel of land within a mobile home park for the
placement of a single mobile home and the exclusive use of its occupants.
   TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis and:
   A.   Designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation
use;
   B.   Permanently identified as a "travel trailer" by an inscription on the
trailer by the manufacturer; and
   C.   When factory equipped for the road, having a body width of not more
than eight feet (8'); and
      1.   Any length if the gross weight does not exceed four thousand five
hundred (4,500) pounds, or
      2.   Any weight if the body length does not exceed forty feet (40').
(Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-12-2: PERMITTED USES OF TRAVEL TRAILERS AND MOBILE HOMES:
   A.   No travel trailers or mobile homes shall be permitted in any commercial
zone except as listed under section
10-6-6 of this title.
   B.   The storage of a travel trailer in an unoccupied state shall be
permitted in any zone.
   C.   The storage of a mobile home shall be permitted only on commercial or
industrial zoned land; storage of travel trailers shall be permitted on the
land of the legal owner of the travel trailer or motor home in a residential
zone.
   D.   Storage on a public roadway or street right of way shall be a violation
of this chapter.
   E.   Travel trailers or mobile homes may be used as living quarters as
allowed by this code, and in established licensed mobile home parks only, with
the following exceptions:
      1.   In GC zone: As a temporary office for licenses used auto sales or
new and/or used trailer sales.
      2.   In any zone: As a temporary construction office for a contractor
involved in the construction of a building on the same parcel of land. (Ord.
138, 1-26-1988)
10-12-3: PERMITS:
   A.   Permits Required: No mobile home park shall hereafter be constructed or
occupied in the city of Wells unless the required permits have been first
obtained.
   B.   Application And Inclusions: Each application for a mobile home park
shall be submitted to the planning department and accompanied by:
      1.   Site Plans: Eight (8) site plans for the mobile home park including
the minimum following descriptive data:
         a.   Proposed name of park, location by section, township and range,
and legal description of the land.
         b.   Name and address of the owner and/or applicant.
         c.   Name, address and phone number of the land planner, engineer or
surveyor preparing the plan.
         d.   Scale, north arrow and date of map.
         e.   A small scale location map showing relationship of the mobile
home park to existing neighborhood and the existing zoning of the site and
adjacent properties.
         f.   The location, widths and names of all public streets within or
adjacent to the park.
         g.   Topography by contours of the site, adequate to show the
character and drainage of the land.
         h.   Dimensions of all boundaries of parks and gross acreage of the
park.
         i.   Dimensions of all mobile home spaces and the total number of
spaces.
         j.   Dimensions and net acreage of open space recreational area.
         k.   Landscaping plans.
         l.   Sewage disposal method and details of distribution.
         m.   Water supply method and details of distribution.
         n.   Locations, dimensions and designations of all accessory buildings
and structures.
         o.   Sketch showing location and size of any proposed identification
signs including all advertising copy proposed on the face of such signs.
         p.   Existing conditions of site, including buildings, structures and
wells, drainage ditches and such additional information as may be required.
         q.   Letter approving proposed water supply and sewage disposal
systems (if private systems are proposed) from the Nevada state department of
health.
         r.   Existing and proposed electrical distribution lines.
         s.   Trash disposal locations.
         t.   The number of mobile home spaces available to tenants with
children.
   C.   Plans And Specifications: Eight (8) sets of plans and specifications,
together with complete mechanical and structural plans of work to be performed,
drawn to scale of not less than one-eighth inch equals one foot (1/8" = 1')
showing all vehicle spaces, roadways, walks, leaching fields, sewer and water
lines, electrical lines, outlets and voltage, buildings, patios, other
structures, fences, septic tank location and capacity or other method of
sanitation, trash disposal locations and type of enclosure, building
elevations. All plans are to be submitted to the planning department.
   D.   Fees:
      1.   Site plan check fee: One hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per
recreational vehicle park, plus one dollar ($1.00) for each recreational
vehicle space exceeding twenty five (25) spaces.
      2.   Plan check fee: One dollar ($1.00) per each vehicle space over
twenty five (25) spaces in addition to above fee.
   E.   Permits:
      1.   Prior to the issuance of any building permit or construction to any
recreational vehicle park, the planning department shall circulate the proposed
plot plans and specifications to the department of public works, fire
department and health department for compliance with city codes and ordinances,
said plans shall be approved by the public works, planning and health directors
and fire chief.
      2.   No construction or issuance of building permits shall take place
until the proposed plans have been approved by all of the above departments. No
modifications or revision to final approved plans can be made unless all the
above departments approved said modifications or revisions.
      3.   It is unlawful for any person to do any conversion, erection,
alteration, addition, moving or construction within a recreational vehicle park
unless a permit has been applied for and obtained from the city department of
public works, for all building, plumbing and electrical work in compliance with
this or any other applicable chapters.
      4.   Permits shall be required for all concrete curbs, gutters,
sidewalks, patios, accessory buildings, structures and service facilities from
the department of public works prior to their installation. The department of
public works shall inspect each recreational vehicle park and the installation
and/or construction thereon of any item for compliance with provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-12-4: MOBILE HOME PARK REQUIREMENTS:
The standards provided for in this section are intended to encourage
development providing sufficient open space and complementary uses under
conditions which assure protection of the character of the district in which
the mobile home park is located. Each mobile home park constructed and operated
under the provisions of this chapter shall provide for the following in the
manner herein specified.
   A.   All mobile home parks shall be developed in accordance with the
existing codes, requirements and standards of public works, state health,
planning and fire departments.
   B.   The standards of development for the location, width, course and
servicing of public and private streets and highways, alleys, ways for public
service facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, streetlights, parks,
playgrounds, school grounds, storm water drainage, water supply and
distribution, sanitary sewers and sewage collection for recreational vehicle
parks shall be in accordance with those standards adopted by the city.
   C.   All mobile home parks shall also be developed in accordance with the
state of Nevada board of health, recreational vehicle park regulations.
   D.   The park shall be located on a well drained site, properly graded in
accordance to department of public works standards.
   E.   Each mobile home space shall be at least forty five feet (45') wide and
be not less than three thousand (3,000) square feet in area.
   F.   Mobile homes shall be parked on such lots so that a spacing of at least
fifteen feet (15') is maintained between adjacent mobile homes together with
their additions and other structures excepting noncombustible awnings and
excepting that mobile homes placed end to end need a clearance of only ten feet
(10') when opposing rear walls are staggered.
   G.   No mobile home may be harbored closer than ten feet (10') to any
property line of a park.
   H.   Mobile home parks shall be fenced with a solid view obscuring fence not
more than six feet (6') in height around the entire boundary of the park.
   I.   Access to mobile home parks shall be designed to minimize congestion
and traffic hazards and provide for safe movement of traffic at the entrance or
exits to adjoining streets.
   J.   Where two (2) off street automobile parking areas are provided on each
mobile home space, streets shall have a paved section not less than twenty four
feet (24') in width and a right of way of not less than twenty four feet (24').
The paved section shall be paved with concrete or asphalt or will have
acceptable dust abatement controls until such time as paving can be
accomplished. Acceptable control will be determined by the board of councilmen.
   K.   Where off street automobile parking areas are not provided on each
mobile home space, streets shall have a paved section not less than thirty six
feet (36') in width and a right of way of not less than thirty six feet (36').
The paved section shall be paved with concrete or asphalt or will have
acceptable dust abatement controls until such time as paving can be
accomplished. Acceptable control will be determined by the board of councilmen.
   L.   All streets shall be properly signed and lighted with the equivalent of
a fifty (50) watt lamp for each one hundred (100) linear feet of street, or
guard light each three hundred feet (300').
   M.   Where streets are less than thirty six feet (36') in width, each mobile
home space shall have a designated minimum of two (2) off street parking areas.
   N.   Where streets are less than thirty six feet (36') in width, provisions
shall be made for guest parking at not less than one guest automobile parking
area for each six (6) mobile home spaces.
   O.   Where streets are less than thirty two feet (32') in width, no on
street parking shall be allowed.
   P.   All vehicle parking spaces and driveways shall be paved and shall meet
zoning code requirements.
   Q.   All mobile home parks shall have at least one recreation open space
area accessible from all spaces; the cumulative size of which recreation area
shall not be less than five percent (5%) of the gross mobile home park area.
   R.   Landscaping requirements shall apply to all new developments and shall
meet the city policy requirements.
   S.   Bike paths may be incorporated into the overall development plan.
Minimum construction standards are set by the department of public works.
   T.   Exposed ground surfaces in all other parts of a mobile home park shall
be covered with turf, stone screening or other materials, either of which is
capable of preventing soil erosion and eliminating dust.
   U.   Storage, collection, and disposal of garbage and refuse shall be in
conformance to any applicable statutes, ordinances and regulations of the state
of Nevada and the city.
   V.   Installation of liquefied petroleum gas or fuel oil containers within a
mobile home park shall be in conformance to any applicable statutes, ordinances
and regulations to the state of Nevada, public works department, and the city.
   W.   In every mobile home park, there shall be installed and maintained fire
hydrants and fire extinguishers of the number and size, and in such locations
as may be required by the fire department. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-12-5: REGISTRY OF OCCUPANTS AND VEHICLES:
   A.   It is the duty of every mobile home park owner or his agent to keep a
register containing a record of all mobile home and travel trailer owners and
occupants located within the park.
   B.   The register shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name of each occupant.
      2.   The license number and the owner of each mobile home or travel
trailer parked in the mobile home park.
      3.   The dates of arrival and departure of every mobile home and travel
trailer.
The owner or agent of every mobile home park shall keep a register available
for inspection at all times by law enforcement officers, state and city
officers and others whose duties necessitate information therein contained. The
register records shall not be destroyed for a period of three (3) years
following date of departure. (Ord. 138, 1-26-1988)
10-12-6: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to permit or cause the connection to gas
or electrical services of a travel trailer or mobile home without the permits
or inspections specified in section
10-12-3 of this chapter, or otherwise to violate the provisions of this
chapter.
   B.   Each person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every
day during which any portion or part of this chapter is violated. (Ord. 138, 1-
26-1988)
CHAPTER 13
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS ZONING ORDINANCE
SECTION:
10-13-1: Title
10-13-2: Definitions
10-13-3: Zoning Of Business Uses
10-13-4: Injunction
10-13-5: Exemption From Location Restrictions
10-13-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the WELLS SEXUALLY ORIENTED
BUSINESS ZONING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 182, 11-12-1997)
10-13-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   ACCESSORY SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE: A. The offering of retail goods for sale
which are classified as sexually oriented business uses on a limited scale and
which are incidental to the primary activity and goods and/or services offered
by the establishment. Examples of such items include the sale of adult
magazines, the sale and/or rental of adult motion pictures, the sale of adult
novelties, and the like.
   B.   Dancing or live entertainment characterized by an emphasis on the
presentation of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas",
if such live entertainment is only presented as an occasional activity of the
business operation.
   C.   Occasional activity as used in connection with an accessory sexually
oriented business use means: dancing or live entertainment characterized by an
emphasis on presentation of "specific sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas" if such live entertainment is only presented as an occasional
activity of the business operation as herein regulated.
   PERSON: An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   PRINCIPAL SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE: The offering of goods and/or services which
are classified as sexually oriented business uses as a primary or sole activity
of a business or establishment and include, but are not limited to, the
following:
   A.   Sexually Oriented Body Painting Studio: An establishment or business
which provides the service of applying paint or other substance, whether
transparent or nontransparent, to or on the body of a patron when such body is
wholly or partially nude in terms of "specified anatomical areas".
   B.   Sexually Oriented Adult Video And/Or Adult Bookstore: A building or
portion of a building used for the barter, rental or sale of items consisting
of printed matter, pictures, slides, records, audiotape, videotape or motion
picture film if a substantial or significant portion of such items are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description
of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   C.   Sexually Oriented Cabaret: A building or portion of a building used for
providing dancing or other live entertainment and if such dancing or other live
entertainment is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
presentation, display, depiction, or description of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   D.   Sexually Oriented Soda Pop Or Nonalcoholic Beverage Clubs: A nightclub,
bar, restaurant or other commercial establishment that does not serve alcoholic
beverages but features sexual exhibits or displays:
      1.   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminude; or
      2.   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
"specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
      3.   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which depict or describe "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas".
   E.   Sexually Oriented Companionship Establishment: A companionship
establishment which provides the service of engaging in or listening to
conversation, talk or discussion between an employee of the establishment and a
customer, if such service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   F.   Sexually Oriented Conversation/Rap Parlor: A conversation/rap parlor
which provides the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk,
or discussion, if such service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   G.   Sexually Oriented Health/Sport Club: A health/sport club which is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas".
   H.   Sexually Oriented Hotel Or Motel: A hotel or motel wherein material is
presented which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas".
   I.   Sexually Oriented Massage Parlor, Health Club Or Studio: A massage
parlor, health club or studio which provides the services of massage, if such
service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   J.   Sexually Oriented Mini-Motion Picture Theater: A building or portion of
a building with a capacity for less than fifty (50) persons used for presenting
material if such building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice
contains such material that is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" for observation
by patrons therein.
   K.   Sexually Oriented Modeling Studio: An establishment whose major
business is the provision, to customers, of figure models who are so provided
with the intent of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to such
customers and who engage in "specified sexual activities" or display "specified
anatomical areas" while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn,
sculptured, photographed or otherwise depicted by such customers.
   L.   Sexually Oriented Motion Picture Arcade: Any place to which the public
is permitted or invited wherein coin or slug operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture
machines, projectors or other image reproducing devices are maintained to show
images to five (5) or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the
images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas".
   M.   Sexually Oriented Motion Picture Theater: A building or portion of a
building with a capacity of fifty (50) or more persons used for presenting
material if such building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice
contains such material that is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" for observation
by patrons therein.
   N.   Sexually Oriented Novelty Business: A business which has as a principal
activity in the sale of devices which stimulate human genitals or devices which
are designed for sexual stimulation.
   O.   Sexually Oriented Sauna: A sauna facility which provides a steam bath
or heat bathing room used for the purpose of bathing, relaxation or reducing,
utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent, if the
service provided by the sauna is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   P.   Sexually Oriented Steam Room/Bathhouse Facility: A building or portion
of a building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the
purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam or hot
air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent if the service provided by the
steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   Q.   Sexually Oriented Barbershop: Any barbershop which is licensed to cut
hair, but features sexual exhibits or displays:
      1.   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminude; or
      2.   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
"specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
      3.   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which depict or describe "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas".
   R.   Sexually Oriented Beauty Salon: Any beauty salon which is licensed to
cut hair, hairstyling, manicuring, but features sexual exhibits or displays as
one of its principal business purposes:
      1.   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminude; or
      2.   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
"specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
      3.   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which depict or describe "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas".
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS USES: Sexually oriented business uses includes
adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult mini-motion picture
theaters, adult massage parlors, adult steam room/bathhouse/sauna facilities,
adult companionship establishments, adult rap/conversation parlors, adult
health/sport clubs, adult cabarets, adult novelty businesses, adult motion
picture arcades, adult modeling studios, adult hotels/motels, adult body
painting studios, "soda pop" or nonalcoholic beverage club, adult barbershops,
adult beauty salons, and other premises, enterprises, establishments,
businesses or places open to some or all members of the public, at or in which
there is an emphasis on the presentation, display, depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" which are capable
of being seen by members of the public. Activities classified as obscene as
defined by Nevada Revised Statutes 201.235 et seq., are not included. As used
in this chapter, for licensing and regulatory purposes, sexually oriented
business uses does not include houses of prostitution which are licensed,
controlled, operated and zoned under title 3, chapter 6 of this code.
   A.   Specified Anatomical Areas:
      1.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, anus, or female breast(s) from the beginning of the areola or nipple to
the end thereof; and
      2.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   B.   Specified Sexual Activities:
      1.   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship, and any of the following sexually oriented acts or conduct:
anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, sapphism; or
      2.   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal or tumescence; or
      3.   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus,
or masturbation; or
      4.   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks
or female breast; or
      5.   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude, clad
in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged in
activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other
physical restrain of any such persons; or
      6.   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually oriented contact
with an animal by a human being; or
      7.   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation. (Ord. 182, 11-12-1997)
10-13-3: ZONING OF BUSINESS USES:
   A.   General: Sexually oriented business uses as defined in this chapter
shall be subject to the following general provisions:
      1.   Activities classified as obscene as defined in Nevada Revised
Statutes 201.235 et seq., are not permitted and are prohibited.
      2.   Sexually oriented business uses, either principal or accessory,
shall be prohibited from locating in any building which is also utilized for
residential purposes.
      3.   Principal sexually oriented business uses, except sexually oriented
cabarets which provide live entertainment or dancing with performers whose
genitals, pubic region and anus are completely and opaquely covered (topless
dancing cabarets) shall be prohibited from locating in any building which is
also used to store, dispense or consume alcoholic beverages.
      4.   A sexually oriented business use which does not qualify as an
accessory use shall be classified as principal sexually oriented use.
   B.   Principal Uses:
      1.   A person commits an offense if that person operates or causes to be
operated a principal sexually oriented business in any zoning district other
than the areas zoned restricted commercial as defined and described in the
Wells zoning code.
      2.   A person commits an offense if the person operates or causes to be
operated a principal sexually oriented business in a restricted commercial
zoned district within five hundred feet (500') of:
         a.   A church; or
         b.   A public or private elementary or secondary school; or
         c.   A public or private daycare center, preschool, nursery,
kindergarten, or similar use; or
         d.   A public park.
      3.   A person commits an offense if the person operates or causes to be
operated a principal sexually oriented business in a restricted commercial
zoned district within five hundred feet (500') of any existing single- or
multiple-family dwelling structure.
      4.   For the purposes of subsections B2 and B3 of this section,
measurement shall be made in a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures or objects, from the nearest portion of the building or structure
used as a part of the premises where a sexually oriented business is conducted,
to the nearest property line of the premises of a church, a public or private
elementary or secondary school, a public or private daycare center, preschool,
nursery, kindergarten or school bus stop or similar use or to the nearest
boundary of an affected public park, residential district or residential lot.
The presence of city, county or other political boundaries shall be irrelevant
for purposes of calculating and applying the distance requirements of this
chapter.
      5.   Any principal sexually oriented business that fails to comply with
subsection B1, B2 or B3 of this section on the date of the adoption hereof but
which was lawfully operating before this chapter took effect shall not be
deemed to be in violation of this chapter when this chapter takes effect and
shall be deemed a nonconforming use. Any such nonconforming use may be allowed
to continue; provided, however, that such a nonconforming use may not be
extended, enlarged or altered and may not be changed to any other nonconforming
principal sexually oriented business use.
It shall be unlawful for any person to continue any such nonconforming use more
than one year after its passage when such nonconforming use has been declared
to constitute a nuisance or to be detrimental to public health, safety or
welfare by a majority vote of the board of councilmen. This section shall not
be construed as limiting the right of the city or any person to abate a
nuisance under any existing laws or ordinances.
A nonconforming sexually oriented business use which is operationally abandoned
or discontinued for a period of six (6) consecutive months or more shall be
considered abandoned and shall not be resumed.
      6.   A principal sexually oriented business lawfully operating is not
rendered in violation of this chapter by the location, subsequent to the grant
or renewal of the sexually oriented business license, of a church, public or
private elementary or secondary school, public park, residential district or
residential lot within five hundred feet (500') of the principal sexually
oriented business. This provision applies only to the renewal of a valid
license, and does not apply when an application for a license is submitted
after a license has been revoked or not renewed.
      7.   Principal sexually oriented business uses shall, in addition to
other sign requirements established by this code, also adhere to the following
sign regulations:
         a.   Sign messages shall be generic in nature and shall only identify
the type of business which is being conducted.
         b.   Shall not contain material classified as advertising as to
building content or activities.
         c.   Shall comply with the requirements of size and number for the
district in which they are located.
   C.   Accessory Business Uses And Location Thereof:
      1.   Accessory sexually oriented business uses shall:
         a.   Comprise no more than ten percent (10%) of the floor area of the
establishment in which it is located and comprise no more than twenty percent
(20%) of the gross receipts of the entire business operation; and
         b.   Not involve or include any activity except the sale or rental of
merchandise; or
         c.   Not involve any dancing or live entertainment characterized by an
emphasis on the presentation of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas", unless such live entertainment is only presented as an
occasional activity of the business operation. To qualify as an accessory
sexually oriented business use, said activity or event shall be limited to no
more than twenty one (21) consecutive days taking place at minimum thirty (30)
day intervals following a similar activity or event and such activities or
events occurring no more than four (4) times within a calendar year.
      2.   Accessory sexually oriented business uses shall be restricted from
and prohibit access to minors by the physical separation of such items from
areas of general public access:
         a.   Movie Rentals: Display areas shall be restricted from general
view and shall be located within a separate room, the access of which is in
clear view and under the control of the persons responsible for the operation
or shall be in catalogs under the direct control and distribution of the
operation.
         b.   Magazines: Publications classified or qualifying as sexually
oriented business uses shall not be physically accessible to minors and shall
be covered with a wrapper or other means to prevent display of any material
other than the publication title.
         c.   Other Use: Accessory sexually oriented business uses not
specifically cited shall comply with the intent of this section subject to the
approval of the city chief of police.
      3.   Accessory sexually oriented business uses shall be prohibited from
both internal and external advertising and signage of sexually oriented
materials and products, except for sign messages that are generic in nature and
only identify the type of business which is being conducted; provided, however,
accessory sexually oriented live entertainment may also use internal and
external advertising and signage for up to one week prior to and during such
entertainment.
      4.   Accessory sexually oriented business uses activities shall be
prohibited at any public show, movie, caravan, circus, carnival, theatrical or
other performance or exhibition presented to the general public where minors
are admitted.
      5.   A person commits an offense if that person operates or causes to be
operated an accessory sexually oriented business use in any zoning district
other than the areas zoned restricted commercial, general commercial and
tourist commercial as defined and described in the Wells zoning code. (Ord.
182, 11-12-1997)
10-13-4: INJUNCTION:
A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business use
without having a valid permit due to locational restrictions is subject to a
suit for injunction as well as prosecution for the criminal violation. Such
violation shall be punishable by a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
and/or thirty (30) days imprisonment, and if an injunction must be sought,
attorney fees and costs will be assessed at the discretion of the court against
the sexually oriented business use. (Ord. 182, 11-12-1997)
10-13-5: EXEMPTION FROM LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   If the city denies the issuance of a license to an applicant because
the location of the sexually oriented business use is in violation of section
10-13-3 of this chapter, then the applicant may, not later than ten (10)
calendar days after receiving notice of the denial, file with the city clerk a
written request for an exemption from the locational restrictions of section
10-13-3 of this chapter.
   B.   If the written request is filed with the city clerk within the ten (10)
day limit, the board of councilmen shall hear and consider the request. The
board of councilmen shall set a date for the hearing within sixty (60) days
from the date the written request is received.
   C.   The board of councilmen shall hear and consider evidence offered by any
interested person. The formal rules of evidence do not apply.
   D.   The board of councilmen may, in its discretion, grant an exemption from
the locational restrictions of section
10-13-3 of this chapter if it makes the following findings:
      1.   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business use will not
have a detrimental effect on nearby properties or by contrary to the public
safety or welfare; and
      2.   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business use will not
downgrade the property values or quality of life in the adjacent areas or
encourage the development of blight; and
      3.   The location of a sexually oriented business use in the area will
not be contrary to any program of neighborhood conservation nor will it
interfere with any efforts of neighborhood renewal or restoration; and
   E.   If the board of councilmen grants the exemption, the exemption is valid
for two (2) years from the date of the board of councilmen's action. Upon the
expiration of an exemption, the sexually oriented business use is in violation
of the locational restrictions of section
10-13-3 of this chapter until the applicant applies for and receives another
exemption.
   F.   If the board denies the exemption, the applicant may not reapply for an
exemption until at least twelve (12) months have elapsed since the date of the
board of councilmen's action. (Ord. 182, 11-12-1997)
CHAPTER 14
APPEALS OF LAND USE DECISIONS
SECTION:
10-14-1: General Provisions
10-14-2: Notice Of Hearings On Appeals
10-14-3: Procedures For Appeals Of Land Use Decisions
10-14-4: Matters To Be Heard And Considered On Appeal
10-14-5: Appeals To The Fourth Judicial Court
10-14-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
Any decision of the planning commission or any other person appointed or
employed by the city who is authorized to make administrative decisions
regarding the use of land, may be appealed in writing to the Wells board of
councilmen by any person aggrieved by such a decision. All appeals shall be
filed, in writing specifying with particularity the grounds for appeal, with
the city clerk no later than ten (10) calendar days after the decision. Appeals
shall include payment of a filing fee in an amount established by resolution of
the board of councilmen and a statement therein of the reasons why the decision
should be amended, modified or reversed. The board shall hear and render a
decision on any properly made appeal within sixty (60) calendar days after the
city clerk has received the written appeal. (Ord. 194, 10-23-2001)
10-14-2: NOTICE OF HEARINGS ON APPEALS:
   A.   The board of councilmen shall hold a public hearing prior to rendering
their decision regarding the use of land which is appealed, as well as
decisions granting or denying variances and recommending the issuance or
revocation of conditional use permits. In the case of appeals from decisions
granting or denying variances and recommending the issuance or revocation of
special use permits, the city clerk shall give notice of the time and place for
the public hearing appeal by mailing a notice of hearing to the appellant,
property owner, property owners located within three hundred feet (300') of the
exterior boundaries of the property involved, and any person who presented oral
or written testimony, if any, before the planning commission. Said hearing
notice shall also be published one time in a newspaper of general circulation
at least ten (10) calendar days before the hearing.
   B.   In appeals of all other decisions regarding the use of land, the city
clerk shall give notice of the time and place of the public hearing appeal by
mailing a copy of the notice at least ten (10) days before the time set for the
appeal hearing by certified or ordinary first class mail addressed to the
person being notified at the post office address given in his demand for
notice, if any, or at his office or place of residence, if known, or by
personally delivering a copy thereof to the person being notified at least ten
(10) days before the time set for the hearing; if the address or identity of
the person is not known and cannot be ascertained with reasonable diligence, by
publishing at least one time a copy thereof in a newspaper having general
circulation in the city of Wells, the publication of which must be at least ten
(10) days before the date set for the hearing. (Ord. 194, 10-23-2001)
10-14-3: PROCEDURES FOR APPEALS OF LAND USE DECISIONS:
   A.   The procedures pursuant to which the board of councilmen will hear an
appeal are as follows:
      1.   The appellant shall be heard first and shall present his grounds for
appeal.
      2.   The city may respond to appellant's appeal, after which appellant
may present any rebuttal argument or evidence.
      3.   Appellant and the city are entitled to be represented by counsel,
present testimony, evidence and argument on all issues raised on appeal.
      4.   The board may, if it appears helpful to a clear understanding of the
issues, consider evidence or other matters not raised at the planning
commission level or with the administrative officer. (Ord. 194, 10-23-2001)
10-14-4: MATTERS TO BE HEARD AND CONSIDERED ON APPEAL:
The board of councilmen shall consider all evidence presented to the planning
commission at the original hearing, including oral and written testimony, and
any recommendations and findings of the planning commission as shown by the
official record and may affirm, modify or reverse the decision of the planning
commission or administrative officer. In reviewing a decision on an appeal, the
governing body will be guided by the statement of purpose underlying the
regulation of the improvement of land expressed in Nevada Revised Statutes
278.020. Decisions of the board of councilmen shall be considered the final
decision for the purpose of judicial review. (Ord. 194, 10-23-2001)
10-14-5: APPEALS TO THE FOURTH JUDICIAL COURT:
Any person who:
   A.   Has appealed a decision to the board of councilmen in accordance with
this chapter; and
   B.   Is aggrieved by the decision of the board of councilmen may appeal that
decision to the fourth judicial district court, in and for the county of Elko,
state of Nevada, by filing a petition for judicial review within twenty five
(25) days after the date of filing of notice of decision with the city clerk.
(Ord. 194, 10-23-2001)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Administrative Regulations   1
Definitions   2
Improvement Design Standards   3
Improvements, Requirements   4
Plat Preapplication Criteria   5
Tentative Plats   6
Final Plats   7
CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title, Purpose, References
11-1-2: Jurisdiction Of Regulations; Exceptions
11-1-3: Conformance To Regulations And Policies
11-1-4: Enforcement And Administration By Officers
11-1-5: Appeals, Hearings
11-1-6: Violations; Penalty
11-1-1: TITLE, PURPOSE, REFERENCES:
   A.   Title: This title shall be cited as the LAND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE OF
WELLS, NEVADA.
   B.   Statement Of Purpose: The purpose of this title is to provide rules,
regulations, and procedures to govern the filing, approval, regulation, and
denial of plats for developments and subdivisions, and the recording of
subdivisions; assist in carrying out the comprehensive plan 1  of Wells;
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare, lessen congestion in
the streets, secure safety from fire, flood, pollution, and other dangers;
provide adequate light and air; prevent overcrowding of land, strip
development, and subdivision along highways; facilitate adequate provision for
transportation, water supply, sanitary sewage disposal, solid waste disposal,
surface drainage, electric power, communication facilities, education,
recreation, beautification, and other needs of the people of the city, and to
accommodate new development in a manner which will preserve and enhance the
city's living environment and create new beauty through skilled land
development.
   C.   References: Any reference in one part of this title to the paragraph or
sentence in another part of this title shall include the introductory paragraph
of that section and the full applicable context and implication provided by
other sentences in that section. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
11-1-2: JURISDICTION OF REGULATIONS; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Jurisdiction: These regulations and procedures shall apply to the
development and subdivision of all land within the incorporated area of Wells
including the following:
      1.   The subdivision of land into two (2) or more tracts for transfer of
ownership and any development other than agricultural, upon which it is
proposed that more than one dwelling unit or place of business be constructed
on a parcel of land under common ownership.
      2.   The establishment of condominium or planned unit developments as
herein defined.
      3.   The dedication to the city or creation of any street through or
along any tract.
      4.   The resubdivision and the reparceling of an original parcel of land
into two (2) or more parcels.
   B.   Exceptions: These regulations shall not require planning commission or
board of councilmen approval of the use of land for any of the following
(however, the construction, design and other development criteria of this title
shall be complied with and a permit shall be obtained from the administrator
prior to commencing work):
      1.   The construction of a primary business building and its accessory
buildings on a vacant parcel which is an "ownership of record" and is not for
the purpose of an additional business which might later result in a property
split. This construction and its intended use shall have an approved sewage
system.
      2.   The construction of a residential structure which is the only one on
an "ownership of record" and an accessory building thereto which conforms with
the zoning ordinance 1  and which has an approved sewage system.
      3.   Any other land use on an "ownership of record" which is a permitted
use as established by the zoning ordinance.
      4.   A readjustment of lot lines as shown on a recorded plat which does
not reduce the area, frontage, width, depth, or building setback lines of each
building site below the minimum standards established in this or other
ordinances of Wells.
      5.   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate of a decedent
or a court decree for the distribution of property thereunder, provided all
standards for development contained herein are complied with.
      6.   Widening of existing streets to conform to the comprehensive plan.
The acquisition of street rights of way by a public agency in conformance with
the comprehensive plan. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
11-1-3: CONFORMANCE TO REGULATIONS AND POLICIES:
   A.   Comprehensive Plan: Development and subdivision plats shall conform to
the policies of the comprehensive plan and elements thereof, and of the zoning
ordinance as adopted by the board of councilmen, with respect to the type and
intensity of land use, population densities and distribution, locations and
sizes of public areas, and rights of way and improvements of streets and other
similar matters set forth in the said plan or ordinance.
   B.   Zoning Code: Development and subdivision plats shall conform in all
respects with applicable, more restrictive regulations of the zoning ordinance,
other city ordinances and state and federal laws.
   C.   Board Of Councilmen Policy: By resolution, the board of councilmen may
modify the procedures for filing, processing, and approving development and
subdivision plats which shall then supersede and have the same force and effect
of the procedures contained herein. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-1-4: ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION BY OFFICERS:
   A.   Administrator:
      1.   Appointment, Authority: An employee of the city, capable of
administrative work and who is knowledgeable of construction, shall be
appointed administrator, and is vested with the duty of administering the
regulations contained herein, and may prepare such forms as are essential to
the administration of said regulations.
      2.   Prepares Forms: The designated administrator of this title shall
prepare, modify, or change application forms, and building and other permits as
he deems necessary to enforce this title.
   B.   Board Of Councilmen: In the event the planning commission fails to act
or carry out its responsibilities according to the regulations contained
herein, the board of councilmen shall assume all the duties of the commission
as herein specified in relation to the application concerned.
   C.   Attorney And Other Officers: It shall be the duty of the city attorney
and all officials and others vested with the duty or authority to issue
permits, to enforce all of the provisions of this title. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-1-5: APPEALS, HEARINGS:
An appeal of a decision of the administrator, commission, or the board of
councilmen may be filed with the city clerk for a public hearing, board
consideration, or reconsideration within ten (10) city hall working days of the
action being appealed. A fee of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be submitted with
the appeal. When an appeal and fee are filed with the city clerk, all building
permits shall be stayed until the matter has been heard by the board of
councilmen in a public hearing and decided upon. At the earliest board of
councilmen meeting following receipt of a written appeal and fee, the board of
councilmen shall set a date within thirty two (32) calendar days for a public
hearing. The city clerk shall then publish the place, date, time and purpose of
the public hearing at least once in a newspaper of local distribution to be
published not less than ten (10) calendar days prior to the scheduled hearing
date.
The board of councilmen shall hold the public hearing and either form and
announce the decision at the close of the meeting or announce a future date
when the decision will be announced. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-1-6: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Every person who offers to sell, contracts to sell, sells or conveys by
deed or lease any real property constituting a land development as defined or
any building site or parcel thereof, before a final plat of said development
has been recorded or filed in the office of the county recorder, is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) or by imprisonment for a term of not to exceed six (6) months or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
   B.   Such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for every day
during any portion of which any violation of any provisions of this title,
including any physical condition created in violation of this title, permitted,
continued, or committed by such person, firm, or corporation, and shall be
punishable therefor as provided in this section.
   C.   Any deed, lease, or conveyance, sale or contract to sell made contrary
to the provisions of this title is voidable at the sole option of the grantee,
buyer, or person contracting to purchase, his heirs, personal representatives,
or trustee in solvency or bankruptcy within one year after date of execution of
the deed or conveyance, sale, or contract to sell, but the deed or conveyance,
sale, or contract to sell is binding upon any assignee or transfer of the
grantee, buyer, or person contracting to purchase other than those above
enumerated, and upon the grantor, vendor, or person contracting to sell, or his
assignee, heir, or devisee.
   D.   In addition to any other remedy for sanction provided by law, any
person creating a development or subdivision of land without complying with the
provisions of this title or the appropriate state law, shall be required to
submit a plat to the planning commission, and to comply with the requirements
of this title. Such developer may be required to furnish all easements,
improvements, utilities, and services under this title to all lots created by
the subdivision whether or not such lots have been sold or leased. (Ord. 111,
3-25-1980)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Rules Of Construction
11-2-2: Definitions
11-2-1: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
The following rules of construction shall apply unless inconsistent with the
plain meaning of the context of this title:
   A.   Gender: The masculine shall include the feminine and neuter.
   B.   Headings: In the event there is any conflict or inconsistency between
the heading of an article, section, or paragraph of this title and the context
thereof, the said heading shall not be deemed to affect the scope, meaning or
intent of such context.
   C.   Number: Words used in the singular include the plural, and words used
in the plural include the singular.
   D.   Shall And May: The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is
permissive.
   E.   Tense: Words used in the present tense include the future tense. (Ord.
111, 3-25-1980)
11-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
   ADMINISTRATOR: See section
11-1-4 of this title.
   ALLEY: A public way or thoroughfare not more than thirty feet (30') wide
providing a secondary means of access to private property. When solely for foot
traffic, it may be referred to as a "crosswalk".
   BLOCK: A group of lots, tracts, or parcels within well defined boundaries,
usually streets.
   BOARD OF COUNCILMEN: The board of councilmen of Wells, composed of the
councilmen and the mayor.
   BUILDING LINES: The lines indicated on the subdivision plat or otherwise
described, limiting the area upon which structures may be erected.
   CENTERLINE: The centerline of a street shall be the line that coincides with
the centerline of the original right of way or as it is established by the
city.
   CITY: The city of Wells; or in context shall be a general referral to the
department, departments, commission or other identity within the governmental
unit of Wells, charged with the responsibility of decision making pertinent to
the subject.
   CITY ATTORNEY: Legal counsel retained by or donated to the city of Wells.
   CITY ENGINEER: The duly authorized city engineer or any surveyor licensed in
the state of Nevada who is employed by the city of Wells.
   COMMISSION: The city of Wells planning commission.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A plan adopted by the planning commission and the board
of councilmen providing objectives and guidelines for the growth and
development of the city, including any amendments thereto.
   CONDOMINIUM: An estate consisting of an undivided interest in common real
property, in an interest or interests in real property, or in any combination
thereof.
   CURB LINE: The line indicating the edge of the vehicular roadway within the
overall right of way.
   DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interests inland for use by the
public.
   DENSITY TRANSFER: This is a term which means, for example, that instead of
placing one house on one hundred (100) individual lots in a subdivision, all
one hundred (100) dwelling units may be grouped onto a small part of the land
and the remainder of the land becomes permanent open space for that
development. The amount of land for each dwelling unit shall remain the same as
for a standard subdivision, but the location, separation and design of the
dwelling units may be as approved by the commission and board of councilmen.
   DEVELOPER: Any owner, either through himself of his lawful agents,
commencing proceedings to effect a development, or subdivision of land as
defined herein.
   DEVELOPMENT: The improvement of land including the building of structures,
dwellings and campsites which may intensify or change its use while retaining
the total land under single ownership and control, such as a dude ranch,
corporation, or rental project.
   DOCUMENTS: When used in reference to a subdivision, they shall mean one or
all of the following: deed restrictions; protective covenants; bonding
agreement; the homeowners' association agreement; improvement plans and
specifications.
   DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a building designed for occupancy by one
family and having not more than one cooking and food preparation facility. Also
a campsite or other informal living space.
   EASEMENT: A right of one person to use the land of another for specific
purposes not inconsistent with a general property use of the owner.
   GROSS LAND AREA: The original parcel of ownership of land prior to
subdivision and dedication of public streets, alleys and necessary
watercourses.
   HEALTH OFFICER: A qualified person employed by the state, county, or city to
enforce health standards.
   HILLSIDE DEVELOPMENT: Any subdivision or parceling of land or any portion
thereof, having a general average slope of ten percent (10%) or more.
   IMPROVEMENT: Anything which increases the value or utility of a development
or subdivision including utilities, roads, sidewalks, landscaping, hiking and
other trails, dwelling units, recreational equipment, etc.
   LOT: A single piece of land, separated from other land by a drawing on a
duly approved final plat, being of sufficient area and dimension to meet
minimum zoning requirements, intended as a unit for transfer or ownership or
development.
Corner Lot: A lot or portion thereof situated at the intersection of two (2) or
more streets.
   MOBILE HOME: A single-family dwelling designed for transportation after
fabrication on streets and highways on its own wheels, and arriving at the site
where it is to be occupied as a dwelling complete and ready for occupancy,
except for minor incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on
jacks or permanent foundations, and connection to utilities, and which may be
disassembled and moved to another location.
   MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed and intended for residential
use where residence is in mobile homes exclusively.
   NET UNIT OF LAND AREA: The amount of land remaining after all public
streets, alleys, rights of way and necessary watercourses have been deducted
from the gross land area.
   ORDINANCE: The land development ordinance of Wells unless otherwise
specified.
   ORIGINAL PARCEL: All contiguous tracts or parcels of land held by the owner
(as defined) at the effective date of this title.
   OWNER: An individual, association, partnership, or corporation shown as the
owner of record of real property by the latest tax rolls of Elko County, or by
the deed records of such county; or a person who is legally purchasing a parcel
of property under a valid contract. (Subdivision homeowners' associations are
not considered to be the owner for the purpose of this title).
   OWNERSHIP: Any land or contiguous parcels held by the same owner (not
divided by a highway or street) or a previously platted lot.
   OWNERSHIP OF RECORD: A land area which may be as small as a lot or as large
as a single or several sections which was held by one owner (as defined herein)
at the effective date of this title.
   PARCEL: A single piece of land, separated from other land by use, by metes
and bounds description, or by a drawing on a map intended as a unit for
transfer of ownership or development. This may also include a lot as defined
herein.
   PERFORMANCE AGREEMENT: A performance bond executed by a surety company duly
licensed to do business in the state of Nevada, payable to the city of Wells in
an amount equal to one hundred ten percent (110%) of the estimated full cost of
the work to be done, as determined by the board of councilmen, and conditioned
upon faithful performance thereof.
   PERSON: The term includes an individual, a partnership, a public or private
corporation, an association, or a club.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): A use or a combination of uses planned for a
tract of land to be developed as a unit under single control and which is
developed for the purpose of renting or of selling condominiums or camp sites,
whether fronting on private or dedicated streets, which may include two (2) or
more principal buildings as governed by the zoning ordinance. For the purpose
of on site improvements, planned unit developments shall comply with the
requirements specified for developments and subdivisions in this title.
   PLANNING COMMISSION: The city of Wells planning commission.
   PLAT: A map, diagram, drawing or replat containing all descriptions,
locations, specifications, dedications, provisions, and information concerning
a development or subdivision as specified by this title.
Final Plat: A final map and plan for a development or subdivision conforming to
the requirements specified in chapter 7 of this title, duly submitted to the
administrator or commission and board of councilmen for consideration.
Tentative Plat: A preliminary map or plan for a development or subdivision
conforming to the requirements specified herein and submitted to the planning
commission and board of councilmen for consideration.
   RESERVE STRIP: A strip of land between a dedicated street or partial street
and adjacent acreage, in either case, reserved or held for future street
extension or widening.
   ROAD: See definition of Street.
   STREET: The entire area, both improved and unimproved, between the right of
way lines of any public way intended to be used for vehicular traffic,
including lanes, places, boulevards, avenues, driveways, or other traveled way
designation serving more than one lot or parcel.
Arterial: A street designated as an arterial on the comprehensive plan or an
element thereof which is used or is intended to be used as part of the
principal network of through traffic within the city.
Collector Street: A street designated as a collector street on the
comprehensive plan or an element thereof which is used or intended to be used
for the movement of traffic between major arterials and local streets and roads
within the city.
Cul-De-Sac: A street having only one outlet for vehicular traffic, with a
turnaround at the opposite end from the outlet, which is not to be extended or
continued to serve further subdivisions or developments on adjacent lands.
Dead End Street: A street having only one outlet for vehicular traffic, with
only a temporary turnaround at the opposite end, which is intended to be
extended or continued to serve future subdivisions or developments on adjacent
lands.
Half Street: A street having only a portion of its width provided in one
subdivision, with the remainder of its width to be provided through the
subdivision of adjacent property.
Residential Street: A street which is used for providing the primary access to
abutting lots within a subdivision.
   SUBDIVIDE: To effect a subdivision of land.
   SUBDIVIDER: See definition of Developer.
   SUBDIVISION: The process of dividing a tract of land so as to form separate
parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership. (This includes all contract
sales of land recorded or unrecorded or purchase options on lots or parcels not
yet a part of an approved subdivision.) Such a process consists of the owner's
acts of preparing plats, documents, and other required material and information
and obtaining approval thereof as provided for in this title.
   TRACT: A generalized, all inclusive term used to describe any area of land.
   ZONING ORDINANCE: The Wells zoning ordinance 1  which includes the zoning
maps. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
IMPROVEMENT DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Standards Provided, Exceptions
11-3-2: General Development Criteria
11-3-3: Sanitation And Density
11-3-4: Block Requirements
11-3-5: Lot Requirements
11-3-6: Street Requirements
11-3-7: Alley Requirements
11-3-8: Easement Requirements
11-3-9: Setbacks, Clear Vision Requirements
11-3-1: STANDARDS PROVIDED, EXCEPTIONS:
The following standards shall be followed in all developments, subdivision, or
dedication of land as specified and regulated by this title. Cemetery plats
shall be an exception to these standards. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-3-2: GENERAL DEVELOPMENT CRITERIA:
In order to ensure a properly designed beneficial development of land within
the jurisdiction of this title, the planning commission and board of councilmen
shall review each application to determine if it complies with the following
criteria.
   A.   The intent and design of the proposed development or subdivision plat
shall be in accordance with the provisions of the comprehensive plan 1 .
   B.   The clustering of development, or density transfer, for purposes of
providing open space and innovative design and providing economy of
installation of utilities, particularly sanitary sewers, and providing economy
of street and other improvements, is deemed to be highly desirable and may be
required by the planning commission or board of councilmen. Further, the
planning commission or board of councilmen may require that up to seventy
percent (70%) of the gross land area be held for perpetuity as open space for
recreation and agricultural use.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0586649c910311b2e08b8e63c850573d7cf5ffb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2235.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0586649c910311b2e08b8e63c850573d7cf5ffb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2237.png]
 
   C.   Street patterns in residential neighborhoods shall be designed to
create areas free of through traffic and at the same time be readily accessible
to adjacent collector and arterial streets.
   D.   The design of the development or subdivision shall take into
consideration the pedestrian by careful planning of: driveway openings so there
is adequate clear vision; pathways adjacent to streets and rights of way
through blocks; pedestrian crossings of creeks and ditches; and any other
measure which is desirable or necessary for pedestrian circulation.
   E.   In the development or subdivision of land along arterial streets, the
blocks shall be increased greater in length than normal to control points of
vehicular access. Frontage and reverse frontage streets shall be used (see
section
 11-3-6 of this chapter).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0586649c910311b2e08b8e63c850573d7cf5ffb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2239.png]
 
   F.   Street intersections in residential areas shall be of the "T" rather
than "X" design except in unusual circumstances due to topographic restraints
or special traffic design considerations.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0586649c910311b2e08b8e63c850573d7cf5ffb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2241.png]
 
   G.   All natural drainage courses shall have easements provided to prohibit
encroachment of incompatible structures and ground work. Improvements may be
required or proposed that will increase the operating efficiency and ease of
maintenance of the channel, without interfering with or detracting from its
original intent, attractiveness and safety.
   H.   Reserve strips controlling access to public streets shall be permitted;
provided, however, that the control and disposition of land comprising such a
strip is placed within the jurisdiction of the planning commission and board of
councilmen under conditions specified and shown on the final plat.
   I.   Land which the board of councilmen has determined to be unsuitable for
development or subdivision because of unsuitable soils, flood threat, bad
drainage, steep slopes, rock formations, or other features likely to be harmful
to the safety and general health of the future residents, shall not be
subdivided unless adequate methods approved and stamped by a licensed engineer
are planned and instituted for overcoming these conditions. (Ord. 111, 3-25-
1980)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
11-3-3: SANITATION AND DENSITY:
In order to protect the health of residents in and around the city, special
care shall be taken when land is developed or subdivided to prevent pollution
of surface and subsurface water resources. The following shall apply to all
development, and subdividing of land:
   A.   The administrator is hereby empowered to establish sanitary sewer and
domestic water supply applications and permits, procedures, denials, and
approvals, and to control or prohibit the construction, use, or occupancy of
any dwelling, structure, or land use which has not been found to meet
acceptable sanitary sewer and water health standards for any reason.
   B.   All domestic water and sanitary sewage systems shall comply with
regulations established by the appropriate state agencies. The administrator
may impose additional requirements he believes necessary in any particular
situation not specifically covered by one of the above regulations. The
planning commission or the board of councilmen may impose more restrictive
requirements if they deem it necessary.
   C.   No domestic water or sanitary sewer system shall be backfilled before
it is found by the city engineer or his designated representative to be in
keeping with the requirements of the Nevada division of health, the planning
commission, or board of councilmen, whichever is most restrictive.
   D.   Where no central sanitary sewage system exists within three hundred
feet (300') of an existing sanitary sewer, and where it is unfeasible to extend
the city system, a complete sanitary sewer collection and treatment facility
shall be constructed to serve all of the proposed development. This facility
shall comply with or exceed all applicable standards of the city, county, state
and federal governments. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-3-4: BLOCK REQUIREMENTS:
The length, width, and shapes of blocks shall be determined with regard to the
following:
   A.   Provisions of adequate building sites suitable to the general type of
use contemplated, including zoning requirements as to lot size and dimension.
   B.   The limitations and opportunities of topography.
   C.   Nonfarm or urban type blocks shall not be of greater length than one
thousand three hundred feet (1,300') nor less than four hundred feet (400')
between street intersections, and shall have sufficient depth to provide for
two (2) tiers of lots except for special conditions provided herein.
   D.   Pedestrian crosswalks, or alleys located in an easement for such
purpose, not less than eight feet (8') nor greater than twenty feet (20') wide,
shall be provided in blocks exceeding six hundred feet (600') in length. They
may also be required where deemed advisable to provide access to schools,
parks, shopping and other community facilities. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-3-5: LOT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The lot size, width, depth, shape and orientation, and minimum building
setback lines shall be adequate and in compliance with the zoning requirements
for the location and the type of development or subdivision.
   B.   Each lot fronting on a cul-de-sac turnaround shall have a minimum of
thirty feet (30') (straight line or "cord" measurement) of frontage upon the
dedicated street except in condominium developments. Panhandle lots shall have
a driveway (panhandle) not less than thirty feet (30') in width and shall not
be longer than two hundred feet (200') in length.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0586649c910311b2e08b8e63c850573d7cf5ffb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2243.png]
 
   C.   Each lot shall have a minimum depth of one hundred feet (100') and
shall not exceed two and one-half (21/2) times its average width.
   D.   The minimum average width of lots shall be sixty feet (60').
   E.   For corner lots, a property line "return" shall have a minimum radius
of fifteen feet (15') unless a longer radius is required to serve an existing
or future use or need.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0586649c910311b2e08b8e63c850573d7cf5ffb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2245.png]
 
   F.   Side lot lines shall be within twenty degrees (20°) of right angles or
radial line to the street line, unless a variation from this regulation will
provide a more desirable street and lot plan.
   G.   Double frontage and reverse frontage lots should be avoided except
where essential to provide separation of residential development from traffic
arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography or orientation. A
screening easement of at least ten feet (10') in width, and across which there
shall be no right of access, shall be provided along the line of lots abutting
such artery or disadvantaged use, except that a waiver of this screening may be
made if the double frontage is due to topography.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0586649c910311b2e08b8e63c850573d7cf5ffb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2247.png]
 
   H.   Minimum lot sizes shall in all cases be adequate to accommodate the
requirements of the health authorities.
   I.   Each lot shall have a minimum five foot (5') restricted strip
perpendicular to the frontage street and adjacent to and parallel to a side
property line for the full depth of the lot, in which no building or structure
other than a fence shall be erected for the purpose of drainage and utility
easement. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-3-6: STREET REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and location of all
streets shall conform to the comprehensive plan 1  and shall be considered in
their relation to existing and planned streets, topography, increased value to
adjoining property, aesthetic characteristics, public convenience and safety,
and their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land served.
   B.   Improved public access shall be provided from the development or
subdivision to a city or county street or to a state highway. The developer may
be required to improve off site access to the standards prescribed in this
section.
   C.   Where a development or subdivision abuts or contains an existing or
proposed arterial street, railroad or limited access highway right of way, a
frontage street, reverse frontage street, or similar treatment for the
appropriate use of the tract shall be provided.
   D.   Streets may be required to provide access to adjoining lands and
preserve proper traffic circulation throughout the neighborhood for the present
and future.
   E.   There shall be provided rights of way and widening of existing rights
of way of such width and as provided for in the comprehensive plan; provided
however, that the width of said rights of way shall in no case be less than the
proportionate share of the following:
Type Of Street Minimum ROW
Type Of Street               Minimum ROW
Arterial:                     
Divided                      100 feet
Undivided                    100 feet
One-way                      60 feet
Commercial                   80 feet
Industrial                   80 feet
Frontage                     60 feet
Collector                    80 feet
Residential                  60 feet
Minor residential            60 feet
Cul-de-sac                   50 feet
Cul-de-sac turnaround radius 50 feet
 
   F.   Street grades shall be designed and constructed to provide for the safe
movement of traffic in all weather and for adequate drainage of both streets
and abutting properties. Street grades, whenever feasible, shall be not less
than three-tenths percent (0.3%) and not more than ten percent (10%).
   G.   In general, partial street dedications shall not be permitted. However,
the board of councilmen may accept a partial street dedication when such street
forms the boundary of the proposed development or subdivision and is deemed to
be necessary for the orderly development of the neighborhood, and the board of
councilmen finds it will be practicable to require the dedication of the
remainder of the right of way when the adjoining property is developed. When a
partial street exists adjoining a proposed development or subdivision, the
remainder of that right of way shall be dedicated.
   H.   A cul-de-sac, court, or similar type street shall be permitted provided
that the maximum length shall be four hundred feet (400') from entrance to
center of turnaround, and all cul-de-sacs shall have a minimum turnaround
radius of fifty feet (50') at the property line, and not less than forty feet
(40') at the curb line or edge of traveled way.
   I.   Dead end streets shall be permitted only when such street terminates at
the boundary of the development or subdivision, and is necessary to the
improvement of the development of the subdivision, adjoining property, or
future development of the neighborhood, as determined by the board of
councilmen. When such a dead end street serves more than two (2) lots, a
temporary turnaround easement which may revert to the lots when the street is
extended shall be provided.
   J.   The maximum length of loop streets shall be two thousand five hundred
feet (2,500').
   K.   Streets shall be planned to intersect as nearly as possible at right
angles, but in no event at less than seventy degrees (70°).
   L.   Where any street deflects at an angle of twenty degrees (20°) or more,
a connecting curve shall be required having a minimum centerline radius of
three hundred feet (300') for arterial and collector streets and one hundred
twenty five feet (125') for minor streets.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0586649c910311b2e08b8e63c850573d7cf5ffb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2249.png]
 
   M.   Offset streets with centerline offsets of between two feet (2') and one
hundred twenty five feet (125') shall be avoided.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0586649c910311b2e08b8e63c850573d7cf5ffb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2251.png]
 
   N.   A tangent at least one hundred feet (100') long shall be introduced
between reverse curves on arterial and collector streets.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e0586649c910311b2e08b8e63c850573d7cf5ffb/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2253.png]
 
   O.   Proposed streets which are a continuation of an existing street shall
be given the same name as the existing street and all new street names used
shall not duplicate or be of a spelling or pronunciation apt to be confused
with the names of existing streets within the same postal service area. Street
names shall be subject to the approval of the commission. The developer shall
obtain approval of all street names within the proposed development or
subdivision from the commission before submitting same to the board of
councilmen for final plat approval.
   P.   Street trees and other trees where provided or required, shall be of
the variety, size, and location as approved by the planning commission. (Ord.
111, 3-25-1980)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
11-3-7: ALLEY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Alleys shall be provided in business, commercial, and industrial zones,
except where other definite and assured provision is made for service access.
   B.   The width of an alley shall not be less than twenty feet (20').
   C.   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be avoided,
but where necessary, corners shall be cut off sufficiently to permit safe
vehicular movement.
   D.   Dead end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if unavoidable,
shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities at the dead end.
   E.   Pedestrian alleys, or crosswalks may be provided or required to
facilitate foot and bicycle circulation within and through a development or
subdivision. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-3-8: EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
Easements shall be provided wherever required for utilities or other public
service, of such size and location as approved by the board of councilmen.
However, the following easements shall be considered mandatory:
   A.   A public utility easement five feet (5') in width shall be required
adjacent to the street right of way boundaries of all streets which, by means
of variance, are less in width than prescribed in subsection
11-3-6E of this chapter.
   B.   Where a development or subdivision contains a watercourse plus such
further width as is necessary for maintenance and/or reconstruction operations.
(Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-3-9: SETBACKS, CLEAR VISION REQUIREMENTS:
For provisions for setback and clear vision, see section
10-6-5 of this code. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
CHAPTER 4
IMPROVEMENTS, REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Plans, Approval Procedure
11-4-2: Streets And Alley Improvements
11-4-3: Domestic Water
11-4-4: Sewage Disposal
11-4-5: Drainage
11-4-6: Stream Easements
11-4-7: Open Space
11-4-8: Solid Waste Disposal
11-4-9: Utility Lines
11-4-10: Fire Protection
11-4-11: Aesthetic Considerations Of Developments
11-4-12: Survey
11-4-1: PLANS, APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Plans And Certification Required:
      1.   Plans: The improvements described in this chapter shall be shown on
the construction plans of any development or subdivision and installed in
accordance with the procedures and requirements herein designated.
      2.   Certification: The board of councilmen may require the certification
of approval by a qualified engineer, cost to be paid by the developer, on any
aspect of construction and its design which they believe necessary even though
such a requirement may not specifically exist in this title or in Nevada law.
   B.   Filing Of Plans, Surety:
      1.   Plans: Prior to the time of filing for final approval, the developer
shall file with the administrator three (3) copies of construction drawings for
all improvements required in the portion of the total development or
subdivision for which final plat approval is required in accordance with
chapter 7 of this title.
      2.   Surety: At the time of filing for final approval, the developer
shall have either previously constructed and approved by the board of
councilmen, all required improvements, or filed with the city clerk a surety
bond, or other guarantee accepted by the board of councilmen to ensure the
actual construction of such improvements as are proposed and required. If a
surety bond or other guarantee is accepted by the board of councilmen, the
improvements shall be constructed within one year from the date of final
approval of the plat. However the board of councilmen may extend the allowable
period of construction for one additional year upon the showing of just cause
and by the continuance of the surety bond or other guarantee of performance by
the developer.
The surety bond or other guarantee shall be in the amount of one hundred ten
percent (110%) of the estimated cost of improvements as determined by a
qualified engineer and found acceptable by the board of councilmen or as
determined by actual construction bids for the subject improvements and found
acceptable by the board of councilmen. In the event the improvements are not
constructed within the allowed time and to the city specifications, the board
of councilmen may order the improvements installed at the expense of the surety
or other guarantee of the developer.
   C.   Development's Requirements: Before any development may be occupied by
anything other than the materials, equipment, and men necessary for its
construction, all improvements proposed and required on the approved final plat
shall be complete and approved by the board of councilmen. Although prior
construction, or bonding of improvements for developments is not a requirement
before granting a conditional final plat approval, the board of councilmen may
impose such a requirement in the same manner as is provided for in subsection
B2 of this section. The board of councilmen shall require prior construction or
bonding of improvements for developments when, in its best judgment, the
proposed development is highly speculative, and out of proportion to current
needs.
   D.   Certification Of Plans: Prior to the acceptance of the board of
councilmen of any improvements installed by the developer, three (3) sets of
prints of the "as built" plans and specifications shall be certified by the
developer's engineer and one set each shall be filed with the city clerk,
utility departments, and administrator.
   E.   Approval: Within thirty (30) days after completion of improvements and
submission of "as built" plans, the board of councilmen shall certify the
completion and acceptance or rejection of the construction of the improvements
and shall transmit a copy of said certification to the developer. If a surety
bond or other guarantee has been filed by the developer, all or part of it
shall be released by the city in accordance with the conditions of plat
approval or city policy upon application by the developer. (Ord. 111, 3-25-
1980)
11-4-2: STREETS AND ALLEY IMPROVEMENTS:
The board of councilmen may prepare and make available to the public a set of
detailed design standards which shall be a part of this title when adopted by
the board of councilmen by resolution.
   A.   Street Type: Street type if not already established as an arterial,
collector, or minor street, shall be determined by reference to the
comprehensive plan 1 .
   B.   Curbs And Gutters Required: Concrete curbs, gutters, sidewalks and
asphalt plant mix pavement may be required on all streets in a proposed
development of subdivision where the board of councilmen deems appropriate.
   C.   Construction Standards: All construction details, and travel or
pavement widths, shall be in accordance with the construction standards adopted
by the board of councilmen, but shall not be less in width than shown below for
the type of street. Travel, or pavement width shall be the right angle distance
across the surfacing between the backs of the curbs, or where no curbs are
required from edge to edge of the travel surface.
Improved travel width of streets shall be not less than shown in the following
table. Additional requirements are also shown by the designation of: P for
paving; C-G for monolithic curb and gutter; S for sidewalk.
Type Of Street Minimum Travel Width Addition Requirements
Type Of Street     Minimum Travel Width             Addition Requirements
Arterial street:
 Divided          Dual 24 feet with 10 foot median P, C-G
 Undivided        56 feet                          P, C-G
Residential boulevard:
 Divided          Dual 24 feet with 10 foot median P, C-G
Commercial street  48 feet                          P, C-G and S
Industrial street  48 feet                          P, C-G and S
Frontage street    36 feet                          P
Collector street   48 feet                          P, C-G and S
Residential street 48 feet                          P, C-G and S
Cul-de-sac         38 feet                          P, C-G and S
 
Frontage street rights of way may be exempted from any construction requirement
for travel surface when provided for possible future need along a city street
currently of low traffic volume. Cul-de-sac turnarounds shall have an improved
travel radius of forty four feet (44').
The construction of the intersection of any new street with an existing state
or federal highway shall be in accordance with a design approved by the
district engineer of the Nevada state department of highways.
In general, the centerline of street pavement shall coincide with the
centerline of the right of way.
   D.   Curb And Gutter Construction: Monolithic vertical curbs and gutters
shall be the minimum standard on all commercial and industrial streets and on
all other streets when required. Roll curb and gutter may be used on all
residential, cul-de-sac and loop streets requiring curb and gutter. All curb
and gutter radius returns on corner lots shall be vertical curbs between points
of curve, with ten foot (10') transition sections from vertical to rolled
sections. Vertical curb and gutter shall be installed on any street where the
board of councilmen deems necessary for drainage for public safety purposes.
   E.   Sidewalks: Concrete sidewalks when they are required along a street
shall be constructed on both sides with the exception of subdivision boundary
streets. Sidewalks shall be a minimum of five feet (5') in width on arterial,
commercial, industrial and collector streets and four feet (4') in width on
residential streets. Greater sidewalk widths may be required by the board of
councilmen.
   F.   Curb Cuts: Driveway curb cuts and driveway approaches shall be made in
accordance with the construction standards.
   G.   Alley Construction: Alleys shall be constructed in accordance with the
construction standards. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
11-4-3: DOMESTIC WATER:
   A.   Systems Required: Central water distribution systems shall be required
in all subdivisions and, where available, shall connect to a public
distribution system. Fire hydrants shall also be required and shall be
connected to water lines of sufficient capacity for firefighting purposes.
   B.   Standards: All water systems and/or wells shall meet the standards of
the following agencies, when applicable:
      1.   Nevada state health division.
      2.   Other state or federal agencies which have regulations applicable to
wells and water systems.
All water systems shall also meet any additional requirements of the board of
councilmen. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-4-4: SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
The construction of or the connection to any sanitary sewer system shall be
subject to the permits and controls of the city and state. Where sanitary sewer
service is available within three hundred feet (300') from a municipal system
or other public district, the developer shall connect the sewer lines within
the development or subdivision with those of the municipal or other public
system.
Where public sanitary sewer service is not available within three hundred feet
(300'), a central sanitary sewer treatment facility shall be required before
any other improvements are made upon the property. This system shall comply
with all city, county, state and federal regulations. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-4-5: DRAINAGE:
The developer shall submit to the administrator sufficient information in the
form of maps, profiles, and other data to indicate the proper drainage of the
surface water to natural drainage courses or into existing storm drains. The
location and width of easements shall be indicated on the plat to be recorded.
(Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-4-6: STREAM EASEMENTS:
The reservation of an easement along any stream or surface drainage course
located in the area being subdivided may be required by the planning commission
for the purpose of widening, deepening, sloping, improving, or protecting the
stream or drainage course. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-4-7: OPEN SPACE:
Upon recommendation of the planning commission, and as required by the board of
councilmen, the developer may be required to dedicate a portion of the land to
the city for recreational purposes. The amount of land will be determined by
the board of councilmen and based upon the expected demand upon the
recreational facility. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-4-8: SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL:
The developer shall pay to the board of councilmen an amount satisfactory to
the board of councilmen for establishing or adding to the solid waste site, of
the size and capacity to provide forty (40) cubic yards of landfill volume for
each potential dwelling or home site. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-4-9: UTILITY LINES:
Within a development or subdivision, electricity and telephone lines may be
required to be installed underground. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-4-10: FIRE PROTECTION:
   A.   Fire hydrants connected with the public water supply shall be installed
in all subdivisions with central water supply. There shall be at least one fire
hydrant served by six inch (6") pipeline in a radius of six hundred feet (600')
from each lot.
   B.   Provisions for fire protection shall be made where brush or other
vegetation is likely to constitute a fire hazard as follows:
      1.   Fire Breaks: Fire breaks shall be provided as may be specified by
the appropriate fire protection agency. Access roads may be used as fire breaks
where provided at suitable locations.
      2.   Emergency Access: Two (2) or more improved all weather access roads
from the development or subdivision may be required by the commission for
purposes of fire protection egress and ingress to insure public safety as may
be specified by the appropriate fire protection agency. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-4-11: AESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS OF DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   Required Information: The developer shall include appropriate
architectural and site development plans which shall show proposed building
location; specific landscaping; prominent existing trees; ground treatment;
sight obscuring fences or hedges; off street parking; major exterior elevations
of buildings showing their exterior treatment, materials and color; and
elevational design of advertising structures, showing their message, materials
and color. All or part of the above information required on development plats
may also be required on subdivision plats, by the commission.
   B.   Allocation Of Space For Facilities And Recreation:
      1.   The subdivider is encouraged to include in the proposed development
or subdivision a greater amount of recreational space and facilities than is
required in section
11-4-7 of this chapter for the use of property owners within the development or
subdivision to enhance the environment of that development or subdivision.
      2.   Consideration shall be given by the developer to the reservation of
sites for other essential public services and facilities required or desired to
serve the development or subdivision. The reservation of sites required or
desired for general public service, use and enjoyment may be made the subject
of conditional approval of the plat by the planning commission. (Ord. 111, 3-
25-1980)
11-4-12: SURVEY:
   A.   Monuments Required: Following completion of the construction of
improvements and prior to release of the improvement construction surety bond
or other guarantee or filing of the proposed final plat, or acceptance by the
board of councilmen, certain land survey monuments shall be set or reset or
verified by the developer's licensed surveyor to still be in place.
   B.   Descriptions Required: A description of each monument to be set shall
be shown on the final map. Tags set in iron pipes shall be grouted with mortar.
The maximum allowable error of closure shall be one five-thousandth (1/5,000).
Closure for an exterior boundary traverse shall be one ten-thousandth (1/
10,000) and the engineer shall furnish to the city engineer at the time of
filing the final map, said traverse sheets showing mathematic closure together
with such other data as may be required for checking.
   C.   Monument Types: The description of monument types are as follows:
      1.   The type A monument shall consist of iron pipe having an inside
diameter of two inches (2") or more of a six inch by twelve inch (6" x 12")
concrete monument or a malleable metal capped steel shaft or its equivalent
thirty inches (30") long, driven at least twenty four inches (24") in the
ground.
      2.   The type B monument shall consist of an iron pipe having an inside
diameter of three-fourths inch (3/4") or more at least eighteen inches (18")
long, driven at least twelve inches (12") in the ground, extending between four
inches (4") and six inches (6") above the surface and having a stamped
galvanized cap (or a reinforcing steel bar with a minimum diameter of 5/8 inch
and at least 18 inches long, driven in the ground at least 2 inches and
extending above the surface of the ground at least 4 inches with the top
painted red).
   D.   Monument Locations: The type and location of monuments shall be as
follows:
 
Type Location
A    All angle points in the exterior boundary of the development or
     subdivision.
A    All street intersection points within and adjacent to the development or
     subdivision.
A    All street centerlines ending at a boundary line of the development or
     subdivision.
A    All angle points and points of curve on the centerline of all streets.
A    The point of beginning of the development or subdivision plat description.
B    All corners and angle points of lots within subdivision.
 
Where a monument is set in a paved street, it shall be set with the top at
least six inches (6") below finish grade and be covered with a cast iron cover
set flush with the finished street grade. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
CHAPTER 5
PLAT PREAPPLICATION CRITERIA
SECTION:
11-5-1: Criteria For Approval
11-5-2: Preapplication
11-5-1: CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL:
Approval of a development or subdivision plat shall be based upon a finding by
the planning commission that:
   A.   It is in the best public interest.
   B.   The lands are not being developed or subdivided prematurely.
   C.   The proposed site is suitable for the type of use proposed and free
from flooding hazard, inundation, soil or geological hazard, or any other
hazardous condition.
   D.   The proposed land use will not adversely affect the environment, public
safety, health and welfare of the general public.
   E.   The proposal is demonstrably, socially and economically feasible.
   F.   Adequate on site outdoor recreation and open space is provided.
   G.   Areas of unique natural beauty, historical and scientific interest are
protected.
   H.   Necessary utilities and facilities are provided and comply with this or
other ordinances and the comprehensive plan 1 .
   I.   The proposed use complies with other criteria set out in this and other
applicable city ordinances and the comprehensive plan. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
11-5-2: PREAPPLICATION:
The first step in land subdivision or development is the preparation of a
tentative plat. Prior to this, the developer should review the proposal with
the administrator to determine the policies of the planning commission, board
of councilmen and the comprehensive plan for the area, the specific engineering
requirements, and other factors which may influence the design and improvements
of the proposed development or subdivision not included herein. (Ord. 111, 3-
25-1980)
CHAPTER 6
TENTATIVE PLATS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Procedure For Approval
11-6-2: Development Requirements
11-6-3: Filing Fees
11-6-4: Required Documents
11-6-5: Action By Planning Commission
11-6-6: Action By Board Of Councilmen
11-6-7: Joint Action
11-6-8: Time Extension Approval By Inaction
11-6-1: PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL:
   A.   Eight (8) copies of the tentative plat (and additional copies as
necessary) for any subdivision or land development must be filed with the
administrator at least twenty (20) days prior to the regular meeting for which
consideration is desired. If offered for filing less than twenty (20) days
prior to the regular meeting, the owner, or his agent, must sign a written
consent waiving the thirty (30) day statutory period for action on the plat, or
the documents will not be accepted for filing. Land developments require a
public hearing and are regulated by the zoning ordinance 1  and notice of the
public hearing shall be in accord with that described in section
11-1-5, "Appeals, Hearings", of this title.
   B.   If a state highway traverses or borders upon or is within one hundred
feet (100') of any part of the proposed subdivision, one additional copy of the
tentative plat shall be submitted for delivery to the highway department.
   C.   Tentative plats shall be submitted on durable paper drawn to scale of
sufficient size to show all details of the plan and required data clearly. Any
number of sheets may be used, provided each sheet specifies the total number of
sheets and the number of that particular sheet. If the tract is a portion of a
larger area which may be divided later, the tentative plat shall indicate the
ultimate plan for the whole. With each such tentative plat, the developer shall
also file a copy of preliminary deed restrictions, if any.
   D.   The administrator shall distribute within three (3) days one copy of
the tentative plat and application to the chairman of the planning commission
and one copy of the tentative plat to the street superintendent, the city
engineer, fire department, health officials, school district, and others as may
be directed by ordinance or resolution, who may submit written findings and
recommendations prior to consideration of the tentative plat. If the proposal
is over forty (40) acres in size, compliance with the law given in Nevada
Revised Statutes 278.346 regarding a possible school site is required. (Ord.
111, 3-25-1980)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
11-6-2: DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
The tentative and final plat approval may be given or conditionally granted as
one action. When this is done, the most restrictive requirements of both
chapters 5 and 6 of this title shall be complied with except those things
pertaining uniquely to subdivisions. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-6-3: FILING FEES:
A filing fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) plus two dollars ($2.00) per lot
or dwelling unit as proposed shall be due and payable to the city clerk as a
prerequisite to the filing of a tentative plat and official consideration
thereof. No part of the filing fee will be refunded in the event that the
tentative plat is not approved or is withdrawn. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-6-4: REQUIRED DOCUMENTS:
Every tentative plat (clearly and legibly drawn on 1 sheet if possible), shall
be accompanied by the written petition of the developer. The documents shall
show the following data and contain information hereinafter set forth if
applicable:
   A.   Land development or subdivision title and designation suitable to the
planning commission.
   B.   Name and address of the developer and record owner.
   C.   Name and address of the surveyor or engineer who prepared the map
together with a serial number issued by the state.
   D.   Date, north point, scale and number of sheets, basis of survey bearing
and elevation datum to be used on the final map.
   E.   A legal description of the development together with evidence of
ownership of property to be subdivided.
   F.   A vicinity map showing roads, adjoining developments, places, creeks
and other data sufficient to locate the proposed development and to show its
relation to community factors.
   G.   Location, names and width of all adjacent streets, alleys and ways.
   H.   The developer shall indicate in the petition whether or not future lot
divisions will be permitted.
   I.   Method of water supply, garbage disposal and sewage disposal.
   J.   A master plan of the total ownership of record when only a portion of
it is proposed for development initially.
   K.   The width, approximate radii of all curves, proposed name and
approximate grade of each right of way within the proposed development.
   L.   The width and approximate location of all existing or proposed
easements (public or private) for roads, drainage, sewers, irrigation, public
utility, parks and open spaces.
   M.   The zoning, existing use and ownerships of adjoining lands.
   N.   All blocks numbered and/or lettered consecutively. Lot and/or parcel
numbers shall be consecutive within each block. The approximate dimensions of
each lot or parcel shall be shown.
   O.   The proposed plan shall show scaled dimensions of the lots, minimum and
average lot area and a statement as to the average lot dimension.
   P.   The location and outline to scale of each existing building or
structure that is not proposed to be moved.
   Q.   All minimum building setback lines shall be shown or noted.
   R.   The approximate edges of pavement of existing paved roads, driveways,
and the edges of existing traveled ways, within or adjacent to public rights of
way and easement, or within private common rights of way.
   S.   Location, approximate grade, direction of flow, and type of facility of
existing drainage channels and storm drains.
   T.   The line of high and low water on all sites abutting any natural or
artificial lake, river, stream, reservoir, or other body of water.
   U.   If any portion of the land within the boundaries as shown on a
tentative map is subject to flood hazard, substantial depth of slope cuts or
fills, ground water or seepage conditions, slides or similar hazards, to public
safety, said areas shall be clearly shown. The planning commission may
disapprove that portion to affected and/or require protective improvements to
be constructed as a condition precedent to the approval of the remainder of the
plat.
   V.   A topographic contour map showing accurately the existing terrain
within the land development, approximate finished grade line of all proposed
roads, drainage channels, roads, culverts, underground utility lines, wells and
springs, major structures, irrigation ditches, utility poles and other
improvements in their correct location which may affect the design of the
development. The map shall be drawn to an engineer's scale, large enough to
show all information clearly, but not smaller than one hundred feet to the inch
(1" = 100'). Contour interval shall not be greater than two feet (2') if the
ground slope is less than three percent (3%) nor larger than five feet (5') for
ground slopes greater than three percent (3%). When the lots in the subdivision
are larger than one acre in size, the contour interval shall not be greater
than five feet (5') for ground slopes less than three percent (3%) and ten feet
(10') when greater than three percent (3%). The use of USGS quad maps or their
enlargements will not be acceptable unless they meet the above criteria.
   W.   A report by a qualified engineer on the stability of areas in which
slides have occurred within or immediately adjoining the proposed land
development or in which there is a possible slide hazard.
   X.   Statements of intent regarding proposed deed restrictions, homeowner's
associations, and other legal instruments relating to the reservation,
maintenance, and liability of any common area, park or recreation areas.
   Y.   Indication of proposed building masses, volumes, heights, styles,
color, texture, and placement, where applicable.
   Z.   Preliminary landscaping plans indicating extent and nature of tree and
ground cover removal and replacement, where applicable.
   AA. Site and ecological factors data, including solar orientation,
prevailing wind patterns, show, influences, extent of sunlight, extent of view,
rock outcrops, sight distances, snow and ice conditions, areas of snow storage,
and other unique conditions affecting the area. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-6-5: ACTION BY PLANNING COMMISSION:
The planning commission shall consider all such evidence as presented by the
developer and shall make such findings relative to the tentative plat as are
not inconsistent with the laws of the state and this title. The planning
commission shall disapprove, or conditionally approve every tentative plat if
the plat does not disclose full compliance with the ordinances of the various
jurisdictions or the laws of the state. A letter shall be sent to the developer
indicating the planning commission's determination relative to the tentative
plat pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 278.330(4). (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-6-6: ACTION BY BOARD OF COUNCILMEN:
The action of the planning commission shall be forwarded to the board of
councilmen. The board of councilmen shall consider the tentative plat at the
earliest regular board of councilmen meeting occurring five (5) days after the
commission's action.
The board of councilmen may ratify or modify the action of the commission on
the tentative plat.
After board of councilmen approval or conditional approval of the tentative
plat, the developer may proceed with the conditions of that approval in
preparation of the final plat. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-6-7: JOINT ACTION:
In the case of developments and subdivisions resulting in five (5) lots or
less, final approval may be given simultaneously with tentative approval by
both the commission and the board of councilmen provided all the requirements
of chapter 7 of this title have been met. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-6-8: TIME EXTENSION APPROVAL BY INACTION:
Time limits as set forth herein may be extended by mutual consent of all
parties concerned. However, if no action as specified is taken within the time
limits as set forth, the tentative plat as filed shall be deemed approved.
(Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
CHAPTER 7
FINAL PLATS
SECTION:
11-7-1: Procedure For Approval
11-7-2: Time Restrictions For Completion
11-7-3: Filing Fees
11-7-4: Required Data
11-7-5: Required Documents
11-7-6: Required Certificates
11-7-7: Special Approval Actions
11-7-8: Action By Engineer
11-7-9: Action By Commission And Board Of Councilmen
11-7-10: Action On Improvement Plans
11-7-11: Recording Required
11-7-12: Revocation And Reversion To Acreage
11-7-1: PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL:
   A.   When the final plat and all required documents and information as
required by the tentative approval and this chapter have been prepared, they
may be submitted to the administrator. Consideration by the planning commission
shall be at its earliest regular meeting allowing sufficient time for
publication of the notice of hearing and for the administrator to obtain the
recommendations of all appropriate departments and agencies on the final plat.
   B.   The commission shall review the final plat and approve, conditionally
approve, or disapprove the plat.
   C.   The commission's action on subdivision plats shall be forwarded to the
board of councilmen. The board of councilmen shall consider the commission's
recommendation, the final plat and relevant documents and information within
thirty two (32) calendar days of the commission's final action. The board of
councilmen shall ratify, reverse, or amend the commission's decision. The board
of councilmen's action on a final plat and relevant materials shall be final
ten (10) city hall working days after that action was taken. This period of
time is to allow any citizen of the city to file a written appeal with the city
clerk asking the board of councilmen to reconsider the action taken.
   D.   Approval of improvement plans shall not be construed as approval of
utility plans if the utilities are not under governmental jurisdiction.
   E.   All improvements shall be constructed prior to certification by the
city clerk of the plat for recording only after the board of councilmen has
either accepted the completed construction of all improvements or a bond in the
amount of one hundred ten percent (110%) of the contract costs of the
subdivision improvements has been provided. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-7-2: TIME RESTRICTIONS FOR COMPLETION:
The approved final plat of a subdivision must be recorded within two (2) weeks
from the date of approval. Construction of developments must be diligently
under way with no delays resulting from the developer's action, or lack of
action, within one year from the date of approval. Failure to so record or
diligently pursue the necessary construction, terminates all proceedings,
requiring an entirely new tentative and final plat approval. In the event this
should happen, the final plat shall meet all requirements of the zoning
district in which it is located and other laws in effect at the time of the new
filing unless prior to the end of the first year a written application for an
extension of time not exceeding one year had been granted. No additional
extensions of time shall be granted. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-7-3: FILING FEES:
At the time of filing a final development or subdivision plat, the developer
shall pay to the city clerk a filing fee of ten dollars ($10.00). In the case
of subdivisions, a fee for the work done by the city engineer in checking and
approving such plat shall be paid to the city prior to the time the final plat
is approved by the board of councilmen.
The fee charged by the county recorder for recording the final plat shall be
paid by the developer at the time he records the plat. Development plats,
subdivision plats of five (5) lots or less which are submitted for simultaneous
tentative and final approval require only the fee prescribed in section
11-6-3 of this title for tentative plats. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-7-4: REQUIRED DATA:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   The scale of the plat shall be one hundred feet to the inch (1" =
100').
      2.   The particular number of the sheet and total number of sheets
comprising the plat shall be so stated on each of the sheets and the number in
relation to each adjoining sheet shall be clearly shown.
      3.   Every final plat shall closely conform to the approved tentative
plat and shall also show all data required for the tentative plat (except
contour lines).
      4.   A vicinity map showing the exterior boundary of the land included
within the land development by a colored border.
      5.   The name of the development or subdivision, if any, date of
preparation, north point and scale.
      6.   A legal description of all the property being developed or
subdivided, by reference to recorded subdivisions and sectional surveys.
      7.   The locations, names and widths of streets.
      8.   The locations and widths of pedestrianways.
      9.   The locations and dimensions of public areas and the net acreage.
      10.   The widths and side lines of all easements to which the lots are
subject, and the book and page number of the county records in which the
easement appears. If the easement is not definitely located on record, the
dimensions of the easement shall appear on the drawing. Easements for utilities
and other similar purposes shall be denoted by broken lines.
      11.   Locations and widths of drainage channels, irrigation canals,
railroad rights of way, reserve strips, streets, alleys and pedestrianways
adjacent to the proposed development or subdivision.
      12.   Limitations on rights of access to and from streets and lots and
other parcels of land; dedications of access, rights to specific lots where
appropriate.
      13.   City boundary lines, near or adjacent to the subdivision.
      14.   Portions of the land within the boundaries of the final plat that
are subject to inundation, storm flow conditions, creek, river, and geologic or
other hazard shall be clearly marked by a prominent note on each sheet.
      15.   Any additional information required by the planning commission as a
condition of plat approval.
      16.   The following surveying data:
         a.   The radius, length and central angle of curves;
         b.   The location of all permanent monuments within the proposed
subdivision;
         c.   Ties to and names of adjacent subdivisions;
         d.   Ties to any boundary lines involved.
   B.   For Developments:
      1.   The final development plat may be submitted on ozlid or other
printed copies of the original drawing. All information required in this
section for final plat consideration shall be provided except those explicitly
designated for subdivisions.
      2.   Appropriate architectural and site development plans which shall
show proposed: building location; specific landscaping; prominent existing
trees; ground treatment; sight obscuring fences and hedges; off street parking;
vehicular and pedestrian circulation; major exterior elevations of buildings
showing their treatment, materials and color; elevational design of advertising
structures showing their message, materials and color.
   C.   For Subdivisions:
      1.   The final plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn in black
waterproof India ink upon or photographed on good tracing cloth or Mylar,
including affidavits, certificates, and acknowledgements. Each sheet shall be
twenty four inches by thirty two inches (24" x 32") in size. A marginal line
shall be drawn completely around each showing an entirely blank margin of at
least one-half inch (1/2") and not greater than one inch (1") at bottom, top
and right edge and two inches (2") on the left edge of the twenty four inch
(24") dimension.
      2.   Affidavits, certificates, acknowledgements, endorsements,
acceptances of dedication and notarial seals required by state law and by this
title.
      3.   The net dimensions of each lot. Ditto marks shall not be used where
lot dimensions are repetitively identical. Sufficient data shall be shown to
determine readily the bearing and length of each lot line. All curve data shall
be shown on the same sheet.
      4.   Lot numbers shall begin with the number "1" and continue
consecutively with no omissions or duplications, except that in multiple unit
developments numbering of lot or parcel may begin where the numbering of a
previous lot or parcel stopped. Each lot or parcel site must be shown in its
entirety on one sheet of the final plat and may not be divided between sheets.
No ditto marks shall be used in the dimensions and data. Lot or parcel area, if
shown, shall be a net figure.
      5.   Block numbers shall begin with the number "1" or letter "A"
continuing consecutively without omission or duplication throughout the tract.
The numbers or letters shall be solid and of sufficient size and thickness to
stand out, shall be so placed as not to obliterate any figure and shall not be
enclosed on any design. When the density is greater than one lot per acre, each
block in its entirety shall be shown on one sheet. Where adjoining blocks
appear on separate sheets, the street adjoining both blocks shall be shown on
both sheets complete with monument line and property line data. (Ord. 111, 3-
25-1980)
11-7-5: REQUIRED DOCUMENTS:
   A.   Generally: The final plat shall be accompanied by the following
documents, as they apply, all of which must have been approved before the final
plat is approved by the planning commission:
      1.   An agreement, approved by the city attorney, guaranteeing that the
developer will complete the construction of all improvements within a time
period specified by the board of councilmen and will guarantee full payment
thereof.
      2.   The construction plans and an analysis of the estimated cost of
construction of all improvements as required in chapter 4 of this title.
      3.   An affidavit from the county auditor showing all payable taxes paid,
and a bond or cash deposit guaranteeing payment of taxes then a lien but not
yet payable.
      4.   Cash payment or deposit, or proof of payment, for all checking and
filing fees, and inspection of construction, cash deposit as required by the
service districts, or utility companies having jurisdiction, and other
applicable fees or deposits.
      5.   Deeds for easements of right of way required for road, drainage or
other purposes which have not been shown on the final plat.
      6.   Written evidence acceptable to the city in the form of right of way
or permanent easements across private property outside of the development or
subdivision providing access to perform necessary construction work, permitting
the maintenance of the facility and granting access to the development of
subdivision.
      7.   Agreements acceptable to the city executed by the owners of existing
utility easements within proposed rights of way, consenting to the dedication
of the road or consenting to the joint use of the proposed right of way.
      8.   Evidence of formation of, or annexation to legal entities when
required to operate and perform all required maintenance and services.
      9.   Two (2) copies of any deed restrictions, reciprocal restrictions and
articles of incorporation of the homeowner's association, if same is a part
thereof.
      10.   The signed approval of the utility companies supplying and
maintaining improvements within the development.
      11.   A bond for one hundred ten percent (110%) of the contract cost of
the development or subdivision improvement costs for that portion for which
final approval is requested along with a copy of the construction bids and
contracts. The bond amount shall be paid to the city upon its expiration unless
a release or partial release is issued by the city to the developer. If a bond
is not to be furnished, all construction of improvements shall be
satisfactorily completed before recording of the plat.
   B.   For Subdivisions:
      1.   One reproducible Mylar or linen copy of the final plat. (Ord. 111,
3-25-1980)
11-7-6: REQUIRED CERTIFICATES:
The following certificates and acknowledgements shall appear on the final plat
of subdivisions. Two (2) or more may be combined when appropriate:
   A.   A certificate signed and acknowledged by all record owners consenting
to the preparation and recordation of the plat pursuant to Nevada Revised
Statutes 278.420(1).
   B.   A certificate signed and acknowledged as above, offering for dedication
for certain specified public uses those certain parcels of land which the
parties desire to dedicate pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 278.420(2).
   C.   A certificate by the surveyor responsible for the survey and final
plat, giving the date of the survey and stating that the survey was made by him
or under his direction, and that the survey is true and complete as shown and
bearing his registration number and seal pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes
278.371.
   D.   A certificate by the city engineer stating that he has examined the
final plat, and that all provisions of the law have been met and that he is
satisfied with the plat as being technically correct, pursuant to Nevada
Revised Statutes 278.420(5).
   E.   The certificate of the county recorder that the plat is acceptable by
him for recording in his office.
   F.   A certificate for execution by the mayor stating that the city of Wells
has approved the plat and accepted (or deferred) on behalf of the public any
parcels of land offered for dedication for public use in conformity with the
terms of the offer of dedication pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 278.420
(3).
   G.   A certificate of the planning commission that the final plat conforms
to the approved tentative plat and all conditions imposed upon such approval
have been satisfied.
   H.   Proper certificates of a notary public, authorized to do business in
the state, as required.
   I.   Certificate of appropriate health official indicating a proper and
adequate sewage disposal system and domestic water supply system.
   J.   Certificate by the state engineer indicating sufficient quantity of
water exists for the proposed use. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-7-7: SPECIAL APPROVAL ACTIONS:
   A.   Partial Plat: A developer may elect to file a final plat covering only
a portion of the approved tentative plat if such intention is declared at the
time the tentative plat is filed. Each such partial final plat shall be given a
separate number and all of the requirements required for approval of a full
final plat shall apply to an approval for a partial final plat. The agreement
required of the developer may provide for the construction of such improvements
as may be necessary to constitute a logical and orderly development of the
whole subdivision by units.
   B.   Joint Approval: Preliminary and final approval on developments and
subdivisions of five (5) lots or less may be given simultaneously, provided, a
public hearing is held on the proposal after notice of the hearing has been
given as required in section
11-1-5, "Appeals, Hearings", of this title.
   C.   Approval By Inaction: The commission's action on development plats and
five (5) or less lot subdivision plats shall be final if there is no appeal
submitted within ten (10) city hall working days, and provided the board of
councilmen takes no action to amend the commission's decision. (Ord. 111, 3-25-
1980)
11-7-8: ACTION BY ENGINEER:
Not less than ten (10) days prior to the consideration of any final plat by the
board of councilmen, the developer shall submit the original proposed final
plat and two (2) prints of same to the city engineer who shall check said plat
as to accuracy and dimensions, placing of monuments, establishment of survey
records and conformance of the plat with the tentative plat as approved. Data
concerning closure calculations, construction plans, estimates of quantities
and the like may also be required by the city engineer when the situation
warrants.
In addition to other fees and charges as required by law, the developer shall
pay the city engineer's checking fee. Such fee shall be due and payable at the
time the final plat is presented for checking to the city engineer and is not
refundable if the plat is subsequently withdrawn or abandoned.
In lieu of the foregoing, the developer may provide complete data sheets from
an approved calculator. Upon completion and checking by the city engineer, the
original plat shall be submitted to the city clerk. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-7-9: ACTION BY COMMISSION AND BOARD OF COUNCILMEN:
Upon receipt of the approved final plat from the city engineer, the
administrator shall submit the final plat to the board of councilmen and
planning commission at their next regular meeting following, who shall approve
the plat if it conforms to all requirements of state law and this and other
city ordinances. If the board of councilmen approves the final plat or accepts
the offers of dedication within ten (10) days after such final plat was
submitted, the clerk shall execute the certificate stating that the city has
approved the plat and accepted all offers of dedication made thereon not
specifically rejected by the board of councilmen. The board of councilmen shall
not approve any final plat if report of error is made; or until the city
determines that the design of the sewer and/or water supply and distribution
system conforms to the standards set forth and to sound engineering practices;
or until such system has either been installed by the developer or the
developer has executed an agreement to install such system secured by a bond or
cash deposit; or until the developer submits written evidence that some utility
or public agency is willing to maintain and operate the sewage collection and
disposal system on completion; or until all deficiencies are resolved. (Ord.
111, 3-25-1980)
11-7-10: ACTION ON IMPROVEMENT PLANS:
Following approval of the final plat by the planning commission, the developer
shall prepare and submit to the board of councilmen three (3) copies of the
improvement plans conforming to the requirements set forth herein and to
conditions attached to the tentative plat approval.
After receipt of the improvement plans, the board of councilmen shall approve
or disapprove all such plans. If disapproved, the board of councilmen shall
return them to the developer with a written specification of changes required.
Upon approval of the plans by the board of councilmen, they shall be endorsed
on all copies and one set shall be returned to the developer. If during actual
construction, minor revisions of such improvement plans appear necessary, the
developer shall submit a written request for revision with suitable drawings in
a reproducible form. If the board of councilmen approves such revision, this
approval shall be endorsed on all copies and one copy thereof shall be returned
to the developer. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-7-11: RECORDING REQUIRED:
After the mayor has executed the certificates of approval of the board of
councilmen, the final plat shall be submitted within two (2) weeks for
recording to the county recorder. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
11-7-12: REVOCATION AND REVERSION TO ACREAGE:
Revocation of a final subdivision plat shall be made in accordance with state
law provided that no lots or parcels have been sold within the development and
no improvements required by this title have been made within two (2) years from
the date of recordation. Requests for revocation shall be made to the planning
commission who shall advise the board of councilmen within ten (10) days
whether or not to hold a public hearing on the matter. Reversions to acreage
shall be subject to planning commission review and said commission may advise
the board of councilmen in writing within ten (10) working days whether or not
such reversion should occur. (Ord. 111, 3-25-1980)
APPENDIX
 
Res. No. Title                            Date
92-10    Changing Water Rate Fees         5-29-1992
92-11    Changing Garbage Collection Fees 5-29-1992
                                         
 
 
 
