CITY CODE
of
WEST WENDOVER, NEVADA
1993
Code current through:
Ord. 2024-03, passed 8-20-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of West Wendover, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 2024-03, passed August 20, 2024. Ordinances of
the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to
the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code
has been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 94-1
Summary: This Ordinance adopts the codification of the various ordinances of
West Wendover, Nevada.
   AN ORDINANCE ENTITLED "CODIFICATION OF
   ORDINANCES" ADOPTING THE VARIOUS ORDINANCES
   OF WEST WENDOVER, NEVADA, IN CODE BOOK FORM.
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and City Council of the City of West Wendover,
Nevada, a Nevada Municipal Corporation:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, the City
Code of the City of West Wendover, Nevada, originally prepared by Sterling
Codifiers, Inc., containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general
nature together with the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction
of the governing body of the City, shall be accepted in all courts without
question as the Official Code and Law of the City as enacted by the Mayor and
City Council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by the codifiers whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a general and
permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions of the
Official City Code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted in the
proper place in each of the official copies, three (3) copies which shall be
maintained in the office of the City Clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this Official City
Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said Official City Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the City Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the Official City Code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Upon adoption the City Clerk of the City of West Wendover is hereby directed
to have this ordinance published by title only, together with an adequate
summary including any amendments, once in a newspaper published in the City, if
any, otherwise in a newspaper published in the County and having a general
circulation in the City. The City Clerk is directed to post this Ordinance in
full in the City Hall. This Ordinance becomes effective twenty (20) days after
its publication.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED this 18th day of January, 1994, by the following vote of
the City Council:
   AYES:   Councilwoman Haslam, Councilman Johnson, Councilman LaCombe,
Councilman Lisk, Councilman Powell
   NAYES:   NONE
   ABSENT:   NONE
   APPROVED this 18th day of January, 1994.
    CITY OF WEST WENDOVER
   ___________________________
   WALTER G. SANDERS, Mayor
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6c7e63b1381f699c53f4938406898734504f5b67/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1976.gif]
 
ATTEST:
_____________________________
KAREN SHEPHERD, City Clerk
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the City Council, this City Code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official City Code of West Wendover. This
City Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the WEST WENDOVER CITY CODE
and is hereby published by authority of the Council and shall be supplemented
to incorporate the most recent legislation of the City as provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this City Code by title in any legal documents. (1993 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The City Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (1993 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the City Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this City Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this City Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the City Code. (1993 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this City Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
City Council. The City Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk. Any
person having in his custody a copy of the City Code shall make every effort to
maintain said Code current as to the most recent ordinances passed. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the City Clerk.
Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other interested
persons, shall be and remain the property of the City and shall be returned to
the office of the City Clerk when directed so to do by order of the City
Council. (1993 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this City
Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this City Code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
City; and all special ordinances. (1993 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this City Code or by virtue of the
preceding Section, excepting as the City Code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this City Code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1993 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable, if any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the City
herein repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provisions; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
City under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this City Code. (1993 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this City Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The City Council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1993 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this City Code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this City Code by words importing the singular number
only, or the masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females
as well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
City Code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City has been
changed in the content of this City Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the City's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1993 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred either
expressly or impliedly to do so.
CITY: The City of West Wendover, County of Elko, State of Nevada.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
West Wendover".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the City for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the City, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
West Wendover".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
direct to the consumer.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such buildings or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this Code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in quantity to persons who
purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it shall be in
the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his
proper mark. (1993 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the City Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such section, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1993 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-4: Service Of Intermittent Sentence, Administrative Fee
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Except as provided in WWCC Title 5 Chapter 1, any person convicted of
any violation of this City Code or any City ordinance, whether codified or not,
which violation is a misdemeanor under State law is also hereby deemed to be a
misdemeanor within the City wherever the City has prohibited the same conduct
and not otherwise provided, which does not otherwise provide a specific
penalty, shall be punished by the imposition of a fine not to exceed one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by a sentence of confinement in the City or
County jail not to exceed six (6) months, or both such fine and confinement.
   B.   Except as provided in WWCC Title 5 Chapter 1, in all cases where a
corporation is convicted of a violation of this City Code or any City ordinance
for the commission of which the natural person would be punishable and there is
no other punishment prescribed by this City Code or any City ordinance
violated, such corporation shall be punished by a fine not exceeding one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00). (Ord. 91-1, 6-4-1991; amd. 1993 Code)
   C.   Except as provided in WWCC Title 5 Chapter 1, the City hereby imposes
civil liability up to an amount not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) on
all persons violating the City Code or any City ordinance for any violation
which is not also a misdemeanor pursuant to State or City law. (1993 Code; amd.
Ord. 2022-02, 12-6-2022)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Except as provided in WWCC Title 5 Chapter 1, the penalty provided in
this Chapter shall be applicable to every section of this City Code or any City
ordinance the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section
unless otherwise indicated. Except as provided in WWCC Title 5 Chapter 1, any
person convicted of a violation of any section of this City Code or any City
ordinance where a duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act
continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in this City Code or in a
City ordinance.
   B.   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this City Code or in a City ordinance, the
prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed; but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Whenever the doing of any act, or the omission to do any act,
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this City Code or a City
ordinance and there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such
breach, the provisions of this Chapter shall apply. (Ord. 91-1, 6-4-1991; amd.
Ord. 2022-02, 12-6-2022)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this City Code or a City ordinance designating the duties of
any officer or employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or
employee liable for any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such
duty, unless the intent of the City Council to impose such fine or penalty on
such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty. (Ord. 91-1, 6-4-1991; amd. 1993 Code)
1-4-4: SERVICE OF INTERMITTENT SENTENCE, ADMINISTRATIVE FEE:
   A.   Authorization And Administrative Fee: Except as provided in WWCC Title
5 Chapter 1, the City may collect an administrative fee from each prisoner
found guilty of violating a City Code or ordinance provision, sentenced to
confinement in the County or City jail, including a prisoner sentenced as a
condition of probation, whose sentence is served intermittently on days other
than his regular days of employment. The amount of the fee must be set at
twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each day served. A prisoner serving such a
sentence shall pay toward the fee according to his ability to pay, as
determined by the Municipal Court Judge.
   B.   Conditions And Payment: The Municipal Court, if it grants the
application of a defendant to serve his sentence intermittently, shall:
      1.   Establish the conditions of the intermittent sentence; and
      2.   Direct whether the fee is to be paid weekly or monthly. In either
case, the fee must be paid for each period until the sentence has been served
and the entire amount of the administrative fee has been paid by order of the
Municipal Court.
   C.   Disposition Of Fees: Fees received pursuant to this Section must be
deposited in the City Treasury for disposition as established by resolution of
the City Council.
   D.   Failure To Pay: If a prisoner fails to pay the fee, the City Council
may apply to the Court for judgment for the arrears and the amount to accrue.
The judgment may be enforced by execution but not as contempt of Court.
   E.   Modification Of Fee Order: During the pendency of an intermittent
sentence, the defendant may petition the Court to modify or vacate the order to
pay the administrative fee on the ground that his ability to pay has changed.
The Court shall inform the defendant of the right to petition to modify or
vacate when the judgment is rendered. (Ord. 92-2, 4-7-1992; amd. Ord. 2022-02,
12-6-2022)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Compensation
1-5-2: Rules Of Procedure
1-5-1: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Mayor: During the first term of office, the Mayor shall receive basic
compensation at an annual rate of three thousand six hundred dollars
($3,600.00) for each year of the term of office 1 .
   B.   Council Members: During the first term of office, each Council member
shall receive basic compensation at an annual rate of two thousand four hundred
dollars ($2,400.00) for each year of the term of office 2 . (Ord. 91-18, 6-4-
1991)
 
Notes
1 1. NRS 266.450.
2 2. NRS 266.450.
1-5-2: RULES OF PROCEDURE:
   A.   Meetings:
      1.   Regular Meetings: The City Council shall hold regular meetings on
the first and third Tuesdays of each calendar month commencing at seven o'clock
(7:00) P.M.; provided, however, that when the day fixed for any regular meeting
of the City Council falls upon a date designated by law as a legal or national
holiday, such meetings shall be held at the same hours on the next succeeding
day not a holiday. All regular meetings of the City Council shall be held at
the City Hall of the City or at such place as may be designated by the
unanimous consent of the City Council members. If the meeting is not held at
the City Hall, notice of such meeting shall be given to each member of the City
Council by certified mail, with the postage and certification charges prepaid
and mailed to each member of the City Council at least three (3) working days
prior to the time for such meeting.
      2.   Special Meetings:
         a.   Special meetings may be held at the City Hall on call of the
Mayor or by a majority of the City Council members, by giving a minimum of
three (3) working days' written notice of such special meeting to each member
of the City Council prior to the meetings. All special meetings of the City
Council shall be held at the City Hall of the City or at such other place as
may be designated by the unanimous written consent of the City Council members.
If the meeting place is not the City Hall and the proposed meeting place is not
consented to by all Council members, notice of the time and place of such
meeting shall be given to each member of the City Council by certified mail,
with the postage and certification charges prepaid, and mailed to each member
of said City Council at least three (3) working days prior to the time for such
special meeting 1 .
         b.   No business may be transacted unless the requirements of
subsection C of this Section have been complied with.
      3.   Assent To Action: No action shall be taken by a majority of the City
Council members at any regular or special meeting, unless such meeting is
properly noticed or called and the record thereof is assented to in writing by
all of the members of the City Council.
      4.   Public Meetings: Except as provided by law or herein, all meetings
of the City Council, whether regular or special or called, shall be open and
public, and all persons shall be permitted to attend any meeting of the City
Council subject to their removal for violation of subsection M of this Section.
Provided, however, nothing contained herein shall be construed to prevent the
City Council from holding:
         a.   A closed meeting to consider the character, alleged misconduct,
professional competency or physical or mental health of a person.
         b.   A closed meeting for the discussion of the appointment of any
person to public office or as a member of a public body.
         The City Council members may exclude from any such public or private
meeting, during the examination of a witness, any or all other witnesses in the
matter being investigated by the City Council members.
      5.   Emergency Meetings: An emergency meeting may be held when unforeseen
circumstances which require immediate action occur. Such circumstances include,
but are not limited to, disasters caused by fire, flood, earthquake or other
natural causes or any impairment of the health and safety of the public.
   B.   Quorum: A simple majority of all members of the City Council
constitutes a quorum for the transaction of business. In the absence of a
quorum, the City Council members may meet and recess from time to time and may
compel the attendance of the absent members.
   C.   Agenda; Notice:
      1.   Agenda: Any person desiring to present any matter to the City
Council for Council action, shall at least five (5) working days prior to the
meeting of the City Council at which such person wishes to present such matter,
notify the City Manager/Engineer, or in his absence the Assistant City Manager
or in his absence the City Clerk, and request time for the meeting and supply
the name, address and telephone number of the person or persons who shall
appear before the City Council, a summary of the matter or matters to be
presented and a copy of any written material to be submitted to the City
Council, if the material is such that copies can be supplied without
unnecessary expense, also an estimate of the length of time required for the
presentation. If the agenda for the meeting requested is full, the Mayor or
City Council member or the City Manager/Engineer may set the matter for
presentation at the next meeting of the City Council, special or regular, at
which there is time available in the agenda. The City Council members shall
refuse to hear any matter not placed on the agenda at least five (5) working
days prior to such meeting, as herein provided, and the matter must be set for
presentation at a later date. The City Manager/Engineer, or in his absence the
Assistant City Manager or in his absence the City Clerk, shall prepare an
agenda according to the order of business for each meeting and furnish the
Mayor and each member of the City Council with a copy of the same prior to the
City Council meeting and as far in advance of the meeting as time for
preparation will permit but not less than three (3) working days prior to said
meetings.
      2.   Notice Of Agenda: Except in an emergency, as set for the in
subsection A5 of this Section, written notice of the agenda to be discussed at
all meetings shall be given at least three (3) working days before the meeting.
The notice shall include the time, place, location and agenda of the meeting. A
copy of the notice shall be posted at the West Wendover City Office, West
Wendover Post Office, the Eastline Justice Court office in West Wendover and
the Branch of the Elko County Library. If a regular or special meeting of the
City Council is held at a place other than the West Wendover City Offices then
the notice shall be posted in such meeting place, the West Wendover Post
Office, the Eastline Justice Court office and the Branch of the Elko County
Library. A copy of said notice shall be mailed to any person who requested
notice of the meetings of the City Council in the same manner in which notice
is mailed to a member of the City Council. A request for the notice shall lapse
six (6) months after it is made and this fact shall be made by enclosure with
or notation upon the first notice sent to a requesting person. It shall be the
responsibility of the City Manager/Engineer or in his absence the Assistant
City Manager or in his absence the City Clerk, to see that the proper posting
and mailing of the notice of said meetings has been carried out. In that the
regular meetings of the City Council are held on the first and third Tuesdays
of each calendar month the City Manager/Engineer shall see that the notice of
meetings is posted no later than five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the Wednesday
preceding the meeting. In the event a legal holiday falls on a working day
between the Tuesday meeting and the preceding Wednesday then the posting shall
be moved back one working day for each day recognized as a legal holiday.
   D.   Presiding Officer: The presiding officer of the City Council shall be
the Mayor or if the Mayor is absent from the City, sick or unable or refuses to
perform the duties of his office, the Mayor Pro Tem shall serve as presiding
officer. In case of the absence of both the Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem, the
remaining Council members shall elect one of their members to act instead of
the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem. The presiding officer shall preserve strict order
and a decorum at all regular and special meetings of the City Council. He shall
state every question coming before the City Council, announce the decision of
the City Council on all subjects and decide all questions of order, subject,
however, to an appeal to the City Council, in which event, a majority vote of
the City Council shall govern and conclusively determine such question of
order. The Mayor shall not be entitled to vote except in case of a tie or
except as otherwise expressly provided for in NRS chapter 266. In the event
another Council member is acting as the presiding officer, he shall be entitled
to vote. The Mayor shall sign all ordinances, resolutions and contracts adopted
by the City Council unless passed over the Mayor's veto; but if the Mayor does
not approve such ordinance, resolution or contract so submitted, he must,
within five (5) days from the receipt thereof, return the same to the City
Clerk with his reasons in writing for not approving it and if the Mayor does
not so return it, such ordinance, resolution or contract shall thereupon go
into effect or become law, in like manner and with the same effect as if the
same had been approved by the Mayor.
   E.   Call To Order: The Mayor or in his absence the Mayor Pro Tem, shall
take the chair at the hour appointed for the meeting and shall immediately call
the City Council to order. In the absence of the Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem, the
City Clerk shall call the City Council to order whereupon a temporary chairman
shall be elected by the members of the City Council present. Upon arrival of
the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem the temporary chairman shall immediately relinquish
the chair upon conclusion of the business immediately before the City Council.
   F.   Roll Call: Before proceeding with the business of the City Council, the
Clerk or the Clerk's deputy, shall take the roll of the members and the names
of those present shall be entered in the minutes.
   G.   Order Of Business: The business of the City Council may be taken up for
consideration and disposition in the following order:
      1.   Call to Order.
      2.   Roll call.
      3.   Approval of minutes of previous meetings.
      4.   Items from the audience.
      5.   Unfinished business.
      6.   New business.
      7.   Introduction or adoption of resolutions or ordinances.
      8.   Public hearings.
      9.   Petitions, remonstrances or communications.
      10.   Reports.
      11.   Miscellaneous.
      12.   Appropriations (bid awards, including claims).
      13.   Next Meeting date.
      14.   Adjournment.
   H.   Reading Or Approval Of Minutes: Unless the reading of the minutes of
the City Council meeting is requested by a member of the Council, such minutes
may be approved without reading if the Clerk has previously furnished each
member with a synopsis thereof.
   I.   Rules Of Debate:
      1.   Presiding Officer; Debate And Vote: The Mayor, or Mayor Pro Tem or
such other member of the Council as may be presiding, may move, second and
debate from the chair, subject only to such limitations of debate as are by
these rules imposed on all members and shall not be deprived of any of the
rights and privileges of a City Council member by reason of his acting as the
presiding officer, except that the Mayor may vote only as authorized under
subsection D of this Section.
      2.   Getting The Floor, Improper References To Be Avoided: Every member
desiring to speak shall address the chair and, upon recognition by the
presiding officer, shall confine himself to the question under debate, avoiding
all personalities and indecorous language.
      3.   Interruptions: A member, once recognized, shall not be interrupted
when speaking unless it be to call him to order or as herein otherwise
provided. If a member, while speaking, be called to order, he shall cease
speaking until the question of order be determined and, if in order, he shall
be permitted to proceed.
      4.   Privilege Of Closing Debate: The City Council member moving the
adoption of an ordinance or resolution shall have the privilege of closing the
debate.
      5.   Motion To Reconsider: A motion to reconsider any action taken by the
City Council may be made only on the day such action was taken. It may be made
either immediately during the same session or at a recessed or adjourned
session thereof. Such motion must be made by one of the prevailing sides, but
may be seconded by any member and may be made at any time and have precedence
over all other motions or while a member has the floor, it shall be debatable.
Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any member of the city council
from making or remaking the same or any other motion at a subsequent meeting of
the city council.
      6.   Entry Of Remarks Of Council Members In Minutes: A city council
member may request through the presiding officer, the privilege of having an
abstract of his statement on any subject under consideration by the city
council entered in the minutes. If the city council consents thereto, such
statement shall be entered in the minutes.
      7.   Entry Of Synopsis Of Debate In Minutes: The city clerk may be
directed by the presiding officer, with consent of the city council, to enter
in the minutes a synopsis of the discussion on any questions coming regularly
before the city council. (Ord. 91-2, 6-4-1991)
   J.   Addressing The Council:
      1.   Generally: Any person desiring to address the city council must do
so under the rules of the city council which have been established by
resolution of the city council. The city council shall adopt by resolution city
council meeting rules of order and procedures and matters of enforcement
thereof. (Ord. 2010-05, 8-3-2010)
      2.   After Motion Made: After a motion is made for consideration by the
city council of a matter set forth in the agenda, no person shall address the
city council without first securing the permission of the presiding office so
to do.
      3.   Manner Of Addressing Council; Time Limit: Each person addressing the
city council shall first give his name and address for the records, and unless
further time is granted by the presiding officer, shall limit his address to
five (5) minutes. All remarks shall be concise and direct, based on the facts
of the case and addressed to the city council as a body and not to any member
thereof. No person other than the mayor, the members of the city council and
the person having the floor, shall be permitted to enter into any discussion,
either directly or through a member of the city council, without the permission
of the presiding officer. No question shall be asked a council member except
through the presiding officer.
   K.   Filing Reports And Resolutions: All reports submitted to the city
council and resolutions passed by the city council shall be filed with the city
clerk and entered on the minutes.
   L.   Minute Entry Of Dissent: Any member shall have the right to have the
reasons for his dissent from, or protest against, any action of the council
entered on the minutes.
   M.   Disturbing Meetings:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any of the following at
any meeting of the city council:
         a.   Disturb the meeting or the peace of the city council.
         b.   Behave in a disorderly manner.
         c.   Use profane, vulgar or obscene language.
         d.   Use threatening, offensive, abusive, impertinent or slanderous
remarks.
         e.   Disrupt the meeting by act, comment, demonstration or noise.
         f.   Refuse to obey the orders of the presiding officer.
         g.   Violate the order and decorum of the meeting.
      2.   Any person or persons violating any provisions of this subsection
shall be punished as provided in chapter 4 of this title, and may be removed
from the meeting, except for a city council member and denied further
attendance at such meeting.
      3.   The chief of police or such member or members of the police
department as he may designate, shall be sergeant at arms of the city council
meeting. He or they shall carry out all orders and instructions given by the
presiding officer for the purpose of maintaining order and decorum at the city
council meeting. Upon instructions of the presiding officer it shall be the
duty of the sergeant at arms to place any person who violates any provision of
this subsection under arrest, remove such person from the meeting and cause
such person to be prosecuted under the provisions of this code. The complaint
to be signed by the presiding officer.
      4.   By a majority vote of the city council any member may be punished or
reprimanded for disorderly conduct during a meeting and, with the concurrence
of two-thirds (2/3) of the council members, may expel a member from a meeting
for violations of any provision of this subsection.
   N.   Adjournment: A motion to adjourn shall always be in order and decided
without debate.
   O.   Working Day: Those days during which the governmental offices in the
city are normally open for full time business being Monday through Friday and
excepting legal holidays. (Ord. 91-2, 6-4-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. NRS 266.245.
CHAPTER 6
CITY MANAGER
SECTION:
1-6-1: Office Created
1-6-2: Duties
1-6-3: Term Of Office
1-6-4: Compensation
1-6-1: OFFICE CREATED:
The appointed Office of City Manager is hereby established. The Mayor, with the
advice and consent of the City Council, shall appoint the City Manager as
provided for in Nevada Revised Statutes 266.395. (Ord. 2003-06, 6-17-2003)
1-6-2: DUTIES:
The City Manager shall:
   A.   General Duties: Act as the Chief Administrative Officer of the several
departments of the City government.
   B.   Specific Duties: Have such other duties as may be set by resolution or
ordinance of the City Council from time to time.
   C.   Chain Of Command: Report any and all matters through the appropriate
channel of communications, i.e., the appropriate persons, as determined by
resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 2003-06, 6-17-2003)
1-6-3: TERM OF OFFICE:
The term of office of the appointive Office of City Manager continues until the
next City election following his/her appointment at which the Office of the
Mayor is to be elected and until his/her successor is appointed. During such
term, the City Manager may be removed from office with or without cause by a
majority vote of the City Council. Any vacancy in the Office of City Manager by
death, resignation, removal or otherwise shall be filled by a majority vote of
the City Council as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 266.390, unless
otherwise provided by a resolution of the City Council. The Mayor may exercise
the right of veto as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 266.200 concerning any
removal from office or the filling of any vacancy. (Ord. 2003-06, 6-17-2003)
1-6-4: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Basic Compensation: Basic compensation for the Office of City Manager
shall include:
The initial compensation for the Office of the City Manager shall be set by
motion of the City Council at the selected step in the appropriate step scale.
The step scale for initial compensation shall be set by resolution of the City
Council. Such compensation shall begin upon the City Manager taking the oath of
office and commencing his/her duties of the office. (Ord. 2018-02, 10-16-2018)
   B.   Additional Compensation: The City Manager shall receive such further
compensation, longevity pay and other benefits as set forth for appointed
officers in other provisions of this Code. (Ord. 2003-06, 6-17-2003)
CHAPTER 7
CITY CLERK/RECORDS OFFICER
SECTION:
1-7-1: Office Created
1-7-2: Duties
1-7-3: Term Of Office
1-7-4: Compensation
1-7-1: OFFICE CREATED:
The appointed Office of City Clerk/Records Officer is hereby established. The
Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council, shall appoint the City
Clerk/Records Officer as provided for in Nevada Revised Statutes 266.395. (Ord.
2003-08, 6-17-2003)
1-7-2: DUTIES 1 :
   A.   General Duties: The City Clerk/Records Officer shall keep the Corporate
Seal, papers and records of the City. Keep the minutes of the proceedings of
the City Council.
   B.   Specific Duties: Such other duties as may be set by resolution or
ordinance of the City Council from time to time.
   C.   Chain Of Command: The City Clerk/Records Officer shall report any and
all matters through the appropriate channel of communications, i.e., the
appropriate persons, as required by resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 2003-
08, 6-17-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 1-12-3 of this title.
1-7-3: TERM OF OFFICE:
The term of office of the appointive Office of City Clerk/Records Officer
continues until the next City election following his/her appointment at which
the Office of the Mayor is to be elected and until his/her successor is
appointed. During such term, the City Clerk/Records Officer may be removed from
office with or without cause by a majority vote of the City Council. Any
vacancy in the Office of City Clerk/Records Officer by death, resignation,
removal or otherwise shall be filled by a majority vote of the City Council as
provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 266.390, unless otherwise provided by a
resolution of the City Council. The Mayor may exercise the right of veto as
provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 266.200 concerning any removal from office
or the filling of any vacancy. (Ord. 2003-08, 6-17-2003)
1-7-4: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Basic Compensation: Basic compensation for the Office of City Clerk/
Records Officer shall include:
The initial compensation for the Office of the City Clerk/Records Officer shall
be set by motion of the City Council at the selected step in the appropriate
step scale. The step scale for initial compensation shall be set by resolution
of the City Council. Such compensation shall begin upon the City Clerk/Records
Officer taking the oath of office and commencing his/her duties of the office.
(Ord. 2018-02, 10-16-2018)
   B.   Additional Compensation: The City Clerk/Records Officer shall receive
such further compensation, longevity pay and other benefits as set forth for
appointed officers in other provisions of this Code. (Ord. 2003-08, 6-17-2003)
CHAPTER 8
CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-8-1: Office Created
1-8-2: Term Of Office
1-8-3: Compensation
1-8-4: Duties
1-8-1: OFFICE CREATED:
The appointive office of the city attorney is hereby created. (Ord. 97-14, 9-
16-1997)
1-8-2: TERM OF OFFICE:
Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 266.415, the term of office of the city
attorney continues until the city election next following their appointment and
until their successors are appointed and qualified, unless sooner removed by
the mayor with the concurrence of a majority of the members of the city council
or removed by the unanimous vote of the members of the city council, if the
council so provides by resolution. (Ord. 97-14, 9-16-1997)
1-8-3: COMPENSATION:
   A.   The city attorney and any deputy city attorney shall receive
compensation at the present rate of one hundred twenty one dollars ($121.00)
per hour for all legal work performed through December 31, 2015, then at the
rate of one hundred forty dollars ($140.00) per hour for all legal work
performed after January 1, 2016, and then receive compensation at the rate of
one hundred sixty five dollars ($165.00) per hour for all legal work performed
after July 1, 2016.
   B.   In addition to the hourly rate, the city attorney shall be reimbursed
for all costs incurred during the representation of the city including, but not
limited to, actual costs of filing and recording fees, investigation fees,
telephone and travel costs, per diem, car rental, other transportation costs,
and any other costs incurred while representing the city.
   C.   The hourly rate set forth in subsection A of this section shall be
automatically adjusted every two (2) years commensurate with the increase shown
in the consumer price index ("CPI") for such time period. The adjustment will
be effective on July 1 of each even numbered year beginning on July 1, 2018.
Regardless of the increase shown in the CPI, such adjustment shall not exceed
four percent (4%) for any single adjustment. (Ord. 2015-06, 10-6-2015)
1-8-4: DUTIES:
The city attorney shall:
   A.   General Duties: Be the legal adviser of the city council and all
officers of the city in all matters respecting the affairs of the city.
   B.   Specific Duties: Perform such other duties as may be set by resolution
or ordinance from the city council from time to time.
   C.   Chain Of Command: Report any and all matters through the appropriate
channel of communication, i.e., the appropriate persons, as required by
resolution of the city council. (Ord. 97-14, 9-16-1997)
CHAPTER 9
MUNICIPAL JUDGE
SECTION:
1-9-1: Ex Officio Municipal Judge
1-9-2: Term Of Office And Vacancy
1-9-3: Duties
1-9-4: Compensation And Benefits
1-9-1: EX OFFICIO MUNICIPAL JUDGE:
The justice of the peace of the Eastline township shall be ex officio the
municipal judge of the city as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 5.020(3).
The city may repeal this chapter at any time, provided such action is not
prohibited by law. (Ord. 03-14, 12-2-2003)
1-9-2: TERM OF OFFICE AND VACANCY:
The term of office, filling of a vacancy and other legal matters concerning the
municipal judge shall be governed by the laws applicable to an ex officio
municipal judge position in the state of Nevada. (Ord. 03-14, 12-2-2003)
1-9-3: DUTIES:
   A.   General Duties: The municipal judge shall be the presiding judge in the
municipal court of the city of West Wendover and shall perform all judicial and
administrative duties of said court as required by law.
   B.   Reporting Duties: The municipal judge shall report any matters required
by law to be reported to the city through the city manager. (Ord. 03-14, 12-2-
2003)
1-9-4: COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS:
During the term of office, the municipal judge shall receive basic compensation
and benefits as set forth by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 03-14, 12-2-
2003)
CHAPTER 10
CHIEF OF POLICE
SECTION:
1-10-1: Office Created
1-10-2: Duties
1-10-3: Term Of Office
1-10-4: Compensation
1-10-1: OFFICE CREATED:
The appointed Office of Chief of Police is hereby established. The Mayor, with
the advice and consent of the City Council, shall appoint the Chief of Police
as provided for in Nevada Revised Statutes 266.395. (Ord. 2003-11, 6-17-2003)
1-10-2: DUTIES:
   A.   General Duties: The Chief of Police shall plan, organize and command
all activities of the West Wendover Police Department to protect life and
property through law enforcement and crime prevention work. Continually analyze
and evaluate operations and trends for assuring efficient and adequate law
enforcement services. Maintain professional discipline in the Police
Department. Assure that all employees are properly trained. Serve as the City's
representative in various committees and organizations relating to the
profession. Directly supervise all functions of patrol, investigations and law
enforcement services through assigned personnel. Be responsible for resolving
conflicts and maintaining a harmonious relationship with the public.
   B.   Specific Duties: Such other duties as may be set by resolution or
ordinance of the City Council from time to time.
   C.   Chain Of Command: The Chief of Police shall report any and all matters
through the appropriate channel of communications, i.e., the appropriate
persons, as required by resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 2003-11, 6-17-
2003)
1-10-3: TERM OF OFFICE:
The term of office of the appointive Office of Chief of Police continues until
the next City election following his/her appointment at which the Office of the
Mayor is to be elected and until his/her successor is appointed. During such
term, the Chief of Police may be removed from office with or without cause by a
majority vote of the City Council. Any vacancy in the Office of Chief of Police
by death, resignation, removal or otherwise shall be filled by a majority vote
of the City Council as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 266.390, unless
otherwise provided by a resolution of the City Council. The Mayor may exercise
the right of veto as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 266.200 concerning any
removal from office or the filling of any vacancy. (Ord. 2003-11, 6-17-2003)
1-10-4: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Basic Compensation: Basic compensation for the Office of Chief of
Police shall include:
The initial compensation for the Office of the Chief of Police shall be set by
motion of the City Council at the selected step in the appropriate step scale.
The step scale for initial compensation shall be set by resolution of the City
Council. Such compensation shall begin upon the Chief of Police taking the oath
of office and commencing his/her duties of the office. (Ord. 2018-02, 10-16-
2018)
   B.   Additional Compensation: The Chief of Police shall receive such further
compensation, longevity pay and other benefits as set forth for appointed
officers in other provisions of this Code. (Ord. 2003-11, 6-17-2003)
CHAPTER 11
FIRE CHIEF
SECTION:
1-11-1: Office Created
1-11-2: Duties
1-11-3: Term Of Office
1-11-4: Compensation
1-11-1: OFFICE CREATED:
The appointed Office of Fire Chief is hereby established. The Mayor, with the
advice and consent of the City Council, shall appoint the Fire Chief as
provided for in Nevada Revised Statutes 266.395. (Ord. 2003-10, 6-17-2003)
1-11-2: DUTIES:
   A.   General Duties: The City Fire Chief shall plan, organize and command
all activities of the West Wendover Fire Department to protect the life and
property through law enforcement and fire prevention work. Continually analyze
and evaluate operations and trends for assuring efficient and adequate fire
protection services. Maintain professional discipline in the Fire Department.
Assure that all employees are properly trained. Serve as the City's
representative in various committees and organizations relating to the
profession. Directly supervise all functions of fire protection services
through assigned personnel. Be responsible for resolving conflicts and
maintaining a harmonious relationship with the public. Be designated as the
Emergency Management Supervisor. Shall be responsible for the City's emergency
management program in accordance with title 4, chapter 8 of this Code.
   B.   Specific Duties: Such other duties as may be set by resolution or
ordinance of the City Council from time to time.
   C.   Chain Of Command: The Fire Chief shall report any and all matters
through the appropriate channel of communications, i.e., the appropriate
persons, as required by resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 2003-10, 6-17-
2003)
1-11-3: TERM OF OFFICE:
The term of office of the appointive Office of Fire Chief continues until the
next City election following his/her appointment at which the Office of the
Mayor is to be elected and until his/her successor is appointed. During such
term, the Fire Chief may be removed from office with or without cause by a
majority vote of the City Council. Any vacancy in the Office of Fire Chief by
death, resignation, removal or otherwise shall be filled by a majority vote of
the City Council as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 266.390, unless
otherwise provided by a resolution of the City Council. The Mayor may exercise
the right of veto as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 266.200 concerning any
removal from office or the filling of any vacancy. (Ord. 2003-10, 6-17-2003)
1-11-4: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Basic Compensation: Basic compensation for the Office of Fire Chief
shall include:
The initial compensation for the Office of the Fire Chief shall be set by
motion of the City Council at the selected step in the appropriate step scale.
The step scale for initial compensation shall be set by resolution of the City
Council. Such compensation shall begin upon the Fire Chief taking the oath of
office and commencing his/her duties of the office. (Ord. 2018-02, 10-16-2018)
   B.   Additional Compensation: The Fire Chief shall receive such further
compensation, longevity pay and other benefits as set forth for appointed
officers in other provisions of this Code. (Ord. 2003-10, 6-17-2003)
CHAPTER 12
RECORDS MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
1-12-1: Definitions
1-12-2: Records Management Program
1-12-3: Duties Of City Clerk
1-12-4: Records Committee
1-12-5: Custody And Control Of Records
1-12-6: Disposition Of Records
1-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the words and
terms defined herein have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section.
DIVISION: The Division of Records Management to the City Clerk's office.
DUPLICATE: Any accurate and unabridged copy of a record or series of records
which is not an original.
NONRECORD MATERIAL: Published books and pamphlets, books and pamphlets printed
by a governmental printer, worksheets used to collect or compile data after the
data has been included in a record, answer pads for a telephone or other
informal notes, stenographers' notes after the information contained therein
has been transcribed, unused forms except ballots, brochures, newsletters,
magazines, newspapers, except those portions of newspapers retained as evidence
of publication, scrapbooks and property left or deposited with an office which
would otherwise be defined as a record except that the ownership of that
property does not reside with the City.
OFFICE: An office, department, board, commission, committee, agency or any
other subdivision of the City.
ORIGINAL: An original as defined in NRS 52.205, a reproduction made pursuant to
the provisions of NRS 239.051 or any record designated by the Records Committee
to be an original. An original made pursuant to the provisions of NRS 239.051
consists of both the stored copy and the copy maintained for the use of
authorized persons.
RECORD: All documents, papers, letters, graphs, films, sound recordings,
magnetic or other tapes, hardware and software used to process electronic data,
punched cards, computer- generated printouts, audio or video discs or other
discs used to store and retrieve information, portions of newspapers received
as evidence of publication, artifacts entered as exhibits in a proceeding in
any court and any other documentary evidence, regardless of physical form or
characteristics and including all duplicates thereof, made or received pursuant
to a law or ordinance or in connection with the transaction of the official
business of any office of the City.
RECORDS COMMITTEE: The Records Committee established in Section
1-12-4 of this Chapter. (Ord. 91-3, 6-4-1991)
1-12-2: RECORDS MANAGEMENT PROGRAM:
   A.   Program Created; Administration: Pursuant to the provisions of NRS
239.125(1), the Records Management Program is hereby created in the office of
the City Clerk. The Division is administered by the City Clerk.
   B.   Scope And Intent Of Program: It is the intent of the City Council that
the Records Management Program follow accepted:
      1.   Procedure for the management of records to increase the efficiency
of the recordskeeping system and reduce the administrative costs associated
with the creation, maintenance, use retention and disposition of records; and
      2.   Standards of archival practice to ensure the preservation of records
with permanent value and maximum accessibility to records for the general
public. (Ord. 91-3, 6-4-1991)
1-12-3: DUTIES OF CITY CLERK:
The City Clerk shall:
   A.   Establish standards, procedure and techniques for the effective
management of records;
   B.   Make continuing surveys of current practices for the management of
records and recommend improvements in those practices, including the use of
space, equipment and supplies to create, maintain and store records;
   C.   Establish standards for the preparation of schedules providing for the
retention of records continuing value and for the prompt and orderly
disposition of records which no longer possess sufficient administrative,
fiscal, legal or research value to warrant their further retention;
   D.   Establish, maintain and operate a center for storing and receiving
records of the several city offices pending their disposition in a manner
prescribed by law;
   E.   Establish a unit to provide micrographics services to the several
offices of the City;
   F.   Establish a program for the management of forms and files;
   G.   Establish a program for the protection of records essential for the
continuation or re-establishment of governmental operations in the event of
natural or other disaster; and
   H.   Establish a program for the preservation and conservation of records
designated by the State librarian or the division as having a permanent value.
(Ord. 91-3, 6-4-1991)
1-12-4: RECORDS COMMITTEE:
   A.   Committee Established: A Records Committee is hereby established to be
known as the City of West Wendover Records Committee.
   B.   Composition: The City of West Wendover Records Committee shall be
composed of:
   City Attorney or City Auditor
   City Clerk
   City Manager/Engineer or Assistant Manager
   Accounts Payable Clerk
   Public Works Director
   C.   Duties: The Records Committee shall:
      1.   Approve all records retention and disposition schedules, requests
for the purchase of filing equipment or the creation of a new form or an
application for conversion to micrographics, word processing or data
processing;
      2.   Review any request for access to information which was denied by an
official to determine whether the denial was in keeping with prevailing law;
and
      3.   Review all proposals for the expansion or modification of the
Records Management Program and make recommendations to the City Council. (Ord.
91-3, 6-4-1991)
1-12-5: CUSTODY AND CONTROL OF RECORDS:
   A.   The right of custody and control of records transferred to the City
records center shall remain with the transferring office.
   B.   The rights of custody and control of accessions to the City Archives
transfer to the City Clerk at the time the records are accepted as an
accession. (Ord. 91-3, 6-4-1991)
1-12-6: DISPOSITION OF RECORDS:
Records may be disposed of only in accordance with the schedules for the
retention and disposition of records prepared by the City Clerk and approved by
the Records Committee.
   A.   Destroying Of Records:
      1.   Records to be destroyed must be shredded or burned (unless
prohibited by local ordinance).
      2.   The records administrator or a representative of the office must
supervise the destruction of all records in his care and attest that such
destruction was carried out in a method provided by law.
   B.   Retention Schedule:
      1.   The retention periods established by the retention schedule
developed under the authority of NRS 239.125 by the Nevada State Library
Division of Archives and Records shall be the minimum retention schedule for
records of the City and may be changed from time to time as new schedules are
provided by the Division of Archives and Records.
      2.   The Nevada Local Government Records Manual shall be the Records
Management Handbook for the Records Management Program of the City.
      3.   The retention periods established in the Regulations of the State
Library Division of Archives and Records shall supersede all record retention
schedules adopted by the City Council pursuant to NRS 239.125, except those
schedules which are more stringent than the periods provided for in this
regulation. (Ord. 91-3, 6-4-1991)
CHAPTER 13
COURT OF RECORD
SECTION:
1-13-1: Court Of Record
1-13-2: Practice And Proceedings
1-13-1: COURT OF RECORD:
The Municipal Court of the City of West Wendover, pursuant to NRS 5.010, is
hereby designated as a court of record and shall comply with the laws of the
State of Nevada pertaining to such designation. (Ord. 92-11, 8-4-1992)
1-13-2: PRACTICE AND PROCEEDINGS:
The practice and proceedings in the Municipal Court, including the appellate
practice and proceedings, must conform, as nearly as practicable, to the
practice and proceedings of Justice's Courts in similar cases, except as
otherwise expressly provided for by law. The Municipal Court must be treated
and considered as a Justice's Court whenever the proceedings thereof are called
into question. (Ord. 92-11, 8-4-1992)
CHAPTER 14
ELECTIONS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
1-14-1: Conducting Of City Elections
1-14-2: Elections Staggered
1-14-3: Political Parties And Nominations
1-14-4: Candidates
1-14-5: Polling Places
1-14-6: Ballots
1-14-7: Absentee Ballots And Early Voting
1-14-8: Registration
1-14-9: Notice Of Election, Sample Ballots And Voters Lists
1-14-10: Election Boards
1-14-11: Notices
1-14-12: Ballots For Ordinances And Charter Amendments
1-14-13: Watchers And Challengers
1-14-14: Voting Machines
1-14-1: CONDUCTING OF CITY ELECTIONS:
All city elections and the manner of holding the same shall be governed and
conducted in accordance with chapters 266, 293 and 293C of the Nevada Revised
Statutes, this chapter, and the laws of the state governing general elections,
so far as the same are applicable to city elections, and except as herein
provided, the rules and regulations for the conduct of primary and general
elections in all counties of the state of Nevada, issued by the department of
state, the state of Nevada pursuant to title 24, Nevada Revised Statutes, so
far as the same can be made applicable to city elections, and except as herein
provided. In those elections held at the time of state elections as provided
hereafter, the city clerk may work in cooperation with the county clerk of the
county of Elko to ensure compliance with the city clerk's duties and
responsibilities hereunder and to avoid unnecessary expense and use of
resources by the city. Only those minimum requirements of state law in
conducting city elections shall be required of any city election and any
variance therefrom shall not invalidate any city election. Regarding the
conducting of the elections, the city council and city clerk have the following
duties:
   A.   Election Returns: The election returns from any municipal election must
be filed with the city clerk, who shall immediately place such returns in a
safe or vault, and no person shall be permitted to handle, inspect or in any
manner interfere with such returns until canvassed by the city council.
   B.   Election Results To Be Sealed: The city council must meet within five
(5) days after any election and canvass the returns and declare the result. The
election returns must then be sealed and kept by the city clerk for six (6)
months, and no person shall have access thereto except on order of a court of
competent jurisdiction or by order of the city council.
   C.   Certificate Of Election Issuance: The city clerk, under his hand and
official seal, must issue to each person declared to be elected a certificate
of election. The officers so elected must qualify and enter upon the discharge
of their respective duties on the first regular meeting of the city council
next succeeding that in which the canvass of the returns was made.
   D.   Resolution Of A Tie: If any election should result in a tie, the city
council must summon the candidates who received the tie vote and determine the
tie by lot. The clerk must then issue to the winner a certificate of election.
   E.   Contest Of Election: A contested election for any municipal office must
be determined according to the law of the state regulating proceedings in
contested elections in political subdivisions.
   F.   Special Elections: Whenever the city council deems it advisable and the
applicable law or a court of competent jurisdiction so permits, the city may
hold a special election. All special elections of the city and the manner of
holding the same must be governed by this subsection and in accordance with
chapters 266, 268, 293 and 293C of the Nevada Revised Statutes or other
applicable laws, so far as the same are applicable to the city and, further,
the conducting of any special election, unless otherwise expressly provided by
law, must be in the same manner as the conducting of a general city election so
far as the same procedures may reasonably be made applicable thereto. (Ord.
2010-01, 2-16-2010)
1-14-2: ELECTIONS STAGGERED:
   A.   Five Member Council: The city hereby ordains that on the first Tuesday
after the first Monday in November 2006, and each successive four (4) year
interval thereafter, at a general election to be held for that purpose, there
shall be elected at large by the qualified voters of the city, councilmen for
council seat 1 (formerly known as ward 1 council), council seat 2 (formerly
known as ward 2 council) and council seat 5 (formerly known as ward 5 council).
Also, on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November 2008, there shall
be elected by the qualified voters of the city, at a general election to be
held for that purpose and at each successive interval of four (4) years
thereafter, a councilman from council seat 3 (formerly known as ward 3),
council seat 4 (formerly known as ward 4) and a mayor who shall serve a four
(4) year term.
   B.   Staggering And Term: Except as otherwise required by the initial
elections set forth herein, it is the intent of this chapter that each elective
officer shall hold office for a period of four (4) years and until his or her
successor has been elected and qualified. (Ord. 2010-01, 2-16-2010)
1-14-3: POLITICAL PARTIES AND NOMINATIONS:
The political parties and nomination provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes
293C.175 to 293C.190, inclusive, shall not be applicable to city elections.
(Ord. 2010-01, 2-16-2010)
1-14-4: CANDIDATES:
A candidate for any office to be voted for at large at a general city election
shall file an affidavit of candidacy with the city clerk during regular
business hours. The city clerk must charge and collect from each candidate and
each candidate shall pay to the city clerk, at the time of filing of the
affidavit of candidacy, a filing fee as set by resolution of the city council.
All filing fees so collected by the city clerk must be deposited to the credit
of the general fund of the city. No person shall be deemed a candidate for
office at such election or be entitled to have his name placed upon the
official ballot unless such person has filed such affidavit of candidacy and
paid the filing fee as set by the city council herein required not later than
five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the final day on which the city clerk may accept
such affidavit of candidacy. The city clerk may accept and file affidavits of
candidacy not earlier than the first Monday in March of the year in which the
election is to be held nor later than the second Friday after the first Monday
in March.
The affidavit of candidacy required to be filed hereby must be in substantially
the following form:
   AFFIDAVIT OF CANDIDACY OF
                                             
FOR THE OFFICE OF                                -          YEAR TERM
STATE OF NEVADA   )
            )ss
COUNTY OF ELKO      )
For the purpose of having my name placed on the official ballot as a candidate
for the office of                , I, the undersigned                       ,
do solemnly swear (or affirm) under penalty of perjury that the assertions of
this Affidavit of Candidacy are true; that I reside at No.                   
Street, in the City of West Wendover, (mailing address, if different), County
of Elko, State of Nevada; that I am a qualified elector within the City of West
Wendover; that my actual, as distinguished from constructive residence in the
City of West Wendover began on a date at least thirty (30) days immediately
preceding the date of the close of filing of declaration of candidacy for this
office; that I will not knowingly violate any election law or any law defining
and prohibiting corrupt and fraudulent practice in campaigns and elections in
this State; that I will qualify for the office if elected thereto; and my name
shall appear on all ballots as here designated.
   Print Designation of Name to Appear on Ballots
Subscribed and sworn to before me this            day of                 ,
20    .
                                                    
   NOTARY PUBLIC
                                                    
   Signature of Candidate for Office
Candidates for mayor must further qualify for office as required under Nevada
Revised Statutes 266.170. Candidates for city council must further qualify as
required under Nevada Revised Statutes 266.215. (Ord. 2010-01, 2-16-2010)
1-14-5: POLLING PLACES:
The city clerk, with the approval of the city council, must designate the
polling place or places for each ward for such election. Such designations may
be made in accordance with the applicable provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes
chapter 293C, and notice of the polling places shall be made with the mailing
of the sample ballots as hereafter provided. (Ord. 2010-01, 2-16-2010)
1-14-6: BALLOTS:
Official general city election ballots must contain the full names of
candidates grouped alphabetically under the title and length of term of the
office for which such candidates file. In years in which the mayor will be
elected, the candidates for mayor must be listed first followed by the
candidates for city council. At the top of the general election ballots shall
be printed "OFFICIAL BALLOT", under that shall be printed "WEST WENDOVER
GENERAL ELECTION", and under that must be printed the date of the election. All
other details relating to ballots must be in accordance with the laws of the
state of Nevada which govern city general elections as set forth in Nevada
Revised Statutes 293.345 and chapter 293C, so far as the same may be
applicable, and the rules and regulations, for the conduct of primary and
general elections, as amended from time to time, issued by the department of
state of the state of Nevada, so far as the same may be applicable. (Ord. 2010-
01, 2-16-2010)
1-14-7: ABSENTEE BALLOTS AND EARLY VOTING:
Voting by absentee ballot and early voting by personal appearance must be
conducted as prescribed by the laws of the state of Nevada in effect at the
time of such voting as set forth in Nevada Revised Statutes chapters 293 and
293C, so far as such laws are applicable to city elections. (Ord. 2010-01, 2-
16-2010)
1-14-8: REGISTRATION:
Every person who resides within the exterior boundaries of the city at the time
of holding any city election for the mayor, and whose name appears upon the
official register of voters in and for the city, must have the right to vote
for the mayor at each such election as provided for in Nevada Revised Statutes
293C, whether special, primary or general, and on all questions that may be
submitted to the people at any such primary, general or special city election.
Every person who resides within the city at the time of holding any city
election concerning the councilman, and whose name appears on the official
register, must have the right to vote for one candidate for each elective
office to be filled in such election.
Registration of the electors or voters in the city must be accomplished in the
manner provided in Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 293C, so far as the same can
be made applicable and which are not inconsistent herewith. Registration must
close at the time specified in Nevada Revised Statutes 293C.527 for the close
of registration for a general election. (Ord. 2010-01, 2-16-2010)
1-14-9: NOTICE OF ELECTION, SAMPLE BALLOTS AND VOTERS LISTS:
The city clerk must provide and publish a notice of election as required by
Nevada Revised Statutes 293C.187. Unless otherwise ordered by the city council,
no list of electors registered to vote at any city election need be published.
The city clerk must further, at least ten (10) days before any election, cause
to be mailed to each registered voter in the city a sample ballot with a notice
informing the voter of the location of his polling place. If the location of
the polling place has changed since the last election:
   A.   The city clerk must mail a notice of the change to each registered
voter in the city not sooner than ten (10) days before mailing the sample
ballots; or
   B.   The sample ballot must also include a notice in at least 10-point bold
type immediately above the location which states:
NOTICE: THE LOCATION OF YOUR POLLING PLACE HAS CHANGED SINCE THE LAST ELECTION.
All other details relating to sample ballots must be governed by Nevada Revised
Statutes 293C.530, so far as the same may be applicable. (Ord. 2010-01, 2-16-
2010)
1-14-10: ELECTION BOARDS:
The details relating to election boards must be governed by Nevada Revised
Statutes 293C.220 to 293C.250, inclusive, so far as the same may be applicable.
The city clerk must appoint two (2) election boards and designate one of them
the voting board and the other the counting board, which boards must perform
their respective duties as required by law. (Ord. 2010-01, 2-16-2010)
1-14-11: NOTICES:
Notice of close of registration must be given by the city clerk at the time and
in the manner provided for in Nevada Revised Statutes 293C.527. The city clerk
must include in the notice of close of registration given pursuant to Nevada
Revised Statutes 293C.527 a statement indicating the last date and time on
which persons may file affidavits of candidacy and pay the filing fee for such
election specified in section
1-14-4 of this chapter. The city clerk must publish in a newspaper having a
general circulation in the city a copy of the proclamation by the mayor of the
city proclaiming such election pursuant to this chapter. Such copy of the
proclamation must be published once a week for four (4) consecutive weeks, the
first publication thereof to be made within one week from the date of such
proclamation. The city clerk must post a copy of such proclamation in the
office of the city clerk within one week from the date of such proclamation and
must further post a copy of the notice of close of registration to be given
pursuant hereto in the office of the city clerk within one week of the date of
first publication of such notice of close of registration.
The proclamation signed by the mayor must state: a) that the city council has
ordered the election by a specified resolution; b) the date of the election; c)
the offices to be elected; d) the time when the polling places shall be open;
e) the date of the close of registration of qualified voters; f) the place of
registration of the voters; g) the qualifications of each office to be elected;
h) provisions for qualified voters with disabilities; and i) the affidavit of
candidacy requirement. (Ord. 2010-01, 2-16-2010)
1-14-12: BALLOTS FOR ORDINANCES AND CHARTER AMENDMENTS:
An ordinance or charter amendment to be voted on in the city must be presented
for voting by ballot title. The ballot title of a measure may differ from its
legal title and shall be a clear, concise statement describing the substance of
the measure without argument or prejudice. Below the ballot title shall appear
the following question: "Shall the above- described (ordinance) (amendment) be
adopted?". The ballot or voting machine or device shall be so marked as to
indicate clearly in what manner the voter may cast his vote, either for or
against the ordinance or amendment. (Ord. 2010-01, 2-16-2010)
1-14-13: WATCHERS AND CHALLENGERS:
A candidate is entitled upon written application to the election authorities at
least five (5) days before the election to appoint two (2) persons to represent
him as watchers and challengers at each polling place where voters may cast
their ballots for him. A person so appointed has all the rights and privileges
prescribed by watchers and challengers under the election laws of this state.
The watchers and challengers may exercise their rights throughout the voting
and until the ballots have been counted. (Ord. 2010-01, 2-16-2010)
1-14-14: VOTING MACHINES:
The city council may provide for the use of mechanical or other devices for
voting or counting the votes not inconsistent with laws or regulations of the
secretary of state. (Ord. 2010-01, 2-16-2010)
CHAPTER 15
DEPUTY APPOINTIVE OFFICERS
SECTION:
1-15-1: Appointment Of Deputy And Eligibility
1-15-2: Procedure Of Appointment
1-15-3: Term Of Office
1-15-4: Compensation
1-15-1: APPOINTMENT OF DEPUTY AND ELIGIBILITY:
All appointive officers of the city whose office is established by state law or
ordinance, except the city attorney and city manager, are hereby authorized to
appoint a deputy or deputies who shall have the same powers as their
principals, subject to the conditions set forth hereafter. A deputy appointed
pursuant to this section shall have no authority to appoint subdeputies. Each
deputy shall be required to have the same eligibility for office as required of
his or her principal. (Ord. 95-3A, 5-2-1995; amd. Ord. 03-14, 12-2-2003)
1-15-2: PROCEDURE OF APPOINTMENT:
Each appointive officer desiring to appoint a deputy or deputies shall submit a
written request for such appointment to the city manager. The request shall
state the reasons for such request, whether or not the principal is required to
have a bond by state law (which may also be required of the deputy), the
proposed individual to be appointed, the duties proposed for such deputy, and
whether or not such individual has indicated his or her desire to accept such
appointment. The city manager shall then make a recommendation, in writing, to
approve or deny the request and submit the request and recommendation to the
city council for action. The council shall establish the duties and powers of
the deputy by resolution, which may be equal to, but not exceed, the duties and
powers of the principal. (Ord. 95-3A, 5-2-1995)
1-15-3: TERM OF OFFICE:
A deputy officer shall serve at the pleasure of the city council and principal
of the office which he or she serves. At any time, the city council, by a
majority vote, may remove a deputy or abolish a deputy's office for any cause
whatsoever. In addition, the principal of any officer served by a deputy,
whether or not such officer appointed the deputy in the first instance, may
remove the deputy from office for any cause whatsoever. Any deputy proposed to
be appointed to replace a deputy removed from office shall first receive a
recommendation of approval or denial from the city manager and approval by a
majority vote of the city council. (Ord. 95-3A, 5-2-1995)
1-15-4: COMPENSATION:
A deputy appointive officer shall not receive compensation, vacation benefits,
sick/personal leave, healthcare insurance, SIIS benefits or retirement benefits
from the city except that the deputy may receive his or her normal compensation
and employment benefits if she or he is otherwise employed by the city for the
time spent in performing duties as a deputy and, further, may receive overtime
compensation for overtime hours in the exercise of his or her duties as a
deputy where appropriate. (Ord. 95-3A, 5-2-1995)
CHAPTER 16
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
SECTION:
1-16-1: Office Created
1-16-2: Duties
1-16-3: Term Of Office
1-16-4: Compensation
1-16-1: OFFICE CREATED:
The appointed Office of Chief Financial Officer is hereby established. The
Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council, shall appoint the Chief
Financial Officer as provided for in Nevada Revised Statutes 266.395. (Ord.
2003-07, 6-17-2003)
1-16-2: DUTIES:
   A.   General Duties: The Chief Financial Officer shall prepare and
administer the City budget, City audit, City accounts, City claims and
recordkeeping of the same.
   B.   Specific Duties: Such other duties as may be set by resolution or
ordinance of the City Council from time to time.
   C.   Chain Of Command: The Chief Financial Officer shall report any and all
matters through the appropriate channel of communications, i.e., the
appropriate persons, as required by resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 2003-
07, 6-17-2003)
1-16-3: TERM OF OFFICE:
The term of office of the appointive Office of Chief Financial Officer
continues until the next City election following his/her appointment at which
the Office of the Mayor is to be elected and until his/her successor is
appointed. During such term, the Chief Financial Officer may be removed from
office with or without cause by a majority vote of the City Council. Any
vacancy in the Office of Chief Financial Officer by death, resignation, removal
or otherwise shall be filled by a majority vote of the City Council as provided
in Nevada Revised Statutes 266.390, unless otherwise provided by a resolution
of the City Council. The Mayor may exercise the right of veto as provided in
Nevada Revised Statutes 266.200 concerning any removal from office or the
filling of any vacancy. (Ord. 2003-07, 6-17-2003)
1-16-4: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Basic Compensation: Basic compensation for the Office of Chief
Financial Officer shall include:
The initial compensation for the Office of the Chief Financial Officer shall be
set by motion of the City Council at the selected step in the appropriate step
scale. The step scale for initial compensation shall be set by resolution of
the City Council. Such compensation shall begin upon the Chief Financial
Officer taking the oath of office and commencing his/her duties of the office.
(Ord. 2018-02, 10-16-2018)
   B.   Additional Compensation: The Chief Financial Officer shall receive such
further compensation, longevity pay and other benefits as set forth for
appointed officers in other provisions of this Code. (Ord. 2003-07, 6-17-2003)
CHAPTER 17
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR
SECTION:
1-17-1: Office Created
1-17-2: Duties
1-17-3: Term Of Office
1-17-4: Compensation
1-17-1: OFFICE CREATED:
The appointed Office of Public Works Director is hereby established. The Mayor,
with the advice and consent of the City Council, shall appoint the Public Works
Director as provided for in Nevada Revised Statutes 266.395. (Ord. 2003-09, 6-
17-2003)
1-17-2: DUTIES:
   A.   General Duties: The Public Works Director shall maintain all City
infrastructure in a sound condition. This infrastructure includes, but is not
limited to, streets, curbs, gutters, water and sewer lines, water reclamation
facility, landfill facility, compost facility, buildings and equipment.
   B.   Specific Duties: Such other duties as may be set by resolution or
ordinance of the City Council from time to time.
   C.   Chain Of Command: The Public Works Director shall report any and all
matters through the appropriate channel of communications, i.e., the
appropriate persons, as required by resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 2005-
04, 12-20-2005)
1-17-3: TERM OF OFFICE:
The term of office of the appointive Office of Public Works Director continues
until the next City election following his/her appointment at which the Office
of the Mayor is to be elected and until his/her successor is appointed. During
such term, the Public Works Director may be removed from office with or without
cause by a majority vote of the City Council. Any vacancy in the Office of
Public Works Director by death, resignation, removal or otherwise shall be
filled by a majority vote of the City Council as provided in Nevada Revised
Statutes 266.390, unless otherwise provided by a resolution of the City
Council. The Mayor may exercise the right of veto as provided in Nevada Revised
Statutes 266.200 concerning any removal from office or the filling of any
vacancy. (Ord. 2003-09, 6-17-2003)
1-17-4: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Basic Compensation: Basic compensation for the Office of Public Works
Director shall include:
The initial compensation for the Office of the Public Works Director shall be
set by motion of the City Council at the selected step in the appropriate step
scale. The step scale for initial compensation shall be set by resolution of
the City Council. Such compensation shall begin upon the Public Works Director
taking the oath of office and commencing his/her duties of the office. (Ord.
2018-02, 10-16-2018)
   B.   Additional Compensation: The Public Works Director shall receive such
further compensation, longevity pay and other benefits as set forth for
appointed officers in other provisions of this Code. (Ord. 2003-09, 6-17-2003)
CHAPTER 18
ADMINISTRATIVE ASSESSMENT FEE FOR COURT FACILITIES
SECTION:
1-18-1: Short Title
1-18-2: Duration
1-18-3: Administrative Assessment
1-18-4: Exceptions
1-18-5: Addition To Fine
1-18-6: Installments
1-18-7: Special Revenue Fund
1-18-8: Regional Justice Center
1-18-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the WEST WENDOVER
ADMINISTRATIVE FEE FOR COURT FACILITIES CODE. (Ord. 97-15, 10-7-1997)
1-18-2: DURATION:
This Chapter shall be in effect for twenty five (25) years after its effective
date. The provisions of this Chapter do not apply to offenses committed before
July 1, 1997. (Ord. 97-15, 10-7-1997)
1-18-3: ADMINISTRATIVE ASSESSMENT:
Whenever a defendant pleads guilty or guilty but mentally ill, or no contest or
is found guilty of a misdemeanor or violation of any Municipal ordinance, the
Municipal judge shall include in the sentence the sum of ten dollars ($10.00)
for each such misdemeanor or violation as an administrative assessment for the
provision of court facilities and render a judgment against the defendant for
the assessment. (Ord. 97-15, 10-7-1997)
1-18-4: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of Section
1-18-3 of this Chapter do not apply to:
   A.   An ordinance regulating metered parking; or
   B.   An ordinance that is specifically designated as imposing a civil
penalty or liability pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 244.3575 or 268.019.
(Ord. 97-15, 10-7-1997)
1-18-5: ADDITION TO FINE:
The money collected for an administrative assessment for the provision of court
facilities must not be deducted from the fine imposed by the justice or judge
but must be taxed against the defendant in addition to the fine. The money
collected for such an administrative assessment must be stated separately on
the court's docket and must be included in the amount posted for bail. If the
defendant is found not guilty or the charges are dismissed, the money deposited
with the court must be returned to the defendant. If the judge cancels a fine
because the fine has been determined to be uncollectible, any balance of the
fine and the administrative assessment remaining unpaid shall be deemed to be
uncollectible and the defendant is not required to pay it. If a fine is
determined to be uncollectible, the defendant is not entitled to a refund of
the fine or administrative assessment he has not paid and the judge shall not
recalculate the administrative assessment. (Ord. 97-15, 10-7-1997)
1-18-6: INSTALLMENTS:
If the judge permits the fine and administrative assessment for the provision
of court facilities to be paid in installments, the payments must be applied in
the following order:
   A.   To pay the unpaid balance of an administrative assessment imposed
pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 176.059;
   B.   To pay the unpaid balance of an administrative assessment for the
provision of court facilities pursuant to this Section; and
   C.   To pay the fine. (Ord. 97-15, 10-7-1997)
1-18-7: SPECIAL REVENUE FUND:
The money collected for administrative assessments for the provision of court
facilities in Municipal courts must be paid by the clerk of the court to the
City Treasurer on or before the fifth day of each month for the preceding
month. The City Treasurer shall deposit the money received in a special revenue
fund. The City may use the money in the special revenue fund only to:
   A.   Acquire land on which to construct additional facilities for the
Municipal courts or a regional justice center that includes the Municipal
courts.
   B.   Construct or acquire additional facilities for the Municipal courts or
regional justice center that includes the Municipal courts.
   C.   Renovate or remodel existing facilities for the Municipal courts.
   D.   Acquire furniture, fixtures and equipment necessitated by the
construction or acquisition of additional facilities or the renovation of an
existing facility for the Municipal courts or a regional justice center that
includes the Municipal courts. This subsection does not authorize the
expenditure of money from the fund for furniture, fixtures or equipment for
judicial chambers.
   E.   Acquire advanced technology for use in the additional or renovated
facilities.
   F.   Pay debt service on any bonds issued pursuant to subsection 3 of Nevada
Revised Statutes 350.020 for the acquisition of land or facilities or the
construction or renovation of facilities for the Municipal courts or a regional
justice center that includes the Municipal courts.
Any money remaining in the special revenue fund after five (5) fiscal years
must be deposited in the Municipal General Fund for the continued maintenance
of court facilities if it has not been committed for expenditure pursuant to a
plan for the construction or acquisition of court facilities or improvements to
court facilities. The City Treasurer shall provide, upon request by a Municipal
court, monthly reports of the revenue credited to and expenditures made from
the special revenue fund. (Ord. 97-15, 10-7-1997)
1-18-8: REGIONAL JUSTICE CENTER:
If money collected pursuant to this Chapter is to be used to acquire land on
which to construct a regional justice center, to construct a regional justice
center or to pay debt service on bonds issued for these purposes, the County
and the participating cities shall, by interlocal agreement, determine such
issues as the size of the regional justice center, the manner in which the
center will be used and the apportionment of fiscal responsibility for the
center. (Ord. 97-15, 10-7-1997)
CHAPTER 19
UTILITIES DIRECTOR
SECTION:
1-19-1: Office Created
1-19-2: Term
1-19-3: Duties
1-19-4: Compensation
1-19-1: OFFICE CREATED:
The City Council does hereby create an appointive office of the City to be
known as Utilities Director. (Ord. 99-12, 9-7-1999)
1-19-2: TERM:
The Utilities Director shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the City Council and shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and
the City Council, the term of office being until the City election next
following his appointment and until his successor is appointed and qualified,
unless sooner removed. The Utilities Director may be removed from office with
or without cause by the Mayor with the concurrence of a majority of the members
of the City Council or by unanimous resolution of all members of the Council.
(Ord. 99-12, 9-7-1999)
1-19-3: DUTIES:
The Utilities Director shall:
   A.   General Duties: Act as the administrative officer of the reuse, compost
facility, landfill and water operations.
   B.   Specific Duties: Perform such other duties as may be set by resolution
or ordinance by the City Council from time to time.
   C.   Chain Of Command: Report any and all matters through the appropriate
channel of communication; i.e., the appropriate persons, as required by
resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 99-12, 9-7-1999)
1-19-4: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Basic Compensation: During the term of office, the Utilities Director
shall receive basic compensation at an annual rate of forty seven thousand
dollars ($47,000.00) for each year of the term.
   B.   Vacation/Personal Leave: Vacation/personal leave shall be as follows:
 
1. Years Of Continuous Service  Time Earned Per Pay Period
   0–5 years                  20 days
   5 years, less than 10 years  26 days
   10 years, less than 15 years 28 days
   15 years or more             31 days
 
      2.   Starting from July 1 of the year in which he/she is appointed, the
officer will have eighteen (18) months to use his/her vacation/personal leave.
At that time any unused portion will be lost.
      3.   An officer who has more than five (5) years of continuous service
shall have the option to "cash out" a maximum of five (5) days of his/her
unused vacation at the time of expiration of the eighteen (18) month period.
   C.   Sick Leave: Sick leave shall accrue at 3.07 hours per pay period. There
is no limit to the number of sick leave hours which may accrue; however, upon
leaving office, the officer may only "cash out" accrued sick leave at the rate
of one percent (1%) for each year of service. For example, a ten (10) year
officer departing from the City is entitled to pay for ten percent (10%) of
his/her accrued and unused sick leave. All other practices and policies
concerning sick leave for employees of the City shall be applicable where not
inconsistent herewith.
   D.   Professional Dues And Fees: All professional dues and fees which are
required of the Utilities Director or which are approved by the City Council
shall be paid for by the City. To the extent allowed by law or the organization
to be joined, such memberships in professional or service organizations shall
be in the name of the City.
   E.   Health Care Insurance And Nevada State Industrial Insurance System
Benefits: The Utilities Director shall be covered by Nevada State Industrial
Insurance System coverage and, in addition thereto, the City shall provide
health care insurance for the officers even during times of leaves of absence
and based upon the following:
      1.   Such leaves are previously approved by the City Council.
      2.   All other sources of accrued leave have been utilized first.
      3.   Such leave does not exceed a period of twelve (12) weeks.
   F.   Retirement: The Utilities Director shall be covered by the Nevada State
Public Employees Retirement System, as applicable pursuant to Nevada Revised
Statutes.
   G.   Severance Pay: Severance pay will be accrued at a rate of five (5) days
for every six (6) months of employed services. Regardless of the number of
terms served, the maximum number of weeks to be accrued is twelve (12) weeks
and the rate of pay for such accrual shall be based upon the current salary at
the time of severance. Except as may be allowed by a majority vote of the City
Council in cases of extreme illness or mitigating personal reasons beyond an
employee's control, severance pay is not payable for a voluntary termination of
employment with the City or a termination of employment with the City for
misconduct, whether voluntary or involuntary. Further, severance pay shall not
be payable if an officer leaves a City office position as a result of voluntary
resignation, termination or abolishment of office and accepts a different City
office position. (Ord. 99-12, 9-7-1999)
CHAPTER 20
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR/ASSISTANT CITY MANAGER
SECTION:
1-20-1: Office Created
1-20-2: Term
1-20-3: Duties
1-20-4: Compensation
1-20-1: OFFICE CREATED:
The City Council does hereby create an appointive office of the City to be
known as Community Development Director/Assistant City Manager. (Ord. 01-08, 7-
3-2001)
1-20-2: TERM:
The Community Development Director/Assistant City Manager shall be appointed by
the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council and shall serve at
the pleasure of the Mayor and the City Council, the term of office being until
the City election next following his appointment and until his successor is
appointed and qualified, unless sooner removed. The Community Development
Director/Assistant City Manager may be removed from office with or without
cause by the Mayor with the concurrence of a majority of the members of the
City Council or by unanimous resolution of all members of the Council. (Ord.
01-08, 7-3-2001)
1-20-3: DUTIES:
The Community Development Director/Assistant City Manager shall:
   A.   General Duties: Act as Administrative Officer of the programs and serve
as principal staff for planning, zoning, land use and development matters and
act as City Manager in his absence or disqualification.
   B.   Specific Duties: Perform such other duties as may be set by resolution
or ordinance by the City Council from time to time.
   C.   Chain Of Command: Report any and all matters throughout the appropriate
channel of communication; i.e., the appropriate persons, as required by
resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 01-08, 7-3-2001)
1-20-4: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Basic Compensation: Basic compensation for the Office of Community
Development Director/Assistant City Manager shall include:
The initial compensation for the Office of the Community Development Director/
Assistant City Manager shall be set by motion of the City Council at the
selected step in the appropriate step scale. The step scale for initial
compensation shall be set by resolution of the City Council. Such compensation
shall begin upon the Community Development Director/Assistant City Manager
taking the oath of office and commencing his/her duties of the office.
   B.   Additional Compensation: The Community Development Director/Assistant
City Manager shall receive such further compensation, longevity pay and other
benefits as set forth for appointed officers in other provisions of this Code.
(Ord. 2018-02, 10-16-2018)
CHAPTER 21
APPOINTIVE OFFICES ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS
SECTION:
1-21-1: Appointive Office Additional Compensation
1-21-2: Leaves
1-21-3: Other Benefits
1-21-4: Waiver Of Compensation
1-21-1: APPOINTIVE OFFICE ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION:
   A.   In addition to the provisions of such chapters of this title which
provide for appointive officers and their compensation, the following
additional compensation and benefits shall be provided to such appointed
offices and shall be retroactive to begin on July 1, 2003:
      1.   The officer shall receive a zero percent (0%) to ten percent (10%)
wage adjustment to his/her existing salary as established by motion of the city
council each July 1.
      2.   The officer may be awarded a merit increase to his/her existing
salary of one percent (1%) to five percent (5%) for satisfactory performance or
better, according to the officer's annual evaluation, as evaluated and
determined by the city council. Such increase, if any, shall begin at the next
scheduled pay period following the evaluation. The evaluation shall be
performed on or near the officer's original hire date each year. "Original hire
date" shall mean the most recent date at which the officer became a full time
city employee in any capacity.
      3.   On the annual anniversary of the officer's original hire date
(computed as set forth above), the city shall grant longevity pay for active
officers who have completed five (5) years of continuous full time city
employment in any capacity, in the amount of one hundred forty dollars
($140.00) per year of continuous service beginning with the first qualifying
year (fifth completed year) of service and for each subsequent year of
continuous service thereafter. In the event that the officer is no longer
employed with the city for any reason on the annual anniversary of the
officer's original hire date, no longevity pay shall be paid or due to the
officer. (Ord. 2003-12, 7-1-2003)
      4.   This chapter shall not be applicable to the office of the city
attorney and any office not specifically created as an appointive office within
this title. (Ord. 2003-12, 7-1-2003; amd. Ord. 03-14, 12-2-2003)
1-21-2: LEAVES:
   A.   Vacation/Personal Leave: Vacation/personal leave shall be as follows:
 
1. Years Of Continuous Service  Time Earned Per Year
   0–5 years                  20 days
   5 years, less than 10 years  26 days
   10 years, less than 15 years 32 days
   15 years or more             38 days
 
      2.   Starting from July 1 of each year, the officer will have eighteen
(18) months to use his/her vacation/personal leave. After that time, any unused
portion shall be lost, except as identified in subsection A3 of this section.
      3.   An officer who has more than five (5) years of continuous service
shall have the option to "cash out" fifty percent (50%) of his/her remaining
vacation/personal leave at the time of expiration of the eighteen (18) month
period.
      4.   "Years of continuous service" shall include all time for which the
officer has been continuously employed in full time service with the city from
his/her most recent original hire date (computed as previously set forth
above).
   B.   Sick Leave: Sick leave shall accrue at 3.08 hours per standard city pay
period of which there are twenty six (26) pay periods per year. A new officer
may carry over any city sick leave to which the officer was entitled as an
employee at the time the officer takes office. There is no limit to the number
of sick leave hours which may accrue; however, upon leaving office, the officer
may only be paid for accrued unused sick leave at a rate of two percent (2%)
for each year of service. For example, a ten (10) year officer departing from
the city is entitled to pay for twenty percent (20%) of his/her accrued and
unused sick leave. All other practices and policies concerning sick leave for
employees of the city shall be applicable where they are not inconsistent
herewith. (Ord. 2003-12, 7-1-2003)
1-21-3: OTHER BENEFITS:
   A.   Professional Dues And Fees: All professional dues and fees which are
required of the office and those which are otherwise approved by the city
council shall be paid for by the city. To the extent allowed by law or the
organization to be joined, such memberships in professional or service
organizations shall be in the name of the city.
   B.   Healthcare Insurance And Nevada State Industrial Insurance System
Benefits: The officer shall be covered by Nevada state industrial insurance
system coverage and, in addition thereto, the city shall provide healthcare
insurance for the officers even during times of leave of absence, based on the
following:
      1.   Such leaves are previously approved by the city council;
      2.   All other sources of accrued leave have been utilized first; and
      3.   Such leave does not exceed a period of twelve (12) weeks.
   C.   Retirement: The officer shall be covered by the Nevada state public
employees retirement system, as applicable pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes.
   D.   Severance Pay: Severance pay will be accrued at a rate of two and one-
half (21/2) days for every six (6) months of continuous full time city
employment from the date of the officer's most recent original hire date
(computed as previously set forth above). A maximum number of sixty five (65)
days may be accrued. Severance pay is not payable for a termination of
employment with the city for misconduct as determined by the city council, for
being found guilty of an illegal act or for voluntary termination. (Ord. 2003-
12, 7-1-2003)
1-21-4: WAIVER OF COMPENSATION:
An appointed officer may waive any or all compensation provided by ordinance by
providing a written waiver specifying the compensation waived and period for
which the waiver exists. (Ord. 2011-05, 7-5-2011)
CHAPTER 22
BUILDING OFFICIAL
SECTION:
1-22-1: Office Created
1-22-2: Duties
1-22-3: Term Of Office
1-22-4: Compensation
1-22-1: OFFICE CREATED:
The appointed office of building official is hereby established. The mayor,
with the advice and consent of the city council, shall appoint the building
official as provided for in Nevada Revised Statutes 266.395. (Ord. 2005-03, 12-
20-2005)
1-22-2: DUTIES:
   A.   General Duties: The building official shall perform all duties required
of the building official as set forth elsewhere in this code. As the building
official, he/she shall review all building plans for city zoning and code
conformance as well as conformance with the applicable building code adopted by
the city and related codes and inspect all construction projects within the
city to ensure construction conformance with such codes.
   B.   Specific Duties: Such other duties as may be set by resolution or
ordinance of the city council from time to time.
   C.   Chain Of Command: The building official shall report any and all
matters through the appropriate channel of communications, i.e., the
appropriate persons, as required by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 2005-
03, 12-20-2005)
1-22-3: TERM OF OFFICE:
The term of office of the appointive office of building official continues
until the next city election following his/her appointment at which the office
of the mayor is to be elected and until his/her successor is appointed. During
such term, the building official may be removed from office with or without
cause by a majority vote of the city council. Any vacancy in the office of
building official by death, resignation, removal or otherwise shall be filled
by a majority vote of the city council as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes
266.390, unless otherwise provided by a resolution of the city council. The
mayor may exercise the right of veto as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes
266.200 concerning any removal from office or the filling of any vacancy. (Ord.
2005-03, 12-20-2005)
1-22-4: COMPENSATION:
The office of building official is an uncompensated position. (Ord. 2005-03,
12-20-2005)
CHAPTER 23
FINGERPRINT SUBMISSION CODE
SECTION:
1-23-1: Title
1-23-2: Investigations Required
1-23-3: National Background Check Authorized
1-23-4: Enabling State Law
1-23-5: Sets Of Prints
1-23-6: Transmission Of Prints
1-23-7: Private And Public Entity Investigations
1-23-8: Fitness Determinations
1-23-9: Subject Copy
1-23-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as FINGERPRINT SUBMISSION CODE.
(Ord. 2009-02, 2-3-2009)
1-23-2: INVESTIGATIONS REQUIRED:
The council may set forth in the appropriate portion of this code or by
resolution any nonemployment required fingerprint based background
investigation requirements as may be permissible under applicable law. Wherever
fingerprint based background investigation requirements are found to exist,
they are deemed to be mandatory unless specifically waived by the council or,
if so authorized, the city manager. Without limitation, fingerprint based
background investigations are authorized for applications for peddlers' and
solicitors' licenses, taxicab business licensing, brothel licenses and work
cards, sexually oriented business licenses, accessory sexually oriented
business licenses, sexually oriented business and escort work cards, gaming
licenses, bar/gaming/taxi work cards, armed security licensing, liquor
licensing, and general business licenses. (Ord. 2011-01, 2-1-2011)
1-23-3: NATIONAL BACKGROUND CHECK AUTHORIZED:
In those instances of required fingerprint based investigations authorized by
this chapter, a national criminal fingerprint based background check by the
federal bureau of investigation (FBI) is authorized hereby. In addition, the
subject of the fingerprint based investigation shall comply with any
authorization or release required by the FBI in furtherance of any such
investigation. In the event of any conflict herewith, any federal laws,
policies or regulations concerning fingerprint investigations shall be
controlling and the FBI or its representative may refuse to process any
requests hereunder based upon such grounds. When required, fingerprint requests
will be submitted to the state identification bureau and thereafter forwarded
to the FBI for a national criminal history check. (Ord. 2009-02, 2-3-2009)
1-23-4: ENABLING STATE LAW:
Nevada Revised Statutes 239B.010(1)(a) authorizes the city to request and
receive from the FBI information on the background and personal history of an
individual who has applied to it for a license as required by any statute or
local ordinance. (Ord. 2009-02, 2-3-2009)
1-23-5: SETS OF PRINTS:
An applicant, volunteer or other person seeking to engage in an activity or
status requiring a fingerprint based background investigation by any city code
or resolution of the city council, shall submit, if required, two (2) sets of
his/her fingerprints taken by the Elko County sheriff's department or the West
Wendover police department to be delivered to the requesting officer of the
city or the police department of the city. (Ord. 2011-01, 2-1-2011)
1-23-6: TRANSMISSION OF PRINTS:
Upon receipt of the fingerprints and the appropriate fees, the police
department will transmit both sets of fingerprints and appropriate fees to the
department of public safety of the state of Nevada. The department of public
safety of the state of Nevada will compare the subject's fingerprints against
its criminal file for disqualifying conduct and, if necessary, submit the
fingerprints to the FBI for a comparison with nationwide records. The results
of the FBI will be returned to the department of public safety of the state of
Nevada, which will disseminate the state and national results to the police
department of the city. (Ord. 2009-02, 2-3-2009)
1-23-7: PRIVATE AND PUBLIC ENTITY INVESTIGATIONS:
If an employer or organization is a private entity and the city code or council
permits or requires city police department determinations, the police
department will render a fitness determination based upon the results of the
criminal background check and communicate its fitness determination to such
private employer or organization. If an employer or organization is a public
entity, the police department will: a) render a fitness determination based
upon the results of the criminal background check and communicate its fitness
determination to such public entity or b) disseminate the results of the
criminal background check to the proper city department or entity for a fitness
determination. (Ord. 2009-02, 2-3-2009)
1-23-8: FITNESS DETERMINATIONS:
In rendering a fitness determination, the police department or appropriate city
department will decide whether the investigation subject has been convicted of:
a) a crime which bears upon his/her ability or fitness to serve in that
capacity; b) any felony or misdemeanor which involved force or the threat of
force, controlled substances, or was a sex related offense; or c) enumerated
disqualifiers. (Ord. 2009-02, 2-3-2009)
1-23-9: SUBJECT COPY:
A record investigation subject may request and receive a copy of his/her
criminal history record information from the police department or appropriate
city department, except as otherwise provided by law. Should the record
investigation subject seek to amend or correct his/her record, he/she must
comply with the requirements of Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 179A. (Ord.
2009-02, 2-3-2009)
CHAPTER 24
WHISTLE BLOWER PROTECTION
SECTION:
1-24-1: Definitions
1-24-2: Appointment And Authority Of Hearing Officer
1-24-3: Written Appeal
1-24-4: Procedures For Conduct Of Hearing On Written Appeal
1-24-5: Prohibitions And Applications
1-24-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings:
IMPROPER GOVERNMENTAL ACTION: Any action taken by a city of West Wendover
officer or employee in the performance of his official duties, whether or not
the action is within the scope of his employment, which is:
   A.   In violation of any city, state law or regulation;
   B.   In violation of an ordinance of the local government;
   C.   An abuse of authority;
   D.   Of substantial and specific danger to the public health or safety; or
   E.   A gross waste of public money.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT: City of West Wendover.
LOCAL GOVERNMENTAL EMPLOYEE: Any person who performs public duties under the
direction and control of the city of West Wendover officer for compensation
paid by or through the city of West Wendover policy.
LOCAL GOVERNMENTAL OFFICER: A person elected or appointed to a position with
the local government that involves the exercise of a local governmental power,
trust or duty, including:
   A.   Actions taken in an official capacity which involve a substantial and
material exercise of administrative discretion in the formulation of city of
West Wendover policy;
   B.   The expenditure of money of the city of West Wendover; and
   C.   The enforcement of laws and regulations of the state or city of West
Wendover.
REPRISAL OR RETALIATORY ACTION: Includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   The denial of adequate personnel to perform duties;
   B.   Frequent replacement of members of the staff;
   C.   Frequent and undesirable change in the location of an office;
   D.   The refusal to assign meaningful work;
   E.   The wrongful issuance of letters of reprimand or evaluations of poor
performance;
   F.   A wrongful demotion;
   G.   A wrongful reduction in pay;
   H.   The wrongful denial of a promotion;
   I.   A wrongful suspension;
   J.   A wrongful dismissal;
   K.   A wrongful transfer; or
   L.   Frequent changes in working hours or workdays. (Ord. 2010-07, 11-16-
2010)
1-24-2: APPOINTMENT AND AUTHORITY OF HEARING OFFICER:
   A.   The city council will periodically appoint a hearing officer or a panel
of hearing officers from recommendations made by the city manager.
   B.   If the hearing officer determines that the action taken was a reprisal
or retaliatory action, the hearing officer may issue an order directing the
proper person to desist and refrain from engaging in such action. (Ord. 2010-
07, 11-16-2010)
1-24-3: WRITTEN APPEAL:
   A.   A city of West Wendover officer or employee who claims a reprisal or
retaliatory action was taken against him/her for disclosing information
concerning improper governmental action may file a written appeal pursuant to
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 281 with the human resource manager or his
designated representative. The appeal must be:
      1.   Filed within sixty (60) calendar days after the date the alleged
reprisal or retaliatory action took place;
      2.   Filed within two (2) years of the disclosure of improper
governmental action; and
      3.   Submitted on a form provided by the human resource manager or his
designated representative and specify:
         a.   The facts and circumstances under which the disclosure of
improper governmental action was made; and
         b.   The reprisal or retaliatory action that is alleged to have been
taken against the officer or employee.
   B.   The hearing officer may reject a form that is incomplete or otherwise
deficient as insufficient to commence the appeal. (Ord. 2010-07, 11-16-2010)
1-24-4: PROCEDURES FOR CONDUCT OF HEARING ON WRITTEN APPEAL:
   A.   The provisions of this section govern the procedure for conducting a
hearing for a written appeal filed pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes chapter
281 and this chapter.
   B.   A party may appear in person and may be represented by an attorney or
another person of his choice, if the party chooses not to represent himself.
   C.   All testimony must be under oath administered by the hearing officer.
   D.   The appeal must be heard in the following manner:
      1.   The opening statement for the officer or employee.
      2.   The opening statement for the employer, unless reserved.
      3.   Presentation of the officer's or employee's case, followed by cross
examination. The city officer or employee must establish that:
         a.   He was an officer or employee on the date of the alleged reprisal
or retaliatory action;
         b.   He disclosed information concerning improper governmental action;
and
         c.   The alleged reprisal or retaliatory action was taken against him
within two (2) years after the date he disclosed the information concerning
improper governmental action.
         d.   If the officer or employee establishes the facts set forth in
subsections D3a, D3b and D3c of this section, presentation of the employer's
case, followed by cross examination, to establish that the employer did not
engage in the alleged reprisal or retaliatory action or that the action was
taken for a legitimate business purpose and was not the result of the
disclosure of information concerning improper governmental action by the
officer or employee.
         e.   If the employer claims a legitimate business purpose for the
alleged reprisal or retaliatory action, the officer or employee may introduce
evidence, followed by cross examination, to demonstrate that the stated
business purpose is a pretext for the reprisal or retaliatory action.
      4.   The parties may respectively offer rebutting testimony only, unless
the hearing officer permits additional evidence upon the original cause.
      5.   The closing argument for the city officer or employee.
      6.   The closing argument for the employer.
      7.   Submission of the appeal for a decision.
   E.   The hearing officer shall convene the hearing at the time and place
specified for the purpose of hearing the appeal.
   F.   Written notice of the time and place of the hearing must be given to
the parties at least ten (10) calendar days in advance. The notice must contain
the information required for a party to request reasonable accommodation.
   G.   The hearing officer shall provide reasonable accommodation to a party
with a disability who requests such accommodation within the time sufficient to
make the accommodation.
   H.   Hearings may be continued beyond the period originally scheduled or
recessed until a future date which is agreeable to the hearing officer and the
parties if good cause is shown.
   I.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection J of this section, all
hearings on appeals must be open to the public.
   J.   On the motion of either party, the hearing officer shall exclude from
the hearing room witnesses in the matter not at the time under examination
except the parties to the proceeding. No hearing may be closed to the public
except on motion of either party for good cause shown.
   K.   A document or piece of physical evidence sought to be introduced during
the hearing must first be identified for the record and the hearing officer may
request the production of such records and the appearance of such persons as he
requires.
   L.   The hearing officer shall determine the evidence upon the charges and
specifications as set forth by the appeal document only, and shall not consider
any additional evidence beyond the scope of the charges.
   M.   An employer's or employee's past performance by way of an act or a
failure to act may be shown by competent evidence.
   N.   All testimony and exhibits offered at the hearing must be relevant and
bear upon the matter in contention. Any testimony or exhibits which are
considered by the hearing officer as not meeting this criterion may properly be
excluded. Except as otherwise described in subsection Q of this section, formal
rules of evidence shall not apply and the hearing officer has full discretion
to admit or exclude evidence.
   O.   The hearing officer shall also consider the objection of either side to
the introduction of evidence. Competence and relevance must be the primary test
in ruling on objections.
   P.   The hearing officer's decision must be based on evidence presented. The
hearing officer shall be guided in his decision by the weight of the evidence
as it appears to him at the hearing.
   Q.   Any letter, paper or object offered in evidence must be properly
authenticated. The representative for the opposing party is entitled to examine
the exhibit when it is offered. (Ord. 2010-07, 11-16-2010)
1-24-5: PROHIBITIONS AND APPLICATIONS:
   A.   An officer or employee shall not directly or indirectly use or attempt
to use the officer's or employee's official authority or influence to
intimidate, threaten, coerce, command, influence or attempt to intimidate,
threaten, coerce, command or influence another city officer or employee or
another local governmental officer or employee, as applicable, in an effort to
interfere with or prevent the disclosure of information concerning improper
governmental action.
   B.   For the purposes of this section, use of "official authority or
influence" includes taking, directing others to take, recommending, processing
or approving any personnel action such as an appointment, promotion, transfer,
assignment, reassignment, reinstatement, restoration, reemployment, evaluation
or other disciplinary action.
   C.   A city officer or employee shall not use these provisions to harass
another city officer or employee.
   D.   These provisions do not prohibit an officer or employee from initiating
proper disciplinary procedures against another city officer or employee or
another local governmental officer or employee, as applicable, who disclosed
untruthful information concerning improper governmental action.
   E.   These provisions are intended to be directory and preventive rather
than punitive, and do not abrogate or decrease the effect of any of the
provisions of state statutes or this code which define or prescribe punishments
with respect to the conduct of officers or employees. (Ord. 2010-07, 11-16-
2010)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
CITY PLANNING AND ZONING
SECTION:
2-1-1: City Council As Authority
2-1-2: Procedure
2-1-3: Master Plan
2-1-4: Land Use, Classifications And Districts
2-1-1: CITY COUNCIL AS AUTHORITY:
The City Council may perform all the functions and have all of the powers which
would otherwise be granted to and be performed by a planning commission under
NRS chapter 278. The City Council shall further have such functions, powers and
duties concerning land use planning and zoning as may be set forth in the
various provisions of this Code. (Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
2-1-2: PROCEDURE:
Except as may be otherwise required by State law or by the provisions of this
Code, the City Council shall act upon matters concerning land use planning and
zoning in properly agendaed regular or special City Council meetings. (Ord. 94-
14, 1-3-1995)
2-1-3: MASTER PLAN:
   A.   Preparation And Adoption:
      1.   If no required Master Plan exists, the City Council shall prepare
and adopt a comprehensive long-term general plan for the physical development
of the City which, in the Council's judgment, bears relation to the planning
thereof.
      2.   The plan shall be known as the Master Plan and shall be so prepared
that all or portions thereof may be adopted as provided in this Chapter and in
NRS 278.010 or 278.630, inclusive, as a basis for the development of the City
for such reasonable period of time next ensuing after the adoption thereof as
may practically be covered thereby.
   B.   Subject Matter:
      1.   The Master Plan, with the accompanying charts, drawings, diagrams,
schedules and reports, shall include such of the following subject matter or
portions thereof as are appropriate to the City and as may be made the basis
for the physical development thereof:
         a.   Community Design: Standards and principles governing the
subdivision of land and suggestive patterns for community design and
development.
         b.   Conservation Plan: For the conservation, development and
utilization of natural resources, including water and its hydraulic force,
underground water, water supply, forest, soils, rivers and other waters,
harbors, fisheries, wildlife, minerals and other natural resources. The Plan
shall also cover the reclamation of land and waters, flood control, prevention
and control of the pollution of streams and other waters, regulation of the use
of land in stream channels and other areas required for the accomplishment of
the Conservation Plan, prevention, control and correction of the erosion of
soils through proper clearing, grading and landscaping, beaches and shores and
protection of watersheds. The Plan shall also indicate the maximum tolerable
air pollution level.
         c.   Economic Plan: Showing recommended schedules for the allocation
and expenditure of public funds in order to provide for the economical and
timely execution of the various components of the Plan.
         d.   Housing: Survey of housing conditions and needs and plans and
procedure for improvement of housing standards and for the provision of
adequate housing.
         e.   Long Use Plan: An inventory and classification of natural land
types and of existing land cover and uses and comprehensive plans for the most
desirable utilization of land.
         f.   Population Plan: An estimate of the total population which the
natural resources of the City, County or region will support on a continuing
basis without unreasonable impairment.
         g.   Public Buildings: Showing locations and arrangement of civic
centers and all other public buildings, including the architecture thereof and
the landscape treatment of the grounds thereof.
         h.   Public Services And Facilities: Showing general plans for sewage,
drainage and utilities and right-of-way easements and facilities therefor.
         i.   Recreation Plan: Showing a comprehensive system of recreation
areas, including natural reservations, parks, parkways, reserved riverbank
strips, beaches, playgrounds and other recreation areas, including, when
practicable, the locations and proposed development thereof.
         j.   Seismic Safety Plan: Consisting of an identification and
appraisal of seismic hazards such as susceptibility to surface ruptures from
faulting, to ground shaking or to ground failures.
         k.   Solid Waste Disposal Plan: Showing general plans for disposal of
solid waste.
         l.   Street And Highway Plans: Showing the general locations and
widths of a comprehensive system of major traffic thoroughfares and other
trafficways and of streets and the recommended treatment thereof, building line
setbacks and a system of street naming or numbering and house numbering, with
recommendations concerning proposed changes.
         m.   Transit Plan: Showing a proposed system of transit lines,
including rapid transit, streetcar, motorcoach and trolley coach lines and
other related facilities.
         n.   Transportation Plan: Showing a comprehensive transportation
system, including location of rights of way, terminals, viaducts and grade
separation. The Plan may also include port, harbor, aviation and related
facilities.
      2.   The City Council may prepare and adopt, as part of the Master Plan,
other additional plans and reports dealing with such other subjects as may, in
its judgment, relate to the physical development of the City and nothing
contained in this Chapter or in NRS 278.101 to 278.630, inclusive, shall be
deemed to prohibit the preparation and adoption of any such subject as a part
of the Master Plan.
   C.   Coordination Of Plan: The City Council may prepare and adopt all or any
part of the Master Plan or any subject thereof for all or any part of the City;
but master regional plans shall be coordinated with similar plans of adjoining
regions, and master County and City plans within each region shall be
coordinated so as to fit properly into the Master Plan for the region.
   D.   School Sites: The City Council shall, during the formulation of plans
for community design and public buildings, notify the Board of Trustees of the
Elko County School District of the preparation of such plans to the end that
adequate and properly located school sites may be provided for.
   E.   Promotion Of Public Interest In Master Plan; Powers:
      1.   The Council shall endeavor to promote public interest in and
understanding of the Master Plan or official plans and regulations relating
thereto. As a means of furthering the purpose of a Master Plan, the Commission
shall annually make recommendations to the governing body for the
implementation of the Plan.
      2.   The Council also shall consult and advise with public officials and
agencies, public utility companies, civic, educational, professional and other
organizations and with citizens generally with relation to the carrying out of
such plans.
      3.   The Council and its members, officers and employees, in the
performance of their functions, may enter upon any land and make examinations
and surveys and place and maintain necessary monuments and marks thereon.
      4.   In general, the Council shall have such power as may be necessary to
enable it to fulfill the functions and carry out the provisions of this Chapter
and of NRS 278.010 to 278.630, inclusive.
   F.   Form Of Plan:
      1.   The Master Plan shall be a map, together with such charts, drawings,
diagrams, schedules, reports, ordinances or other printed or published material
or any one or a combination of any of the foregoing, as may be considered
essential to the purpose of NRS 278.010 to 278.630, inclusive.
      2.   The adoption of the Master Plan, or of any amendments, extensions or
additions thereof, shall be by the Council in the manner required by NRS
278.220.
      3.   No plan or map, hereafter, shall have indicated thereon that it is a
part of the Master Plan until it shall have been adopted as part of the Master
Plan by the Council as herein provided.
   G.   Executing The Master Plan: Whenever the City Council shall have adopted
a Master Plan or any part thereof for the City, or for any major section or
district thereof, the City Council shall determine upon reasonable and
practical means for putting into effect the Master Plan or part thereof, in
order that the same will serve as a pattern and guide for that kind of orderly
physical growth and development of the City which will cause the least amount
of natural resource impairment and will conform to the adopted population plan,
where required, and as basis for the efficient expenditure of funds thereof
relating to the subjects of the Master Plan. The City Council may adopt and use
such procedures as may be necessary for this purpose.
   H.   Application Of Plan To Property Acquisition And Abandonment And
Construction Of Public Buildings: Whenever the City Council shall have adopted
a Master Plan, or one or more subject matters thereof, no street, square, park
or other public way, ground or open space shall be acquired by dedication or
otherwise, except by bequest, and no street or public way shall be closed or
abandoned and no public building or structure shall be constructed or
authorized in the area for which the Master Plan or one or more subject matter
thereof shall have been adopted by the City Council until the location,
character and extent thereof shall have been submitted to and shall have been
approved by the Council. (Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
2-1-4: LAND USE, CLASSIFICATIONS AND DISTRICTS:
   A.   For any or all of the purposes of this Chapter and of NRS 278.010 to
278.630, inclusive, the City Council may divide the City into districts of such
number, shape and area as may be deemed best suited to carry out the purposes
of this Chapter and of NRS 278.101 to 278.630, inclusive. Within such districts
it may regulate and restrict the erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair or use of the buildings, structures or land.
   B.   Such regulations shall be made in accordance with the Master Plan for
land use and shall be designed:
      1.   To preserve the quality of air and water resources.
      2.   To promote the conservation of open space and the protection of
other natural and scenic resources from unreasonable impairment.
      3.   To provide for recreational needs.
      4.   To protect life and property in areas subject to floods, landslides
and other natural disasters.
      5.   To conform to the adopted population plan, if required by NRS
278.170.
      6.   To develop a timely, orderly and efficient arrangement of
transportation and public facilities and services.
      7.   To ensure that the development on land is commensurate with the
character and the physical limitations of the land.
      8.   To take into account the immediate and long range financial impact
of the application of particular land to particular kinds of development and
the relative suitability of such land for such development.
      9.   To promote health and the general welfare.
   C.   Such regulations shall be made with reasonable consideration, among
other things, to the character of the district and its peculiar suitability for
particular uses and with a view to conserving the value of the buildings and
encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the City.
   D.   The City Council shall provide for the manner in which such regulations
and restrictions and the boundaries of such districts shall be determined,
established and enforced and from time to time amended, supplemented or
changed. However, no such regulation, restriction or boundary shall become
effective until after a public hearing in relation thereto, at which parties in
interest and citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard. At least ten (10)
days' notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the City. (Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: License Required; Penalties
3-1-2: Application For License
3-1-3: Restrictions On Issuance Of License
3-1-4: License And Permit Fees
3-1-5: Term Of License; Payment Of Fees
3-1-6: License Form And Contents
3-1-7: Posting License
3-1-8: Multiple Licenses
3-1-9: Cabaret License (Rep. by Ord. 96-03, 4-2-1996)
3-1-10: Duties Of City Clerk
3-1-11: Duties Of Licensees
3-1-12: Investigations And Inspections
3-1-13: Suspension Or Revocation Of Licenses
3-1-14: Enforcement
3-1-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; PENALTIES:
   A.   Every person engaged, or hereafter engaged, in carrying on,
maintaining, pursuing, conducting or transacting in the city a trade, business,
occupation, calling or pursuit shall obtain from the city the license herein
specified and in the manner as provided in this chapter. The foregoing
notwithstanding, a business license is not required for providing childcare in
a residence in a residential zone unless a conditional use permit is required
for that use pursuant to title 8 of this code. (Ord. 01-02, 2-20-2001)
   B.   Any person opening, engaging in, carrying on or pursuing any business,
trade, occupation, calling or pursuit without first having obtained from the
city the required license shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject
to penalty, and in addition thereto shall pay the entire fee for the required
license retroactive to January 1 of the year such business, trade, occupation,
calling or pursuit was established, together with a penalty payment equal to
the total sum of one year's fee for the license required.
   C.   Any person or business who has obtained the required business license
and is delinquent in the payment of his quarterly license fee for a period
greater than fifteen (15) days shall, in addition to the payment of the
quarterly fee, pay a penalty fine equal to one-half (1/2) of the assessed
quarterly fee.
   D.   The licenses required by this chapter shall be as herein provided, and
shall be procured from the clerk and paid for as hereinafter provided. (Ord.
91-15, 6-4-1991)
3-1-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Application Fee And Form: Every person desirous of carrying on,
maintaining, pursuing, conducting or transacting any such trade, business,
occupation, calling or pursuit shall apply to the city clerk for a license so
to do and shall deposit with such application the proper license fee 1 . Such
application shall be in substantially the following form:
   APPLICATION FOR LICENSE
TO THE HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WEST WENDOVER, IN THE COUNTY OF
ELKO, STATE OF NEVADA:
Gentlemen:
In accordance with City Ordinance No.     , I hereby apply for a license,
permitting the carrying on of at No.       Street, in the City of West
Wendover, such business to begin on the          day of       , 199   . I
hereby state that no business has been carried on at said place by the
applicant,                   , without having first obtained a license so to
do; and I hereby promise that if said license is granted, the licensee will
comply with all the ordinances of the City now in effect or which may be
enacted for the regulation and control of such business, and this promise shall
be deemed part of the consideration passing to the City for the granting of
such license. License to be issued in the name of                         .
Names of all persons owning an interest in said business, and their respective
places of business:
There is herewith enclosed the sum of $       , as license fee, as determined
by the provisions of City Ordinance No.      .
                                          
   Applicant
Subscribed and sworn to before me this         day of           , 199   .
                                          
   City Clerk or Notary Public
   B.   Information Required; Investigation: The application shall require the
submission of such information as the City Clerk shall find to be reasonably
necessary for the fair administration of this Chapter. Upon request of the City
Clerk, the Chief of Police may cause an investigation of any applicant for a
license under this Chapter 2  and to provide the City Clerk with the
information necessary to determine the eligibility of such applicant for a
license and the accuracy, completeness and reliability of the information
supplied by such applicant.
   C.   Denial Of Application 3 :
      1.   The City Clerk shall have the right and power to refuse and deny any
applications for a license if the Clerk determines that any one or more of the
following exist:
         a.   The applicant has failed to truthfully and completely fill out
and execute under oath the required application forms and supply and provide
all information required thereby; or
         b.   The applicant is not an individual of good moral character and
business responsibility or has been convicted of any felony or any offense
against the decency and morals of any community or has been convicted of any
crime involving moral turpitude; or
         c.   The application contains any false, fraudulent or misleading
material statements or information; or
         d.   The applicant or any agent, employee, officer, director,
stockholder or other representative thereof has at any time had a business
license for the same or a similar business suspended, cancelled or revoked; or
         e.   The business for which the license is applied for is unlawful
under any ordinance, code, rule or law of the City, State or Federal
government; or
         f.   The business to be licensed involves any act, the commission of,
or the permitting or causing the commission of, in the operation of such
business is made unlawful or is prohibited by any ordinance, rule, code or law
of the City, State or Federal government.
      2.   Upon any refusal or denial of an application, the City Clerk shall
notify the applicant and state in writing the reasons therefor and deliver them
to the applicant personally or mail them to the applicant at the address
indicated on the application.
      3.   When any application is denied or the issuance of a license is
denied, such applicant shall not engage in the business for which the license
or application was refused unless a license be issued to such applicant
pursuant to a judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction ordering the same
or the denial is overruled in the appeal procedure by the City Council. (Ord.
91-15, 6-4-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-1-4 of this chapter.
2 2. See also Section
  3-1-12 of this Chapter.
3 1. See also Section
  3-1-13 of this Chapter.
3-1-3: RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
No license for any ensuing term or unexpired license period shall knowingly be
issued to any person who, at the time of making application, is indebted to the
City for any unpaid license fee or to any person who, in previously operating
the same or a similar business in this City or any other city or state, under a
license has had such license revoked or suspended. (Ord. 91-15, 6-4-1991)
3-1-4: LICENSE AND PERMIT FEES:
The fees applicable to each particular business within the City shall be as set
by resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 91-15, 6-4-1991)
3-1-5: TERM OF LICENSE; PAYMENT OF FEES:
All licenses are for the fiscal year beginning July 1 and ending June 30. All
licenses must be renewed each fiscal year. There shall be no proration of
license fees for a license issued after the beginning of the fiscal year and
there shall be no return of such fee to businesses which discontinue their
operation prior to the end of the fiscal year. (Res. 1991-2, 6-11-1991)
3-1-6: LICENSE FORM AND CONTENTS:
All licenses provided by this Chapter shall be printed in appropriate form and
shall be so printed that on issuance the date, number, amount, class, business,
trade or profession licensed and the name or names of the party or parties to
whom the license is granted and the time for which the same is granted shall be
indicated, and before issuance they shall be signed by the Clerk. (Ord. 91-15,
6-4-1991)
3-1-7: POSTING LICENSE:
All licenses taken out pursuant to the requirements of this Chapter shall be
posted and kept by the party or parties taking out the same, in a conspicuous
place in or about the place of business of the person who obtains the same;
and, on demand, during the usual hours of business, must be shown to the
officer whose duty it is to collect such license or the officer whose duty it
is to issue the same. (Ord. 91-15, 6-4-1991)
3-1-8: MULTIPLE LICENSES:
More than one business license may be required for a business operation
depending upon the type of business activities being conducted. (Ord. 92-4, 4-
7-1992)
3-1-9: CABARET LICENSE:
(Rep. by Ord. 96-03, 4-2-1996)
3-1-10: DUTIES OF CITY CLERK:
   A.   License Register: The City Clerk shall make diligent inquiry and
examination as to all persons in the City liable to pay for licenses as
provided in this Chapter. The Clerk shall keep in the Clerk's office a set of
books to be called the "City License Register", in which shall be entered the
names of all parties to whom licenses have been issued, the business, trade or
profession licensed, the time for which the license holds good, the date of
issuance and the date of its expiration, and the amount received therefor.
There shall be kept an accurate account in a suitable book of all licenses
issued by the Clerk the quarter, month, week or day, as the case may be, for
which issued and the amount thereof.
   B.   Report Delinquencies: It shall be the duty of the Clerk to report to
the City Council all parties who have failed to take out licenses or failed to
timely pay the quarterly fee, as required by this Chapter, as soon as such
party or parties shall have been delinquent fifteen (15) days, and thereupon
the City Council may instruct the City Attorney to institute civil proceedings
to recover the amount of such delinquency, together with any penalty and all
costs of suit; but such civil proceedings shall not be a bar to the criminal
action in this Chapter provided for.
   C.   Classification Of Businesses: In all cases not specifically named by
resolution of the City Council, the Clerk shall place the business to be
licensed in the category which she considers to be proper for the business in
question. (Ord. 91-15, 6-4-1991)
3-1-11: DUTIES OF LICENSEES:
Every licensee under this Chapter shall:
   A.   Permit all reasonable inspections of his business and examination of
his books by public authorities so authorized by law.
   B.   Ascertain and at all times comply with all laws, ordinances and
regulations applicable to such licensed business.
   C.   Avoid all forbidden, unlawful, improper or unnecessary acts or
practices or conditions in the conduct of his business which do or may affect
the public health, morals or welfare or constitute a public nuisance.
   D.   Refrain from operating the licensed businesses in the City after
expiration of his license and during the period his license is revoked or
suspended. (Ord. 91-15, 6-4-1991)
3-1-12: INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   The City Clerk and the Chief of Police, and their respective deputies
and officers, shall and hereby are authorized to make all investigations
reasonably necessary for the enforcement of this Chapter and shall have the
authority to inspect licensees, their business records or premises to determine
and enforce compliance with this Chapter.
   B.   All persons authorized herein to inspect licensees and businesses shall
have the authority to enter, with or without search warrant, at all reasonable
times, the following premises:
      1.   Those for which a license is required.
      2.   Those for which a license was issued and which, at the time of
inspection, are operating under said license.
      3.   Those for which the license has been revoked or suspended. (Ord. 91-
15, 6-4-1991)
3-1-13: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
   A.   Criteria For Suspension Or Revocation: Any license issued, pursuant to
the provisions of this Chapter or any amendment thereof, for the conducting of
business may be suspended or revoked for good cause by the City Council. Good
cause for such suspension or revocation shall include, but is not limited to:
      1.   The existence of unsanitary conditions, noise, disturbances or other
conditions at, near or in the premises which cause or tend to create a public
nuisance or which injuriously affects the public health, safety, morals or
welfare.
      2.   The commission of, or permitting or causing the commission of, any
act in the operation of the business, which act is made unlawful or is
prohibited by any ordinance, rule or law of the City, State or Federal
government.
      3.   Fraudulent practices and misrepresentation in the operation of the
business, or concealment or misrepresentation in procuring the license.
      4.   The business for which the license has been issued is unlawful or is
prohibited by any ordinance, code, rule or law of the City, State or Federal
government.
      5.   The license was issued by mistake or in violation of any of the
provisions of this Chapter.
      6.   The premises used for the conduct of said business has been
condemned, declared a fire hazard or declared unsafe for business occupancy
under the provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   Procedure For Suspension Or Revocation: Any license issued pursuant to
the provisions of this Chapter may be suspended, cancelled or revoked in the
manner provided in this subsection.
      1.   The City Council may, on its own motion or initiative or upon
complaint of any person, institute proceedings to suspend or revoke the license
by mailing a complaint setting up the alleged reason for such proceeding to the
licensee at the last address of such licensee as shown by his application or by
a supplemental application filed pursuant to the provisions hereof.
      2.   The licensee shall, within five (5) days of the date of such mailing
unless an extension of time be granted by the Council, file with the City Clerk
written answer to such a complaint under oath.
      3.   The City Council shall fix a day and time for a hearing at which the
licensee shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
      4.   If the licensee fails to file a written answer at the time required
or if the licensee fails to appear at the place and time designated for the
hearing, the City Council may order the license suspended or revoked.
      5.   The City Council shall within ten (10) days from the date of such
hearing enter an order to suspend or revoke or to refuse to suspend or revoke
said license.
      6.   An alternative to the procedure outlined in the foregoing
subsections, the City Council may on its own initiative or upon the complaint
of any person requiring the licensee to appear before the City Council and the
time and place fixed by the City Council then and there to show cause, if any
he may have, why his license should not be suspended or revoked. The hearing
shall not be less than five (5) days from the date of service upon the licensee
by mailing a copy of the order to him at his last known address or place of
business or by making personal service upon him thereof. Failure by the
licensee to appear at the time and place designated by the City Council hereof
in and of itself constitutes sufficient grounds for the suspension or
revocation of a licensee's license.
      7.   There shall be no reopening or review of the proceedings whatever
before the City Council except when it shall subsequently appear to the
satisfaction of the City Council that the licensee's failure to answer or
appear was due to matters beyond his control and not to the negligence on the
part of the licensee.
      8.   In all proceedings under this Chapter or any other provision of this
Chapter, the City Council shall have the right to subpoena witnesses and
documents and all witnesses thus subpoenaed shall attend at the time and place
appointed therein, and failure to attend at the time and place appointed by the
City Council as contempt thereof and a finding by the City Council to such
effect shall be reported to the Chief of Police for immediate disposition
thereon and shall constitute prima facie evidence of contempt in any trial of
the offending witness in any court in the City. (Ord. 91-15, 6-4-1991)
3-1-14: ENFORCEMENT:
The Clerk, Chief of Police and policemen of the City shall see that the
requirements of this Chapter are rigidly complied with. (Ord. 91-15, 6-4-1991)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: License Required; Exceptions
3-2-3: Application For License; Investigation
3-2-4: Approval Or Denial Of License
3-2-5: Issuance Of License; Contents; Renewals; Temporary Licenses
3-2-6: Restrictions On Issuance Of License
3-2-7: Classification Of Licenses
3-2-8: Number Of Licenses
3-2-9: Payment Of License Fees; Delinquencies
3-2-10: Location Restrictions
3-2-11: Posting Of License; Nontransferability; Change Of Location
3-2-12: Building And Premises Requirements
3-2-13: Conduct Of Business And Employees
3-2-14: Minors
3-2-15: Special Events Licenses
3-2-16: Suspension; Revocation; Restrictions Or Conditions Of License
3-2-17: Penalties
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this Chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
ascribed in this Section, unless the context clearly indicates a different
meaning.
BEER: Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of any infusion or
decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product, or any
combination thereof, in water.
BEER LICENSE: A license issued by the City which permits the sale of beer by
the licensee at the premises specified in the license for consumption on or off
the licensee's premises.
CATERER'S LIQUOR LICENSE: A license issued by the City which permits the sale
of beers, wines and liquors by the drink by the caterer licensee for
entertainments, special occasion parties and social gatherings catered by the
licensee on the premises of the caterer or at locations within the City where
the licensee is catering entertainments, special occasion parties or social
gatherings.
CITY: The City of West Wendover, Nevada.
CITY CLERK: The City Clerk of the City of West Wendover, Nevada or the said
Clerk's deputy.
COUNCIL: The City Council of the City.
FRATERNAL, SOCIAL AND CIVIC CLUB LICENSE: A license issued by the City, which
permits the licensee therein designated to serve, sell or give liquors to the
licensee's bona fide members only for consumption on the licensee's premises
specified in the license. This license shall not permit the licensee to conduct
or operate any public bar or place for the sale, serving or delivery of any
liquor to the general public.
LIQUOR: Beer, wine, gin, whiskey, cordials, ethyl alcohol or rum, and every
liquor or solid, patented or not, containing one-half of one percent (1/2%) or
more of alcohol by volume and which is used for beverage purposes.
MINOR: A natural person, male or female, under the age of twenty one (21)
years.
PACKAGE: Any container or receptacle used for holding liquor, which container
or receptacle is corked or sealed.
PACKAGED LIQUOR LICENSE: A license issued by the City which permits the sale of
liquors in packages by the licensee at the premises specified in the license,
for consumption off the licensee's premises.
PERSON: A natural person, partnership, association, company, corporation,
fraternal, civic or social clubs and all other types of organizations.
RETAIL LIQUOR LICENSE: A license issued by the City, which permits the sale of
beers, wines and liquors, in packages or by the drink by the licensee at the
premises specified in the license, for consumption on or off the licensee's
premises.
SPECIAL EVENTS LICENSE: A license issued by the City which permits the licensee
therein designated to sell or serve such liquor at such location and for such
period of time, not exceeding one week, and shall be specified by the City
Council and set out in said license.
SPECIAL EVENTS LIQUOR AND SPECIAL EVENTS BEER AND/OR WINE LICENSE: A license
issued by the City which permits the sale, serving or giving away of liquor by
the licensee at the premises specified in the license for consumption at such
premises, the duration of said license not to exceed a period of one week.
"Special events beer and/or wine license" means a license issued by the City
which permits the sale, serving or giving away of beer and/or wine only by the
licensee at the premises specified in the license for consumption at such
premises, the duration of said license not to exceed a period of one week.
WHOLESALE LIQUOR LICENSE: A license issued by the City, which permits the sale
of beers and wines only or liquors in packages by the licensee to a person
holding a valid, current, retail liquor license or a wholesale liquor license
issued by the City but not the sale to a consumer or general public direct.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by fermentation of the natural content of
fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar and including, without
limitation, port, sherry and champagne. (Ord. 91-14, 6-4-1991)
3-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, keep for
sale, serve, give away, furnish or distribute, or cause or permit to be sold,
offered to be sold, kept for sale, served, given away, furnished or
distributed, any kind of liquor in the City limits, unless such person has
first applied for, paid all license fees for, received and is the holder in
good standing of the proper license or licenses required by this Chapter;
provided, however, that this Section shall not apply to the following:
      1.   Liquor served by a private family in its home as part of its family
or social life.
      2.   The use of liquor for sacramental purposes by any duly ordained
minister.
      3.   The use, sale or dispensing of liquor by any doctor, apothecary or
pharmaceutist who uses alcohol or liquor for or in compounding medicine or for
medicinal or scientific purposes.
      4.   The employees of a person who holds a valid, unexpired license
pursuant to this Chapter, while acting within the course of his employment.
(Ord. 91-14, 6-4-1991)
   B.   A valid license under this Chapter authorizes the licensee to sell soft
drinks in connection with the business for which the license is issued. (Ord.,
9-3-1991)
3-2-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; INVESTIGATION:
   A.   An application for the licenses required by this Chapter shall be made
to the City Council and filed with the City Clerk. Each application shall:
      1.   Be made on such form as the City Council shall prescribe.
      2.   Include the name and address of the applicant, who shall be all
persons having an interest in the business to be licensed. If the applicant is
a partnership, the application shall include the name and addresses of all
partners. If the application is a corporation, association or other
organization, the application shall include the names and addresses of all
officers, directors, stockholders, resident agent and all other persons having
an interest in the business to be licensed and the address of the principal
place of business of the corporation and the name and address of the person or
persons who shall have the active management of its business for which or in
connection which a license is desired. (Listing of stockholders may be
dispensed with by the City Council if stock has been sold to the general
public.)
      3.   Specify the class or classes of license desired; the location, by
street and number, of the premises for which the license is sought; and the
name of the owner or owners of the premises where the business is to be
operated.
      4.   Be supplemented by such additional information or documents as the
City Council shall request from the applicant at any time, it being the duty of
the applicant to supply all such information and documents. (Ord. 91-14, 6-4-
1991)
      5.   Be accompanied by the license fee required for each class of license
for which application is made, which license deposit shall be returned by the
City Clerk to the applicant in the event the application is denied. (Ord., 9-3-
1991)
      6.   Be signed and verified by all persons who shall conduct or have any
interest in the business activities for which a liquor license is required.
In the case of corporations, clubs or organizations with members the
application shall be verified by its president or secretary or the person who
shall actively manage or conduct the business or activity for which a liquor
license is required, if written authority from the corporation to make such
application is filed with the City Clerk with the application.
      7.   Contain a statement that if such application is approved and a
license issued, it will be accepted by the applicant subject to the terms,
conditions and provisions of this Chapter, and such other rules and regulations
as may at any time hereafter be adopted or enacted by resolution or ordinance
by the City Council and shall include a consent to and an acknowledgement of
the power and authority of the Chief of Police, or any other authorized
representative of the City, to enter the premises licensed and the principal
office of any corporation at any time during business hours for the purpose of
examining the premises, or the books of account of said business, or the books
and records of any corporate licensee to ascertain the truth or veracity of the
statements made on the application and to determine if the terms, conditions
and provisions of this Chapter have been and are being complied with.
   B.   All liquor license applications shall be referred to the Chief of
Police for investigation. The Chief of Police shall cause an investigation to
be made of the moral character and business responsibility of the person or
persons applying for a license and of all persons who will be interested in the
business for which a liquor license is required, and in the case of a
corporation, its officers, directors, stockholders and the person or persons
who shall have the management of the business for which or in connection with
which the license is desired, together with an investigation of the location of
the proposed place of business, and of such other matters as may be necessary
to the protection of the public good, welfare, safety, health and morals of the
inhabitants of the City. Upon completion of the investigation, the Chief of
Police shall render a report of the investigation to the City Council. (Ord.
91-14, 6-4-1991)
3-2-4: APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   The City Clerk shall present each application to the City Council at
its first regular or special meeting after the filing of the application,
completion of the investigation and submission of all other data as required in
Section
3-2-3 of this Chapter.
   B.   The City Council shall approve or deny applications. The City Council
may deny any application for any reason deemed sufficient by the City Council
and may refuse to license any applicant. It shall require a majority vote of
all the members of the City Council present at the meeting to grant or refuse
such application. Such action by the City Council on any application shall be
final.
   C.   Any application granted and license issued pursuant hereto shall be
granted for and in consideration of the applicant agreeing to and complying
with the provisions of this Chapter and the terms, conditions, representations
and agreements set out in the application and any license issued hereunder.
   D.   If an application is denied by the City Council, the City Council
forthwith shall return the license fee accompanying the application to the
applicant. If the City Council approves an application, the City Council shall
authorize the City Clerk to issue such license upon full payment in advance of
all license fees then required by this Chapter. The license shall not be
effective until issued and delivered to the applicant. (Ord. 91-14, 6-4-1991)
3-2-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; CONTENTS; RENEWALS; TEMPORARY LICENSES:
   A.   Upon the granting of any application pursuant to this Chapter, the
applicant shall be entitled to be licensed by the City Clerk pursuant and
subject to the provisions of this Chapter. The license certificate shall set
forth, among other things, the following:
      1.   The name of all persons to whom it is issued. If the license is
issued under a fictitious name, the license shall set forth, in addition to the
fictitious name, the name or names of each of the persons conducting the
business under the fictitious name. If it is issued to a corporation, the
license shall set forth, in addition to the name of the corporation, the name
or names of the person or persons who shall have the active management of the
business for which the license is issued.
      2.   The amount of license fee paid therefor.
      3.   The location, by street and number, of the premises for which the
license is issued. (Ord. 91-14, 6-4-1991)
      4.   The date of commencement which will be the date of issuance and date
of termination which will be June 30 of the fiscal year, subject to revocation,
cancellation, suspension, restriction and conditioning, pursuant to this
Chapter. (Ord., 9-3-1991)
      5.   The particular class of liquor license and of liquors that the
licensee is authorized to sell.
      6.   That the license is granted subject to the provisions of this
Chapter. (Ord. 91-14, 6-4-1991)
   B.   The license shall be for a fiscal year, subject to the provisions of
this Chapter and shall be signed by the Mayor and the City Clerk.
   C.   Subject to all provisions of this Chapter, if at the end of a fiscal
year the licensee holds a valid, unexpired license which has not been revoked,
cancelled, suspended, restricted or conditioned and no proceedings have been
instituted or are pending in any court or before the City Council involving a
violation of this Chapter or which could or does involve proceedings to
consider the revocation, cancellation, suspension, restriction or conditioning
of such license, such licensee may renew its license for the next fiscal year
without application to the City Council by timely payment of the required
license fees and penalties, if any, within the time specified in this Chapter.
Such renewal license shall be on the same terms and conditions as the original
license and subject to all provisions of this Chapter as if granted after
application to the City Council. (Ord., 9-3-1991)
   D.   Any licensee receiving a license pursuant to the provisions of this
Chapter shall be deemed to have accepted the same with all the duties,
obligations, restrictions, limitations and other provisions of this Chapter as
part and parcel of said license, and subject to the faithful compliance with
the promises, agreements and representations set forth in the application for
such license, without other or further notice and without each or any of such
provisions being specifically incorporated in the license granted.
   E.   In special or unusual circumstances and in order to prevent undue
hardship the City Clerk with approval of the Chief of Police may issue a
temporary license pending the processing of an application for a permanent
license; provided, however, that at the time any such temporary license is
issued by the City Clerk a full and complete application for a liquor license
shall be on file with the City Clerk. Such license shall be valid for thirty
(30) days or until approval or denial of the final application by the City
Council, whichever occurs first. Fees for temporary license shall be as set by
resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 91-14, 6-4-1991; amd. 1993 Code)
3-2-6: RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
No liquor license shall be issued hereunder to:
   A.   Any person unless such person has an established place of business, or
in the case of a special events license, a specific location under the control
of such person for the period of the license, within a zone or area permitting
such type of business, activity or license under this and all other ordinances
of the City and unless each applicant is a person of good moral character and
satisfactory business responsibility. In the event the applicant shall be a
corporation or association, the officers, directors, managing agent and all
persons who shall be active in the conduct of the business for which a liquor
license is required all must be persons of good moral character and
satisfactory business responsibility.
   B.   Any person who has within ten (10) years from the date of the
application been convicted of a felony involving moral turpitude, either in the
State or in any other state, or of any crime in any other state which is
considered a felony involving moral turpitude under the laws of the State.
Provided, however, that this provision shall not apply to any person who has
been so convicted, but whose rights of citizenship have been restored or
judgment of infamy has been removed by a court of competent jurisdiction. In
the case of any such conviction occurring after the license has been issued and
received, the license may immediately be revoked. If such convicted felon be an
individual licensee and, if not, the partnership, corporation or association
with which he is connected shall immediately discharge him, upon request of the
City Council, or their license may be revoked.
   C.   No person shall work or be employed in or in connection with the liquor
business of a licensee hereunder who has been, or during employment is
convicted of a felony involving moral turpitude, unless the Chief of Police
approves such employment. If the licensee fails to discharge such employee upon
request by the Chief of Police, his license may be revoked. (Ord. 91-14, 6-4-
1991)
3-2-7: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES:
   A.   Under the provisions of this Chapter, the following classes of licenses
may be issued to qualified applicants therefor:
      1.   Retail liquor license.
      2.   Retail beer and/or wine license.
      3.   Wholesale liquor license.
      4.   Wholesale beer and/or wine license.
      5.   Packaged liquor license.
      6.   Packaged beer and/or wine license.
      7.   Fraternal, social and civic club license.
      8.   Special events liquor license.
      9.   Special events beer and/or wine license.
      10.   Caterer's liquor license. (A caterer's liquor license shall be in
addition to any other liquor license held under this Chapter.)
   B.   Each person whose activities fall into more than one class of liquor
licenses as defined in this Chapter must apply for and receive a license for
each class applicable before such person can operate in such class.
   C.   The liquor licenses required by this Chapter shall be in addition to
any other licenses required by any person by the City for conducting or
carrying any other business in connection with, or separate from the activities
licensed under this Chapter.
   D.   The City Council shall be the sole judge as to whether or not any
person applying for a license as a fraternal, social or civic club, is a bona
fide fraternal, social or civic club such as to qualify for a license under the
provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 91-14, 6-4-1991)
3-2-8: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
The City Council shall have the right to limit the number of licenses which may
be issued, based upon population as determined by any formula deemed sufficient
by the City Council and to determine where and under what condition liquor may
be sold, served, given away or distributed within the City. (Ord. 91-14, 6-4-
1991)
3-2-9: PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEES; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   The license fee shall be due and payable July 1 of each year. Any
license fee which has not been paid on or before the fifth day of the month in
which it becomes due shall be increased by a penalty of ten percent (10%) which
shall be added to the fee and collected with the fee prior to the issuance of
any license hereunder. When any license fee is paid by mail, the post-marked
date on the envelope shall be presumed to be the date on which the license fee
was paid. If the license fee and penalty have not been paid on or before the
fifteenth day of the month in which the license fee becomes due, any right to
renew a license without application to the City Council shall be forfeited and
shall forthwith terminate at the time of the close of the City office on the
fifteenth day of such month, and at such time the liquor business to which the
delinquent license fee relates shall forthwith close and cease operation if
still in operation at that time. This provision shall not be construed to
permit the operating of any business to which this Chapter applies for any
length of time whatever without having in full force and effect a proper
license issued by the City with all fees therefor fully paid, nor shall it be
construed to extend the expiration date of any license, nor to prevent the City
Council from taking any action to revoke, cancel, suspend, restrict or
condition the license for any reason, including nonpayment of fees.
   B.   All fees may be paid up to one year in advance. No refunds of any
portion of a license fee paid in advance shall be made nor shall any portion of
a fee paid in advance be transferable.
   C.   The schedule of fees to be paid for licenses shall be set by resolution
of the City Council. (Ord., 9-3-1991)
3-2-10: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
No application shall be granted or license issued authorizing or permitting the
sale, service or distribution of any liquor within the prohibited areas
specified as follows:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person or association to sell, serve, give
away or distribute any of the liquors or beverages mentioned in this Chapter
within three hundred feet (300') of any school house or place wherein a public
school is conducted or of any church.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person or association to sell, serve, give
away, or otherwise distribute any liquor outside the building described in the
application of any drive-in business; provided, however, the City Council may,
for good cause shown, authorize the sale, service or other lawful distribution
of liquor in specified enclosed or defined areas under the supervision,
management and operation of a licensee. (Ord. 91-14, 6-4-1991)
3-2-11: POSTING OF LICENSE; NONTRANSFERABILITY; CHANGE OF LOCATION:
Each license shall be:
   A.   Posted in a conspicuous place in the premises for which it was issued.
   B.   Nontransferable, except that upon prior written consent of the City
Council, the location of the premises for which it was issued may be changed,
provided there is no change in licenses.
   C.   Authority for the persons or associations specifically named as
licensees to transact the business or activity licensed thereunder. (Ord. 91-
14, 6-4-1991)
3-2-12: BUILDING AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Notice Posted: Any licensee under the provisions of this Chapter must
post in a conspicuous place in the premises for which the license is issued the
following notice to customers:
NOTICE TO CUSTOMERS
It is illegal for any bartender, manager, agent, employee or any other person
in charge of a saloon or bar to knowingly allow or permit a person who is
intoxicated to remain on the premises or to give or sell or to permit to be
sold any liquor to a person who is intoxicated.
WEST WENDOVER LIQUOR CONTROL CODE
   B.   Lighting: At all times while any premises licensed hereunder is open
for business the interior lighting therein shall be sufficient to make easily
discernible upon immediately entering the main entrance the appearance and
conduct of all persons and patrons in that portion of the premises where liquor
is sold, served, delivered or consumed. In no event shall the intensity of such
interior lighting be less than one foot-candle power light when measured at a
point thirty inches (30") from the floor wherever persons and patrons are
sitting or standing within the premises. This subsection shall apply in all
cases except in licensed establishments where floor shows are permitted under
City ordinance. In such cases the floor showroom lights may be dimmed only
during the floor show, and at the conclusion of each floor show the lighting
must then immediately be restored to the minimum standards of light intensity
herebefore provided. (Ord. 91-14, 6-4-1991)
3-2-13: CONDUCT OF BUSINESSES AND EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Every licensee shall conduct and maintain his premises in a clean and
orderly manner.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee hereunder or any bartender,
manager, agent, employee of such licensee or any other person in charge of any
saloon or bar, to knowingly allow or permit any of the following persons to
remain on the licensee's premises or to sell or give, or to permit to be sold
or given, to any of the following any liquor:
      1.   A person who is intoxicated.
      2.   Any person having, carrying or exhibiting any knife, gun, pistol or
other deadly weapon.
      3.   Any person whose conduct is tumultuous or offensive or who is
threatening, traducing, quarreling, challenging to fight or fighting on or in
the immediate vicinity of the licensee's premises.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee under the provisions of this
Chapter, or any manager, bartender, servants, agents or other employees
thereof, to be in an intoxicated condition in or about the licensees business
premises while performing his duties in connection with the business. (Ord. 91-
14, 6-4-1991)
3-2-14: MINORS:
   A.   Sales To Minors:
      1.   Sales Prohibited:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any bartender, manager,
agent or any other person employed by any licensee to sell, serve, give away,
furnish or dispense any kind of liquor to any minor. For the purpose of this
subsection, a person shall be deemed to be employed by a licensee if he
purports to have the authority to make sales, whether actually receiving a wage
or not.
         b.   In any prosecution or proceeding for the suspension or revocation
of any license based upon a violation of subsection A1a above proof that the
defendant licensee or his agent or employee, demanded and was shown,
immediately prior to furnishing any liquor to a person under the age of twenty
one (21) years, bona fide documentary evidence of majority and identity of such
person issued by a Federal, State, County or Municipal government or
subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle
operator's license, a registered certificate issued under the Federal Selective
Service Act, or an identification card issued to a member of the Armed Forces,
is a defense to the prosection, or proceeding for the suspension or revocation
of any license.
      2.   In all cases where any licensee or any person employed by any
licensee, demands and is shown the documentary evidence of majority and
identity specified in subsection A1b of this Section, the licensee shall, at
the time of being shown the documentary evidence make a written record of at
least the following information appearing on the identification document shown,
which record shall be retained and reserved by the licensee for one year
thereafter:
         a.   The type of card or evidence shown.
         b.   The government or subdivision or agency thereof issuing the
evidence.
         c.   The serial or identification number of the document.
         d.   The person's full name, age or birth date and description as it
appears on the identification card.
      3.   Penalty: Every person who knowingly:
         a.   Sells, gives or otherwise furnishes intoxicating liquors to any
person under the age of twenty one (21) years; or
         b.   Leaves or deposits any intoxicating liquors in any place with the
intent that the same shall be procured by any person under the age of twenty
one (21) years; or
         c.   Furnishes, gives or causes to be given away any money or thing of
value to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years with the knowledge
that the money or thing of value is to be used by the person under the age of
twenty one (21) years to purchase or procure any intoxicating liquor, is guilty
of a City offense.
This subsection A2 does not apply to a parent, guardian or physician of the
person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
As used in this subsection A2, "intoxicating liquor" means beer, wine, gin,
whiskey, cordials, ethyl alcohol or rum, and every liquor or solid, patented or
not, containing one-half of one percent (1/2%) or more of alcohol by volume and
which is used for beverage purposes. (Ord. 91-14, 6-4-1991)
   B.   Prohibited Acts By Minors:
      1.   False Identification:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person, regardless of age, to
counterfeit, forge, alter, erase or obliterate any card, writing, paper or
document which bears the age of the holder or purported holder thereof, with
the intention that such card, writing, paper or document should be used by a
minor for the purpose of obtaining any alcoholic beverage or liquor or to sell,
lend or give away any such card, writing, paper or document to a minor which
could be used by a minor for the purpose of obtaining any alcoholic beverage or
liquor.
         b.   It shall be unlawful for any minor to use or attempt to use or
offer any counterfeit, forged, erased or obliterated card, writing, paper or
document of the kind mentioned in subsection B1a of this Section, or to
verbally falsely represent his or her age, or to use or attempt to use any
other persons identification documents, for the purpose of obtaining any
alcoholic beverage or liquor from any person within the City.
      2.   Purchase: It shall be unlawful for any minor to purchase, obtain, or
receive in any manner within the City any liquor or alcoholic beverage of any
kind from any person; except that at the direction and in the company of a
parent or guardian, a minor may consume an alcoholic beverage in the residence
of such parent or guardian; further, except that a minor may consume an
alcoholic beverage for the purpose of following the direction of a licensed
medical practitioner; or except that a minor may consume an alcoholic beverage
for the purpose of participation in legitimate religious activities.
      3.   Possession: It shall be unlawful for any minor to have in his or her
custody or possession within the City any alcoholic beverage or liquor of any
type or kind, except any sealed alcoholic beverage in the regular course of his
or her legitimate employment.
      4.   Consumption:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any minor to consume any kind of
alcoholic beverage or liquor in or about the premises of any licensed
establishment of the City or elsewhere within the City.
         b.   It shall be unlawful for any minor to be in possession of any
kind of alcoholic beverage or liquor through consumption anywhere in the City;
except that at the direction and in the company of a parent or guardian, a
minor may consume an alcoholic beverage in the residence of the parent or
guardian; except that minor may consume an alcoholic beverage for the purpose
of following the direction of a licensed medical practitioner; or except that a
minor may consume an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of participation in
legitimate religious activities. Possession by consumption shall consist solely
of the assimilation of alcohol in the minor's body, and such crime shall not
require proof of possession or control prior to consumption or proof of the act
of swallowing an alcoholic beverage or liquor.
         c.   It shall be unlawful for any minor who has consumed any kind of
alcoholic beverage or liquor at the direction and in the company of a parent or
guardian in the home, to leave the home and go out into the City. Such a minor
shall be guilty of possession through consumption as provided for in subsection
B4b of this Section.
         d.   For purposes of this Section, any peace officer may detain any
minor whom the officer encounters under circumstances which reasonably indicate
that the minor has committed or is committing one of the crimes enumerated in
subsections B4a, B4b or B4c of this Section. At any time after this detention,
the minor so detained shall be arrested if probable cause for an arrest
appears. (Ord. 92-13, 9-15-1992)
   C.   Loitering:
      1.   No minor shall spend time in or remain in the bar area of the
premises of any licensee hereunder where liquors of any kind are sold or
served.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee hereunder or the bartender,
manager, agent or any other employee of any licensee to knowingly allow or
permit any minor to remain in the bar area of the premises of the licensee
where liquor of any kind is sold or served.
      3.   Nothing in the this subsection C shall apply to:
         a.   The areas, other than the bar and gaming areas, of the
establishments wherein liquor of any kind is sold at a bar in an establishment
which operates and maintains dining tables or booths or lunch counters or hotel
or motel accommodations or other types of businesses separate from the bar; or
         b.   Any grocery store or drug store where liquor of any kind is not
sold by the drink for consumption on the premises.
   D.   Employment of Minors: It shall be unlawful for any licensee to employ
any minor to sell or handle any liquor of any kind, or to permit any minor to
handle such liquor in his place of business in any way, except that a person
who has attained the age of sixteen (16) years but not yet eighteen (18) years,
may be employed in a retail food store for the sale or disposition of liquor if
he is supervised by a person who is eighteen (18) years of age or over, who is
an owner or employee of the business which sells or disposes of the liquor, and
who is actually present at the time the liquor is disposed of or sold, and the
liquor is in a sealed or corked container or receptacle. Provided however, that
grocery store, shopping center and super market licensees affording box boy or
other delivery service from the place of sale to the conveyance of the
purchaser shall be responsible under the foregoing prohibition only until the
sale is completed, and that minors may nevertheless carry or transport liquors
to the conveyance of the purchaser, in which event such purchaser shall be
deemed to have assumed full and complete ownership of and responsibility for
such liquor. (Ord. 91-14, 6-4-1991)
3-2-15: SPECIAL EVENTS LICENSES:
   A.   Any person in charge of a special event which is scheduled to be held
in the incorporated City limited may apply to the City Clerk for a special
events liquor or a special events beer and/or wine license.
   B.   The applicant for a special events liquor or a special events beer and/
or wine license shall follow the procedures set forth in Section
3-2-3 of this Chapter with regard to the preparing and filing of an application
for such license.
   C.   The application shall be accompanied by the appropriate license fee 1
for the period for which the special events liquor or special events beer and/
or wine license is sought.
   D.   The application shall be submitted to the City Clerk or the Deputy
Clerk and must be approved by the Chief of Police or Assistant Chief of Police
and either the City Manager/Engineer or Assistant City Manager or the City
Clerk or Deputy Clerk.
   E.   If the special events liquor or special events beer and/or wine license
application is rejected, the applicant shall have the right of appeal to the
City Council. (Ord. 91-14, 6-4-1991; amd. 1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  3-1-4 of this Title.
3-2-16: SUSPENSION, REVOCATION, RESTRICTIONS OR CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Authority; Grounds: The City Council upon its own motion and shall upon
the verified complaint in writing of any person, investigate the action of any
licensee under this Chapter and shall have power to cancel, temporarily suspend
for such a period of time as it deems advisable, or permanently revoke a
license or place such restrictions and conditions upon a license as it shall
deem necessary or advisable, for any one of the following acts or omissions:
      1.   The failure to make timely payment of license fees and penalties, or
either of them; provided, however, no action by the City Council shall be
necessary in the event of nonpayment of license fees and penalties on or before
the fifteenth day of the month in which they came due as provided in this
Chapter; or
      2.   The misrepresentation of any material fact by the applicant in
obtaining a license under this Chapter; or
      3.   If any one of the licensees named in a license violates or causes or
permits to be violated any of the provisions of this Chapter; or
      4.   If any manager, bartender, agent, servant, officer or employee of a
licensee hereunder violates or causes or permits to be violated any of the
provisions of this Chapter while acting in any way in connection with the
licensee's business; or
      5.   If any one of the licensees named in a license commits any act which
would be sufficient grounds for the denial of an application by such licensee
for a license under this Chapter; or
      6.   If any one of the licensees named in a license or any manager,
agent, bartender, servant, officer or employee of a licensee refuses to permit
the Chief of Police or any policeman or any other duly authorized
representative of the City to visit and reasonably inspect every part and
portion of the licensee's premises, or refuses or fails to furnish the Chief of
Police or any policeman or officer of the City upon request with all facts and
information within his knowledge concerning any offense committed in or about
the premises and the parties involved and the witnesses thereto; or
      7.   If any one of the licensees named in a license violates any of the
agreements, conditions or terms contained in the application for a license,
this Chapter or the license issued pursuant hereto; or
      8.   If any one of the licensees named in a license violates or causes or
permits to be violated any ordinance of the City or any law of the State or of
the United States of America regulating the sale, serving or dispensing of
liquors; or
      9.   If the licensee or any agent or employee thereof makes, causes or
permits a sale or sales of any kind of liquor other than that authorized by the
class of license the licensee holds.
   B.   Procedures:
      1.   Complaint; Citation: Except in cases of the automatic cancellation
or revocation of a license as in this Chapter provided, upon the filing with
the City Council of a verified complaint charging a licensee with the
commission, within one year prior to the date of filing the complaint, of any
act or omission which is cause for cancellation, suspension, revocation,
restriction or conditioning of a license, the City Council forthwith shall
issue a citation directing the licensee, within five (5) days after service
thereof upon the licensee, to appear by filing with the City Council the
licensee's verified answer to the complaint showing cause, if any the licensee
has, why his license should not be cancelled, suspended, revoked, restricted or
conditions placed thereon. Service of the citation with a copy of the complaint
shall be made upon the licensee in one of the following manners:
         a.   By personal service upon any one or more of the persons named in
the license as a licensee, service upon one licensee being deemed service upon
and notice to all licensees named in the license, service to be made by the
Chief of Police or any police officer of the City or by the Sheriff of Elko
County, or his deputy, or by any disinterested citizen of the United States
over twenty one (21) years of age; or
         b.   By mailing by depositing in the United States mail a copy of the
citation with a copy of the complaint enclosed in a sealed envelope with
postage thereon fully prepaid, addressed to the licensee at the latest address
of record in the City Clerk's office. Service shall be deemed complete upon the
date of mailing. Without excluding other ways of proof, proof of service by
mailing and the date thereof may be made by an affidavit of mailing or by proof
of mailing by registered mail or certified mail.
      2.   In case a corporation is a licensee, then such service above
specified may be upon the president, or other head of the corporation, or the
secretary, managing agent, resident agent or any other officer thereof. In case
of service by mailing it may be addressed to the corporation or to any of the
said officers, managing agent or resident agent thereof at the latest address
of record in the City Clerk's office.
      3.   Failure of the licensee to answer within the time specified shall be
deemed an admission by the licensee of the commission of the act or acts or
omissions charged in the complaint and a waiver of all defenses the licensee
may have to such charges. Upon such failure to answer, the City Council shall
revoke the license and shall give notice of such revocation by mailing a copy
thereof, by United States mail in a sealed envelope with postage thereon fully
prepaid, addressed to the licensee at the latest address of record in the
office of the City Clerk.
      4.   Hearing; Decisions:
         a.   Upon the filing of an answer by the licensee, the City Council
shall fix the time and place for a hearing and give the licensee and the
complainant not less than two (2) days' notice thereof. The notice may be
served by depositing in the United States mail a copy of the notice enclosed in
a sealed envelope with postage thereon fully prepaid, addressed to the licensee
and to the complainant, respectively, at their latest addresses of record in
the office of the City Clerk. With the notice to the complainant there shall be
attached to or enclosed a copy of the answer. If either party has appeared by
an attorney, notice shall be given to the attorney instead of to the party. In
the event the City, the City Council, the Chief of Police, the City Attorney or
any other City officer or representative acting by or on behalf of the City is
the complainant, the notices to and service of answer upon the complainant
herein called for shall be dispensed with.
         b.   At the hearing the complainant and the licensee may appear in
person or by attorney, or both, and present relevant evidence and witnesses.
After the hearing is concluded and the matter submitted, the City Council
shall, at that meeting or at its next regularly scheduled meeting after such
submission, render its decision which must be made by the vote of a majority of
the members present at the meeting. The City Council shall:
            (1)   Revoke or cancel the license; or
            (2)   Suspend the license for such a period of time as the City
Council deems advisable; or
            (3)   Place such restrictions upon the license, the licensee and/or
the licensee's place of business as the City Council deems advisable; or
            (4)   Make the license and the continued force and effect thereof
conditioned upon such terms and conditions as the City Council shall deem
advisable.
      5.   If in the opinion of a majority of all the members elected as
Councilmembers of the City the charges set forth in the complaint have not been
established or proved they shall dismiss the complaint.
      6.   Alteration Of Times: The City Council may, upon stipulation of the
complainant and the licensee, shorten or extend the times herein set in
connection with notices, pleadings and hearings.
   C.   Summary Suspension Of License: Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Chapter, the City Council shall have the right and power to suspend
summarily any license issued pursuant to this Chapter in cases appearing to it
to be of an aggravated or flagrant violation of this Chapter, or of the laws of
the State relating to liquors; provided, however, that the City Council shall
not summarily suspend any license unless the City Council finds that such
action is immediately necessary for the preservation of public health, welfare,
safety and morals of the inhabitants of the City. Such order of suspension
shall remain effective until further order of the City Council of final
disposition of the charges upon which the order is based. In the event of a
suspension without prior notice, every licensee shall immediately be given
notice in writing of the reason or reasons for such suspension, which shall
include a specification of the acts or omissions alleged against the licensee.
The licensee shall be given an opportunity to be heard at a meeting of the City
Council at which hearing the licensee may appear in person or by attorney, or
both, and present a reasonable number of witnesses to show cause, if any there
be, why the license should not be revoked. Notices shall be served and given,
the answer filed and the hearing conducted in the manner and under the
procedures provided in subsection B of this Section. The licensee may waive the
time specified for a hearing and such hearing may be held at any time agreed
upon by the licensee and the City Council; provided, however, that nothing
herein shall be construed to limit the right of the City Council to proceed
with revocation proceedings.
   D.   Revocation Of License Through Nonuse: In the event a holder of a
license, other than one prevented or prohibited from operating by City Council
action, shall discontinue business for more than thirty (30) days without the
specific approval of the City Council, such license shall be revoked
automatically, without action of said City Council on the day following said
thirty (30) day period.
   E.   Reinstatement Of Licenses: When, in the opinion of the City Council, a
licensee has shown proper cause, the City Council may reinstate any license
which has been previously cancelled or suspended and may remove, change or
modify all or any restrictions or conditions which have been set pursuant to
this Chapter. (Ord. 91-14, 6-4-1991)
3-2-17: PENALTIES:
   A.   Every person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall,
upon conviction therefor, be punished as provided in Title 1, Chapter 4 of this
Code. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue, shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
   B.   No civil judgment or any act or suit by the City Attorney, the City
Clerk or the violator shall bar or prevent a prosecution for each and every
violation of this Chapter. (Ord. 91-14, 6-4-1991)
CHAPTER 3
TAX ON TRANSIENT LODGING
SECTION:
3-3-1: Short Title
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: License Required; Display
3-3-4: Issuance Of License; Term; Nontransferability; Fee
3-3-5: Taxes Imposed
3-3-6: Collection Of Tax From Lessee
3-3-7: Notice Of Tax Displayed
3-3-8: Exemptions From Tax
3-3-9: Payment Of Tax; Interest And Penalties
3-3-10: Authority To Collect Tax; Enforcement Of Provisions
3-3-11: Examination Of Books And Records
3-3-12: Uses, Purposes, And Allocation Of Transient Lodging Tax Proceeds
3-3-13: Refunds
3-3-14: Forms And Costs
3-3-15: Penalties
3-3-16: Dispute Resolution
3-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF WEST WENDOVER TAX
ON TRANSIENT LODGING. (Ord. 04-05, 12-7-2004)
3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless it is apparent from the context that another meaning is intended, the
following words when used herein shall have the following meanings:
LESSEE: Any person renting rooms, spaces or accommodations from a licensee.
LICENSEE: Any person operating or conducting a rental business of transient
lodging.
RECREATION FACILITY OR RECREATION FACILITIES: A place, structure, area or other
facility used for community recreation, such as playgrounds, playing fields or
courts, beaches, lakes, rivers, swimming pools, dams constructed across streams
or rivers for the creation of swimming pools and recreational reservoirs,
gymnasiums, auditoriums, camps, parks, ski facilities, golf courses, natural
reservoirs, recreation grounds, fairgrounds, exposition buildings, convention
halls, field houses, amusement halls and recreation centers.
TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The West Wendover city clerk.
TRANSIENT LODGING: The following types of lodging:
   A.   Hotels;
   B.   Motels;
   C.   Apartments;
   D.   Timeshare projects, except when an owner of a unit in the timeshare
project who has a right to sue or occupy the unit is occupying the unit
pursuant to a timeshare instrument as defined in Nevada Revised Statutes
119A.150;
   E.   Apartment hotels;
   F.   Vacation trailer parks;
   G.   Campgrounds;
   H.   Parks for recreational vehicles; and
   I.   Any other establishment that rents rooms, spaces or other
accommodations to temporary or transient guests having four (4) or more rooms,
spaces or other accommodations for rent.
TRANSIENT LODGING RENTAL BUSINESS: The operating of any business which provides
"transient lodging", wherein a room, space or other accommodation is rented for
a period of less than twenty eight (28) days for use by the same tenant, to
include any room, space or other accommodation which is rented to the same
tenant in successive terms of less than twenty eight (28) days each, but not to
include any room, space or other accommodation which is rented for a term of
twenty eight (28) days or longer. In the event a business rents a portion of
its rooms, spaces or other accommodations for terms of less than twenty eight
(28) days and another portion of its rooms, spaces or other accommodations for
terms of twenty eight (28) days or more, only those rooms, spaces or other
accommodations rented for terms of less than twenty eight (28) days shall
constitute a "transient lodging rental business". (Ord. 04-05, 12-7-2004)
3-3-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; DISPLAY:
It shall be unlawful for any person, either for himself or for another person,
to commence or to carry on any transient lodging rental business without first
having procured a license from the tax administrator so to do, provided that a
licensee may secure the license within ten (10) days of commencement of
business and the license shall be issued as of the date of the commencement of
business.
The tax administrator shall, upon receipt of an application for a license,
issue a license to such applicant who shall keep the same posted in his place
of business in a conspicuous place. (Ord. 04-05, 12-7-2004)
3-3-4: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; TERM; NONTRANSFERABILITY; FEE:
Licenses required by this chapter shall be issued for a term of one year as
provided in section
3-1-5 of this title. No licenses issued hereunder shall be transferable, and
there shall be no charge made to the licensee for any license hereunder. (Ord.
04-05, 12-7-2004)
3-3-5: TAXES IMPOSED:
There are hereby fixed and imposed the following transient lodging taxes on
every licensee operating a transient lodging rental business in the city for
the revenue and regulation in addition to all other license and business taxes
now in effect:
   A.   Recreation Fund Transient Lodging Tax: A recreation fund transient
lodging tax in the amount of fifteen percent (15%) of the gross income received
by each licensee from a transient lodging rental business in the city.
   B.   Additional Tax For Transient Lodging Businesses: In addition to the tax
imposed and set forth in subsection A of this section, there is fixed and
imposed a tax on every licensee operating, conducting or engaging in a
transient lodging rental business in the city at the rate of one percent (1%)
of the gross income received or derived for transient lodging rentals from such
endeavors, business or enterprise. Three-eighths (3/8) of the proceeds of said
tax shall be paid to the department of taxation, state of Nevada, for the fund
for the promotion of tourism established in Nevada Revised Statutes chapter
231; the remaining five-eighths (5/8) of all proceeds of the transient lodging
tax shall be deposited with the Elko County recreation board created pursuant
to Nevada Revised Statutes 244A.597 and 244A.599, to be used to advertise the
resources of the county related to tourism, including, but not limited to,
available accommodations, transportation, entertainment, natural resources,
climate and to promote special events. This tax shall be collected and
administered pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 268.096 and 268.0962. (Ord.
04-05, 12-7-2004)
3-3-6: COLLECTION OF TAX FROM LESSEE:
Each licensee is, and shall be, required to add the amount of the transient
lodging tax on the amount of the room or space rentals due from each lessee.
The amount of the tax shall be displayed separately from the price of the room
or space rent on the registration card or other record of the licensee. (Ord.
04-05, 12-7-2004)
3-3-7: NOTICE OF TAX DISPLAYED:
Each licensee shall prominently display in each room, suite of rooms, or space
rented or leased or at the option of the licensee, in the lobby at or in the
immediate vicinity of the registration desk, a sign reading substantially as
follows:
NOTICE:
This business is required by law to collect a sixteen percent (16%) transient
lodging tax on any rental of less than twenty eight (28) days.
The Management
(Ord. 04-05, 12-7-2004)
3-3-8: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
   A.   There shall be, and hereby is, exempted from the license tax on
transient lodging each rental by any lessee of a room, space or other
accommodation when the room, space or other accommodation is paid for,
directly, from a federal, state or local governmental entity. (Ord. 04-05, 12-
7-2004)
3-3-9: PAYMENT OF TAX; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Payment Of Taxes: Every licensee shall pay the transient lodging tax to
the tax administrator on or before the tenth day of the month when such tax
shall accrue. Payment of the transient lodging tax shall become delinquent on
the eleventh day of the month. Such tax becomes payable to the tax
administrator by the licensee pursuant hereto. (Ord. 04-05, 12-7-2004)
   B.   Penalties And Interest Charged: If the room taxes are not paid on or
before the tenth day of the month in which they become due, or if such day
falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, then on the next succeeding day
not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the licensee shall pay a penalty based
on a percentage of the unpaid, due and delinquent room tax as follows: 1) five
percent (5%) if payment is one to two (2) days late; 2) ten percent (10%) if
payment is three (3) to four (4) days late; or 3) fifteen percent (15%) if
payment is five (5) or more days late. The licensee shall also pay the costs of
collection of the tax and penalty, as well as any court costs and attorney fees
incurred in collection of the penalties. (Ord. 2009-03, 2-17-2009)
3-3-10: AUTHORITY TO COLLECT TAX; ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
The tax administrator is hereby authorized and empowered to collect the
proceeds of this transient lodging tax together with any and all interest and
penalties in connection therewith and to enforce by all appropriate and lawful
means the provisions of this chapter and to bring suit therefor as well as to
proceed by any appropriate criminal action. (Ord. 04-05, 12-7-2004)
3-3-11: EXAMINATION OF BOOKS AND RECORDS:
The tax administrator and his authorized agent are empowered to examine and
audit the books, papers and records of any licensee or person operating a
transient lodging rental business and to make investigations in connection
therewith. (Ord. 04-05, 12-7-2004)
3-3-12: USES, PURPOSES, AND ALLOCATION OF TRANSIENT LODGING TAX PROCEEDS:
The city council shall use the proceeds of the transient lodging tax provided
by this chapter for the following use, uses, purpose or purposes, or any one or
more thereof, at such times, in such amounts and in such manner as it shall
determine from time to time. The transient lodging tax proceeds shall be
allocated under the following categories and the allocation may be reviewed
annually by the city council:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided herein, the city council shall use the
revenue received from the provisions of this chapter for any and all lawful
governmental purposes pursuant to the powers and authority given the city by
Nevada Revised Statutes.
   B.   All proceeds from the one percent (1%) promotion of tourism transient
lodging tax shall be paid as follows:
      1.   Three-eighths (3/8) of all proceeds of the tax must be paid to the
department of taxation for deposit with the state treasurer for credit to the
fund for the promotion of tourism.
      2.   Five-eighths (5/8) of all proceeds of the tax must be deposited with
the Elko County recreation board created pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes
244A.597 to be used to advertise the resources of the county of Elko related to
tourism, including available accommodations, transportation, entertainment,
natural resources and climate, and to promote special events related hereto.
   C.   The proceeds of the recreation fund transient lodging tax of up to one
percent (1%) of the total of fifteen percent (15%) of the proceeds may, upon
resolution of the city council of West Wendover, be donated to a validly
established nonprofit entity to be used solely for the promotion of tourism and
recreational facilities throughout the city of West Wendover.
   D.   The remaining balance of fourteen percent (14%) of the recreation fund
transient lodging tax shall be assigned to the West Wendover recreation
district, a general improvement district, for those purposes authorized by
Nevada Revised Statutes 318.143. The West Wendover recreation district may
irrevocably pledge the transient lodging tax proceeds assigned herein for: 1)
the repayment of any bonds or short term obligations issued pursuant to chapter
318, 350 or 354 of Nevada Revised Statutes for any lawful purpose pertaining to
the furnishing of recreational facilities; or 2) the refinancing of any such
bonds or obligations. If any proceeds are pledged pursuant to this subsection
for the purposes described herein, any such assignment of proceeds to the West
Wendover recreation district may not be revoked until the bonds or obligations
for which such proceeds were pledged have been completely repaid according to
the terms thereof. (Ord. 04-05, 12-7-2004)
3-3-13: REFUNDS:
The city council shall have the authority to refund, without interest, to any
licensee, any tax improperly collected by said council or the tax administrator
from such licensee. (Ord. 04-05, 12-7-2004)
3-3-14: FORMS AND COSTS:
The tax administrator is hereby empowered and authorized to designate the form
of and have prepared or printed all stationery, supplies, records, notices,
receipts, licenses and other forms that the tax administrator deems necessary
or advisable in connection with the collection, administration and disbursement
of the proceeds of this transient lodging tax, and to obtain all supplies,
records and other property and equipment deemed necessary by such tax
administrator in connection with the collection, administration, use and
disbursement of the said transient lodging tax proceeds. All costs, expenses,
charges and debts incurred by the city, or by the tax administrator under the
provisions of this chapter, in connection with the imposition, collection,
administration, use and disbursement of this transient lodging tax and the
proceeds thereof shall be paid out of the recreation fund provided for in this
chapter. (Ord. 04-05, 12-7-2004)
3-3-15: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, or failing or
refusing to collect or pay the transient lodging tax proceeds as herein
provided, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in title 1,
chapter 4 of this code. Each day's violation of the provisions of this chapter
may be deemed a separate offense. The city, by and through its tax
administrator or mayor and/or city council, is further empowered and authorized
to pursue all rights, remedies, procedures, claims and causes of action it may
have at law or in equity to enforce the provisions of this chapter and to
collect this transient lodging tax from the persons owing the same by civil
action including, without being limited to, injunctions. (Ord. 04-05, 12-7-
2004)
3-3-16: DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
   A.   Any dispute relating to an overpayment or underpayment of any transient
lodging tax must in the first instance be the subject of the following dispute
resolution process before either the city or the taxpayer may file a civil
court action.
   B.   The party asserting the dispute must serve a written notice of dispute
upon the other party, and, so long as the West Wendover recreation district
receives transient lodging tax proceeds from the city, the notice must be
provided to the West Wendover recreation district (WWRD) which shall be
thereafter considered a party to the dispute, the notice of dispute must be
served together with a written statement setting forth the nature of the
dispute. The disputing party's position with respect to the dispute, and the
technical, legal, or factual information or documentation the disputing party
is relying upon to support its position. Within ten (10) days after service of
the disputing party's written statement of position, the opposing parties must
serve the disputing party a written statement of position setting forth the
opposing parties' position with respect to the dispute, and the technical,
legal or factual information or documentation the opposing parties are relying
upon to support their position.
The parties shall have a period of ten (10) days from the date of service of
the disputing party's written statement within which to resolve the dispute by
informal negotiations.
   C.   In the event the parties are unable to resolve the dispute by informal
negotiations under the preceding subsection, then the dispute shall be
submitted to nonbinding arbitration. The arbitration must commence within
thirty (30) days of the termination of the period for informal dispute
resolution provided in subsection B of this section and must be conducted by
the justice of peace of Eastline township. Each party shall bear its own costs
and expenses (including attorney fees) associated with the arbitration. The
parties may otherwise resolve any or all disputes at any time before, during or
after the arbitration process.
   D.   In the event the dispute cannot be resolved in accordance with this
section, each party shall have the right to take any judicial action available
to it under the laws of the state of Nevada. Jurisdiction and venue for any
such action shall be the justice court of the applicable township or the fourth
judicial district court of the state of Nevada. (Ord. 04-05, 12-7-2004)
CHAPTER 4
LICENSING AND REGULATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Title
3-4-2: Definitions
3-4-3: Classification
3-4-4: Licensing
3-4-5: License Application Contents And Issuance Of License
3-4-6: License Fees; License Investigation Fees
3-4-7: Inspection
3-4-8: Renewal Of License
3-4-9: Suspension
3-4-10: Revocation
3-4-11: Appeal Regarding Licensing
3-4-12: Transfer Of License
3-4-13: Compliance Time Limits For Existing Businesses
3-4-14: Additional Regulations For Escort Agencies
3-4-15: Additional Regulations For Nude Model Studios
3-4-16: Additional Regulations For Sexually Oriented Motion Picture Theaters
3-4-17: Additional Regulations For Sexually Oriented Motels
3-4-18: Regulations Pertaining To Exhibition Of Sexually Explicit Films Or
Videos
3-4-19: Regulations Pertaining To Sexually Oriented "Soda Pop" Or Nonalcoholic
Beverage Clubs
3-4-20: Regulations Pertaining To Sexually Oriented Barbershop
3-4-21: Regulations Pertaining To Sexually Oriented Beauty Salon
3-4-22: Regulations Pertaining To A Sexually Oriented Massage Parlor Or Health
Studio
3-4-23: Regulations And Unlawful Activities Applying To All Sexually Oriented
Business Uses, Principal And Accessory
3-4-24: Regulations And Unlawful Activities Applying To All Accessory Sexually
Oriented Business Uses
3-4-25: Prohibited Activities Of Performers
3-4-26: Prohibited Activities Of Patrons
3-4-27: Criminal Penalty
3-4-28: Civil Injunction
3-4-29: Strict Liability And Liability For The Conduct Of Others (Rep. by Ord.
2007-03, 12-4-2007)
3-4-30: Sexually Oriented Cabaret Work Card Permit Registration Requirements
3-4-31: Appeals Regarding Work Card Permit
3-4-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the LICENSING AND REGULATION OF
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES ORDINANCE. (Ord. 96-03, 4-2-1996)
3-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
ACCESSORY SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE: A. The offering of retail goods for sale which
are classified as sexually oriented business uses on a limited scale and which
are incidental to the primary activity and goods and/or services offered by the
establishment. Examples of such items include the sale of adult magazines, the
sale and/or rental of adult motion pictures, the sale of adult novelties, and
the like. (Also see applicable sections of the city zoning code for further
requirements defining accessory sexually oriented business use.)
   B.   Dancing or live entertainment characterized by an emphasis on the
presentation of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas",
if such live entertainment is only presented as an occasional activity of the
business operation and is presented not more than four (4) times in any
calendar year.
   C.   Occasional activity as used in connection with an accessory sexually
oriented business use means: dancing or live entertainment characterized by an
emphasis on presentation of "specific sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas" if such live entertainment is only presented as an occasional
activity of the business operation as herein regulated.
   D.   Whenever dancing or live entertainment is performed as an accessory
sexually oriented business use, the licensee shall be responsible for and
accountable for any violations of law or rules prescribed by this chapter by
the performers while engaged in acts upon the premises of the business,
regardless of whether the performers are employees or independent contractors
or have some other relationship to the licensee and regardless of whether at
the time of the violation the performer was actually engaged in a performance.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of West Wendover.
KNOWLEDGE, KNOWN AND KNOWINGLY: A person has "knowledge" of a fact if the
person:
   A.   Has actual knowledge of it; or
   B.   Has constructive knowledge of it.
A person has constructive knowledge of a fact when, from all the facts and
circumstances known to the person at the time in question, the person
reasonably should know that it exists.
LICENSEE: A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license.
NUDE, NUDITY, OR A STATE OF NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus or anal cleft with less than a fully opaque
covering, the showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque
covering of any part of the nipple, or the showing of the covered male genitals
in a discernibly turgid state.
PERSON: An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association or
other legal entity.
PRINCIPAL SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE: The offering of goods and/or services which
are classified as sexually oriented business uses as a primary or sole activity
of a business or establishment and include, but are not limited to, the
following:
Sexually Oriented Adult Video And/Or Bookstore: A building or portion of a
building used for the barter, rental or sale of items consisting of adult
printed matter, pictures, slides, records, audiotape, videotape or motion
picture film if a substantial or significant portion of such items are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description
of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Barbershop: Any barbershop which is licensed to cut hair, but
features sexual exhibits or displays:
   A.   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminude; or
   B.   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
   C.   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which depict or describe "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Beauty Salon: Any beauty salon which is licensed to cut hair,
hairstyling, manicuring, but features sexual exhibits or displays:
   A.   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminude; or
   B.   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
   C.   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which depict or describe "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Body Painting Studio: An establishment or business which
provides the service of applying paint or other substance, whether transparent
or nontransparent, to or on the body of a patron when such body is wholly or
partially nude in terms of "specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Cabaret: Any nightclub, bar, dance hall, restaurant, or
similar commercial establishment which regularly features or regularly shows:
   A.   Live performances or entertainment which features dancers, strippers,
showgirls or persons in a state of nudity or seminude condition; or
   B.   Live performances or entertainment which are characterized by the
exposure of "specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities";
or
   C.   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic
reproduction which are characterized by the exhibition or display of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Companionship Establishment: A companionship establishment
which provides the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or
discussion between an employee of the establishment and a customer, if such
service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Conversation/Rap Parlor: A conversation/rap parlor which
provides the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or
discussion, if such service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Health/Sport Club: A health/sport club which is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Hotel Or Motel: A hotel or motel wherein material is
presented which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Massage Parlor, Health Club Or Studio: A massage parlor or
health club which provides the services of massage, if such service is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Mini-Motion Picture Theater: A building or portion of a
building with a capacity for less than fifty (50) persons used for presenting
material if such building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice
contains such material that is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" for observation
by patrons therein.
Sexually Oriented Modeling Studio: An establishment whose major business is the
provision, to customers, of figure models who are so provided with the intent
of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to such customers and
who engage in "specified sexual activities" or display "specified anatomical
areas" while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn,
sculptured, photographed or otherwise depicted by such customers.
Sexually Oriented Motion Picture Arcade: Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein coin or slug operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture
machines, projectors or other image reproducing devices are maintained to show
images to five (5) or fewer persons per machine at any one time and where the
images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas".
Sexually Oriented Motion Picture Theater: A building or portion of a building
with a capacity of fifty (50) or more persons used for presenting material if
such building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice contains such
material that is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" for observation by patrons
therein.
Sexually Oriented Novelty Business: A business which has as a principal
activity the sale of devices which stimulate human genitals or devices which
are designed for sexual stimulation.
Sexually Oriented Sauna: A sauna which provides a steam bath or heat bathing
room used for the purpose of bathing, relaxation or reducing, utilizing steam
or hot air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent, if the service provided
by the sauna is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Soda Pop Or Nonalcoholic Beverage Clubs: A nightclub, bar,
restaurant or other commercial establishment that does not serve alcoholic
beverages but features sexual exhibits or displays:
   A.   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminude; or
   B.   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
   C.   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which depict or describe "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Steam Room/Bathhouse Facility: A building or portion of a
building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the
purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam or hot
air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent if the service provided by the
steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
REGULARLY FEATURED OR REGULARLY SHOWN: A consistent or substantial course of
conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited constitute a substantial
portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the ongoing business
of the sexually oriented business.
SEMINUDE OR IN A SEMINUDE CONDITION: The showing of the female breast in whole
or in part below a horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest
point or the showing of the male or female buttocks. This definition shall
include the entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not
include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast, exhibited by a
dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing apparel, provided
the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS USES: "Sexually oriented business uses" includes
adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult mini-motion picture
theaters, adult massage parlors, adult steam room/bathhouse/sauna facilities,
adult companionship establishments, adult rap/conversation parlors, adult
health/sport clubs, sexually oriented cabarets, adult novelty businesses, adult
motion picture arcades, adult modeling studios, adult hotels/motels, adult body
painting studios, "soda pop" or nonalcoholic beverage clubs, adult barbershops,
adult beauty salons, and other premises, enterprises, establishments,
businesses or places open to some or all members of the public, at or in which
there is an emphasis on the presentation, display, depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" which are capable
of being seen by members of the public. Activities classified as obscene as
defined by Nevada Revised Statutes 201.235 et seq., are not included.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS:
   A.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region,
anus or female breast(s) from the beginning of the areola or nipple to the end
thereof; and
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: A. Actual or simulated sexual intercourse,
including lap dances, oral copulation, anal intercourse, oral-anal copulation,
bestiality, direct physical stimulation of unclothed genitals, flagellation or
torture in the context of a sexual relationship, or the use of excretory
functions in the context of a sexual relationship, and any of the following
sexually oriented acts or conduct: anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia,
cunnilingus, fellatio, necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, sapphism; or
   B.   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal or tumescence; or
   C.   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus, or
masturbation; or
   D.   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, or
female breast; or
   E.   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude, clad in
undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged in
activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other
physical restraint of any such persons; or
   F.   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually oriented contact
with an animal by a human being; or
   G.   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal irrigation.
SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT: Substantial enlargement of a sexually oriented
business means the increase in floor area occupied by the business by more than
twenty five percent (25%), as the floor area existed on the effective date
hereof.
TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL: Transfer of ownership or control of a
sexually oriented business use means and includes any of the following:
   A.   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
   B.   The transfer of securities which constitutes a controlling interest in
the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
   C.   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal devise which
transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control. (Ord. 2006-02, 6-6-2006; amd. Ord. 2007-03, 12-4-2007)
3-4-3: CLASSIFICATION:
The following uses are classified as sexually oriented business uses:
   A.   Accessory sexually oriented business uses which:
Comprise no more than ten percent (10%) of the floor area of the establishment
in which it is located.
Do not involve or include any activity except the sale or rental of
merchandise.
Involve or include dancing or live entertainment characterized by an emphasis
on the presentation of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas", if such live entertainment is only presented as an occasional activity
of the business operation. To qualify as an accessory sexually oriented
business use, said activity or event shall be limited to no more than twenty
one (21) consecutive days taking place at minimum thirty (30) days' interval
following a similar activity or event and such activities or events occurring
no more than four (4) times within a calendar year. (Ord. 96-03, 4-2-1996; amd.
Ord. 2001-04, 4-3-2001)
   B.   Principal sexually oriented business uses include, but are not limited
to, the following:
Adult video and/or adult bookstore.
Barbershops.
Beauty shops.
Body painting studio.
Cabaret.
Companionship establishment.
Conversation/rap parlor.
Health/sport club.
Massage parlor, health club or studio.
Mini-motion picture theater.
Modeling studio.
Motion picture arcade.
Motion picture theater.
Novelty business.
Private clubs.
Sauna.
Sexually oriented hotel or motel.
Soda pop or nonalcoholic beverage club.
Steam room/bathhouse facility. (Ord. 96-03, 4-2-1996)
3-4-4: LICENSING:
   A.   When Required:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to operate a principal sexually
oriented business use without having first secured a license as herein
provided.
      2.   Except for dancing and live entertainment as herein regulated,
accessory sexually oriented business uses shall not require a license pursuant
to this section. An accessory sexually oriented business use which hires or
contracts for live entertainment or dancing must apply for and obtain a
temporary business license for each event. The application for the temporary
license must be on a form provided by the city clerk.
   B.   Application: An application for a license for a principal sexually
oriented business use must be made on a form provided by the city. The
application must be accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing the
configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor space
occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally
prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with market
dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches (±6"). Applicants who must comply with Section
3-4-18 of this Chapter shall submit a diagram meeting the requirements of that
Section.
   C.   Qualification: The applicant must be qualified according to the
provisions of this Section and Section
3-4-5 of this Chapter and the premises must be inspected and found to be in
compliance with the law by the Fire Department and Building Official.
   D.   Signatories: If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented
business use is an individual, the individual must sign the application for a
license as applicant. If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented
business use is other than an individual, each individual who has an interest
in the business must sign the application for a license as applicant. Each
applicant must be qualified under Section
3-4-5 of this Chapter and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a
license is granted. (Ord. 96-03, 4-2-1996)
3-4-5: LICENSE APPLICATION CONTENTS AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   The license application for a principal sexually oriented business use
shall contain the following:
      1.   Names, ages and addresses of all persons who have or will have any
financial interest in the operation, including the owner of the real property,
if the real property is leased to the operator;
      2.   Names, ages and addresses of persons who are or will be personally
responsible for the conduct and management of the operation;
      3.   A recent photograph and complete set of fingerprints of all persons
listed in subsection A1 and A2 of this Section;
      4.   Names and addresses of every other business in which the applicant
has any financial interest, including the type of such business and the nature
of the applicant's interest;
      5.   Names and addresses of all employers of the applicant in the
preceding five (5) years;
      6.   All the applicant's addresses for the preceding five (5) years;
      7.   A list of all prior convictions of the applicant for any crime,
excluding minor traffic violations, which list shall include a statement of the
offense, the place of its occurrence, the date of its occurrence, and the
disposition of the case;
      8.   A complete and accurate financial statement of the applicant;
      9.   The street address of the property upon which the proposed operation
is to be conducted.
   B.   Upon presentation of any license application to the City Clerk, the
City Clerk shall refer such application to the Chief of Police for
investigation. The Chief of Police shall conduct a full investigation of all
information contained in the license application.
   C.   Within forty five (45) days after any application is referred by the
City Clerk to the Chief of Police, the Chief of Police shall report the results
of his investigation in writing to the City Clerk, which shall include, but
shall not be limited to, the following:
      1.   A complete statement of the results of all investigations
undertaken;
      2.   A list of any errors or omissions found to exist in the application;
and
      3.   A recommendation by the Chief of Police for approval or denial of
the license.
   D.   The Chief of Police shall refuse to grant a license to any applicant:
      1.   Where an applicant or an applicant's spouse has been convicted of
any felony or crime involving any of the following:
         a.   Any offense relating to:
            (1)   Indecent exposure;
            (2)   Public sexual indecency;
            (3)   Public sexual indecency to a minor;
            (4)   Sexual abuse;
            (5)   Sexual conduct with a minor;
            (6)   Sexual assault;
            (7)   Sexual assault of a spouse;
            (8)   Molestation of a child;
            (9)   Lewd and lascivious acts.
         b.   Any of the prostitution or pandering offenses.
         c.   Any offense relating to:
            (1)   Production, publication, sale, possession and presentation of
obscene items;
            (2)   Coercing acceptance of obscene articles or publications;
            (3)   Furnishing obscene or harmful items to minors;
            (4)   Public display of explicit sexual materials;
            (5)   Creation, transportation or distribution of obscene films,
photographs or motion pictures of minors;
            (6)   Obscene or indecent telephone communications to minors for
commercial purposes;
            (7)   Production, sale, or distribution of drugs resulting in a
felony conviction.
         d.   Any offense relating to:
            (1)   Commercial sexual exploitation of a minor;
            (2)   Sexual exploitation of a minor;
            (3)   Admitting minors to public displays of sexual conduct.
         e.   Any offense relating to:
            (1)   Incest;
            (2)   Contributing to delinquency or dependency of minors;
            (3)   Permitting life, health or morals of minors to be imperiled
by neglect, abuse or immoral associations;
            (4)   Sex with animals.
         f.   Any similar offenses to those described above under the criminal
or penal code of Nevada, other states, other cities or other countries.
         g.   Facilitation, attempt, conspiracy or solicitation to commit any
of the foregoing offenses for which:
            (1)   Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
            (2)   Less than ten (10) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
            (3)   Less than (10) years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two (2) or more
misdemeanor offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within
any twenty four (24) month period.
      2.   Who has any financial interest in, or connection with, any business
which is illegal where such business is located.
      3.   When the proposed establishment is not in the correct zoning.
      4.   An applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age.
      5.   An applicant is delinquent in his or her payment to the City of
taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against him or her or imposed upon
him or her in relation to a sexually oriented business use.
      6.   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form, or has wilfully omitted or incorrectly
stated any material fact on the application.
      7.   An applicant has been convicted of a violation of a provision of
this Section within two (2) years immediately preceding the application. The
fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect.
      8.   An applicant is residing with a person who has been denied a license
by the City to operate a sexually oriented business use within the preceding
twelve (12) months, or residing with a person whose license to operate a
sexually oriented business use has been revoked within the preceding twelve
(12) months.
      9.   If the premises to be used for the sexually oriented business use
has not been approved by the Fire Department and the Building Official as being
in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances.
      10.   If the license fee required by this Chapter has not been paid.
      11.   An applicant has been employed in a sexually oriented business use
in a managerial capacity within the preceding twelve (12) months and has
demonstrated that he or she is unable to operate or manage a sexually oriented
business use premises in a peaceful and law-abiding manner, thus necessitating
action by law enforcement officers.
      12.   An applicant or the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with this Code.
   E.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the disqualification of the applicant or applicant's spouse.
   F.   An applicant who has been convicted or whose spouse has been convicted
of an offense listed above may qualify for a sexually oriented business use
license only when the time period required by this Section has elapsed.
   G.   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the person
or persons to whom it is granted, the classification or classifications of the
sexually oriented business use for which it is granted, the expiration date,
and the address of the sexually oriented business use. All licenses shall be
posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented
business use so that they may be easily read at any time.
   H.   Every license issued under the provisions of this Chapter shall have
the following restrictions:
      1.   No operation may be conducted in violation of any applicable City,
County, State or Federal ordinance, statute or regulation;
      2.   No change in ownership, partners, or persons with any interest in
the sexually oriented business use after being approved for a license without
first obtaining City approval in regards to any changes of ownership, partners,
or persons with any interest in the sexually oriented business use. (Ord. 96-
03, 4-2-1996)
3-4-6: LICENSE FEES; LICENSE INVESTIGATION FEES:
The annual fee for a sexually oriented business use license shall be set by
resolution of the City Council. The investigation fee for the purpose of
issuing a license shall be set by resolution of the City Council. In the event
that the license is denied upon application, the license fee shall be refunded;
however, no part of the license investigation fee shall be returned to the
applicant. No part of the annual license fee shall be refunded if the license
is suspended or revoked. All licenses shall be issued on an annual basis from
July 1 to June 30 of each year. The license fee shall be paid annually and
shall be due on or before July 1 of each year. (Ord. 96-03, 4-2-1996)
3-4-7: INSPECTION:
   A.   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Police
Department, Fire Department and Building Inspection Division to inspect the
premises of a sexually oriented business use for the purpose of ensuring
compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or open for business.
   B.   A person who operates a sexually oriented business use, or his or her
agent, or his or her employee, commits an offense if the person refuses to
permit a lawful inspection of the premises by a representative of the police
department at any time it is occupied or open for business. (Ord. 96-03, 4-2-
1996)
3-4-8: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Application: Each license shall be renewed only by making a renewal
application as provided by the city clerk. The chief of police shall review the
renewal application and shall grant or deny the renewal license application on
the same basis as set forth in section
3-4-5 of this chapter. Applications for renewal shall be made at least thirty
(30) days before the expiration date. If the chief of police determines good
and sufficient cause is shown by the applicant for failure to file a timely
renewal application, the city clerk may, if other provisions of the section are
complied with, grant the application.
   B.   Denial: When the chief of police denies renewal of a license, the
applicant shall not be issued a license for one year from the date of denial.
If, subsequent to denial, the city clerk finds that the basis for denial of the
renewal license has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a
license if at least ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date denial became
final.
   C.   Penalty: If any license provided for by this chapter shall remain
unpaid for more than fifteen (15) days after the same is due, a penalty of
twenty five percent (25%) shall be added to the license fee and collected by an
officer or employee of the city clerk's office. (Ord. 96-03, 4-2-1996)
3-4-9: SUSPENSION:
The chief of police may suspend a license for a period not to exceed thirty
(30) days following written notice and an opportunity to be heard if the chief
of police determines that a licensee or an employee, independent contractor,
agent or any person acting at the request or with the acquiescence of the
licensee in furtherance of the sexually oriented business use has: (Ord. 2001-
04, 4-3-2001)
   A.   Violated or is not in compliance with this chapter or with the uniform
and international codes adopted by the city in this code or applicable state
laws, including those relating to buildings, electricity, plumbing, fire safety
and mechanical equipment; or violation of state law relating to the same; (Ord.
96-03, 4-2-1996; amd. Ord. 2005-07, 12-20-2005)
   B.   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business use
premises as authorized by this chapter or any other chapter of this code; or
   C.   Demonstrated an inability to operate or manage a sexually oriented
business use in a peaceful and law abiding manner thus necessitating action by
law enforcement officers. (Ord. 96-03, 4-2-1996)
   D.   Demonstrated any grounds for the revocation of the license. (Ord. 2007-
03, 12-4-2007)
3-4-10: REVOCATION:
   A.   The chief of police may revoke a license preceded by written notice and
an opportunity to be heard if a cause for suspension in section
3-4-9 of this chapter occurs and the license has been suspended within the
preceding twelve (12) months.
   B.   The chief of police may revoke a license if the chief of police
determines that:
      1.   A licensee, owner or applicant gave false or misleading information
to the city during the application process; (Ord. 2001-04, 4-3-2001)
      2.   A licensee, or a manager, or any person acting at the request or
with the acquiescence of the licensee or owner in furtherance of the sexually
oriented business use, has knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of
controlled substances on the premises;
      3.   A licensee, or a manager, or any person acting at the request or
with the acquiescence of the licensee or owner in furtherance of the sexually
oriented business use, has knowingly allowed prostitution or other sexual
crimes or prohibited sexual acts on the premises;
      4.   A licensee, or a manager, or any person acting at the request or
with the acquiescence of the licensee or the owner in furtherance of the
sexually oriented business use, has knowingly operated the business during a
period of time when the licensee's license was suspended; (Ord. 2007-03, 12-4-
2007)
      5.   A licensee has been convicted of an offense listed in subsection 3-
4-5D1 of this chapter, for which the time period required in that subsection
has not elapsed;
      6.   On two (2) or more occasions within a twelve (12) month period, a
person or persons committed an offense occurring in or on the licensed premises
of a crime listed in subsection 3-4-5D1 of this chapter, for which a conviction
has been obtained, and the person or persons were employees, independent
contractors, agents or any persons acting at the request or with the
acquiescence of the licensee or owner in furtherance of the sexually oriented
business use at the time the offenses were committed; (Ord. 2001-04, 4-3-2001)
      7.   A licensee, or a manager, or any person acting at the request or
with the acquiescence of the licensee or owner in furtherance of the sexually
oriented business use, has knowingly allowed any act of sexual intercourse,
sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation to occur in or on the licensed premises;
(Ord. 2007-03, 12-4-2007)
      8.   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city for ad valorem
taxes, local lodging tax, or other taxes or fees related to the sexually
oriented business use; or
      9.   Failure of any licensee to apply for a renewal as required in
section
3-4-8 of this chapter shall be grounds for the chief of police to revoke the
license. Any license thus revoked may be reinstated only upon compliance by the
licensee with all requirements of this chapter relating to original license
applications.
   C.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the revocation of the license.
   D.   Subsection B7 of this section does not apply to sexually oriented
motels as a grounds for revoking the license unless the licensee or employee
knowingly allowed the act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation,
masturbation or sexual contact to occur in a public place or within public
view, or the licensee, or employee knowingly allowed any felony to be committed
on or about the premises of the sexually oriented motel.
   E.   When the chief of police revokes a license, the revocation shall
continue for one year and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented
business use license for one year from the date revocation became effective,
if, subsequent to revocation, the chief of police finds that the basis for the
revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license
if at least ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date the revocation became
effective. (Ord. 96-03, 4-2-1996)
3-4-11: APPEAL REGARDING LICENSING:
   A.   Notice: If the chief of police denies the issuance of a license, or
suspends or revokes a license, the chief of police shall send to the applicant,
or licensee, by certified mail, return receipt requested, written notice of the
action and the right to an appeal. The aggrieved party may appeal the decision
of the chief of police within thirty (30) days of receiving notice of the
city's action. The filing of an appeal must be in writing and stays the action
of the chief of police in suspending or revoking a license until the city
council makes a final decision.
   B.   Procedure: The city council may hear the appeal itself or may appoint a
committee of the city council or an independent hearing officer to hear the
matter, report findings of fact and a recommendation for disposition to the
city council. Hearings on the appeal shall be open to the public and the
licensee or applicant shall have the right to appear and be represented by
legal counsel and to offer evidence in its behalf. At the conclusion of the
hearing, the city council shall make a final decision.
   C.   Additional Requirements: The city council may condition denial,
suspension, revocation or nonrenewal of a license upon appropriate terms and
conditions. (Ord. 2006-02, 6-6-2006)
3-4-12: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business use under the authority of a
license at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. 96-03, 4-2-1996)
3-4-13: COMPLIANCE TIME LIMITS FOR EXISTING BUSINESSES:
   A.   Except for subsection 3-4-24A of this chapter, which shall not be
applicable to existing accessory sexually oriented business uses at the
effective date hereof, the regulations and provisions set forth in sections
3-4-14 through
3-4-25 of this chapter shall be applicable to all persons and businesses
described herein, whether the herein described activities were established
before or after the effective date of this chapter, and regardless of whether
such persons and businesses are currently licensed to do business in the city.
(Ord. 2001-04, 4-3-2001)
   B.   All such persons and businesses requiring sexually oriented business
use licenses shall have fifty (50) days from the effective date of this chapter
to comply with the regulatory provisions set forth in sections
3-4-14 through
3-4-25 of this chapter. (Ord. 96-03, 4-2-1996)
3-4-14: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ESCORT AGENCIES:
   A.   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of eighteen
(18) years.
   B.   A person commits an offense if he or she acts as an escort or agrees to
act as an escort for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years. (Ord. 96-
03, 4-2-1996)
3-4-15: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR NUDE MODEL STUDIOS:
   A.   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years or allow any person under eighteen (18) years of age on the
premises.
   B.   A person commits an offense if he or she appears in a state of nudity
or semi-nudity or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity or
semi-nudity in an area of a nude model studio premises which can be viewed from
the public right of way.
   C.   A person under the age of eighteen (18) years commits an offense if the
person appears semi-nude or in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a
nude model studio. It is a defense to prosecution under this subsection if the
person under eighteen (18) years was in a restroom not open to public view or
persons of the opposite sex.
   D.   A person commits an offense if the person provides any room in which
the employee or employees and the patron or patrons are alone together without
a separation by a solid physical barrier at least three feet (3') high. The
patron or patrons shall remain on one side of the barrier and the employee or
employees shall remain on the other side of the barrier.
   E.   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa, or mattress
in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception
room open to the public. (Ord. 96-03, 4-2-1996)
3-4-16: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED MOTION PICTURE THEATERS:
   A.   A person commits an offense if he or she knowingly allows a person
under the age of eighteen (18) years to appear in a state of nudity or semi-
nudity in or on the premises of a sexually oriented motion picture theater or
allows any customer of the business under the age of eighteen (18) years on the
premises.
   B.   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection A of this Section if
the person under eighteen (18) years was in a restroom not open to public view
or to persons of the opposite sex. (Ord. 96-03, 4-2-1996)
3-4-17: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED MOTELS:
   A.   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial
establishment has been rented and vacated two (2) or more times in a period of
time that is less than ten (10) hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the
establishment is a sexually oriented motel as that term is defined in this
Chapter.
   B.   A person commits an offense if, as the person in control of a sleeping
room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment that does not have
a sexually oriented business use license, he or she rents or subrents a
sleeping room to a person and, within ten (10) hours from the time the room is
rented, he or she rents or subrents the same sleeping room again.
   C.   For purposes of subsection B of this Section, the terms "rent" or
"subrent" mean the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of
consideration. (Ord. 96-03, 4-2-1996)
3-4-18: REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR
VIDEOS:
   A.   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business use, other than a sexually oriented motel, which exhibits on the
premises in a viewing room of less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of
floor space, a film, video cassette, or other video reproduction which depicts
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with
the following requirements:
      1.   Upon application for a sexually oriented business use license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more managers' stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not
exceed thirty two (32) square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also
designate the place at which the license will be conspicuously posted, if
granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or
architect's blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be
oriented to the north or to some designated street or object and should be
drawn to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the
various internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an
accuracy of plus or minus six inches (±6"). The City Clerk may waive the
foregoing diagram for a renewal application if the applicant adopts a diagram
that was previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of the
premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      2.   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant(s).
      3.   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station may be made without the prior approval of the Chief of Police or his
designee.
      4.   It is the duty of the owner and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one licensed employee is on duty and situated in each manager's
station at all times that any patron is present inside the premises. In the
case of a sexually oriented motion picture arcade (or "peep show"), it is the
duty of the owner and operator of the premises and the licensed employees who
are present to ensure that no more than one person occupies a viewing room or
"peep" booth at any time, and that all other entrances to peep booths or other
viewing areas (and to the aisles, walkways and hallways leading to peep booths
or other viewing areas) are maintained free of any obstruction such as a door,
curtain, panel, board, slat, ribbon, cord, rope, chain or other device.
      5.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises have two (2) or more managers' stations designated, then the interior
of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted
access for any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations. The view
required in this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the manager's
station.
      6.   It shall be the duty of the owner and operator, and it shall also be
the duty of all employees present in the premises, to ensure that the line of
sight and view areas specified in subsection A5 of this Section remain
unobstructed by any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials
at all times that any patron is present in the premises and to ensure that no
patron is permitted access to any area of the premises which has been
designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in the application
filed pursuant to subsection A of this Section.
      7.   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than one foot-candle as measured at the
floor level.
      8.   It shall be the duty of the owner and operator, and it shall also be
the duty of all employees present on the premises, to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
      9.   No operator, owner or employee shall allow openings of any kind to
exist between view rooms or booths.
      10.   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between viewing booths or rooms.
      11.   The operator or owner shall, during each business day, regularly
inspect the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any openings or
holes exist.
      12.   The owner or operator shall cause all floor coverings in viewing
booths to be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting.
      13.   The owner or operator shall cause all wall surfaces and seating
surfaces in viewing booths to be constructed of, or permanently covered by,
nonporous, easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood, composition board or
other porous material shall be used within forty eight inches (48") of the
floor.
   B.   A person having a duty under subsection A1 through A13 of this Section
commits an offense if the person fails to fulfill that duty. (Ord. 96-03, 4-2-
1996)
3-4-19: REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO SEXUALLY ORIENTED "SODA POP" OR NONALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGE CLUBS:
   A.   A "soda pop" or nonalcoholic beverage control club must not allow a
customer, patron or employee on the premises under the age of eighteen (18)
years of age.
   B.   A "soda pop" or nonalcoholic beverage control club must comply with
sections
3-4-23,
3-4-25, and
3-4-26 of this chapter.
   C.   A "soda pop" or nonalcoholic beverage control club must not allow
performers to perform unless their genitals, pubic region and anus are
completely and opaquely covered. (Ord. 96-03, 4-2-1996)
3-4-20: REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO SEXUALLY ORIENTED BARBERSHOP:
   A.   Any sexually oriented barbershop must not allow a customer, patron or
employee on the premises under the age of eighteen (18) years of age.
   B.   Any sexually oriented barbershop must comply with sections
3-4-23,
3-4-25, and
3-4-26 of this chapter. (Ord. 96-03, 4-2-1996)
3-4-21: REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO SEXUALLY ORIENTED BEAUTY SALON:
   A.   Any sexually oriented beauty salon must not allow a customer, patron or
employee on the premises under the age of eighteen (18) years of age.
   B.   Any sexually oriented beauty salon must comply with sections
3-4-23,
3-4-25, and
3-4-26 of this chapter. (Ord. 96-03, 4-2-1996)
3-4-22: REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO A SEXUALLY ORIENTED MASSAGE PARLOR OR HEALTH
STUDIO:
   A.   A massage parlor or health studio must not allow a customer, patron or
employee on the premises under the age of eighteen (18) years of age.
   B.   A massage parlor or health studio must comply with sections
3-4-23,
3-4-25, and
3-4-26 of this chapter. (Ord. 96-03, 4-2-1996)
3-4-23: REGULATIONS AND UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES APPLYING TO ALL SEXUALLY ORIENTED
BUSINESS USES, PRINCIPAL AND ACCESSORY:
   A.   It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business use, including
principal and accessory use, or any sexually oriented business use employee,
to:
      1.   Allow persons under the age of eighteen (18) years on the licensed
premises, except that in sexually oriented business uses which exclude minors
from less than all of the business premises, minors shall be permitted in
nonexcluded areas;
      2.   Allow, offer or agree to conduct any sexually oriented business use
with persons under the age of eighteen (18) years or in the presence of any
persons under the age of eighteen (18) years;
      3.   Allow the outside door to the premises to be locked while any
customer is in the premises;
      4.   Allow or offer a patron to touch any specified anatomical areas or
to touch any specified anatomical areas of a patron;
      5.   Allow, offer or agree to illegal possession, use, sale or
distribution of controlled substances on the licensed premises;
      6.   Allow sexually oriented business use employees to possess, use, sell
or distribute controlled substances, while engaged in the activities of the
business;
      7.   Allow, offer or agree to allow any alcoholic beverages to be stored,
dispensed or consumed on or in the licensed premises with the exception of
sexually oriented cabarets which provide live entertainment or dancing with
performers whose genitals, pubic region and anus are completely and opaquely
covered (topless dancing cabarets);
      8.   Allow, offer or agree to commit prostitution, solicitation of
prostitution, solicitation of a minor or committing activities harmful to a
minor to occur on the licensed premises or, in the event of a sexually oriented
business use employee or business, the sexually oriented business use employee
committing, offering or agreeing to commit prostitution, attempting to commit
prostitution, soliciting prostitution, soliciting a minor, or committing
activities harmful to a minor;
      9.   Allow, offer, commit or agree to any sexual act in the presence of
any customer or patron;
      10.   Allow, offer or agree to allow a patron or customer to masturbate
in the presence of the sexually oriented business use employee or on the
premises of a sexually oriented business use;
      11.   Allow any person to appear in a state of nudity or seminudity in
any area of the premises of a sexually oriented business which can be viewed
from the public right of way;
      12.   Allow any sexually oriented business use employee, contract worker
or person associated with the sexually oriented business use to perform, model
or engage in or conduct the sexually oriented business use in any location
except within the confines of the premises of the licensed sexually oriented
business. (Ord. 2006-02, 6-6-2006; amd. Ord. 2007-03, 12-4-2007)
   B.   The following provisions shall also apply to all sexually oriented
businesses in the city:
      1.   Notice To Patrons: All sexually oriented businesses within the city
must post signs adequate to inform all patrons of the restrictions applicable
to the patrons for any such business. Where applicable, prohibited touching,
restriction from the stage, and notice of the surveillance camera must be
addressed by the signs.
      2.   Law Enforcement Access And Cooperation: All sexually oriented
businesses shall permit city police officers or authorized agents of the city
full access to the premises for purposes of enforcing this SOB code. Such
access shall include, without limitation, the ability to view/review all
documentation and/or permits required by the SOB code. In addition, each such
business shall cooperate with law enforcement investigations of criminal
activity on or near its premises, to include, but not be limited to, review of
security camera recordings, if any.
      3.   Security: All sexually oriented businesses shall be solely
responsible for security at its business location. Where applicable, at a
minimum there shall be one security guard present on premises during any live
performances. The city may require that such business shall provide and cause
to be operating a visible recording security camera on the outside of the
premises which shall record the sidewalk area and parking area. Where cameras
are required, notice of the security camera must be conspicuously posted by
such business. The city may require that any such business shall ensure
adequate lighting in the front sidewalk and parking areas to ensure the
security camera may adequately record the areas to be recorded.
      4.   Manager: Requirements regarding managers are as follows:
         a.   General Requirements: During all business hours any sexually
oriented business shall have at least one manager on the premises who shall be
charged with duties of seeing that the SOB code is being followed. Managers
must also maintain such records as may be required by the SOB code.
         b.   Work Cards Required: Each manager shall be required to obtain a
work card. The provisions of this code concerning work cards for SOB performers
are hereby made applicable to managers. The obligation to have a work card
shall be effective sixty (60) days from the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-03, 12-4-2007)
3-4-24: REGULATIONS AND UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES APPLYING TO ALL ACCESSORY SEXUALLY
ORIENTED BUSINESS USES:
It is unlawful for any accessory sexually oriented business to:
   A.   Operate within five hundred feet (500') of an existing sexually
oriented business. Regardless of the actual location of the sexually oriented
merchandise or services or the exterior location of the building in which a
portion is leased to operate a business which is an accessory sexually oriented
business, measurement shall be made in a straight line, without regard to
intervening structures or objects, from the nearest portion of the building or
structure actually used as part of the premises wherein an accessory sexually
oriented business use is operated, to the nearest portion of the building or
structure used as part of the premises wherein an existing accessory sexually
oriented business use is operated. The presence of city, county or other
political boundaries shall be irrelevant for purposes of calculating this
distance requirement. This location restriction shall not be applicable to an
accessory sexually oriented business locating within a restricted commercial
(RC) district. (Ord. 2001-04, 4-3-2001)
   B.   Operate or cause the operation of another accessory sexually oriented
business in the same building, structure or portion thereof. (Ord. 96-03, 4-2-
1996)
3-4-25: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES OF PERFORMERS:
It is unlawful for any professional dancer, model, or performer, while
performing in any sexually oriented business use licensed pursuant to this
chapter, including principal and accessory uses:
   A.   To touch any patron's breasts, buttocks or groin area or to receive
money from a patron unless given hand to hand from a patron to the performer;
   B.   Except as otherwise set forth herein, to accept any money, drink or any
other object from any patron while performing; or
   C.   To allow a patron to touch such performer's breast, buttocks or groin
area or to place any money or object on the performer or within the costume or
person of the performer; or
   D.   To perform in an area other than on a stage raised to a height of not
less than three feet (3') with the stage separated by a setback area of a
distance of not less than three feet (3') from any customer observation area
measured in a straight line from the nearest point of the stage to the nearest
point of customer observation. The patrons shall remain at least three feet
(3') from the performers and the performers shall remain on the setback stage
area at least three feet (3') from any customer observation area.
The foregoing prohibitions shall not prohibit two (2) or more performers from
touching each other while performing provided such touching does not involve
the touching of specified anatomical areas. (Ord. 2006-02, 6-6-2006)
3-4-26: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES OF PATRONS:
It is unlawful for any person or any patron of any sexually oriented business
use, including principal and accessory uses, to lay or place any money or
object on any performer or employee of the sexually oriented business use, or
to give or offer to give to any such performer or employee of the sexually
oriented business use any money or object while such performer or employee of
the sexually oriented business use is performing; except that money may be
placed on the stage which shall not be picked up by the performer except by
hand or may be given hand to hand from the patron to the performer. (Ord. 2006-
02, 6-6-2006)
3-4-27: CRIMINAL PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or of this code, as
amended by this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon
conviction, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or by imprisonment for a term not to exceed six (6) months, or by
both fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 96-03, 4-2-1996)
3-4-28: CIVIL INJUNCTION:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is subject to a civil
suit for injunction as well as prosecution for criminal violations and
liability for licensing sanctions such as suspension or revocation. (Ord. 96-
03, 4-2-1996)
3-4-29: STRICT LIABILITY AND LIABILITY FOR THE CONDUCT OF OTHERS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2007-03, 12-4-2007)
3-4-30: SEXUALLY ORIENTED CABARET WORK CARD PERMIT REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any performer to work, appear or perform as a
dancer, model, showgirl or performer (hereinafter "performer") at a sexually
oriented cabaret, unless such performer is the holder of a valid current work
card permit issued by the chief of police or his designee in accordance with
this chapter. It is further unlawful for any sexually oriented cabaret owner or
establishment to allow a performer to work, appear or perform at a sexually
oriented cabaret without a valid work card permit applicable to that performer
of that establishment.
   B.   Application for a sexually oriented cabaret work card permit shall be
submitted to the chief of police of the city of West Wendover in writing, under
oath, setting forth the following information: applicant's name, age, present
permanent residence address, a list of all residences for the past five (5)
years prior to the date of such application, a list of the names and addresses
of all employers of the applicant and of all jobs, occupations and businesses
of the applicant for the past year prior to the date of such application, a
list of all convictions within the past five (5) years next preceding the date
of filing the application of those crimes enumerated in subsection I of this
section.
   C.   At the time of filing such written application, the applicant shall
submit to the taking of his or her thumbprints, fingerprints and photograph for
use in processing the application and for filing in the records of the West
Wendover police department.
   D.   Whenever any person applies for the issuance or renewal of a work card
permit under this chapter, the chief of police may in his discretion issue a
temporary work card permit. After making his investigations, the chief of
police may, in his discretion, issue or deny the work card permit to the
applicant. If issued the work card permit, said permit shall expire five (5)
years after its issuance.
   E.   Every person who has been issued a work card permit pursuant to this
chapter must have that work card permit renewed every five (5) years thereafter
and/or upon any change at any time of place of employment, and/or upon any
change of name, and such work card permit shall expire five (5) calendar years
from the date of issuance. A holder of a work card permit must apply for
renewal of the permit from the chief of police within ten (10) days following
any change of place of employment or change of name. Every person issued a work
card permit pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, seeking a replacement
or reissuance of an original work card permit previously issued to him or her,
because of a change of place of employment and/or upon any change of name,
shall not be required to pay an additional fee. Every person holding a work
card permit pursuant to the provisions of this chapter seeking a renewal of the
original work card permit previously issued to him shall, after expiration of
five (5) calendar years from the date of issuance, pay to the city the sum as
set by resolution of the city council, for such renewal work card permit and
shall, if requested by the chief of police, submit to thumbprinting and
fingerprinting and/or photography and/or submit such portions of an application
as the chief of police shall specify. Issuance of renewal work card permits
shall not be automatic but shall be subject to such search of the West Wendover
police department records, and other law enforcement agency records and such
background investigation as the chief of police shall determine is necessary to
determine the applicant's qualifications to hold such work card permit.
   F.   The performer work card permit application must be accompanied with an
application fee, which is set by resolution of the city council and may be
increased from time to time.
   G.   A work card permit must be renewed each time a performer changes place
of work.
   H.   No person under eighteen (18) years of age shall be employed as a
performer.
   I.   No performer may work in a sexually oriented cabaret or be issued a
work card permit who:
      1.   Concerning crimes in this state:
         a.   Has ever been convicted of a category A or B felony;
         b.   Has been convicted of a category C or D felony within the past
five (5) years;
         c.   Has been convicted of a category E felony within the past year;
         d.   Has been convicted of a gross misdemeanor in this state within
the past year, except a gross misdemeanor of obstructing justice or resisting
an officer within the past five (5) years shall be further prohibition; or
         e.   Has been convicted within the past six (6) months of misdemeanor
offenses involving theft, larceny, embezzlement, battery, illegal drugs/
substances or misdemeanor offenses deemed predatory, abusive, dishonest, or
inappropriate towards minors or elders.
      2.   Concerning crimes outside this state:
         a.   Has ever been convicted of a crime for which the term of
imprisonment imposed, as opposed to the actual length of imprisonment, was
greater than ten (10) years;
         b.   Has been convicted of a crime within the past five (5) years, for
which the term of imprisonment imposed, as opposed to the actual length of
imprisonment, was at least one year but less than ten (10) years;
         c.   Has been on probation or parole, from a term of imprisonment,
within the past year; or
         d.   Has been convicted of a misdemeanor within the past six (6)
months involving theft, larceny, embezzlement, battery, illegal drugs/
substances or misdemeanor offenses deemed predatory, abusive, dishonest, or
inappropriate towards minors or elders.
      3.   Concerning other restrictions:
         a.   Who the chief of police determines is not a suitable person to
receive a work card permit under the provisions of this chapter, having due
consideration for the proper protection of the public health, safety, morals,
good order and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city; or
         b.   Who has wilfully made a false statement or omission in the
registration form required by subsection B of this section.
   J.   The chief of police or his designee will have the authority to deny or
revoke the work card permit of a performer who does not qualify under this
section or who is found to be violating this code or state law.
   K.   The chief of police shall deny any application made by any applicant
who does not meet the requirements of this chapter, or who has failed to
disclose, misstated or otherwise misled the chief of police in respect to any
facts or statement contained within the application, or who has refused or
neglected to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter.
   L.   The chief of police may revoke any work card permit issued under this
chapter when it shall appear to the satisfaction of the chief of police that:
      1.   The holder of the work card permit has, subsequent to the issuance
of the work card permit, been convicted of any of the crimes or offenses
specified above;
      2.   The holder of the work card permit failed to disclose, misstated or
otherwise misled the chief of police in respect to any fact or statement
contained in his or her application for a work card permit;
      3.   The holder of the work card permit refuses or neglects to comply
with any of the provisions of this chapter;
      4.   The holder of the work card permit is no longer a suitable person to
hold such work card permit after due consideration by the chief of police of
the proper protection of the public health, safety, morals and good order and
the general welfare of the inhabitants of the city.
   M.   All performers who work in a sexually oriented cabaret shall file with
the chief of police and with the operator of a sexually oriented cabaret a
current work card permit before commencing work. No work card permit shall be
transferable; all work card permits shall state the name of the licensed
operation where the performer will work. No performer shall change their place
of work from one sexually oriented cabaret to another without first notifying
the chief of police of the proposed change and obtaining a revised work card
permit. Work card permits must be at the premises of the sexually oriented
cabaret and accessible to police at all times. (Ord. 2006-02, 6-6-2006)
3-4-31: APPEALS REGARDING WORK CARD PERMIT:
   A.   Any person whose application for a work card permit has been denied or
revoked by the chief of police may appeal to the city council of the city of
West Wendover for a hearing to show cause why the work card permit should be
issued or should not be revoked. Such appeal must be filed with the city clerk
on or before the thirtieth day following such denial or revocation. Such appeal
shall be heard by the city council within thirty (30) days after the appeal is
filed. At such hearing, the city council shall receive such evidence and take
such testimony as it deems necessary. After such hearing the city council shall
review the testimony taken and any other evidence submitted and shall within
thirty (30) days from the date of the hearing announce its decision sustaining
or reversing the denial or revocation of the work card permit. The city council
may, by majority vote, upon evidence of the good moral character and
rehabilitation of the applicant, waive any of the disqualifications stated
above, and condition or restrict any such waiver having due consideration for
the proper protection of the public health, safety, morals, good order and
general welfare of the inhabitants of the city. The filing of such appeal shall
constitute consent by the applicant to use all criminal histories, records and
information that has been acquired or compiled in connection with the
application and the action taken thereon. (Ord. 2006-02, 6-6-2006)
CHAPTER 5
GAMING CODE
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definition
3-5-2: License Required
3-5-3: Issuance Of License; Contents
3-5-4: Conditions Of License; Fees
3-5-5: Refund Of Fees
3-5-6: Nontransferability Of License
3-5-7: Posting Of License
3-5-8: Gaming In Gaming Areas; Exceptions
3-5-9: Sign Restrictions
3-5-10: Minors
3-5-11: Revocation Of License
3-5-12: Exceptions
3-5-13: Penalties
3-5-1: DEFINITION:
The term "game" or "games" shall be construed to mean and include all games or
devices herein mentioned, any slot machine or slot machines played for money or
for checks or tokens redeemable in money or property or as authorized by Nevada
State Gaming Laws 1 . (Ord. 91-29, 8-6-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. NRS 463 et seq.
3-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person either as owner, lessee or employee,
whether for hire or not, to deal, operate, carry on, conduct, maintain, or
expose for play any game as defined in NRS 463.0152 in which any person
keeping, conducting, managing or permitting the same to be carried on,
receives, directly or indirectly, any compensation or reward, or any percentage
or share of the money or property played, for keeping, running, carrying on, or
permitting the game to be carried on, or to play, maintain or keep any slot
machine played for money, for checks or tokens redeemable in money or property,
without having first procured a license for the same as hereinafter provided;
and provided further, that no alien or any person except a citizen of the
United States shall be issued a license or shall directly, or indirectly, own,
operate or control any game or device so licensed. (Ord. 91-29, 8-6-1991)
3-5-3: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; CONTENTS:
Licenses shall be prepared by the Clerk and shall be issued and accounted for
as is by law provided in respect to other City licenses 1 . Each license issued
or delivered by the Clerk to any person shall contain the name of the licensee
and a particular description of the particular room and premises in which the
licensee intends to carry on, conduct or operate any one slot machine, game or
device mentioned in this Chapter, and shall specify the particular type of slot
machine together with the serial number of the machine of the particular game
or the particular device, by name. (Ord. 91-29, 8-6-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 1 of this Title.
3-5-4: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE; FEES:
Any person desiring to conduct, operate or carry on any gambling game, slot
machine or any game of chance enumerated or provided for in Section
3-5-2 of this Chapter, shall, upon proper application to the City Council, be
issued a license for each particular device or game or slot machine under the
following conditions and regulations:
   A.   Description Of Premises: The person so applying for a license shall
furnish a complete description of the particular room and premises in which the
licensee desires to carry on or conduct such slot machine, device or game,
together with the location of the building, its street number, if such there
be, and any other information by which it may be definitely and readily located
and recognized.
   B.   Description Of Gambling Devices: The person so applying for a license
shall state definitely the particular type of slot machine together with the
serial number of the machine or the particular game or device which the
licensee desires to carry on or conduct in the room and premises, and as so
stated the same shall be specifically described in and entered upon the
license.
   C.   License Fees: The license fees as set by resolution of the City
Council. (Ord. 91-29, 8-6-1991)
   D.   Nonrestricted Licenses:
      1.   No person holding a nonrestricted gaming license as the same is
defined by state law is permitted to operate under such nonrestrictive gaming
license in the city except in an establishment which qualifies as a rural
resort hotel. The foregoing restriction does not apply to any establishments
where nonrestricted gaming operations exist and operate in the city before
January 1, 2006, unless the nonrestricted operation ceases at the establishment
for a period exceeding two (2) years.
      2.   "Rural resort hotel" means any building or group of buildings that
are maintained as and held out to the public to be a hotel where sleeping
accommodations are furnished to the transient public and has such amenities and
facilities including at least:
         a.   A minimum of one hundred fifty (150) rooms available for sleeping
accommodations;
         b.   One bar with permanent seating capacity for fifteen (15) patrons
that serves alcoholic beverages sold by the drink for consumption on the
premises;
         c.   One restaurant which must have a permanent seating capacity for
more than one hundred (100) patrons that is open to the public twenty four (24)
hours each day and seven (7) days per week;
         d.   A gaming area dedicated to a nonrestricted operation within the
building or group of buildings. (Ord. 2006-04, 6-20-2006)
3-5-5: REFUND OF FEES:
No license money paid shall be refunded, whether the slot machine, game or
device for which any license was issued voluntarily ceased or has been revoked
under the provisions of this chapter herein provided, or for any other reason.
(Ord. 91-29, 8-6-1991)
3-5-6: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
Any license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall not be
transferable by the licensee to any other person and shall be valid only for
the particular room and premises described therein and the specified slot
machine, game or device for which it was issued. (Ord. 91-29, 8-6-1991)
3-5-7: POSTING OF LICENSE:
All licenses issued for gambling games and slot machines of every character and
description shall be posted in a conspicuous place where such gambling games
and slot machines are installed, in order that they may be inspected by
authorized state, county and city officials. (Ord. 91-29, 8-6-1991)
3-5-8: GAMING IN GAMING AREAS; EXCEPTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person either as owner, lessor or lessee, employer
or employee, whether for hire or not, to deal, play or carry on, open or
conduct in any capacity whatever, any gambling game or games, or game or games
of chance of any name, nature or description, mechanical or otherwise, except
slot machines, punchboards and theater lotteries based upon the sale of tickets
for admission, for money, property, checks, tokens, credit or any
representative of value within or without building, on public or private
property within areas not specifically designated as gaming areas. (Ord. 91-29,
8-6-1991)
3-5-9: SIGN RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person either as owner, lessor or lessee, employer
or employee, whether for hire or not, to place or maintain any sign of any
name, nature or description, advertising games, gambling, gambling
establishments, casinos, intoxicating liquors, bars, saloons and cocktail
lounges of a size or in a manner as prohibited by title 7, chapter 4 of this
code. (Ord. 91-29, 8-6-1991)
3-5-10: MINORS:
No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall be allowed to play any
licensed game or slot machine or loiter about any room or premises wherein any
game or slot machine provided for in this chapter is operated or conducted, and
in any legal action it shall be no excuse for the licensee, employee or dealer,
operating or conducting a licensed game, to plead he believed the party to be
twenty one (21) years old or over; and any licensee, employee or dealer
operating or conducting any game who shall permit any person under the age of
twenty one (21) years to play at such game or games or permit any such person
to loiter about the room or premises in which such game or games may be
conducted or operated, shall be deemed guilty of a city offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this
code. (Ord. 91-29, 8-6-1991)
3-5-11: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall act as an
immediate revocation of any and all licenses which may have been issued to the
violator, or which may have been issued for the particular room and premises in
which any such violation occurred, and no new or additional license or licenses
shall be issued to such violator for the room and premises in which the
violation occurred for a period of one year from the date of such revocation.
(Ord. 91-29, 8-6-1991)
3-5-12: EXCEPTIONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit social games played
solely for drinks or cigars served individually, or games played in private
homes or residences for prizes, or nickel in the slot machines operated solely
for cigars or drinks. (Ord. 91-29, 8-6-1991)
3-5-13: PENALTIES:
Any person or persons who shall knowingly permit any of the slot machines,
games or devices mentioned in this chapter to be conducted, operated, dealt or
carried on in any house or building owned by him or her, in whole or in part,
except by a person who has received a license as herein provided or his
employee shall, upon conviction therefor, be punished as provided in title 1,
chapter 4 of this code. Each violation of this chapter shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 91-29, 8-6-
1991)
CHAPTER 6
GAMING EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: Policy Of City; Restrictions On Issuance Of Permit
3-6-3: Work Permit Required
3-6-4: Application For Permit
3-6-5: Issuance Or Denial Of Permit; Temporary Permit
3-6-6: Permit Fees
3-6-7: Renewal Of Permit
3-6-8: Duties Of Chief Of Police
3-6-9: Application Of State Law Provisions Regarding Permit Denial Or
Revocation
3-6-10: Confidential Records
3-6-11: Appeals
3-6-12: Penalties
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory:
GAMING EMPLOYEE: Any person connected directly with the operation of a
nonrestricted establishment and includes, without limitation:
Boxmen
Cashiers
Change aprons
Coin wrappers
Dealers
Drop box counters
Floormen
Hosts or other persons empowered to extend credit or complimentary services
Keno checkers
Keno runners
Keno writers
Key men
Machine mechanics
Racebook writers
Security personnel
Shift or pit bosses
Shills
Soft count (box counters)
Supervisors or managers
NONRESTRICTED ESTABLISHMENT: Any gaming establishment which holds a gaming
license issued by the state pursuant to the provisions of Nevada Revised
Statutes chapter 463, except one in which slot machines only are operated
incidentally to some other primary business of the licensee.
TEMPORARY WORK PERMIT: A work permit which is valid only for a period not to
exceed one hundred twenty (120) days from its day of issue and is not
renewable.
WORK PERMIT: Any card, certificate or permit issued by the city council or by
the chief of police of the city, authorizing the employment of the holder as a
gaming employee. (Ord. 2003-03, 4-15-2003)
3-6-2: POLICY OF CITY; RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
The city council finds, and it is hereby declared to be the policy of the city,
that to protect and promote the public health, safety, morals, good order and
general welfare of the inhabitants of the city and to carry out the policy
declared in Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 463, it is necessary that the city
council ascertain and keep itself informed of the identity, prior activities
and present location of all gaming employees in the city, and maintain
confidential records of such information, and require the registration with the
police department and the thumbprinting, fingerprinting and photographing of
gaming employees, and to require the chief of police to investigate the
background and qualifications of each applicant for a gaming employee work
permit under this chapter, before any such work permit is granted, and to
periodically investigate into the legal qualifications of each applicant holder
of a work permit under this chapter, to the end that such work permit shall not
be granted to or held by unqualified, disqualified or unsuitable persons. To
better define the policy of the city and this chapter the following persons are
declared to be unqualified, disqualified or unsuitable persons to be granted or
to hold gaming employee work permits under the provisions of this chapter:
   A.   A person who, within the past ten (10) years, has been convicted of:
      1.   A felony or of any crime which, under the laws of this state is
punishable as a felony.
      2.   In this state, or elsewhere, of any crime of which fraud or intent
to defraud was an element.
      3.   Larceny in any degree.
      4.   Buying or receiving stolen property.
      5.   Unlawful entry of a building.
      6.   Unlawful possession, use, selling, dispensing, exchanging,
supplying, giving away or distribution of any controlled substance as that term
is defined in the uniform controlled substance act, or any dangerous drug as
that term is defined in Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 454, title 40, or of
marijuana, or of a narcotic drug.
      7.   Any sex offense or crime involving moral turpitude.
      8.   The violation of any law, whether the same is or is not punishable
as a felony, regulating or prohibiting the use, carrying, possession or
ownership of any concealed weapon or deadly weapon.
   B.   A person under the age of twenty one (21) years; with the exception of
soft count (box counters) not engaged in the act of gaming.
   C.   A person who does not possess a good moral character.
   D.   A person who the chief of police determines is not a suitable person to
receive a work permit under the provisions of this chapter, having due
consideration for the proper protection of the public health, safety, morals,
good order and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city. (Ord. 2003-03,
4-15-2003)
3-6-3: WORK PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to be employed as a gaming employee
unless such person is the holder of a valid, current work permit issued in
accordance with this chapter.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person operating a nonrestricted establishment
to employ any gaming employee who does not hold a valid, current work permit
issued under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 91-16, 6-4-1991)
3-6-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Application for a gaming employee work permit shall be submitted to the
chief of police in writing, under oath, setting forth the following
information: applicant's name, age, present permanent residence address, a list
of all residences for the past five (5) years prior to the date of such
application, a list of the names and addresses of all employers of the
applicant and of all jobs, occupations and businesses of the applicant for the
past five (5) years prior to the date of such application, a list of all
convictions within the past ten (10) years next preceding the date of filing
the application of those crimes enumerated in section
3-6-2 of this chapter.
   B.   At the time of filing such written application, the applicant shall
submit to the taking of his thumbprints, fingerprints and photograph, and
present two (2) valid forms of identification for use in processing the
application and for filing in the records of the city police department and the
criminal justice information center of the Nevada crime commission. (Ord. 2003-
03, 4-15-2003)
3-6-5: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT; TEMPORARY PERMIT:
   A.   Whenever any person applies for the issuance or renewal of a work
permit under this chapter, the chief of police shall, within twenty four (24)
hours, mail or deliver a copy of the application to the Nevada gaming control
board, and may, in the discretion of the chief of police, issue a temporary
work permit. If within one hundred twenty (120) days after receipt by the
Nevada gaming control board, of the copy of the application, has not notified
the chief of police of any objection, the chief of police may, in his
discretion, issue or deny the work permit to the applicant.
   B.   If the Nevada gaming control board, within the one hundred twenty (120)
day period notifies the chief of police that the said board objects to the
granting of a work permit to the applicant, the chief of police shall deny the
work permit and shall immediately revoke and repossess any temporary work
permit which may have been issued.
   C.   Upon complying with the provisions of this chapter, and meeting all
qualifications required, subject to the right of the Nevada gaming control
board to cause the denial of the issuance, the chief of police shall issue the
applicant a work permit under this chapter, subject to revocation as provided
in this chapter 1 . (Ord. 2003-03, 4-15-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-6-9 of this chapter.
3-6-6: PERMIT FEES:
Every person applying for a work permit under the provisions of this chapter
shall pay, at the time of application, the sum, as set by resolution of the
city council, as a condition precedent to having issued to him or her the work
permit provided in this chapter. (Ord. 91-16, 6-4-1991)
3-6-7: RENEWAL OF PERMIT:
   A.   Every person who has been issued a work permit pursuant to this chapter
must have that work permit renewed every five (5) years thereafter and/or upon
any change at any time of place of employment and/or upon any change of name,
and such work permit shall expire on the fifth anniversary of the permittee's
birthday, measured from the birthday nearest the date of issuance or renewal.
If the date of birth of a permittee is on February 29 in a leap year, the
permittee's date of birth shall be deemed to be on February 28.
   B.   A holder of a work permit must apply for renewal of the permit from the
chief of police within ten (10) days following any change of place of
employment or change of name.
   C.   Every person issued a work permit pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter seeking a renewal of the original work permit previously issued to him
shall, after expiration of five (5) years, as determined in subsection A of
this section, pay to the city the sum as set by resolution of the city council,
for such renewal work permit and shall, if requested by the chief of police,
present two (2) valid forms of identification, submit to thumbprinting and
fingerprinting and/or photographing and/or submit such portions of an
application as the chief of police shall specify.
   D.   Issuance of renewal work permits shall not be automatic but shall be
subject to such search of the city police department records, the Nevada
criminal justice information records, and other law enforcement agency records
and such background investigation as the chief of police shall determine is
necessary to determine the applicant's qualifications to hold such work permit.
(Ord. 2003-03, 4-15-2003)
3-6-8: DUTIES OF CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the chief of police to:
      1.   Receive and process the applications for work permits provided in
this chapter.
      2.   Take the thumbprints, fingerprints and photographs of all applicants
and immediately send a copy of such imprints to the criminal justice
information center of the Nevada crime commission, or such other law
enforcement agency as the chief of police may determine, with the request that
all information as to the previous record, if any, of such person be
immediately transmitted to the chief of police. On application for renewal or
upon the change of name of any holder of a work permit, the chief of police may
submit only the applicant's or holder's name to the criminal justice
information center or may require the submission of new thumbprints and
fingerprints.
      3.   Investigate the qualifications of all applicants for work permits
under this chapter and to grant or deny such application within one hundred
twenty (120) days from the date such application is filed.
   B.   The chief of police shall deny any application made by any applicant
who does not meet the requirements of this chapter, or who has failed to
disclose, misstated or otherwise misled the chief of police in respect to any
facts or statement contained within the application, or who has refused or
neglected to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   The chief of police may revoke any work permit issued under this
chapter when it shall appear to the satisfaction of the chief of police that:
      1.   The holder of the work permit has, subsequent to the issuance of the
work permit, been convicted of any of the crimes or offenses specified in
section
3-6-2 of this chapter.
      2.   The holder of the work permit failed to disclose, misstated or
otherwise misled the chief of police in respect of any fact or statement
contained in his application for a work permit.
      3.   The holder of the work permit refuses or neglects to comply with any
of the provisions of this chapter.
      4.   The holder of the work permit is no longer a suitable person to hold
such work permit after due consideration by the chief of police of the proper
protection of the public health, safety, morals and good order and the general
welfare of the inhabitants of the city. (Ord. 2003-03, 4-15-2003)
3-6-9: APPLICATION OF STATE LAW PROVISIONS REGARDING PERMIT DENIAL OR
REVOCATION:
Any application for work permit under this chapter is subject to denial and any
work permit issued under this chapter is subject to revocation pursuant to the
terms of Nevada Revised Statutes 463.337. (Ord. 91-16, 6-4-1991)
3-6-10: CONFIDENTIAL RECORDS:
All criminal histories and records acquired, supplied or compiled by the chief
of police, the city council, the city police department or any law enforcement
agency or record center pursuant to this chapter are confidential and no part
thereof may be disclosed except in the proper administration of this chapter or
to an authorized law enforcement agency, to the Nevada gaming control board and
commission, to the city council, to the city attorney, to police officers of
the city police department and to the criminal justice information center of
the Nevada crime commission or to any successor thereof or substitute therefor.
Any dissemination of records, criminal history or other information acquired in
the administration of this chapter shall be made in compliance with the
policies and procedures of the Nevada crime commission. (Ord. 91-16, 6-4-1991)
3-6-11: APPEALS:
   A.   Any person whose application for a work permit has been denied or
revoked by the chief of police (except when such denial was because of an
objection by the Nevada state gaming control board) may appeal to the city
council for a hearing to show cause why the work permit should be issued or
should not be revoked. Such appeal must be filed with the city clerk on or
before the thirtieth day following such denial or revocation. Such appeal shall
be heard by the council within thirty (30) days after the appeal is filed. At
such hearing, the council shall receive such evidence and take such testimony
as it deems necessary. After such hearing, the council shall review the
testimony taken and any other evidence submitted and shall within thirty (30)
days from the date of the hearing announce its decision sustaining or reversing
the denial or revocation of the work permit. The council may, by majority vote,
upon evidence of the good moral character and rehabilitation of the applicant,
waive any of the disqualifications stated in section
3-6-2 of this chapter, and condition or restrict any such waiver having due
consideration for the proper protection of the public health, safety, morals,
good order and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city. The filing of
such appeal shall constitute consent by the applicant to use all criminal
histories, records and information that has been acquired or compiled in
connection with the application and the action taken thereon.
   B.   Any person whose application for a work permit has been denied because
of an objection by the Nevada state gaming control board may apply to that
board for such hearing as may be permitted by Nevada Revised Statutes chapter
463. (Ord. 91-16, 6-4-1991)
3-6-12: PENALTIES:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code. Each day's
violation of the provisions of this chapter may be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 91-16, 6-4-1991)
CHAPTER 7
ESCORT SERVICES
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definitions
3-7-2: License Required
3-7-3: License Fees Required
3-7-4: License Application; Content
3-7-5: Preliminary Approval Of License
3-7-6: Action On Applications
3-7-7: Disciplinary Action Against Licensee
3-7-8: Contract With Patrons
3-7-9: Employee Permits And Cards
3-7-10: Referral Of Employees Or Contractors; Notice Of Termination
3-7-11: Employment Or Contract Records
3-7-12: Age Of Employees Or Contractor
3-7-13: Employee Or Contractor Responsibility
3-7-14: Employee Or Contractor Permit Applications
3-7-15: Employee Or Contractor Permit Approval, Denial, Revocation, Suspension
3-7-16: Permit Content
3-7-17: Permit Renewal
3-7-18: Limitation To Specified Escort Service
3-7-19: Permit Transfer
3-7-20: Permit Surrender
3-7-21: Loss Of Permit
3-7-22: Identification Card
3-7-23: Exhibition Of Card
3-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following words shall have the
meanings ascribed to them:
ESCORT: Any person who, for a salary, fee, commission, hire, or profit, makes
himself or herself available to the public for the purpose of accompanying
other persons for social engagements.
ESCORT PATRON: Any person who seeks the services of an escort service or a
person in any way contracted with an escort service to provide the services of
an escort.
ESCORT RUNNER: Any person who, for a salary, fee, hire, or profit, and who is
not a licensed owner of an escort service or is not an escort, acts for an
escort or escort service by contacting or meeting with escort patrons to make
social engagements for escorts.
ESCORT SERVICE: Any business, agency or person who, for a fee, commission,
hire, or profit, furnishes or in any way arranges for escorts to accompany
other persons for social engagements.
PERSON: Any association, corporation, firm, partnership, trust or other form of
business or social association or organization, as well as a material person
and the estate of a natural person.
PRINCIPAL: A. Any person who is an officer, director, trustee, personal
representative or general partner or who has an ownership interest in or voting
control of the business equal to or greater than ten percent (10%) of the
entire ownership of voting control of such business; if the ownership interest
or voting control is held by a person other than an individual, then each
officer, director, trustee, personal representative or general partner of such
person is a principal;
   B.   Any person who is or will be directly engaged in the administration or
supervision of the business; and
   C.   Any other person if, in the city clerk's opinion, the person exercises,
or is capable of exercising, significant influence over the business.
SOCIAL ENGAGEMENTS: Visits to one or more patrons within or without the city,
by one or more escorts for a fee of any nature for the purported purpose of
dancing, photography, dating, companionship, or for any other similar or like
purpose or pretext, whether such visit occurs in public or private. (Ord. 01-
05, 4-3-2001)
3-7-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of providing or in any arranging for
escorts or conduct an escort service or act as a principal of an escort service
without first obtaining and thereafter maintaining a valid unexpired license in
good standing pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 01-05, 4-3-2001)
3-7-3: LICENSE FEES REQUIRED:
Each escort service or principal thereof must pay in advance a license or
renewal fee as set forth by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 01-05, 4-3-
2001)
3-7-4: LICENSE APPLICATION; CONTENT:
   A.   The application for an escort service license or a license to act as a
principal of an escort service must provide:
      1.   The applicant's prior business activities, financial history and
business associations covering at least the ten (10) year period immediately
preceding the year of filing the application.
      2.   The name, address and job description of each person who is to be
actively engaged in the administration or supervision of the business to be
licensed.
      3.   The information for an application for a license to act as a
principal of an escort service shall contain, in addition to any other
information required by the city clerk, the following minimum information:
         a.   The applicant's personal and family history;
         b.   The applicant's present and past financial position and history;
         c.   The applicant's criminal history and civil and administrative
litigation history;
         d.   The applicant's education, training, employment, business and
professional history; and
         e.   The applicant's past and proposed affiliation with the licensee.
      4.   All other information required by the city in its official
application form which must be used by each applicant.
   B.   The applicant shall agree in writing that, if a license is granted, the
applicant will accept the license subject to all of the terms and provisions of
this chapter and that the license is a privilege conferred upon the person who
is granted the license.
   C.   The applicant shall authorize the city in writing to obtain information
from criminal justice agencies, financial institutions, federal, state and
local governments and agencies, and other persons and entities and shall
consent in writing to the release of such information to the city for use in
connection with the application for the license and other city business
regulations. The applicant shall also sign a release of claims and hold
harmless agreement to the city for its use of the information provided by the
applicant or discovered during any investigation thereof. (Ord. 01-05, 4-3-
2001)
3-7-5: PRELIMINARY APPROVAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   The city council may, upon special circumstances and payment of the fee
specified by a resolution of the council, grant preliminary approval of an
application for an escort service license or a license to act as a principal of
an escort service when such approval is requested by an applicant for any good
and sufficient reason. Such preliminary approval may further be revoked at any
time at the discretion of the city council.
   B.   The council may impose conditions/requirements on any such preliminary
approval, and the city clerk shall issue the license or permit only after all
conditions/requirements are satisfied. Continued satisfaction of such
conditions/requirements are necessary during the term of the preliminary
approval.
   C.   All such requirements must be satisfied and the license/permit issued
within six (6) months after the date of the preliminary approval unless the
council specifies a shorter or longer period in its preliminary approval. Upon
the expiration of six (6) months or the period otherwise specified in the
preliminary approval, the applicant shall not be entitled to further operate an
escort service or as a principal without the appropriate license. (Ord. 01-05,
4-3-2001)
3-7-6: ACTION ON APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Authority Of City Clerk: The city clerk may approve, deny or take such
other action with respect to any application required by this chapter as deemed
appropriate. The burden of showing qualifications, acceptability or fitness for
a license or approval for suitability is upon the applicant.
   B.   Denial Of License: Grounds for denial of a license include, but are not
limited to, the grounds for disciplinary action against a licensee as set forth
in section
3-7-7 of this chapter.
   C.   Notification Of Applicant: Upon any refusal or denial of an
application, the city clerk shall notify the applicant and state in writing the
reasons therefor and deliver them to the applicant personally or mail them to
the applicant at the address indicated on the application.
   D.   Applicant Prohibited From Conducting Business: When any application is
denied or the issuance of a license is denied, such applicant shall not engage
or act as a principal in the business for which the license or application was
refused unless a license be issued to such applicant pursuant to a judgment of
a court of competent jurisdiction ordering the same or the denial is overruled
in the appeal procedure by the city council.
   E.   Procedure For Appeal Of Denial Of License: Any decision of the city
clerk to deny a license to an escort service or to act as a principal thereof
may be appealed in the manner provided in this subsection E.
      1.   The licensee shall, within five (5) days of the date of notice of
the denial from the city clerk, file with the city clerk a written appeal of
the denial decision.
      2.   The city council shall fix a day and time for a hearing at which the
applicant shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
      3.   If the applicant fails to file an appeal in the time required or if
the applicant fails to appear at the place and time designated for the hearing,
the city council may order the decision of the city clerk to be affirmed.
      4.   The city council shall within ten (10) days from the date of such
hearing enter an order to affirm or reverse the decision to deny the license.
      5.   In all quasi-judicial proceedings under this section or any other
provision of this chapter, the city council shall have the right to subpoena
witnesses and documents and all witnesses thus subpoenaed shall attend at the
time and place appointed therein, and failure to attend at the time and place
appointed may be treated by the city council as contempt thereof and a finding
by the city council to such effect shall be reported to the chief of police for
immediate disposition thereon and shall constitute prima facie evidence of
contempt in any trial of the offending witness in any court. (Ord. 01-05, 4-3-
2001)
3-7-7: DISCIPLINARY ACTION AGAINST LICENSEE:
   A.   Imposition Of Disciplinary Action: The business licensee and/or a
principal may be subject to disciplinary action by the city council for good
cause which may be determined by the city council or a court of competent
jurisdiction, and, which may, without limitation, include:
      1.   The business licensee or any of its principals is or has engaged in
a business, trade or profession without having obtained a valid license, an
approval for suitability, a permit or a work card when such licensee or
principal knew that one was required or under such circumstances that he
reasonably should have known one was required;
      2.   The business licensee or any of its principals has been subject, in
any jurisdiction to disciplinary action of any kind with respect to a license,
an approval for suitability, a permit or a work card to the extent that such
disciplinary action reflects upon the qualification, acceptability or fitness
of such licensee or principal;
      3.   The business licensee or any of its principals has been convicted of
an act which constitutes a crime which involves moral turpitude or involves any
local, state or federal law or regulation which relates to the same or a
similar business;
      4.   The business licensee or any of its principals violates a condition
which is imposed upon the license or violates this chapter;
      5.   The business licensee or any of its principals has been convicted of
having perpetrated deceptive practices upon the public;
      6.   The business licensee or any of its principals suffers from a legal
disability under the laws of the state;
      7.   The premises on which the business is conducted do not satisfy
local, state or federal law or regulations which pertain to the activity which
is actually engaged in;
      8.   The actual business activity constitutes a public or private
nuisance, or has been or is being conducted in an unlawful, illegal or
impermissible manner;
      9.   The application is incomplete or contains false, misleading or
fraudulent statements with respect to any information required in the
application;
      10.   A principal fails to satisfy any qualification or requirement
imposed by this code, or other local, state or federal law or regulation
pertaining to the particular approval for suitability sought or held;
      11.   A principal illegally resides in the United States;
      12.   When substantial information exists which tends to show that the
principal is dishonest or corrupt;
      13.   The principal lacks sufficient financial, technical or educational
ability or experience to conduct or perform the activity for which approval for
suitability is sought;
      14.   The applicant, licensee or any principal thereof has committed a
crime of prostitution or any other crime of sexual misconduct;
      15.   An escort or escort runner employed by or in any way contracted to
the escort service has committed a criminal act or a violation of this chapter,
while providing services to an escort patron under circumstances where the
escort service and/or principal has knowledge or should have had knowledge by
reasonable diligence that such criminal act or violation might occur.
   B.   Actions Against Licensee: Upon a showing of good cause and in the
discretion of the city council, disciplinary action against a business licensee
and/or a principal may take the form of cancellation, revocation, suspension,
imposition of conditions or restrictions, civil fines and any other appropriate
form of disciplinary action (or any combination thereof) as the particular
situation may require.
   C.   Costs And Fees: The council may also impose against the escort service
or principal the actual cost incurred, and a reasonable amount for attorney
fees resulting from the investigation and prosecution of the disciplinary
action.
   D.   Other Remedies: The disciplinary actions available in this section
shall be in addition to, and not exclusive of, any other civil or criminal
remedy which otherwise might be available and exercised by the city.
   E.   Procedures:
      1.   Motion Of The City Council Or Complaint: Upon the filing with the
city council of a complaint by any person alleging of an act or omission which
is cause for discipline a license, or the council upon its own motion for good
cause shown, the city council forthwith shall issue a notice directing the
licensee, within five (5) days after service thereof upon the licensee, to
appeal by filing with the city council the licensee's answer to the complaint
showing cause, if any the licensee has, why his license should not be
disciplined, canceled, suspended, revoked, restricted or conditions placed
thereon. Service of the notice with a copy of the complaint shall be made upon
the licensee in one of the following manners:
         a.   By personal service upon any one or more of the persons named in
the license as a licensee or a person licensed as a principal, service upon one
licensee or principal being deemed service upon and notice to all licensees
and/or principals named in the license; or
         b.   By mailing by depositing in the United States mail a copy of the
citation with a copy of the complaint enclosed in a sealed envelope with
postage thereon fully prepaid, addressed to the licensee at the latest address
of record in the city clerk's office. Service shall be deemed complete upon the
date of mailing. Without excluding other ways of proof, proof of service by
mailing and the date thereof may be made by an affidavit of mailing or by proof
of mailing by registered mail or certified mail.
      2.   Distribution Of Complaint: In case a corporation is a licensee, then
such service above specified may be upon the president, or other head of the
corporation, or the secretary, managing agent, resident agent or any other
officer thereof. In case of service by mailing it may be addressed to the
corporation or to any of the said officers, managing agent or resident agent
thereof at the latest address of record in the city clerk's office.
      3.   Lack Of Licensee Response: Failure of the licensee to answer within
the time specified shall be deemed an admission by the licensee of the
commission of the act or acts or omissions charged in the complaint or notice
and a waiver of all defenses the licensee may have to such charges. Upon such
failure to answer, the city council shall take such action against as deemed
appropriate and shall give notice of such action by mailing a copy thereof, by
United States mail in a sealed envelope with postage thereon fully prepaid,
addressed to the licensee at the latest address of record in the office of the
city clerk.
      4.   Hearing; Decisions:
         a.   Upon the filing of an answer by the licensee, the city council
shall fix the time and place for a hearing and give the licensee and the
complainant not less than two (2) days' notice thereof. The notice may be
served by depositing in the United States mail a copy of the notice enclosed in
a sealed envelope with postage thereon fully prepaid, addressed to the licensee
and to the complainant, respectively, at their latest addresses of record in
the office of the city clerk. With the notice to the complainant there shall be
attached to or enclosed a copy of the answer. If either party has appeared by
an attorney, notice shall be given to the attorney instead of to the party. In
the event the city, the city council, the chief of police, the city attorney or
any other city officer or representative acting by or on behalf of the city is
the complainant, the notices to and service of answer upon the complainant
herein called for shall be dispensed with.
         b.   At the hearing the complainant and the licensee may appear in
person or by attorney, or both, and present relevant evidence and witnesses.
After the hearing is concluded and the matter submitted, the city council
shall, at that meeting or at its next regularly scheduled meeting after such
submission, render its decision which must be made by the vote of a majority of
the members present at the meeting. The city council shall:
            (1)   Revoke or cancel the license; or
            (2)   Suspend the license for such a period of time as the city
council deems advisable; or
            (3)   Place such restrictions upon the license, the licensee and/or
the licensee's place or manner of business as the city council deems advisable;
or
            (4)   Make the license and the continued force and effect thereof
conditioned upon such terms and conditions as the city council shall deem
advisable.
      5.   Dismissal Of Complaint: If in the opinion of a majority of all the
members elected as council members of the city the charges set forth in the
complaint have not been established or proved they shall dismiss the complaint.
      6.   Alteration Of Times: The city council may, upon stipulation of the
complainant and the licensee, shorten or extend the times herein set in
connection with notices, pleadings and hearings.
      7.   Summary Suspension Of License: Notwithstanding any other provision
of this chapter, the city council shall have the right and power to suspend
summarily any license issued pursuant to this chapter in cases appearing to it
to be of an aggravated or flagrant violation of this chapter or in cases of
emergency; provided, however, that the city council shall not summarily suspend
any license unless the city council finds that such action is immediately
necessary for the preservation of public health, welfare, safety and morals of
the inhabitants of the city. Such order of suspension shall remain effective
until further order of the city council of final disposition of the charges
upon which the order is based. In the event of a suspension without prior
notice, every licensee shall immediately be given notice in writing of the
reason or reasons for such suspension, which shall include a specification of
the acts or omissions alleged against the licensee. The licensee shall be given
an opportunity to be heard at a meeting of the city council at which hearing
the licensee may appear in person or by attorney, or both, and present a
reasonable number of witnesses to show cause, if any there be, why the license
should not be revoked. Notices shall be served and given, the answer filed and
the hearing conducted in the manner and under the procedures provided in
subsection B of this section. The licensee may waive the time specified for a
hearing and such hearing may be held at any time agreed upon by the licensee
and the city council; provided, however, that nothing herein shall be construed
to limit the right of the city council to proceed with revocation proceedings.
(Ord. 01-05, 4-3-2001)
3-7-8: CONTRACT WITH PATRONS:
   A.   The escort service shall provide to each patron a written contract for
services. An escort service may not circumvent this requirement by hiring
independent contractors to act as escorts or escort runners. The contract shall
clearly state the type of services to be performed, the length of time such
services shall be performed, the total amount of money such services shall cost
the patron, and any special terms or conditions relating to the services to be
performed. The contract shall additionally include a statement in clear and
concise language that prostitution is illegal in the city and is punishable by
both fine and imprisonment and that no act of prostitution shall be performed
in relation to the services contracted for. Further, the contracts provided for
this subsection shall be numbered and utilized in numerical sequence by the
escort service.
   B.   The contract shall be signed by the patron and a copy furnished to him.
The escort service shall also retain a copy of each contract and shall furnish
said copies to the city clerk for inspection upon the city clerk's written
request therefor. (Ord. 01-05, 4-3-2001)
3-7-9: EMPLOYEE PERMITS AND CARDS:
It is unlawful for any escort service to employ or in any way contract with an
escort or an escort runner who does not have in his or her possession a valid
unexpired identification card and permit in good standing as required by this
chapter. (Ord. 01-05, 4-3-2001)
3-7-10: REFERRAL OF EMPLOYEES OR CONTRACTORS; NOTICE OF TERMINATION:
Every escort service shall refer all prospective escorts and escort runners to
the city clerk for application for a permit. Upon termination of employment or
contract of any escort or escort runner with such escort service, such escort
service shall notify the city clerk, in writing, of such termination within
five (5) days thereof. (Ord. 01-05, 4-3-2001)
3-7-11: EMPLOYMENT OR CONTRACT RECORDS:
Every escort service licensed hereunder shall maintain the following records of
employment or contracts with their escorts and runners:
   A.   Date employment commenced or contract entered;
   B.   Date employment or contract terminated; and
   C.   A written summary of daily services provided to the escort service.
The foregoing records shall be available to the city upon written request
therefor. (Ord. 01-05, 4-3-2001)
3-7-12: AGE OF EMPLOYEES OR CONTRACTOR:
No escort service shall employ or contract with a person as an escort or escort
runner who is under the age of eighteen (18). (Ord. 01-05, 4-3-2001)
3-7-13: EMPLOYEE OR CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBILITY:
It is unlawful for any person to act as an escort or an escort runner without
first obtaining and carrying in his or her possession a valid unexpired permit
and a valid unexpired identification card, both in good standing, as herein
provided. (Ord. 01-05, 4-3-2001)
3-7-14: EMPLOYEE OR CONTRACTOR PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
Any person who is required to have a permit must apply for the permit from the
city clerk and pay an investigation fee as set by resolution of the city
council. The application must be made upon forms provided by the city clerk and
shall set forth the information required, which includes:
   A.   The applicant's personal description, history, education, experience
and background;
   B.   The applicant's criminal history and civil and administrative
litigation history;
   C.   The applicant's relationship to the licensee;
   D.   In the case of an escort, the applicant shall furnish written evidence
from a licensed physician that the physician has examined the applicant and
that the applicant is free from any communicable disease;
   E.   A recent three by five inch (3 x 5") photograph showing the applicant's
head and shoulders;
   F.   Such other information as the police department may require that
reasonably relates to the applicant's fitness for a permit or the nature of the
service to be provided. (Ord. 01-05, 4-3-2001)
3-7-15: EMPLOYEE OR CONTRACTOR PERMIT APPROVAL, DENIAL, REVOCATION, SUSPENSION:
   A.   The police department shall complete the investigation of the escort or
escort runner application. Upon completion of the investigation the city clerk
shall approve, deny or take such other action with respect to such application
as he considers appropriate. The city clerk may deny, revoke or suspend a
permit for good cause, as determined by the city clerk, which includes, but is
not limited to:
      1.   The application is incomplete or contains false, misleading or
fraudulent statements with respect to any information required;
      2.   The applicant or permittee fails to satisfy any qualification or
requirement imposed by this code, or other local, state or federal law or
regulation pertaining to such activities;
      3.   Disciplinary action has been brought against the licensee or a
principal of the licensee;
      4.   The applicant or permittee fails to comply with any conditions of
the license or permit or has engaged in conduct in violation of this chapter;
      5.   The applicant or permittee is or has engaged in a business, trade or
profession without a valid license, permit, approval for suitability, or work
card when he or she knew that one was required or under such circumstances that
he or she reasonably should have known one was required;
      6.   The applicant or permittee has been subject, in any jurisdiction, to
disciplinary action of any kind against a license, permit, approval for
suitability or work card to the extent that such disciplinary action reflects
on the qualification, acceptability or fitness to hold a permit;
      7.   The applicant or permittee has committed acts which would constitute
a crime involving moral turpitude, prostitution or other sex crimes, or
involving any federal, state or local law or regulation relating to the same or
a similar business;
      8.   When substantial information exists which tends to show that the
applicant or permittee is dishonest or corrupt;
      9.   The applicant or permittee has engaged in deceptive practices upon
the public;
      10.   The applicant or permittee suffers from a legal disability under
the laws of the state.
   B.   A decision of the city clerk to deny an application for a permit to be
an escort or escort runner may be appealed to the city council in the same
manner as an appeal of a decision to deny an application for a license as
provided in section
3-7-6 of this chapter.
   C.   Disciplinary action against an escort or escort runner shall be in the
same manner as provided for disciplinary actions regarding licensees or
principals set forth in section
3-7-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 01-05, 4-3-2001)
3-7-16: PERMIT CONTENT:
The permit shall identify the permittee and the licensee and set forth the date
of issuance. (Ord. 01-05, 4-3-2001)
3-7-17: PERMIT RENEWAL:
Each escort, prior to renewal of his permit by the payment of the permit fee,
shall furnish written evidence from a licensed physician that the physician has
recently examined the permittee and that the permittee is free from any
communicable diseases. (Ord. 01-05, 4-3-2001)
3-7-18: LIMITATION TO SPECIFIED ESCORT SERVICE:
Every escort and escort runner's permit shall be issued to the applicant to act
as an escort or escort runner for one escort service only; it is unlawful for
an escort or escort runner to undertake employment or contract with any escort
service other than the escort service identified on the permit. (Ord. 01-05, 4-
3-2001)
3-7-19: PERMIT TRANSFER:
Upon application and payment of a transfer fee in the amount as established by
resolution of city council, an escort's or escort runner's permit may be
transferred to a new escort service. (Ord. 01-05, 4-3-2001)
3-7-20: PERMIT SURRENDER:
Upon termination of employment or contract as an escort or escort runner for a
licensed escort service or disciplinary action against the permittee resulting
in temporary or permanent revocation of the permit, such permittee shall
surrender his permit to the city clerk within five (5) days of such termination
of employment or contract or disciplinary action; it is unlawful for any escort
or escort runner to fail to surrender the permit within the time prescribed.
(Ord. 01-05, 4-3-2001)
3-7-21: LOSS OF PERMIT:
In the event an escort or escort runner shall lose his permit, it shall be the
duty of the escort or escort runner to report said loss to the city clerk
within five (5) days after knowledge of the loss occurs. A fee as established
by resolution of city council shall be charged by the clerk to issue a new
permit. (Ord. 01-05, 4-3-2001)
3-7-22: IDENTIFICATION CARD:
Any individual who is required to have an identification card shall make
application for the card with the police department and provide the information
requested including fingerprints and photographs. Such card when issued shall
be valid for one year, except that a temporary card may be issued for thirty
(30) days pending the final issuance of the identification card under such
conditions as the city clerk or chief of police may require. (Ord. 01-05, 4-3-
2001)
3-7-23: EXHIBITION OF CARD:
Each person required to have a permit or an identification card must possess
said card while performing any escort or escort runner services and exhibit the
permit and identification card upon the request of any person. (Ord. 01-05, 4-
3-2001)
CHAPTER 8
PEDICAB REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-8-1: Legislative Determination
3-8-2: Definitions
3-8-3: Rickshaws Prohibited; Pedicabs Permitted Upon Compliance
3-8-4: Restricted Area; Exemptions
3-8-5: Routes
3-8-6: Operation Restrictions
3-8-7: Council Authority
3-8-1: LEGISLATIVE DETERMINATION:
The city council declares as a matter of legislative determination that:
   A.   The growth of West Wendover and the hotels, casinos and other
businesses in the city are drawing increasing numbers of pedestrians and
vehicles to the city.
   B.   Because of the influx of pedestrians and motor vehicles, the safety of
the streets are a paramount concern. In this context, the introduction of
slower moving vehicles such as animal drawn vehicles, rickshaws and pedicabs
into downtown traffic poses additional potential hazards to those persons using
the streets.
   C.   The city has authority to regulate the use of its streets for the
public safety and welfare.
   D.   The regulations contained in this chapter are necessary for the public
safety and welfare. (Ord. 2015-04, 7-21-2015)
3-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms and words used in this chapter
shall have the meanings ascribed to them herein:
BICYCLE: A device propelled by human power upon which a person may ride, having
two (2) tandem wheels, either of which is over fourteen inches (14") in
diameter, or every such device generally recognized as a bicycle, though
equipped with two (2) front or two (2) rear wheels, except a moped.
PEDICAB: A three (3) wheeled bicycle designed to carry one or more passengers
for hire, which may have electric drive assist but may not have an internal
combustion engine assist.
RICKSHAW: A two (2) wheeled vehicle designed to carry one or more passengers
for hire that is pulled by one or more persons. (Ord. 2015-04, 7-21-2015)
3-8-3: RICKSHAWS PROHIBITED; PEDICABS PERMITTED UPON COMPLIANCE:
It is unlawful for any person to operate a rickshaw or a bicycle carrying
passengers for hire within the city. It is unlawful for any person, except in
full compliance with the provisions of this chapter, to operate, drive or
propel a pedicab on public streets in the city. Pedicabs of a pedicab licensee
in compliance with this chapter are permitted upon all city streets unless
route restrictions have been imposed as specifically provided herein. (Ord.
2015-04, 7-21-2015)
3-8-4: RESTRICTED AREA; EXEMPTIONS:
The following persons are exempt from the restriction of section
3-8-3 of this chapter:
   A.   Persons riding bicycles and not carrying passengers for hire; and
   B.   Persons operating, driving or propelling animal drawn vehicles,
pedicabs or rickshaws in any parade for which a permit has been issued pursuant
to this title. (Ord. 2015-04, 7-21-2015)
3-8-5: ROUTES:
Specified routes for the operation of pedicabs may be established on public
streets, subject to the provisions of this chapter and the following
restrictions:
   A.   If route restrictions are adopted by the city council, a pedicab shall
be operated only upon the routes approved by the city council and pursuant to
time schedules approved by the council.
   B.   If route restrictions have been adopted, the city manager may modify or
reject any proposed route or time schedule that causes an immediate hazard to
the public health, safety or welfare, or interfere with the safe and efficient
operation of vehicular traffic on any public street.
   C.   The city council will review at such intervals as are deemed
appropriate, but not less than annually, all routes approved pursuant to this
section.
      1.   If the operating conditions on a given route have not changed so as
to adversely affect the public health, safety or welfare, or the safe and
efficient operation of vehicular traffic on the affected public streets, the
routes may remain unchanged.
      2.   If the operating conditions on a given route have changed so as to
adversely affect the public health, safety or welfare, or the safe and
efficient operation of vehicular traffic on the affected public streets, the
city council may change or prohibit the licensee's use of that portion of the
route so affected.
   D.   Any route or time schedule approved pursuant to this chapter shall be
subject to the right of the city to prohibit or suspend the use of the city
streets by the licensee when such operation would pose an immediate hazard to
the safety requirements of the public or interfere with special events approved
by the city.
   E.   Modifications to an approved route and time schedule may be issued by
the city manager to the licensee for special purposes for a period not to
exceed ten (10) days.
   F.   If the city manager modifies or rejects any route or time schedule
acted upon by the council, the city manager shall promptly place notice in the
mailboxes of the members of the council. (Ord. 2015-04, 7-21-2015)
3-8-6: OPERATION RESTRICTIONS:
Licensed pedicabs may be operated as provided in this chapter, subject to the
following restrictions:
   A.   Only pedicab licensees may operate a pedicab in the city and, except as
provided hereafter, such pedicabs shall pick up and discharge passengers only
at available driveway or curb returns of driveways or street intersections or
in off street parking areas or lots with the prior written permission of the
property owner. Such pedicabs may also enter established bike lanes in the city
for the purpose of traveling, loading, or discharging passengers provided that
during loading/discharging of passengers the vehicle station itself is as close
to the available curb as possible and does not remain in the related bike lane
any longer than is necessary for such purpose and thereafter shall promptly
move, in accordance with applicable traffic laws, to a permissible location.
   B.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A of this section, the
city council may establish, by resolution, designated stands for pick up or
discharge of passengers on any route if such are deemed appropriate.
   C.   Where applicable, the vehicles shall park only in designated stands
approved by the city council. Pedicab parking citations may be issued to the
licensee of the business or the operator of the pedicab. Except as provided
herein, it is unlawful for a pedicab to remain upon the street for purposes of
loading or unloading passengers, and stopping a pedicab in a street or highway
is prohibited except to comply with stop signs or stoplights.
   D.   Except when making left turns, the vehicles shall be operated only in
the traffic lane nearest the curb on any public street and the driver shall
obey all applicable state and local traffic laws, ordinances and regulations.
   E.   No person may drive a pedicab without a valid driver's license issued
from the state of Nevada or other state. Pedicabs shall be equipped with the
lighting, reflectors and other safety equipment as required for vehicles in the
state of Nevada.
   F.   No person may operate a pedicab at a speed greater than twenty five
(25) miles per hour or at a speed so slow as to impede the forward movement of
traffic proceeding immediately behind the pedicab or otherwise constitute an
immediate hazard.
   G.   No pedicab licensee or employee may solicit persons to provide services
by approaching individuals to offer services or waving signs or delivering
leaflets or handouts to such individuals, except employees may, while they are
within fifteen feet (15') of the pedicab to be used for such services, verbally
offer/negotiate rides and fares so long as such offers and negotiating are
conducted at normal conversational volumes and without the aid of voice
amplification devices. The city council may provide further restrictions on
solicitation by resolution and violation thereof may be punished as a violation
of this code. Further, violations of the solicitation restrictions, as well as
any other violation of this chapter, may be grounds for license discipline, up
to and including revocation.
   H.   A copy of the pedicab license must be displayed on all pedicabs used in
such business. A maximum occupancy sign as prescribed by the manufacturer shall
be affixed to the pedicab and it is unlawful to exceed such maximum occupancy.
Every operator of a pedicab shall inform any person hiring the pedicab of all
the rates and charges before any service is rendered.
   I.   A pedicab operator shall at all times keep in full force and effect an
insurance policy naming the pedicab operator as the covered entity responsible
for property damage and for personal injury to the passengers. Insurance
coverage shall be maintained, for operators of five (5) or fewer pedicabs
within the city, in an amount not less than twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00) for property damage and not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) for personal injury. Insurance coverage for operators with six
(6) or more pedicabs shall be maintained in an amount not less than fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for property damage and not less than two million
dollars ($2,000,000.00) for personal injury. A copy of such insurance shall be
provided to the city clerk upon application for a pedicab business license.
   J.   Persons seeking a pedicab business license shall apply for the license
with the city clerk as provided by section
3-1-2 of this title. The city clerk shall cause the police chief to investigate
any application and provide a recommendation for issuance or denial prior to a
decision on any application. The fees applicable to such a license shall be as
set forth by resolution of the city council. All other provisions concerning a
city business license as set forth in chapter 1 of this title shall be made
applicable to a pedicab business license so far as practicable except that this
chapter shall be controlling in the case of a conflict therewith. (Ord. 2015-
04, 7-21-2015)
3-8-7: COUNCIL AUTHORITY:
There is reserved to the city council the power to reverse, modify or confirm
any decision of the city manager under this chapter if any member of the city
council makes a request to review the decision within fourteen (14) days of the
date of the decision. If any member of the city council makes such a request,
the matter shall be placed on the agenda for the next meeting of the city
council and the relevant questioned decision shall be stayed from the time of
the request until the city council has acted on the matter. (Ord. 2015-04, 7-
21-2015)
CHAPTER 9
MEDICAL CANNABIS ZONING REGULATIONS AND LICENSES
SECTION:
3-9-1: Short Title, Authority And Application
3-9-2: Findings, Intent And Purpose
3-9-3: Definitions
3-9-4: Procedure Applicable To Zoning And Licensing Requirements
3-9-5: Medical Cannabis Establishment Zoning Requirements
3-9-6: Requirement To Obtain Conditional Use Permit; Outdoor Cultivation And
Production Facilities Pilot Projects
3-9-7: Application
3-9-8: Mandatory Conditions Of Approval
3-9-9: Medical Cannabis Establishment Location Restrictions
3-9-10: Security And Screening
3-9-11: License Requirement And Term Of License
3-9-12: Land Use And Location Requirements; Conformance With Zoning
3-9-13: Hours Of Operation
3-9-14: Facilities Not Located Within The City
3-9-15: License Classification
3-9-16: License Application Procedure And Fees
3-9-17: Security Requirements
3-9-18: Preliminary Finding; City Council Action On Application; Denial Of
Business License
3-9-19: Commencement; Nonoperational Status Of Business
3-9-20: On Site Use Prohibited
3-9-21: Age Limitation
3-9-22: Juvenile Employee
3-9-23: Fees
3-9-24: Renewal; Late Payment; Penalty; Reinstatement
3-9-25: Consent To Inspections
3-9-26: Revocation Of Licenses, Suspension, Cancellation; Notice Of Hearing
Procedure
3-9-27: Action Upon Suspension, Revocation Or Closure
3-9-28: Disposal Of Medical Cannabis Waste
3-9-29: Violation; Penalty
3-9-1: SHORT TITLE, AUTHORITY AND APPLICATION:
   A.   Short Title: This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the
MEDICAL CANNABIS CODE.
   B.   Authority: The City Council has the authority to adopt this chapter
pursuant to the Nevada Constitution and Nevada Revised Statutes, including, but
not limited to, Nevada Revised Statutes 678A-D, inclusive.
   C.   Application: This chapter shall apply to all lands within the
boundaries of the City, as defined in this chapter.
   D.   Consistent With State Law: The regulations of marijuana facilities
under State law have been moved from NRS 278 and 453A to NRS 678A-D, inclusive,
since the City's adoption of this chapter. Terminology, including the use of
the term "cannabis" in place of the term "marijuana," was enacted along with
other changes. The City intends its code to be consistent with State law and
such law shall be useful and applicable in interpreting and applying its code.
To the extent any provision of this chapter shall be contrary to applicable
State law, the State law shall be controlling to the extent it may be made
applicable to facilities in the City. (Ord. 2017-01, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-
03, 10-19-2021)
3-9-2: FINDINGS, INTENT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Findings: The City of West Wendover City Council finds:
      1.   In 2013, the Nevada legislature passed, and the Governor signed into
law, Senate Bill 374, then codified in Nevada Revised Statutes 453A, which
allowed medical marijuana establishments within the State of Nevada; and
required such establishments to comply with all local business licensing
requirements, local land use, and Code requirements;
      2.   Federal law and related regulations classify marijuana as a Schedule
I controlled substance and prohibit its cultivation, possession, dispensing,
and use, among other things, for medical reasons or otherwise. This chapter is
intended to implement Nevada Revised Statutes 678A-D, inclusive and to
establish criteria for the issuance of licenses that are a prerequisite for the
exemption from State prosecution provided for in Nevada Revised Statutes 678A-
D, inclusive;
      3.   Nevada law allows the City to enact regulations to protect and
promote the public health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the
City;
      4.   The operation of a medical cannabis establishment is a revocable
privilege and there is no property right for individuals or businesses to
operate medical cannabis establishments within the corporate limits of the
City. To the extent that medical cannabis establishments are registered and
authorized by the State, the purpose of this chapter is to license and regulate
them within the corporate limits of the City to protect the public interests
over medical cannabis business interests;
      5.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to confer any legitimate
claim of entitlement to any benefit which might otherwise devolve upon any
licensee or any person approved for suitability;
      6.   Nothing in this chapter is intended to authorize or make legal any
act that Federal or State law does not permit or sanction or assist in any
violation of any Federal or State law. This chapter is intended to implement
Nevada Revised Statutes 678A-D, inclusive and to establish criteria for the
issuance of licenses that are a prerequisite for the exemption from State
prosecution provided for in Nevada Revised Statutes 678A-D, inclusive;
      7.   Federal law makes it unlawful to cultivate, possess, distribute, or
dispense marijuana. However, on August 29, 2013, the United States Department
of Justice ("DOJ") issued a memorandum advising that the DOJ would allow
enforcement of State laws that authorize marijuana production, distribution,
and possession to be handled primarily by State and local law enforcement
regulatory bodies as long as the State and local governments enact laws that
implement "strong and effective regulatory enforcement systems" to address the
Federal government's identified enforcement priorities. The following
enforcement priorities were specified by the DOJ as being particularly
important to the Federal government:
         a.   Preventing the distribution of marijuana to minors;
         b.   Preventing revenue from the sale of marijuana from going to
criminal enterprises, gangs, and cartels;
         c.   Preventing the diversion of marijuana from states where it is
legal under State law in some form to other states;
         d.   Preventing State authorized marijuana activity from being used as
a cover or pretext for the trafficking of other illegal drugs or other illegal
activity;
         e.   Preventing violence and the use of firearms in the cultivation
and distribution of marijuana;
         f.   Preventing drugged driving and the exacerbation of other adverse
public health consequences associated with marijuana use;
         g.   Preventing the growing of marijuana on public lands and the
attendant public safety and environmental dangers posed by marijuana production
on public lands; and
         h.   Preventing marijuana possession or use on Federal property.
   B.   Intent: The intent of this chapter is to establish the licensing,
zoning, land use and development requirements applicable to medical cannabis
uses, as authorized under chapter 678A-D, inclusive of Nevada Revised Statutes.
   C.   Purpose: Pursuant to its general authority to regulate the cultivation,
production, dispensing and sale of medical cannabis, the City Council declares
that the public health, safety and general welfare of the City are best
promoted and protected by requiring the licensing and zoning regulations and
standards set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 2017-01, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-
03, 10-19-2021)
3-9-3: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Definitions: Certain words or phrases unique to this chapter shall be
construed as herein set out unless it is apparent from the context that they
have a different meaning.
CANNABIS:      The meaning ascribed to the term "marijuana" in NRS 453.096.
CANNABIS       Products that: 1) are infused with cannabis or an extract thereof; and 2) are
INFUSED        intended for use or consumption by humans through means other than inhalation or
PRODUCTS:      oral ingestion. The term includes, without limitation, topical products,
               ointments, oils and tinctures.
CITY:          The City of West Wendover, Nevada, a Municipal corporation.
               Any of the following: a facility that provides daycare to children, a public
               park, a public library, medical facilities, substance abuse treatment center, a
COMMUNITY      playground, a public swimming pool, a center or facility which provides
FACILITY:      recreational opportunities or services to children or adolescents, a church,
               synagogue, or other building, structure or place used for religious worship or
               other religious purposes, City Hall, Police Department, Fire Department. The
               term does not include animal shelters or public works facilities.
               A finding of guilt as an adult offender by a jury or trial court, whether said
CONVICTED:     finding is appealed or not. A person so convicted shall be deemed convicted
               until such finding is overturned by a court of competent jurisdiction or by
               pardon.
               A business licensed with the division, or any required Nevada State agency,
CULTIVATION    pursuant to Nevada State laws that acquires, possesses, cultivates, delivers,
FACILITY:      transfers, transports, supplies, or sells cannabis or related supplies to
               medical cannabis dispensaries, facilities for the production of edible cannabis
               products or cannabis infused products, or other cultivation facilities.
DESIGNATED     Shall have the same meaning as ascribed to it in Nevada Revised Statutes
PRIMARY        678C.040.
CAREGIVER:
               The Nevada Division of Public and Behavioral Health of the Department of Health
DIVISION:      and Human Services, the Nevada Department of Taxation and/or any other Nevada
               State agency requiring approval or registration of medical or recreational
               marijuana establishments.
EDIBLE         Products that contain cannabis or an extract thereof, are intended for human
CANNABIS       consumption by oral ingestion, and are presented in the form of foodstuffs,
PRODUCTS:      extracts, oils, tinctures and other similar products.
FACILITY FOR
THE PRODUCTION
OF EDIBLE      A business that acquires, possesses, manufactures, delivers, transfers,
CANNABIS       transports, or sells edible cannabis products or cannabis infused products to
PRODUCTS OR    medical cannabis dispensaries.
CANNABIS
INFUSED
PRODUCTS:
               After investigation, a person is found to comply with the requirements of this
               title which are prerequisite to involvement with a privilege license. This title
               authorizes the City Council to require that certain persons who are directly or
               indirectly involved with privilege licenses be found suitable for such
FINDING OF     involvement so long as that relationship continues. A finding of suitability
SUITABILITY:   relates only to the specific involvement for which it is made. If the nature of
               the involvement changes from that for which the applicant is found suitable, or
               if, in the judgment of the City Council, new information concerning the
               applicant's suitability has become available, the applicant may be made to
               submit themselves for a new determination of suitability.
HOOP HOUSE:    A structure used as a greenhouse characterized by a half round hoop shape.
               A private, independent testing laboratory certified by the division wherein
INDEPENDENT    cannabis, edible cannabis products, and cannabis infused products that are to be
TESTING        sold in the State of Nevada are tested to determine: 1) the concentration of THC
LABORATORY:    and cannabidiol; 2) whether the tested material is organic or nonorganic; 3) the
               presence and identification of molds and fungus; and 4) the presence and
               concentration of fertilizers and other nutrients.
JUVENILE:      Any person less than eighteen (18) years of age.
               Any executive, manager, employee, agent, officer, or director of a medical
KEY EMPLOYEE:  cannabis establishment having the power to exercise significant influence or
               control over decisions concerning any part of the operations of the business or
               a manager charged with the day to day operations of the business.
               1.   All parts of any plant of the genus Cannabis, whether growing or not,
               including the waste thereof;
               2.   The seeds thereof;
               3.   The resin extracted from any part of the plant; and
               4.   Every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of
               the plant, its seeds or resin.
MARIJUANA:     "Marijuana/Cannabis" does not include the mature stems of the plant, fiber
               produced from the stems, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other
               compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of the mature
               stems (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake, or the
               sterilized seed of the plant which is incapable of germination. Cannabis or
               marijuana shall further have the same meaning, and as may be amended, as defined
               by Nevada Revised Statutes 678A.085 and 453.096.
MEDICAL        A business registered by the Cannabis Compliance Board pursuant to NRS 678A.175
CANNABIS       that acquires, possesses, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies, sells, or
DISPENSARY:    dispenses cannabis or related supplies and educational materials to the holder
               of a valid Nevada registration card, or his/her designated primary caregiver.
MEDICAL        An independent testing laboratory; a cultivation facility; a facility for the
CANNABIS       production of edible cannabis products or cannabis infused products; or a
ESTABLISHMENT: medical cannabis dispensary; all of which must be licensed by the Cannabis
               Compliance Board. NRS 678A.080.
MEDICAL
CANNABIS       A license that is issued by the Cannabis Compliance Board pursuant to NRS
ESTABLISHMENT  678B.210 to authorize the operation of a medical cannabis establishment.
LICENSE:
MEDICAL        Shall have the same meaning ascribed to a facility for the production of edible
CANNABIS       cannabis products or cannabis infused products in Nevada Revised Statutes
PRODUCTION     678A.205 and shall mean a business which acquires, possesses, manufactures,
FACILITY:      delivers, transfers, transports, supplies or sells at wholesale edible cannabis
               products or cannabis infused products to medical cannabis dispensaries.
MEDICAL USE OF Shall have the same meaning ascribed to it in Nevada Revised Statutes 678A.215.
CANNABIS:
MINOR:         Any person who has turned at least eighteen (18) years of age but is less than
               twenty one (21) years of age.
NEVADA REVISED
STATUTES       The current codified laws of the State of Nevada.
(NRS):
               Any principal, person, beneficial owner, and individual persons holding any
               ownership or financial interest for each business entity including all
               businesses organized under or governed by title 7 of the Nevada Revised Statutes
               including, but not limited to, private corporations, publicly traded
               corporations, close corporations, foreign corporations, limited liability
               companies, partnerships, limited partnerships, and professional corporations
               (business entities). Ownership interest in the context of publicly traded
OWNERSHIP      corporations shall include all corporate officers and members of any board of
INTEREST:      directors, and also includes individuals with five percent (5%) or more
               ownership or financial interest in the publicly traded corporation. To the
               extent that a business entity has an ownership interest in a medical cannabis
               establishment, the term ownership interest shall also include all individuals
               with an ownership interest in such business entity. It is the intent of this
               chapter that all individuals with a direct or indirect ownership interest in a
               medical cannabis establishment be disclosed and be subject to the requirements
               of this chapter.
PARAPHERNALIA  Accessories, devices and other equipment that is necessary or useful for a
:              person to engage in the medical use of cannabis.
QUARTER OR     A period of three (3) consecutive months commencing on January 1, April 1, July
CALENDAR       1 or October 1, in any year.
QUARTER:
REGISTRATION   Shall have the same meaning ascribed to it in Nevada Revised Statutes 678A.235.
CARD:
               Shall be that consecutive period of time, not to exceed six (6) months, when an
               outdoor cultivation and associated production facility discontinues its active
SEASONAL       cultivation or production due to the end of the growing season. The City may
DORMANCY:      determine when this period has commenced unless the City has been notified
               thirty (30) days in advance by the facility when it shall enter seasonal
               dormancy.
SHIPPING       A hard-sided connex type rigid steel container or enclosure that can be secured
CONTAINER:     in place. Normal trucking trailers associated with a semi truck are specifically
               excluded.
STATE          The Division of Public and Behavioral Health of the Department of Health and
REGULATING     Human Services of the State of Nevada, the Department of Taxation of the State
AUTHORITY:     of Nevada, the Cannabis Compliance Board and/or any other agency assigned to
               administer Nevada Revised Statutes 678A.350 to 678A.480; 678B.640; and 678C.050.
UNUSABLE       Shall have the same meaning ascribed to it in Nevada Revised Statutes 678C.100
CANNABIS:      (2). (Ord. 2017-01, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
 
3-9-4: PROCEDURE APPLICABLE TO ZONING AND LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Prerequisites: Medical cannabis establishments shall meet the
prerequisites established in subsection
3-9-5K of this chapter prior to seeking a conditional use permit (CUP) or
license as provided by this chapter.
   B.   Simultaneous Process: Medical cannabis establishments shall obtain both
a CUP and license prior to commencing any medical cannabis operations in the
City and are encouraged to pursue both simultaneously in order to streamline
the approval process.
   C.   CUP Process: Qualified applicants shall submit the CUP fee and file an
application under section
3-9-7 of this chapter. Upon application for a CUP, the process shall proceed as
set forth in title 8, chapter 10 of this Code to the extent the same may be
made applicable.
   D.   License Process: Qualified applicants shall submit the license
application fee and file an application under sections
3-9-11 and
3-9-16 of this chapter. All applicants shall pay the investigation fee and are
required to submit fingerprints and undergo the investigation process of
subsections
3-9-16R and S of this chapter. The City Clerk shall review the application and
investigation and upon finding those complete, refer the application to the
City Manager. Upon receipt of the application, the City Manager shall review
the application and make a finding of suitability. If the application is found
to be unsuitable, the application will be referred back to the applicant to be
cured of any deficiencies if possible. If found to be suitable, the City
Manager will refer the application to the City Council for consideration. The
City Council will consider the matter of issuance of a license to a suitable
applicant during a regular or special meeting. Upon the determination that a
license will be issued, the City Council will condition its issuance upon
payment of the origination fee and any other fees required. Upon the payment of
all required fees and satisfaction of any conditions for the license and CUP,
the City Clerk will issue the license.
   E.   Quarterly Tax: See subsection
3-9-23B of this chapter.
   F.   License Renewal: See subsection
3-9-24D of this chapter. (Ord. 2017-01, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-
2021)
3-9-5: MEDICAL CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT ZONING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Allowed Zones: Medical cannabis establishments shall be allowed within
the M Zone (M-1 or M-2) Light Industrial and General Industrial Zones, subject
to compliance with the distance separation requirements contained herein and
upon the approval of a conditional use permit. Further, except as may be
specifically provided herein, medical cannabis establishments must meet all
Community Development and Building Code requirements of the City of West
Wendover.
   B.   Limit On Medical Cannabis Dispensary Permits: Except as may be
permitted by State law, there shall be allowed no more than one medical
cannabis dispensary for each twenty five thousand (25,000) in population of the
City of West Wendover, as determined and reported by the State of Nevada
Department of Taxation, pursuant to the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes
360.283, and as certified by the Governor, pursuant to the provisions of Nevada
Revised Statutes 360.285.
   C.   Permanent Building: The business shall be located in a permanent
building, with an engineered foundation that meets City of West Wendover
Community Development and Building Codes, and shall not be located in a mobile
home, manufactured home, trailer, shipping container, motor vehicle, or similar
personal property or property that has been converted from personal property to
real property. A medical cannabis establishment may be located in a completely
enclosed, stand-alone building, or one or more establishments under the same
ownership may be located together in the same building and upon the same
property. A separate business license must be obtained, however, for each
dispensary, cultivation facility, production facility or testing facility.
   D.   Access: The proposed medical cannabis establishment will have direct
access (both ingress and egress) from a public street. Only one secured
exterior doorway shall be allowed for the purpose of public ingress or egress
to a medical dispensary, and such doorway shall be visible from the street or
parking lot. Any existing doorways beyond this allowance shall be permanently
closed by removing the door and frame and filling in the opening with permanent
construction to match the exterior wall.
   E.   Circulation: Drive-through facilities shall be permitted in conjunction
with a medical cannabis dispensary with such conditions as approved by the
City.
   F.   Outside Storage: Except as provided in the provisions for a Pilot
Project, outside storage shall be limited to the following structures, the
combination of which, shall not exceed one thousand (1,000) square feet, and
which shall require approval of the City Community Development Department upon
review for acceptable aesthetic appearance, color and structural integrity:
      1.   Shed(s); and
      2.   Shipping containers as defined by this chapter.
Except as herein provided, no outside storage shall be permitted for medical
cannabis establishments, including the use of shipping containers for on-site
storage. For outside cultivation facilities and associated production
facilities, outside storage in the form of sheds affixed to the real property
may be permitted.
   G.   Size: The minimum size of a medical cannabis dispensary and testing
laboratories shall be one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet total floor
area, and the size and design must provide sufficient interior space to provide
for adequate customer waiting areas, customer queuing, and transaction space.
      1.   The minimum size tenant space for a medical cannabis dispensary
shall be limited to the square footage dedicated for such use with one exit
(three thousand (3,000) square feet).
      2.   The minimum size of a medical cannabis cultivation facility shall be
six thousand (6,000) square feet of total floor area.
      3.   The minimum size of a medical cannabis production facility shall be
three thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet of total floor area.
   H.   Accessory Uses: No accessory uses are permitted in association with a
medical cannabis dispensary.
   I.   Signs: Signage for the establishment shall conform to the standards
found in the Sign Code of the City of West Wendover and shall be reviewed and
approved by the City's Community Development Department or designee;
   J.   Expiration Of Permit: The conditional use permit shall be void without
further action if:
      1.   The use ceases for a period exceeding ninety (90) days, unless the
permit holder has previously entered non-operational status approved by the
City under section
3-9-19 of this chapter or an outdoor cultivation facility or associated
production facility when in a seasonal dormant state not to exceed six (6)
months.
      2.   Substantial progress toward commencement of the business is not made
within ninety (90) days of conditional use permit approval.
         a.   For purposes of this section, "substantial progress" shall mean
obtaining a license from the State Board, and/or, obtaining an occupancy permit
or building permit for the proposed facility and includes, without limitation,
actions and progress for such development within the City's formal plan
approval process.
   K.   Preconditions To Approval: A medical cannabis establishment applicant
must obtain approval from the State of Nevada to operate such a facility in the
City and must obtain any additionally required State licensing prior to the
conditional use permit being sought. Further, an applicant shall have
established evidence of prior vested interests in the City of West Wendover
such as, without limitation, property ownership and/or real property leases.
   L.   Off Street Parking: Medical cannabis establishments shall provide off
street parking facilities designed and constructed in conformance of the
applicable Zoning Codes of the City.
      1.   All parking spaces required by this Code for medical cannabis
establishments shall be located on the same parcel of land as the use.
      2.   On-site parking requirements:
 
                                         1 space for each 150 square feet of
                                         gross floor area, minimum of 3
a. Medical cannabis dispensary           handicap spaces and 1 additional
                                         handicap space for each additional 10
                                         normal spaces
                                         1 space for each 750 square feet of
                                         gross floor area plus 1 per employee
b. Medical cannabis production facility  and 1 per company owned vehicle,
                                         minimum of 3 handicap spaces and 1
                                         additional handicap space for each
                                         additional 10 normal spaces
                                         1 space for each 750 square feet of
                                         gross floor area plus 1 per employee
c. Medical cannabis cultivation facility and 1 per company owned vehicle,
                                         minimum of 3 handicap spaces and 1
                                         additional handicap space for each
                                         additional 10 normal spaces
                                         1 space for each 300 square feet of
                                         gross floor area, minimum of 3
d. Independent testing laboratory        handicap spaces and 1 additional
                                         handicap space for each additional 10
                                         normal spaces
 
(Ord. 2017-01, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-9-6: REQUIREMENT TO OBTAIN CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT; OUTDOOR CULTIVATION AND
PRODUCTION FACILITIES PILOT PROJECTS:
Medical cannabis dispensaries, cultivation facilities, outdoor cultivation
facilities, production facilities associated with outdoor cultivation
facilities, independent testing laboratories, and facilities for the production
of edible cannabis products or cannabis infused products, shall require the
approval of a conditional use permit.
   A.   Outdoor cultivation may be permitted as allowed by State Law and
compliance with the remaining requirements for cultivation facilities of this
chapter.
   B.   Outdoor Cultivation Pilot Project: Notwithstanding any other provision
of this chapter to the contrary, an outdoor cultivation facility pilot project
may be allowed by conditional use permit as follows:
      1.   There will not be a minimum square foot requirement for a pilot
project except as may be required by the City Council for reasons determined by
the City as part of the conditional use permit process;
      2.   Modular office units or similar type units, permanently affixed to
the property or otherwise affixed in a non-permanent fashion acceptable to the
City Community Development Department, may be utilized during the term of the
pilot project as part of the pilot project facilities for outdoor cultivation
and/or production associated with the outdoor cultivation facilities. Hoop
houses may only be used for greenhouse purposes and only during pilot projects;
      3.   The maximum term of a conditional use permit for a pilot project
shall be three (3) years from date of approval and the permit shall not be
renewed thereafter. Upon the expiration of the pilot project the owner shall
remove any modular units which are not permanently affixed to the property and
other non-conforming structures or improvements from the property and use of
the property under this chapter shall cease until full compliance with the
provisions of this chapter for outdoor cultivation and/or associated production
facilities.
      4.   Outdoor storage in the form of a sheds or shipping containers as
found in 3-9-5F shall be permitted except that the combination of such storage
shall not exceed one thousand (1,000) square feet.
      5.   For purposes of a pilot project, a "production facility associated
with an outdoor cultivation facility" shall mean a facility that has common
ownership or dual licensing with an outdoor cultivation facility on the same
site within the City. (Ord. 2017-01, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-9-7: APPLICATION:
In addition to the general application requirements required elsewhere in this
Code, an applicant for a conditional use permit to allow for the operation of a
medical cannabis dispensary, cannabis cultivation facility, an independent
testing laboratory, or a facility for the production of edible cannabis
products or cannabis infused products shall complete a supplemental application
which includes all of the following information:
   A.   A site plan drawn to scale showing the location of the proposed
building on the lot; property lines; adjoining streets; driveway locations;
parking layout; utilities and related locations, landscaping; walls/fences;
solid waste enclosures; and easements.
   B.   Elevation drawings or photographs of the proposed building which
demonstrate that the building is appropriate with the style of buildings in the
community and for the appropriate zone.
   C.   Rendering of proposed signage showing that the proposed signs are
consistent with this Code. Evidence shall be submitted that the division to
regulate medical cannabis has approved the name, logo, sign(s) and
advertisement of the establishment prior to the use of such sign or
advertising.
   D.   The City of West Wendover zoning for the parcel.
   E.   Name of the medical cannabis establishment.
   F.   Site address and Assessor's parcel number.
   G.   A statement describing what activity will occur at the site - medical
cannabis cultivation facility, facility for the production of edible cannabis
products or cannabis infused products, medical cannabis independent testing
laboratory, medical cannabis dispensary, or a combination of the above.
   H.   The name and physical address of any other medical cannabis
establishment within Nevada in which any owner, officer, manager, or director
of the applicant has an ownership interest in, or contractual relationship or
is otherwise associated with.
   I.   The name and location of the off-site medical cannabis cultivation
facility providing the medical cannabis, if applicable. The name and location
of the medical cannabis independent testing laboratory providing laboratory
service, if applicable.
   J.   A description of all toxic, flammable or other materials regulated by a
Federal, State or local government with authority over the business that will
be used or kept at the medical cannabis establishment, the location of such
materials, how such materials will be stored, and how such materials will be
used. The City of West Wendover Fire Chief shall review the application
submission, as applicable, for compliance with local, State and Federal
regulations.
   K.   A plan that complies with any applicable Nevada Health District
regulations governing air quality for the medical cannabis establishment that
prevents or controls any dust, fumes, vapors, or odor of cannabis off the
premises of the establishment. (Ord. 2017-01, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-
19-2021)
3-9-8: MANDATORY CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
All conditional use permit applications for medical cannabis establishments
must abide by the following conditions of approval. The City Council may impose
conditions of approval that are more restrictive than those required by this
section. The approval of all conditional use permits authorizing the operation
of a medical cannabis establishment must contain at a minimum the following
conditions:
   A.   The conditional use permit grantee must provide to the City of West
Wendover Community Development Department and business license authority a copy
of the medical cannabis establishment license issued by the State of Nevada
prior to commencing operations.
   B.   The establishment must continue to meet all requirements for a medical
cannabis establishment to qualify for and maintain its certificate of
registration as set forth by State law.
   C.   The establishment must comply with all operating procedures required by
State law.
   D.   The establishment must prohibit anyone from consuming cannabis on the
premises.
   E.   If the establishment has signage, the signage shall conform to the
requirements of sign regulations of this Code.
   F.   The establishment must prohibit anyone under the age of eighteen (18)
years on the premises unless the person holds a valid registry identification
card and is accompanied by a parent or guardian.
   G.   The establishment must prohibit medical cannabis activities including,
without limitation, cultivating, growing, processing, displaying, selling or
storage from being conducted outdoors, except as otherwise provided herein.
   H.   Outdoor cultivation facilities are allowed within the City as provided
in this Chapter and may be conducted in greenhouses, which specifically
excludes hoop houses. All production of cannabis that a cultivation facility
carries out or causes to be carried out must take place in an enclosed facility
as provided in this chapter. Except as provided herein, all cultivation or
production of cannabis that a cultivation facility carries out or causes to be
carried out must take place in an enclosed facility.
   I.   The establishment must prevent medical cannabis or paraphernalia from
being displayed or kept in a manner that is visible from outside the facility.
   J.   The establishment must post a legible sign inside the facility stating
that:
      1.   The use or distribution of marijuana is a violation of Federal law.
      2.   The possession, use, or distribution of cannabis for nonmedical
purposes is a violation of State law.
      3.   Consumption of cannabis on the premises is prohibited.
      4.   No one under the age of eighteen (18) years is permitted on the
premises.
   K.   The conditional use permit grantee shall submit (on a form provided by
the City) a notarized affidavit in which the grantee acknowledges that the
operation of a medical marijuana establishment is a violation of Federal law.
   L.   The conditional use permit grantee shall submit a notarized statement
in which the grantee agrees to hold the City of West Wendover harmless against
any Federal law enforcement actions that may result from the activities of the
medical marijuana establishment that is the subject of the conditional use
permit.
   M.   The facility must employ security and surveillance systems as outlined
in sections
3-9-10 and
3-9-17 of this chapter. (Ord. 2017-01, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-
2021)
3-9-9: MEDICAL CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The physical address of a medical cannabis establishment and the
physical address of any co-owned additional or otherwise associated medical
cannabis establishments ("MCE") may not be within one thousand feet (1,000') of
a public or private school that provides formal education traditionally
associated with pre-school or kindergarten through grade 12 which existed on
the date on which the application of the MCE was submitted to the City, or
within three hundred feet (300') of a community facility which existed on the
date on which the application of the MCE was submitted to the City, or within
any other distance restriction established by Nevada Revised Statutes 678B.210
or NAC 453A.308.
   B.   All medical cannabis establishments must be located a distance of at
least one thousand feet (1,000') from the closest residential dwelling. The
term residence shall not, for purposes herein, include the location of a night
watchman under a conditional use permit.
   C.   All medical cannabis establishments must be located at a distance of at
least five hundred feet (500') from any retail liquor stores or such locations
where retail liquor licensing has been granted and any sexually oriented
businesses, including, without limitation, accessory and/or escort services.
This distance requirement is not applicable and shall not include wholesale
liquor warehousing facilities/businesses.
   D.   For purposes of subsections A through C of this section, the distance
must be measured from the front door of the proposed MCE to the closest point
of the property line of a school, community facility, other specified
restricted use or any other more restrictive measurement method established by
Nevada Revised Statutes 678B.210 or NAC 453A.308. (Ord. 2017-03, 12-19-2017;
amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-9-10: SECURITY AND SCREENING:
   A.   The establishment must install security surveillance cameras that
monitor all entrances, along with the interior and exterior of the premises.
Recordings from these cameras must be maintained in a retrievable manner for at
least thirty (30) days from the date recorded. All entrances must be
illuminated with dusk till dawn lighting, and dispensary entrances shall be
visible from a public street or parking lot.
   B.   The establishment must install and maintain in good working condition
robbery and burglary alarm systems and must comply with subsection
3-9-17R of this chapter. (Ord. 2017-01, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-
2021)
3-9-11: LICENSE REQUIREMENT AND TERM OF LICENSE:
A medical cannabis establishment business license is an annual license. Such
license is a revocable privilege and the holder of such a license does not
acquire thereby any vested right. No license under this chapter can be assigned
or transferred except with the approval of the City Council and must follow all
Nevada Division policies and procedures for transferring of ownership. A
medical cannabis establishment business must comply at all times with all
applicable laws, regulations or licensing requirements in the conduct of the
business.
   A.   License Required:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for a person to engage in any form of business
or commerce involving the cultivation, processing, manufacturing, storage,
sale, distribution, transportation, or consumption of cannabis other than those
forms of businesses and commerce that are expressly contemplated by Nevada
Revised Statutes 678A-D, inclusive and any administrative rules duly adopted by
the State regulating authority and without first making application and
securing a medical cannabis establishment license to do so from the City of
West Wendover. Such application shall be first subject to the stated pre-
requirements of subsection
3-9-5K of this chapter.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any medical cannabis
establishment in the City without a valid medical cannabis establishment
license duly issued by the State regulating authority, and a license issued
pursuant to this chapter and operating in compliance with any and all
applicable State laws and this Code.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to provide cannabis, edible
cannabis products or cannabis infused products to a medical cannabis
establishment within the City without a medical cannabis establishment license
duly issued by the State regulating authority and a license issued by the City.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any licensed medical cannabis establishment
located within the City to accept for sale any cannabis, edible cannabis
products or any cannabis infused products from any person who has not obtained
a medical cannabis establishment license from the State regulating authority,
or who is not duly licensed under this chapter for the provision of such
products.
      5.   A license is required for each medical cannabis establishment
license an individual holds to operate in each location where that activity is
to occur as required under this chapter.
      6.   A person operating more than one type of medical cannabis
establishment in the same location must have a separate license for each type
of medical cannabis establishment license.
      7.   The license requirement set forth in this chapter shall be in
addition to, and not in lieu of, any other licensing and permitting
requirements imposed by any other Federal, State or local law.
      8.   A license issued pursuant to this section does not provide any
exception, defense or immunity to any person in regard to any potential
criminal liability the person may have for the production, distribution or
possession of cannabis.
      9.   If a person qualifies for an exception for self-cultivation, self-
growing or self-production, that person will be required to register with the
City for those activities. The person must explain the specific exemption for
self-cultivation, self- growing, or self-production. The person will have to
provide their registry identification card and the address where the medical
cannabis is growing or being produced. The person must abide by Nevada Revised
Statutes 678C.200 in relation to quantity to be exempt.
   B.   Posting License; Failure As Grounds For Revocation: All licenses issued
for medical cannabis establishments shall be posted in a conspicuous place in
order that they may be readily available for inspection by authorized State and
City officials. Failure to comply with the provisions of this subsection shall
constitute grounds for revocation of any such license not so posted.
   C.   Location Transfer: A medical cannabis establishment business license
may not be transferred to a new location within the City unless it is in
accordance with this chapter and shall be inspected and approved by the
Community Development Department, building official and Fire Chief to ensure
safety and compliance with applicable City ordinances and regulations. A
transfer fee in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) shall be paid
for the location transfer. A change of location must also be approved by the
Nevada Division pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 678B.500.
   D.   License; Corporation, Partnership, Limited Liability Company; Changes
In Membership: In the case of a corporate licensee, any and all changes in the
officers of such corporation must be reported to the business license official
within thirty (30) days of such change. Such new officers shall be required to
qualify for a license as required in this chapter. Any new manager of a
corporate licensee shall be required to qualify for a license as required in
this chapter. In the case of a partnership or limited liability company, any
change in ownership of the partnership or limited liability company must be
reported to the business license official within thirty (30) days of such
change. Any new partners or managers shall be required to qualify for a license
as required in this chapter.
   E.   Notice Of Change To Key Employee: It shall be a condition of the
license to inform the business license official of any change in the employment
status of a registered employee who serves in a management position, or as a
key employee within ten (10) days of the effective date of the change in
employment status. A change of employment status includes termination, leave of
absence, and promotion to a management position or key employee.
   F.   Limitation Of Sales: Medical cannabis dispensaries are prohibited from
offering for sale items other than products defined in this chapter as "medical
cannabis", "edible cannabis products", or "cannabis infused products" and
"paraphernalia". Any paraphernalia offered for sale must be designed for
individual use only. A medical cannabis dispensary is limited to ten percent
(10%) of the retail space for paraphernalia, not to include the lobby area.
   G.   Transportation Of Cannabis Products: A medical cannabis establishment
may transport cannabis, paraphernalia, edible cannabis products and cannabis
infused products between another medical cannabis establishment and a person
who holds a valid registry identification card or his or her designated primary
caregiver. Transportation must meet all requirements of the State regulating
authority. Product must be placed in unmarked, nontransparent transportation
containers. All required transportation logs must be in the vehicle and made
available to law enforcement upon being stopped by a law enforcement officer
within the City, each driver must identify to the officer that the product
contained within the vehicle is medical cannabis, edible cannabis products or
cannabis infused products, as the case may be, from a licensed medical cannabis
establishment and must present to the officer a State agent registration card,
the route the vehicle was authorized to travel and the actual travel log.
   H.   Receiver Or Assignee: If a receiver or assignee for the benefit of
creditors, guardians and personal representatives is appointed during the time
for which the license is granted, the receiver, assignee, guardian,
administrator or executor may continue to carry on the business on the
designated premises for the balance of the term of the license, with the same
rights and subject to the same restrictions and liabilities as if he were the
original license holder. Before continuing the business, the receiver or other
such person shall file a written and verified statement with the City Clerk,
addressed to the City Council, setting forth the facts and circumstances under
which he has succeeded to the rights of the original license holder. The
written statement must include documentation that the division has approved the
transfer of the operations. (Ord. 2017-01, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-
2021)
3-9-12: LAND USE AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS; CONFORMANCE WITH ZONING:
   A.   No medical cannabis establishment license will be issued unless the
location is in accordance with the requirements of this Code.
   B.   Approval of a location or of a conditional use permit pursuant to this
Code does not guarantee or constitute approval of any medical cannabis
establishment license. (Ord. 2017-01, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-9-13: HOURS OF OPERATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell medical cannabis at a licensed
medical cannabis dispensary at any time except during hours approved in writing
by the City. (Ord. 2017-01, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-9-14: FACILITIES NOT LOCATED WITHIN THE CITY:
A medical cannabis cultivation facility, an independent testing laboratory or a
medical cannabis production facility which does not have substantial day to day
business operations within the City of West Wendover and which has obtained a
business license in a jurisdiction other than the City need not apply for a
City of West Wendover license to only provide testing of medical cannabis, or
medical cannabis and/or merely deliver medical cannabis products to a medical
cannabis establishment located within the City. (Ord. 2017-01, 7-18-2017; amd.
Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-9-15: LICENSE CLASSIFICATION:
   A.   The City Council may issue licenses for the following types of medical
cannabis establishments:
      1.   Medical Cannabis Dispensary: A medical cannabis dispensary license
allows the licensee to acquire, possess, supply and sell or dispense usable
cannabis, edible cannabis products, cannabis infused products, and cannabis
paraphernalia exclusively to State regulating authority designated medical
cannabis registry cardholders.
      2.   Cultivation Facility: A cultivation facility license allows the
licensee to acquire, possess, cultivate, deliver, transfer, transport, supply
and sell wholesale cannabis and related supplies to a medical cannabis
dispensary, medical cannabis production facility, or to other cultivation
facilities only.
      3.   Independent Testing Laboratory: An independent testing laboratory
license allows the licensee to independently test cannabis, edible cannabis
products and cannabis infused products that are to be sold at medical cannabis
establishments operating in accordance with the requirements of Nevada Revised
Statutes 678B.290.
      4.   Medical Cannabis Production Facility: A medical cannabis production
facility license allows the licensee to acquire, process, manufacture, deliver,
transfer, transport, package, and label usable cannabis and cannabis infused
products for sale at wholesale to cannabis dispensaries only. (Ord. 2017-01, 7-
18-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-9-16: LICENSE APPLICATION PROCEDURE AND FEES:
Each application for a medical cannabis establishment business license must
include, without limitation:
   A.   Completed Application: A complete medical cannabis application provided
on a form by the City that may contain but not be limited to the following:
      1.   The mailing address of the applicant;
      2.   The applicant's date of birth;
      3.   The name, address, telephone number and date of birth of the
proposed key employee;
      4.   The telephone number of the applicant, including cell phone number;
      5.   If applying for a medical cannabis dispensary license, the proposed
hours of operation;
      6.   The e-mail address of the applicant;
      7.   An attestation that the information provided to the City to apply
for the medical cannabis establishment license is true and correct according to
the information known by the applicant at the time of signing; and
      8.   The signature of the natural person for the proposed medical
cannabis establishment;
   B.   Application Fee: One-time, nonrefundable application fee of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00);
   C.   Type Of License: Whether the applicant is applying for a medical
cannabis establishment license for an independent testing laboratory,
cultivation facility, a facility for production of edible cannabis products,
cannabis infused products, or a medical cannabis dispensary;
   D.   Name Of Establishment: The name of the proposed medical cannabis
establishment, as reflected in the articles of incorporation or other documents
filed with the Nevada Secretary of State;
   E.   Type Of Business Organization: The type of business organization of the
applicant, such as individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability
company, association or cooperative, joint venture or any other business
organization. It is the intent of this chapter that all individuals with a
direct or indirect ownership interest in a medical cannabis establishment be
disclosed and be subject to the requirements of this chapter;
   F.   List Of Persons Receiving Registration Card: A list of persons
associated with the medical cannabis establishment who have received, or will
request, a medical cannabis establishment agent registration card from the
State regulating authority;
   G.   Other Ownership Interests: The name and physical address of any other
medical cannabis establishment within the City, within another city within the
State of Nevada or another state where such business activities are licensed
which any owner, officer, manager or director has ownership interest in, a
contractual relationship with or is otherwise associated with;
   H.   Information Of Providing Facility Or Laboratory: The name and location
of the off-site medical cannabis cultivation facility providing the medical
cannabis, if applicable. The name and location of the medical cannabis testing
laboratory providing laboratory services, if applicable;
   I.   Address Of Establishment And Owners: The physical address where the
proposed medical cannabis establishment will be located and the physical
address of any owner, co-owner, or person otherwise affiliated with the medical
cannabis establishment;
   J.   Description Of Products: A complete description of the products and
services to be produced or sold by the medical cannabis establishment;
   K.   Accompanying Documents: A complete and accurate copy of the application
and all accompanying documents to be filed with the State regulating authority
pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 678B.210 including, but not limited to:
      1.   All proposals for operations, business plans, attestations,
financial documentation, and required tax reports;
      2.   All documents detailing proposed organizational structure, all
narratives, and resumes;
      3.   All documentation required concerning the adequacy of the proposed
building and construction plans with supporting details in the form specified
by the Community Development Department and the payment of all required review
and inspection fees;
      4.   All testing, transportation, policy, operations manuals, financial
plan, environmental plan, and procedures manual to ensure the use of adequate
security measures; and
      5.   Any other documents deemed necessary by the City.
   L.   Sign And Advertising Plan: A sign and advertising plan including all
proposed interior and exterior signage;
   M.   Floor Plan: The floor plan of the establishment;
   N.   Copy Of Contracts: A copy of all contracts, proposed contracts for
consulting, management, renting or leasing the premises for the proposed
medical cannabis establishment, including written documentation stating that
the property owner of the proposed location for the establishment is fully
aware of the property's intended use or a copy of the deed to such property
showing ownership vested in the applicant;
   O.   Statement Acknowledging Federal Laws: A written statement acknowledging
that the applicant understands applicable Federal laws, any guidance, or
directives issued by the U.S. Department of Justice, the laws of the State of
Nevada and the laws and regulations of the City applicable thereto, concerning
the operation of a medical marijuana/cannabis establishment. The written
statement shall also acknowledge that any violation of any laws or regulations
of the State of Nevada, or of the City, or any activity in violation of any
guidance or directives issued by the U.S. Department of Justice, in such place
of business, or in connection therewith, or the commencement of any legal
proceeding relating to such medical marijuana/cannabis establishment by Federal
authorities, may render such license subject to immediate suspension or
revocation;
   P.   Statement Holding City Harmless; Bond: A written statement to the
business license official that the applicant will hold harmless, indemnify, and
defend the City against all claims and litigation arising from the issuance of
a license, including any claims and litigation arising from the establishment,
operation, or ownership of the medical cannabis establishment, and a bond to
secure such obligation in the amount of two hundred fifty thousand dollars
($250,000.00) will be provided prior to the issuance of any license;
   Q.   Suitability Of Persons Holding Ownership Interest: An acknowledgment
that the applicant is seeking a privilege license and understands that each
person with an ownership interest must be found suitable to hold such license
by the City Council prior to the issuance of any license; that the applicant
understands and acknowledges that the burden of proving qualifications to
receive such a permit or license is at all times on the applicant; that the
granting of a medical cannabis establishment license is at the discretion of
the City Council; and that the applicant agrees to abide by the decision;
   R.   Fingerprint Based Background Checks: All applicants with at least a
five percent (5%) ownership interest and those who may otherwise be determined
necessary by the West Wendover Police Department applying for a medical
cannabis establishment license with the City of West Wendover are required to
provide the City with a full set of fingerprints. Fingerprinting shall be
completed at the West Wendover Police Department. In all cases where the
applicant for medical cannabis is a firm, partnership, association or
corporation, all the members, principal officers, directors, stockholders, and/
or managers shall present themselves to the West Wendover Police Department for
fingerprinting. Fingerprint data will be used to conduct State and national
criminal records checks. Upon receipt of the fingerprint data, the West
Wendover Police Department is authorized to transmit the fingerprint data to
the Nevada Department of Public Safety to conduct State criminal records
checks. The Nevada Department of Public Safety is authorized to exchange this
fingerprint data with the Federal Bureau of Investigation to conduct national
criminal records checks. The results of the State and national criminal checks
will be disseminated to the West Wendover Police Department. Upon completion of
the investigation, the Police Chief shall prepare and submit a report
containing findings and a recommendation of approval or disapproval to the City
Council. This provision is enacted pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 239B.010
(1)(a) and public law 92-544;
   S.   Investigation Fees:
      1.   Fees Enumerated:
         a.   Investigation And Fingerprinting Fee: Each application for a
license filed pursuant to this chapter shall be accompanied by an additional
investigation and fingerprinting fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per
person to be investigated. This fee is nonrefundable and is in addition to
other fees collected pursuant to this title;
         b.   Actual Cost: In addition to the fees required to accompany the
application, the applicant shall be required to pay the City the actual cost
incurred by the City or its designated agent to complete the necessary
investigations;
   T.   Confidentiality Required: All information, other than the criminal
history information, of a confidential nature supplied under the terms of this
chapter shall be maintained by the licensing authority, in a confidential file,
to be opened for inspection only by City officials and law enforcement
officers; provided, however, the applicant may waive the requirements of this
subsection or the City may be required to disclose information pursuant to a
court order, license discipline actions and/or a valid Public Records Act
request. (Ord. 2017-01, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-9-17: SECURITY REQUIREMENTS:
To prevent unauthorized access to the cannabis, each medical cannabis
establishment must submit, maintain, and follow a security plan that includes
customer, building and product security measures. The security plan must meet
all the criteria established by the State regulating authority and the
following minimum requirements:
   A.   Each licensed premises must have a security system which monitors all
perimeter entry points, windows, and controlled areas by a centrally monitored
alarm company properly licensed with the City or approved by the West Wendover
Police Department, and whose agents are properly licensed and registered under
applicable laws;
   B.   Immediate automatic or electronic notification to alert the West
Wendover Police Department of an unauthorized breach of security at the medical
cannabis establishment in the interior of each building of the establishment;
   C.   All recorded images must clearly and accurately display the time and
date. Time is to be measured in accordance with the U.S. National Institute of
Standards and Technology standards;
   D.   The surveillance system's data storage device must be secured on site
in a lockbox, cabinet, closet, room or secured in another manner to protect
from employee or third party tampering or criminal theft;
   E.   At least one (1) twenty four inch (24") or greater call-up monitor;
   F.   A video printer capable of immediately producing a clear still photo
from any video camera image;
   G.   Video cameras with a recording resolution of at least 1920 x 1080 or
the equivalent providing coverage of all entrances to and exits from limited
access areas and all entrances to and exits from the building, capable of
identifying any activity occurring in or adjacent to the building;
   H.   A video camera at each point of sale location allowing for the
identification of any person who holds a valid State registry identification
card or his or her designated primary caregiver purchasing medical cannabis;
   I.   A video camera in each grow room capable of identifying any activity
occurring within the grow room in low light conditions; at least one video
camera, able to identify activity in low light conditions, covering outside
cultivation, including cultivation in a pilot project, shall be required for
every ten thousand (10,000) square feet of cultivated property and shall be
maintained to provide video coverage for the entire area under cultivation.
   J.   A method for storing video recordings from the video cameras for at
least thirty (30) calendar days from the date recorded;
   K.   Sufficient battery backup for video cameras and recording equipment to
support at least one hour of recording in the event of a power outage;
   L.   A sign must be posted in any customer areas that the customer is under
video surveillance;
   M.   The establishment shall be responsible for ensuring compliance with all
local and State regulations regarding the facility and must monitor parking
areas and outdoor areas of the licensed premises for loitering, unlawful sale
of medical cannabis by customers, and consumption of medical cannabis;
   N.   Any theft of items containing cannabis or the observance of any
unauthorized transactions of medical cannabis on the licensed premises must be
reported to the West Wendover Police Department;
   O.   In addition to complying with all requirements set by the State
regulating authority, any licensed cannabis establishment shall secure the
facility with full video surveillance capable of clearly identifying any
activities occurring within twenty feet (20') of the exterior of the building
and any parking, fenced, or loading areas. A lighting system must be employed
to illuminate the building, parking area, gate area and loading areas in low
light conditions;
   P.   In addition to complying with all requirements set by the State
regulating authority, any licensed medical cannabis dispensary shall have a
lobby waiting area at the entrance to the dispensary to receive clients, and a
separate and secure designated area for dispensing medical cannabis to patients
or designated primary caregivers with a valid State registry card. The primary
entrance and exit shall be separated and shall be located and maintained clear
of barriers, landscaping and similar obstruction so that it is clearly visible
from the public street, sidewalk, or site parking area;
   Q.   All medical cannabis, edible cannabis products, or cannabis infused
products, during nonbusiness hours, must be stored in a separated and secured
area.
      1.   The area must meet the City Building and Development Code standards
for odor control and the Nevada Department of Health regulations, if any.
      2.   The area must be under surveillance by the camera system at all
times.
      3.   One area may store both product and legal tender, however separate
storage devices must be maintained and both must be under video surveillance.
   R.   Each licensed premises shall have security fencing acceptable to the
Community Development Department at least eight feet (8') high, and a security
guard which shall have responsibility for the entirety of the premises,
including, without limitation, the parking areas. One security department/
system may be approved for adjacent, common ownership, or dual licensing
facilities. (Ord. 2017-01, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-9-18: PRELIMINARY FINDING; CITY COUNCIL ACTION ON APPLICATION; DENIAL OF
BUSINESS LICENSE:
The City Clerk shall upon completion of the preliminary finding of suitability
refer the application to the City Manager for review. The City Manager shall
review the application and, upon finding the application suitable, refer it to
the City Council for consideration.
   A.   Preliminary Finding Of Suitability: The preliminary finding of
suitability will be based on the information submitted to the City licensing
authority official as outlined in this chapter.
   B.   Notification Of Denial; Medical Cannabis Establishment License
Required: Applicants found unsuitable by the City shall be notified in writing
within ten (10) business days after the close of the application period. All
applicants that satisfy the preliminary finding of suitability will move
forward to the City Council for the preliminary approval. At the conclusion of
the State provisional licensing process all applicants that have received a
provisional medical cannabis establishment license and a ranking by the Nevada
Division of Public and Behavioral Health, Department of Taxation, the Cannabis
Compliance Board and any other required State of Nevada licensing authorities
will be submitted to the City Council for final approval.
   C.   City Council Action: City Council shall consider the following criteria
that will include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Ranking provided by the Nevada Division of Public and Behavioral
Health and any other required State of Nevada licensing authorities;
      2.   Information regarding any bankruptcy proceedings involving owners or
board members;
      3.   The identity, character, and background of the applicant, capacity,
capitalization;
      4.   Operational plan, organizational structure, environmental
sustainability and mitigation plans, interior floor plans of the buildings,
odor control systems and suitability of the building for the use proposed, site
plan as to parking, traffic movement and aesthetics;
      5.   Impact on the surrounding area; the type and degree of security and
facilities and any other factors that in his or her discretion are deemed
necessary to the safety, peace, order and welfare of the public.
   D.   Other Inspections: All applicants selected by the City Council must
satisfy all required community development, building, fire inspection criteria,
and applicable food safety inspections before commencing operations.
   E.   Denial: The following persons are declared not to be qualified to hold
a medical cannabis establishment license under the provisions of this chapter:
      1.   A person who does not possess, or who does not have a reputation for
possessing a good moral character;
      2.   A person under the age of twenty one (21) years;
      3.   A person who has been convicted of a felony;
      4.   A person who has been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude
which includes, but is not limited to: possession of a controlled substance,
theft, fraud, falsification in official matters, offenses against privacy,
lewdness, voyeurism, or violent or aggravated conduct involving persons or
property;
      5.   A person who is currently on parole or probation to any court, penal
institution, or governmental entity, including being under house arrest or
subject to a tracking device;
      6.   A person who has been incarcerated in a Federal or State prison;
      7.   A person who illegally resides in the United States;
      8.   A person who at the time of renewal of any license issued under this
chapter, would not be eligible for such license upon a first application;
      9.   A partnership, limited partnership, association or limited liability
company, unless all the partners, managers and members of such partnership,
limited partnership, association or limited liability company required to
submit to a background investigation under the provisions of section
3-9-16 of this chapter are found to be suitable;
      10.   A corporation, if any principal officer required to submit to a
background investigation under the provisions of this chapter is not found
suitable;
      11.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought or does not have a lease or provisional lease thereon for a
minimum of one year.
   F.   Violations: No license shall be issued to any person who has violated
any provision of this chapter, this title, or the Act, or who has violated any
provision of a license to sell medical cannabis issued by the City or any other
governmental agency, or who has had such a license revoked. (Ord. 2017-01, 7-
18-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-9-19: COMMENCEMENT; NONOPERATIONAL STATUS OF BUSINESS:
The licensee must commence operation of the business within ninety (90) days
after the license has been approved by the State licensing authority and the
City and may not discontinue operation of the business for more than a three
(3) month period without City Council approval. The City Council may approve
nonoperational status or seasonal dormancy of specified facilities as provided
for in subsection
3-9-5J of the business beyond the initial three (3) month period in time
increments not to exceed one year but in no event shall the City Council
approve any nonoperational status beyond a maximum of one year. A license shall
be automatically revoked at the expiration of the time periods provided by this
section and subsection
3-9-5J unless City Council approval has been granted pursuant to this section.
All license fees must be paid notwithstanding the licensee's nonoperational or
seasonal dormancy status. Further, a licensee shall pay such fees to be placed
on nonoperational status or seasonal dormancy as set forth herein or by
resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 2017-01, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-03,
10-19-2021)
3-9-20: ON SITE USE PROHIBITED:
No medical cannabis shall be smoked, ingested, or otherwise consumed on the
premises of any medical cannabis establishment. (Ord. 2017-01, 7-18-2017; amd.
Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-9-21: AGE LIMITATION:
No person under the age of eighteen (18) years of age shall be allowed in a
medical cannabis establishment unless the person holds a valid registry
identification card and is accompanied by a parent or guardian and it shall be
unlawful for a person operating any licensed medical cannabis establishment to
dispense cannabis to any person under the age of eighteen (18) without the
custodial parent present. (Ord. 2017-01, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-
2021)
3-9-22: JUVENILE EMPLOYEE:
It shall be unlawful for any business licensed under this chapter to employ a
juvenile. (Ord. 2017-01, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-9-23: FEES:
Medical cannabis establishment licenses, are not prorated, are fixed, and
established, and must be paid in advance to the City by all persons receiving
such licenses as follows:
   A.   Origination Fees: Origination license fees, in addition to the annual
license fee listed in this section, are imposed for the following and are
payable prior to the issuance of the medical cannabis establishment license:
 
License Category     Origination Fee
Dispensary           $25,000.00
Cultivation facility 25,000.00
Production facility  25,000.00
 
   B.   License Fees:
 
License Category     Annual License Fees Quarterly Revenue Tax
Dispensary           $5,000.00           3% of the gross revenue
Cultivation facility 5,000.00            3% of the gross revenue
Production facility  5,000.00            3% of the gross revenue
 
A certification form as required by the City shall be submitted with each
quarterly tax paid to the City as required in this chapter.
   C.   Medical Cannabis Testing Laboratory: Each independent medical cannabis
testing laboratory shall pay the one-time nonrefundable application fee and a
three percent (3%) quarterly gross revenue license fee.
   D.   Fees Nonrefundable: License fees and Quarterly Revenue Tax are
nonrefundable.
   E.   Modification Of Fees: License origination, application fees, quarterly
fees, location transfer fees, non-operational status fees, renewal processing
fees, late renewal fees and reinstatement fees may be modified from time to
time by resolution of the City Council and any potential applicant is directed
to inquire if such a resolution has been adopted. In the event of a conflict,
the fees established by resolution of the City shall be controlling.
   F.   Self-Cultivation, Self-Growing, Or Self-Production: For self-
cultivation, self-growing, or self-production of medical cannabis, the person
must register annually with the City and there is no fee associated with the
required registration. (Ord. 2017-01, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-9-24: RENEWAL; LATE PAYMENT; PENALTY; REINSTATEMENT:
   A.   Renewal Notification:
      1.   All applicants for renewal of a City medical cannabis establishment
business license shall be notified, before the due date, of each license fee
required, however, the failure to notify any lawful business shall not be held
to waive the payment of the business license fee; nor is the actual receipt of
such notice required.
      2.   All applications for renewal of a City medical cannabis
establishment business license shall be accompanied by a copy of the renewed
medical cannabis establishment license from the State regulating authority.
   B.   File Renewal Application: Every medical cannabis establishment license
shall file, together with the license fees and taxes required by this chapter,
an application for renewal which shall be certified by the licensee, manager or
officer thereof. The application for renewal shall contain an accurate report
of all gross revenue for the preceding quarter.
   C.   Certification: The form shall include the following certification:
I, (name of certifier), certify and declare under the penalties of perjury that
I am the owner, partner, (president, treasurer, other {'{'}describe{'}'}) of
the business named above, that this is a true, correct and complete report to
the best of my knowledge, information and belief, and that this application and
report is made with the knowledge and consent of all other individuals named on
the medical cannabis establishment license.
Signed: Dated: Title:
I hereby certify that there has been no unreported change in ownership,
management or location of the medical cannabis establishment license, during
the license period; and that the establishment has a valid state license which
has not been revoked or suspended, conditioned or limited during the licensing
period. I further certify there have been no revenues that have not been
reported as required by law or ordinance of the State of Nevada, Elko County,
or the City of West Wendover.
Signed: Dated: Title:
   D.   Renewal Processing Fee: The licensee shall pay, in addition to all
other fees, a license renewal processing fee of five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) due July 1.
   E.   Late Renewal Fee; Penalty: Medical cannabis establishment licenses are
delinquent if not paid by the due date. A penalty of two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500.00) shall be required if the renewal processing fee is not paid
by the fifteenth day after the due date.
   F.   Reinstatement: License renewal fees not paid within thirty (30) days
after the due date result in automatic license revocation. Any such license
shall not be reinstated until the past due payment of seven thousand five
hundred dollars ($7,500.00) is made in addition to a five thousand dollar
($5,000.00) reinstatement penalty fee. If the amount due remains unpaid for
greater than forty five (45) days, the license is permanently revoked and a new
license must be sought through the full application process. Moreover, the City
Council may consider any past permanent revocation under this section in its
determination whether to issue a license under a new application.
   G.   No License Issuance: No license shall be issued until all penalties
have been paid in full. (Ord. 2017-01, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-
2021)
3-9-25: CONSENT TO INSPECTIONS:
The applicant or licensee shall consent to any and all reasonable inspections
of law enforcement officials and other City officials of the medical cannabis
establishment business operations and premises with or without notice for the
purpose of ascertaining such compliance with the laws and regulations of the
City and State in areas of health, fire prevention, safety, and consumer
protection, together with such examination of the business books and records as
may be necessary to ascertain the basis for determining the payment of fees.
(Ord. 2017-01, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-9-26: REVOCATION OF LICENSES, SUSPENSION, CANCELLATION; NOTICE OF HEARING
PROCEDURE:
   A.   Events Causing Revocation: All medical cannabis establishment business
licenses may be revoked if one or more of the following events occur, but is
not limited to the following:
      1.   A licensee has violated, or permitted, allowed, or caused a
violation of any provision of this chapter, any regulation issued pursuant to
this chapter, any condition of approval imposed upon the issuance of the
license, or any State law or regulation relating to operation;
      2.   If the State medical cannabis establishment license has been
surrendered, suspended or revoked;
      3.   Based on ascertainable facts, the operation substantially aggravates
the crime problems in the City, makes law enforcement unduly difficult, or is
detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare of the City;
      4.   A licensee has made fraudulent statements as to a material fact on
an application form, as to any other information presented as part of the
application process, or in connection with any other information required to be
submitted to the business license authority;
      5.   The licensee has failed to maintain the premises in compliance with
the requirements of the community development, building, fire, health, and
environmental agencies;
      6.   Having committed a felony offense;
      7.   Dispensing, delivering or otherwise transferring cannabis to a
person other than a medical cannabis establishment agent, another medical
cannabis establishment, a patient who holds a valid registry identification
card or the designated cannabis primary caregiver of such a patient;
      8.   Any act or omission committed by any employee, agent, or independent
contractor that occurs in the course of his or her employment, agency, or
contract with the licensee shall be imputed to the licensee for the purpose of
suspension or revocation of the license. Lack of actual knowledge of the acts
or omissions of employees shall not constitute a defense for a licensee.
   B.   City Council May Revoke, Suspend Or Cancel: The City Council, at any
regular or at any special meeting convened and held for that purpose and upon a
show cause order for any willful or serious or multiple violation(s) or
omission(s) of this chapter, may revoke, suspend, or cancel the medical
cannabis establishment licenses by a majority vote. If a license is revoked,
suspended, or canceled pursuant to this provision, it shall be unlawful for the
licensee to maintain or conduct such business under the license, or at all.
Upon such revocation, suspension or cancellation, no refund of any portion of
the license fee shall be made to the licensee and the licensee shall
immediately cease all business at all places under such license.
   C.   Notice Of Hearing; Hearing Procedures: Notice and the procedure of a
hearing scheduled for the purposes set forth in this chapter shall be in
accordance with business license revocations and disciplinary actions set forth
in this title, as amended or renumbered from time to time. (Ord. 2017-01, 7-18-
2017; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-9-27: ACTION UPON SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OR CLOSURE:
   A.   In the event of a suspension, revocation or closure of any license, the
establishment shall not remove any cannabis from the premises except under the
supervision of the West Wendover Police Department and must dispose of it in a
manner and location approved by the State regulating authority and/or the
Police Department.
   B.   In the event that the medical cannabis establishment is closing either
temporarily, or permanently, the establishment shall notify the business
license official of the closing fifteen (15) days before the medical cannabis
establishment is closed and in the case of an emergency, the establishment must
notify the business license official within twenty four (24) hours of such
closure. (Ord. 2017-01, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-9-28: DISPOSAL OF MEDICAL CANNABIS WASTE:
   A.   Disposal of waste must meet all State and Federal guidelines. Waste
must be maintained in a secure location until removal from the location. All
waste must be deposited at the disposal site operated by the City or its
authorized contractor.
   B.   Medical cannabis and any waste including wastewater must be stored,
secured and managed in accordance with applicable State Statutes and
regulations and with a State approved disposal plan which must be provided to
the City. A medical cannabis establishment must dispose of medical cannabis
that is not usable cannabis within ten (10) calendar days of expiration of use.
Medical cannabis waste must be made unusable prior to leaving a licensed
medical cannabis facility.
      1.   Wastes that must be rendered unusable prior to disposal include, but
are not limited to:
         a.   Cannabis plant waste, including roots, stalks, leaves, and stems
that have not been processed with solvent.
         b.   Solid cannabis sample plant waste possessed by third party
laboratories certified by the State regulating authority for quality assurance
that must be disposed of.
      2.   The allowable method to render cannabis plant waste unusable is by
grinding and incorporating the cannabis plant waste with non-consumable solid
waste or other ground materials so the resulting mixture is at least fifty
percent (50%) non-cannabis waste by volume. Other methods to render cannabis
waste unusable must be approved by the State regulating authority before
implementing.
      3.   Cannabis waste rendered unusable following an approved method in the
facility disposal plan may be delivered to a franchised or licensed solid waste
facility for final disposition.
      4.   Disposal cannot include medical cannabis product including plant
material entering the City wastewater collection system, storm drain system or
any unsecure rubbish disposal system.
      5.   A medical cannabis establishment shall not transfer, share, give,
sell or deliver any unused medical cannabis in the establishment's possession
to any other person, regardless of whether they are licensed as a medical
cannabis establishment.
      6.   A medical cannabis establishment shall not dispose of medical
cannabis in any manner other than permitted under this chapter. (Ord. 2017-01,
7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-9-29: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the terms, conditions or provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Upon conviction thereof such person
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed the maximum allowable under Nevada
Revised Statutes, or by imprisonment for a term not to exceed six (6) months,
or by both such fine and imprisonment. Such conviction shall also subject the
permittee or licensee to have his permit or license revoked. Thereafter, any
person adjudged guilty of a violation of this chapter or any of the terms,
conditions or provisions thereof may, in the discretion of the City Council, be
denied a permit or license. Each violation or instance of noncompliance shall
be considered a separate and distinct offense. Further, each day of continued
violation or noncompliance shall be considered as a separate offense. (Ord.
2017-01, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
CHAPTER 10
RECREATIONAL CANNABIS ZONING REGULATIONS AND LICENSES
SECTION:
3-10-1: Short Title, Authority And Application
3-10-2: Findings, Intent And Purpose
3-10-3: Definitions
3-10-4: Procedure Applicable To Zoning And Licensing Requirements
3-10-5: Cannabis Establishment Zoning Requirements
3-10-6: Requirement To Obtain Conditional Use Permit; Outdoor Cultivation And
Production Facility Pilot Projects
3-10-7: Application For Conditional Use Permit
3-10-8: Mandatory Conditions Of Approval
3-10-9: Cannabis Establishment Location Restrictions
3-10-10: Security And Screening
3-10-11: Cannabis Establishment Business License Requirement And Term Of
License
3-10-12: Land Use And Location Requirements; Conformance With Zoning
3-10-13: Hours Of Operation
3-10-14: Facilities Not Located Within The City
3-10-15: License Classification
3-10-16: License Application Procedure And Fees
3-10-17: Security Requirements
3-10-18: Preliminary Finding; City Council Action On Application; Denial Of
Business License
3-10-19: Commencement; Nonoperational Status Of Business
3-10-20: On Site Use Prohibited
3-10-21: Reserved
3-10-22: Employee Restrictions
3-10-23: Fees
3-10-24: Renewal; Late Payment; Penalty; Reinstatement
3-10-25: Consent To Inspections
3-10-26: Revocation Of Licenses; Suspension; Cancellation; Notice Of Hearing;
Procedure
3-10-27: Action Upon Suspension, Revocation Or Closure
3-10-28: Disposal Of Recreational Cannabis Waste
3-10-29: Violation; Penalty
3-10-1: SHORT TITLE, AUTHORITY AND APPLICATION:
   A.   Short Title: This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the
RECREATIONAL CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS CODE.
   B.   Authority: The City Council has the authority to adopt this chapter
pursuant to the Nevada Constitution and Nevada Revised Statutes, including, but
not limited to, Nevada Revised Statutes 678A-D, inclusive.
   C.   Application: This chapter shall apply to all lands within the
boundaries of the City, as defined in this chapter. The provisions of this
chapter shall apply to the extent not in conflict with Nevada Revised Statutes
chapters 678A-D, inclusive and applicable NAC chapters and any other applicable
State law or regulation. In the event of a conflict between the provisions of
this chapter and Nevada Revised Statutes and NAC chapters and any other
applicable State law or regulation, the State law or regulation shall be
applicable and this Code shall be deemed void only to the extent of such
conflict. (Ord. 2018-03, 12-18-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-10-2: FINDINGS, INTENT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Findings: The West Wendover City Council finds:
      1.   In 2017, the people of the State of Nevada approved ballot question
#2, legalizing the use of marijuana for persons twenty one (21) years of age or
older, now codified in Nevada Revised Statutes 678A, 678B, and 678D, which
allows for recreational cannabis establishments and sales within the State of
Nevada and requires such establishments to comply with all local business
licensing requirements, local land use and code requirements.
      2.   The existing law requires the Department of Taxation to adopt all
regulations necessary or convenient to carry out provisions of Nevada Revised
Statutes 678A, 678B, and 678D, which exempts a person who is twenty one (21)
years of age or older from State or local prosecution for possession, use,
consumption, purchase, sale, transportation or cultivation of certain amounts
of cannabis and requires the Department of Taxation to begin receiving
applications for the licensing of cannabis establishments on or before January
1, 2018. Approved Regulation of the Department of Taxation, LCB file no. R092-
17, became effective February 27, 2018.
      3.   Nevada law allows for the City to enact regulations to protect and
promote the public health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the City.
      4.   Nevada Revised Statutes 678A, 678B, and 678D provide that in
connection with activities by licensed establishments, certain acts are exempt
from criminal prosecution by the State of Nevada and its political
subdivisions.
      5.   Since the use, cultivation, distribution, production, possession and
transportation of marijuana remains illegal under Federal law, and marijuana
remains classified as a "controlled substance" by Federal law, this Council
does not have the authority to (and nothing in this chapter is intended to)
authorize, promote, condone or aid production, distribution or possession of
marijuana in violation of any applicable law.
      6.   This chapter is intended to implement Nevada Revised Statutes 678A,
678B, and 678D and to establish criteria for the issuance of licenses that are
a prerequisite for the exemption from the State prosecution provided for
therein. To the extent that cannabis establishments are registered and
authorized by the State, the purpose of this chapter is to, except as otherwise
provided, license and regulate them within the corporate limits of the City to
protect the public interest.
      7.   The operation of a cannabis establishment is a revocable privilege
and there is no property right for an individual or business to operate a
cannabis establishment in the City; therefore, nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to confer any legitimate claim of entitlement to any benefit which
might otherwise devolve upon a licensee or any person approved for suitability
or any third party.
   B.   Intent: The intent of this chapter is to establish the licensing,
zoning, land use and development requirements applicable to cannabis
establishments as authorized under chapters 678A, 678B and 678D of Nevada
Revised Statutes.
   C.   Purpose: Pursuant to its general authority to regulate the cultivation,
production, dispensing and sale of cannabis, the City Council declares that the
public health, safety and general welfare of the City are best promoted and
protected by requiring the licensing and zoning regulations and standards set
forth in this chapter. (Ord. 2018-03, 12-18-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-
2021)
3-10-3: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Definitions: Certain words or phrases unique to this chapter shall be
construed as herein set out unless it is apparent from the context that they
have a different meaning.
ADULT USE      Cannabis regulated by Nevada Revised Statutes 678A, 678B, and 678D, also may be
CANNABIS:      referred to herein as "recreational cannabis" or "cannabis".
CANNABIS:      The meaning ascribed to the term marijuana In NRS 453.096.
CANNABIS       An entity licensed to cultivate, process, and package cannabis, to have cannabis
CULTIVATION    tested by a cannabis testing facility, and to sell cannabis to retail cannabis
FACILITY:      stores, to cannabis product manufacturing facilities, and to other cannabis
               cultivation facilities, but not to consumers.
CANNABIS       An entity licensed to transport cannabis from a cannabis establishment to
DISTRIBUTOR:   another cannabis establishment.
               A cannabis cultivation facility, a cannabis testing facility, a cannabis
CANNABIS       production facility, a cannabis product manufacturing facility, a cannabis
ESTABLISHMENT: distributor, or retail cannabis store for adult use, all of which must be
               licensed by the Cannabis Compliance Board. NRS 678A.080.
CANNABIS       Products that are infused with cannabis or an extract thereof; and are intended
INFUSED        for use or consumption by humans through means other than inhalation or oral
PRODUCTS:      ingestion. The term includes, without limitation, topical products, ointments,
               oils and tinctures.
CANNABIS
PRODUCTION     An entity licensed to purchase cannabis, manufacture, process and package
FACILITY OR    cannabis and cannabis products and sell cannabis and cannabis products to other
CANNABIS       cannabis product manufacturing facilities and to retail cannabis stores, but not
PRODUCT        to consumers.
MANUFACTURER:
CANNABIS       Products comprised of cannabis or concentrated cannabis and other ingredients
PRODUCTS:      that are intended for use or consumption, such as, but not limited to, edible
               products, ointments, and tinctures.
CANNABIS       An entity licensed to test cannabis and cannabis products, including for potency
TESTING        and contaminants.
FACILITY:
CITY:          The City of West Wendover, Nevada, a Municipal corporation.
CODE:          The West Wendover City Code.
               A group of cannabis establishments which each share identical ownership and are
COMBINED       located on the same parcel of real estate. This group may include medical
CANNABIS       cannabis and cannabis establishments if permitted by Nevada Revised Statutes
ESTABLISHMENT: 678A-D, inclusive. Each individual cannabis or medical cannabis establishment
               must have a separate license with the City for each separate license required by
               the State unless otherwise provided by resolution of the City Council.
               Any of the following: a facility that provides daycare to children, a public
               park, a public library, medical facilities, substance abuse treatment center, a
COMMUNITY      playground, a public swimming pool, a center or facility which provides
FACILITY:      recreational opportunities or services to children or adolescents, a church,
               synagogue, or other building, structure or place used for religious worship or
               other religious purposes, City Hall, Police Department, or Fire Department. The
               term does not include animal shelters or public works facilities.
COMPONENT      An individual cannabis establishment which is part of a combined cannabis
CANNABIS       establishment. A component cannabis establishment must have a separate license
ESTABLISHMENT: from the City for each license required by the State unless otherwise provided
               by resolution of the City Council.
CONDITIONAL    A use permitted in zoning district regulations subject to a finding by the City
USE PERMIT     Council that all special conditions and requirements must be met.
(CUP):
               A finding of guilt or conviction as an adult offender by a jury or trial court,
CONVICTED:     whether said finding is appealed or not. A person so convicted shall be deemed
               convicted until such finding is overturned by a court of competent jurisdiction
               or by pardon.
COUNCIL:       The West Wendover City Council.
DIVISION:      The Nevada Department of Taxation and/or any other State agency given authority
               to regulate medical cannabis establishments or cannabis establishments.
               A person or group of persons who possess a current valid medical cannabis
               establishment license and a current valid adult-use cannabis establishment
DUAL LICENSEE: license of the same type. Each individual cannabis or medical cannabis
               establishment must have a separate license with the City for each separate
               license required by the State unless otherwise provided by resolution of the
               City Council.
EDIBLE         Products that contain cannabis or an extract thereof, are intended for human
CANNABIS       consumption by oral ingestion, and are presented in the form of foodstuffs,
PRODUCTS:      extracts, oils, tinctures and other similar products.
               That after investigation, a person is found to comply with the requirements of
               this title which are prerequisite to involvement with a privilege license. This
               title authorizes the City Council to require that certain persons who are
               directly or indirectly involved with privilege licenses be found suitable for
FINDING OF     such involvement so long as that relationship continues. A finding of
SUITABILITY:   suitability relates only to the specific involvement for which it is made. If
               the nature of the involvement changes from that for which the applicant is found
               suitable, or if, in the judgment of the City Council, new information concerning
               the applicant's suitability has become available, the applicant may be made to
               submit themselves for a new determination of suitability.
               The total amount realized by a business entity from engaging in business sales
GROSS REVENUE  of services or products in this State, without deduction for the cost of goods
OR SALES:      sold or other expenses incurred, that contributes to the production of gross
               income.
HOOP HOUSE:    A structure used as a greenhouse characterized by a half round hoop shape.
               A private, independent testing laboratory wherein adult use cannabis, edible
INDEPENDENT    adult use cannabis products, and adult use cannabis infused products that are to
TESTING        be sold in the State of Nevada are tested to determine: 1) the concentration of
LABORATORY FOR THC and cannabidiol; 2) whether the tested material is organic or nonorganic; 3)
CANNABIS:      the presence and identification of molds and fungus; and 4) the presence and
               concentration of fertilizers and other nutrients.
               Any executive, manager, employee, agent, officer, or director of a cannabis
               establishment having the power to exercise significant influence or control over
KEY EMPLOYEE:  decisions concerning any part of the operations of the business or a manager
               charged with the day to day operations of the business. A key employee must be
               on the premises of all cannabis establishments at all times during the hours of
               operation.
LICENSE:       An adult-use cannabis establishment license or a medical establishment license.
LICENSEE:      Holder of a cannabis establishment license or licenses, either separately or as
               a combined, component, dual or stand-alone establishment.
               1.   All parts of any plant of the genus Cannabis, whether growing or not;
               2.   The seeds thereof;
               3.   The resin extracted from any part of the plant; and
               4.   Every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of
               the plant, its seeds or resin.
MARIJUANA:     "Marijuana" does not include the mature stems of the plant, fiber produced from
               the stems, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound,
               manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of the mature stems
               (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized
               seed of the plant which is incapable of germination.
               Cannabis or marijuana shall further have the same meaning, and as may be
               amended, as defined by Nevada Revised Statutes chapters 678A.085 and 453.096.
NEVADA REVISED
STATUTES       The current codified laws of the State of Nevada.
(NRS):
               Any principal, person, beneficial owner, and individual persons holding any
               ownership or financial interest for each business entity including all
               businesses organized under or governed by title 7 of the Nevada Revised Statutes
               including, but not limited to, private corporations, publicly traded
               corporations, close corporations, foreign corporations, limited liability
               companies, partnerships, limited partnerships, and professional corporations
               (business entities). Ownership interest in the context of publicly traded
OWNERSHIP      corporations shall include all corporate officers and members of any board of
INTEREST:      directors, and also includes individuals with five percent (5%) or more
               ownership or financial interest in the publicly traded corporation. To the
               extent that a business entity has an ownership interest in a medical cannabis or
               cannabis establishment, the term ownership interest shall also include all
               individuals with an ownership interest in such business entity. It is the intent
               of this chapter that all individuals with a direct or indirect ownership
               interest in a medical cannabis or cannabis establishment be disclosed and be
               subject to the requirements of this chapter.
PARAPHERNALIA  Accessories, devices and other equipment that is necessary or useful for a
:              person to engage in the medical or recreational use of cannabis.
POLICE:        The Chief of Police of the City of West Wendover or his designee.
QUARTER OR     A period of three (3) consecutive months commencing on January 1, April 1, July
CALENDAR       1 or October 1, in any year.
QUARTER:
RETAIL         "Retail cannabis store" means an entity licensed to purchase cannabis from
CANNABIS       cannabis cultivation facilities, to purchase cannabis and cannabis products from
STORE:         cannabis product manufacturing facilities and retail cannabis stores, and to
               sell cannabis and cannabis products to consumers.
               Shall be that consecutive period of time, not to exceed six (6) months, when an
               outdoor cultivation and associated production facility discontinues its active
SEASONAL       cultivation or production due to the end of the growing season. The City may
DORMANCY:      determine when this period has commenced unless the City has been notified
               thirty (30) days in advance by the facility when it shall enter seasonal
               dormancy.
SHIPPING       A hard-sided connex type rigid steel container or enclosure that can be secured
CONTAINER:     in place. Normal trucking trailers associated with a semi truck are specifically
               excluded.
STATE OR STATE The State of Nevada, the Cannabis Compliance Board, and the Nevada Division of
REGULATING     Taxation and/or other agency assigned to administer Nevada Revised Statutes
AUTHORITY:     678A, 678B, and 678D. (Ord. 2018-03, 12-18-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
 
3-10-4: PROCEDURE APPLICABLE TO ZONING AND LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Simultaneous Process: Cannabis establishments shall obtain both a
conditional use permit (CUP) and a cannabis establishment business license
prior to commencing any cannabis operation in the City and may pursue both
simultaneously in order to expedite the approval process.
   B.   CUP Process: Qualified applicants shall submit the CUP fee and file an
application under section
3-10-6 of this chapter. Upon application for a CUP, the process shall proceed
as set forth in section
3-10-7 of this chapter and title 8, chapter 10 of this Code to the extent the
same may be made applicable.
   C.   License Process: Qualified applicants shall submit the license
application fee and file an application under sections
3-10-11 and
3-10-16 of this chapter. All applicants shall pay the investigation fee and are
required to submit fingerprints and undergo the investigation process of
subsections
3-10-16R and S of this chapter. The City Clerk shall initially review the
application and, upon finding it complete, refer the application to the City
Manager and the Police Chief for any required applicant investigations. Upon
receipt of the application, the City Manager shall review the application and
investigation results and make a finding of suitability. If the application is
found to be unsuitable, the application will be referred back to the applicant
to be cured of any deficiencies if possible. If found to be suitable, the City
Manager will refer the application to the City Council for consideration. The
City Council will consider the matter of issuance of a license to a suitable
applicant during a regular or special meeting. Upon the determination that a
license will be issued, the City Council will condition its issuance upon
payment of the origination fee and any other fees required. Upon the payment of
all required fees and satisfaction of any conditions for the license and CUP,
the City Clerk will issue the license.
   D.   Quarterly Tax: See subsection
3-10-23B of this chapter.
   E.   License Renewal: See subsection
3-10-24D of this chapter. (Ord. 2018-03, 12-18-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-
2021)
3-10-5: CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT ZONING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Allowed Zones: Cannabis establishments shall be allowed within the M
Zone (M-1 or M-2) Light Industrial and General Industrial Zones, subject to
compliance with the distance separation requirements contained herein and upon
the approval of a conditional use permit. Further, except as may be
specifically provided herein, cannabis establishments must meet all Community
Development and Building Code requirements of the City of West Wendover. The
City may, by resolution, provide for a moratorium on the number or types of
cannabis establishments and/or may provide for a restriction of the type and
number of cannabis establishments to be permitted within the City.
   B.   Restriction On Cannabis Dispensary Permits: A retail cannabis store
shall only operate in conjunction with a medical cannabis dispensary at the
same address and shall be controlled by the same licensed and approved entity
which operates a medical cannabis dispensary license pursuant to the Medical
Cannabis Establishment Code, chapter 9 of this title. If properly registered
and licensed with the Nevada State Department of Taxation, the Cannabis
Compliance Board, and the City of West Wendover for both medical and
recreational cannabis at the same location by the same entity, then one
dispensary may dispense and sell both medical and recreational cannabis as
permitted by the Nevada Department of Taxation and State law. Regardless of a
single licensee or dual licensee business or businesses, there shall be allowed
not more than one recreational cannabis dispensary in the City of West
Wendover.
   C.   Permanent Building And Licenses: Cannabis establishment businesses
shall be located in a permanent building, with an engineered foundation that
meets City of West Wendover Community Development and Building Codes, and shall
not be located in a mobile home, manufactured home, trailer, shipping
container, motor vehicle, or similar personal property or property that has
been converted from personal property to real property. A cannabis
establishment may be located in a completely enclosed, stand-alone building, or
one or more establishments under the same ownership may be located together in
the same building and upon the same property. A separate business license must
be obtained, however, for each cannabis establishment requiring a separate
certificate or license by the State unless otherwise provided by resolution of
the City Council.
   D.   Access: The proposed cannabis establishment will have direct access
(both ingress and egress) from a public street. Drive through access is allowed
under such conditions as required by the City.
   E.   Outside Storage: Except as provided in the provisions for a Pilot
Project, outside storage shall be limited to the following structures, the
combination of which, shall not exceed one thousand (1,000) square feet, and
which shall require approval of the City Community Development Department upon
review for acceptable aesthetic appearance, color and structural integrity:
      1.   Shed(s); and
      2.   Shipping containers as defined by this chapter.
Except as herein provided, no outside storage shall be permitted for cannabis
establishments, including the use of shipping containers for on-site storage,
unless further specified by resolution of the City Council. For outside
cultivation facilities and associated production facilities, outside storage in
the form of sheds affixed to the real property may be permitted.
   F.   Size: The minimum size of a cannabis establishment, unless further
specified by resolution of the City Council, shall be:
      1.   Testing laboratories shall be one thousand five hundred (1,500)
square feet total floor area, and the size and design must provide sufficient
interior space to provide for adequate customer waiting areas.
      2.   A cannabis cultivation facility shall be six thousand (6,000) square
feet of total floor area.
      3.   A cannabis production facility shall be three thousand five hundred
(3,500) square feet of total floor area.
      4.   A recreational cannabis dispensary shall be one thousand five
hundred (1,500) square feet. The size and design must provide sufficient
interior space to provide for adequate customer waiting areas, customer queuing
and transaction space.
      5.   All other cannabis establishments shall be determined by resolution
of the City Council.
   G.   Reserved.
   H.   Accessory Uses: No accessory uses are permitted in association with a
cannabis establishment unless further specified by resolution of the City
Council and appropriate conditional use permit and licensing, except in
association with a retail cannabis store for the retail sale of clothing,
novelties and paraphernalia as defined in Nevada Revised Statutes 678A.220 as
may be permissible under State law.
   I.   Signs And Advertising: Signage and advertising for the establishment
shall conform to State law pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 678D.430 and
applicable State regulations. Signage shall further conform to the standards
found in the Sign Code of the City of West Wendover and shall be reviewed and
pre-approved by the City's Community Development Department or designee. The
City Council may further restrict signage and advertising by resolution and/or
conditions in the conditional use permit.
   J.   Expiration Of Permit: The conditional use permit shall be void without
further action if:
      1.   The use ceases for a period exceeding ninety (90) days, unless the
permit holder has previously entered non-operational status or an outdoor
cultivation facility or associated production facility when in a seasonal
dormant state not to exceed six (6) months, approved by the City under section
3-10-19 of this chapter.
      2.   Substantial progress toward commencement of the business is not made
within ninety (90) days of conditional use permit approval.
         a.   For purposes of this section, "substantial progress" shall mean
obtaining a license from the State Board, and/or, obtaining an occupancy permit
or building permit for the proposed facility and includes, without limitation,
actions and progress for such development within the City's formal plan
approval process.
   K.   Preconditions To Approval: A cannabis establishment applicant must
obtain provisional approval from the State of Nevada to operate such a facility
in the City prior to seeking a CUP and must obtain any additionally required
State licensing prior to the conditional use permit or cannabis establishment
business license becoming effective.
   L.   Off Street Parking: Unless otherwise specified herein or provided by
subsequent resolution of the City Council, cannabis establishments shall
provide off street parking facilities designed and constructed in conformance
of the applicable Zoning Codes of the City.
      1.   All parking spaces required by this Code for cannabis establishments
shall be located on the same parcel of land as the use.
      2.   On-site parking requirements:
 
                                  1 space for each 300 square feet of gross
                                  floor area, minimum of 3 handicap spaces and
a. Cannabis distributor facility  1 additional handicap space for each
                                  additional 10 normal spaces. Minimum of 3
                                  semi-tractor trailer configured spaces.
                                  1 space for each 750 square feet of gross
                                  floor area plus 1 per employee and 1 per
b. Cannabis production facility   company owned vehicle, minimum of 3 handicap
                                  spaces and 1 additional handicap space for
                                  each additional 10 normal spaces.
                                  1 space for each 750 square feet of gross
                                  floor area plus 1 per employee and 1 per
c. Cannabis cultivation facility  company owned vehicle, minimum of 3 handicap
                                  spaces and 1 additional handicap space for
                                  each additional 10 normal spaces.
                                  1 space for each 300 square feet of gross
d. Independent testing laboratory floor area, minimum of 3 handicap spaces and
                                  1 additional handicap space for each
                                  additional 10 normal spaces.
                                  1 space for each 150 square feet of gross
                                  floor area, minimum of 3 handicap spaces and
                                  1 additional handicap space for each
e. Retail cannabis store          additional 10 normal spaces. This is in
                                  addition to any required parking for a
                                  medical marijuana establishment operated at
                                  the same address.
 
(Ord. 2018-03, 12-18-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-10-6: REQUIREMENT TO OBTAIN CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT; OUTDOOR CULTIVATION AND
PRODUCTION FACILITY PILOT PROJECTS:
   A.   Cannabis cultivation facilities, outdoor cultivation facilities,
production facilities associated with outdoor cultivation facilities,
independent testing laboratories, cannabis distribution facilities, facilities
for the production of edible cannabis products or cannabis infused products and
a retail cannabis store, shall require the approval of a conditional use permit
within all zoning locations which permit such use.
   B.   Outdoor cultivation may be permitted as allowed by State Law and
compliance with the remaining requirements for cultivation facilities of this
chapter.
   C.   Outdoor Cultivation Pilot Project: Notwithstanding any other provision
of this chapter to the contrary, an outdoor cultivation facility pilot project
may be allowed by conditional use permit as follows:
      1.   There will not be a minimum square foot requirement for a pilot
project except as may be required by the City Council for reasons determined by
the City as part of the conditional use permit process;
      2.   Modular office units or similar type units, permanently affixed to
the property or otherwise affixed in a fashion acceptable to the City Community
Development Department, may be utilized during the term of a pilot project as
part of the pilot project facilities for outdoor cultivation and/or production
associated with the outdoor cultivation facilities. Hoop houses may only be
used for greenhouse purposes and only during pilot projects;
      3.   The maximum term of a conditional use permit for a pilot project
shall be three (3) years from date of approval and the permit shall not be
renewed thereafter. Upon the expiration of the pilot project the owner shall
remove any non-permanent modular units which are not permanently affixed to the
property and other non-conforming structures or improvements from the property
and use of the property under this chapter shall cease until full compliance
with the provisions of this chapter for outdoor cultivation and/or associated
production facilities.
      4.   Outdoor storage in the form of a sheds or shipping containers as
found in subsection
3-9-5F shall be permitted except that the combination of such storage shall not
exceed one thousand (1,000) square feet.
      5.   For purposes of a pilot project, a "production facility associated
with an outdoor cultivation facility" shall mean a facility that has common
ownership or dual licensing with an outdoor cultivation facility on the same
site within the City. (Ord. 2018-03, 12-18-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-10-7: APPLICATION FOR CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
In addition to the general application requirements required elsewhere in this
Code, an applicant for a conditional use permit to allow for the operation of a
cannabis cultivation facility, an independent testing laboratory, a cannabis
distribution facility, a facility for the production of edible cannabis
products or cannabis infused products or a retail cannabis store shall complete
a supplemental application which includes all of the following information:
   A.   A site plan drawn to scale showing the location of the proposed
building on the lot, property lines, adjoining streets, driveway locations,
parking layout, utilities and related locations, landscaping; walls/fences,
solid waste enclosures, and easements.
   B.   Elevation drawings or photographs of the proposed building which
demonstrate that the building is appropriate with the style of buildings in the
community and appropriate for the zone.
   C.   Rendering of proposed signage showing that the proposed signs are
consistent with this Code. Evidence shall be submitted that the division to
regulate cannabis has approved the name, logo, sign(s) and advertisement of the
establishment prior to the use of such sign or advertising.
   D.   The City of West Wendover zoning for the parcel.
   E.   Name of the cannabis establishment.
   F.   Site address and Assessor's parcel number.
   G.   A statement describing what activity will occur at the site - cannabis
cultivation facility, facility for the production of edible cannabis products
or cannabis infused products, cannabis independent testing laboratory, cannabis
distribution facility, retail cannabis store or a combination of the above.
   H.   The name and physical address of any other cannabis or medical cannabis
establishment within Nevada in which any owner, officer, manager, or director
of the applicant has an ownership interest in, or contractual relationship or
is otherwise associated with.
   I.   The name and location of the off-site cannabis cultivation facility
providing the cannabis, if applicable. The name and location of the cannabis
independent testing laboratory providing laboratory service, if applicable.
   J.   A description of all toxic, flammable or other materials regulated by a
Federal, State or local government with authority over the business that will
be used or kept at the cannabis establishment, the location of such materials,
how such materials will be stored, and how such materials will be used. The
City of West Wendover Fire Chief shall review the application submission, as
applicable, for compliance with local, State and Federal regulations.
   K.   A plan that complies with any applicable Nevada Health District
regulations governing air quality for the cannabis establishment that prevents
or controls any dust, fumes, vapors, or odor of cannabis off the premises of
the establishment. (Ord. 2018-03, 12-18-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-10-8: MANDATORY CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
All conditional use permit applications for cannabis establishments must abide
by the conditions of approval as described herein. The City Council may impose
conditions of approval that are more restrictive than those required by this
section. The approval of all conditional use permits authorizing the operation
of a cannabis establishment must contain at a minimum the following conditions:
   A.   The conditional use permit grantee must provide to the City of West
Wendover Community Development Department and business license authority a copy
of the adult-use cannabis establishment license issued by the State of Nevada
prior to commencing operations.
   B.   The establishment must continue to meet all requirements for a cannabis
establishment to qualify for and maintain its adult-use cannabis establishment
license as set forth by State law.
   C.   The establishment must comply with all operating procedures required by
State law, this Code and City resolutions.
   D.   The establishment must prohibit anyone from consuming cannabis on the
premises.
   E.   If the establishment has signage, the signage shall conform to the
requirements of sign regulations of this Code.
   F.   The establishment must prohibit cannabis activities including, without
limitation, cultivating, growing, processing, displaying, selling or storage
from being conducted outdoors, except as otherwise provided herein.
   G.   Outdoor cultivation facilities are allowed within the City as provided
in this Chapter and may be conducted in greenhouses, which specifically
excludes hoop houses. All production of cannabis that a cultivation facility
carries out or causes to be carried out must take place in an enclosed facility
as provided in this chapter. Except as provided herein, all cultivation or
production of cannabis that a cultivation facility carries out or causes to be
carried out must take place in an enclosed facility.
   H.   The establishment must prevent cannabis or paraphernalia from being
displayed or kept in a manner that is visible from outside the facility.
   I.   The establishment must post a legible sign inside the facility stating
that the consumption of cannabis on the premises is prohibited.
   J.   The conditional use permit grantee shall submit (on a form provided by
the City) a notarized affidavit in which the grantee acknowledges that the
operation of a marijuana establishment is a violation of Federal law.
   K.   The conditional use permit grantee shall submit a notarized statement
in which the grantee agrees to hold the City of West Wendover harmless against
any Federal law enforcement actions that may result from the activities of the
marijuana/cannabis establishment that is the subject of the conditional use
permit.
   L.   The facility must employ security and surveillance systems as outlined
in sections
3-10-10 and
3-10-17 of this chapter. (Ord. 2018-03, 12-18-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-
2021)
3-10-9: CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The physical address of a cannabis establishment and the physical
address of any co-owned additional or otherwise associated cannabis
establishments (CE) may not be within one thousand feet (1,000') of a public or
private school that provides formal education traditionally associated with
pre-school or kindergarten through grade 12 which existed on the date on which
the application of the CE was submitted to the City, or within three hundred
feet (300') of a community facility which existed on the date on which the
application of the CE was submitted to the City, or within any other distance
restriction established by Nevada Revised Statutes 678B.250 or NAC 453D.208.
   B.   All cannabis establishments must be located a distance of at least one
thousand feet (1,000') from the closest residential dwelling. The term
residence shall not, for purposes herein, include the location of a night
watchman under a conditional use permit.
   C.   All cannabis establishments must be located at a distance of at least
five hundred feet (500') from any retail liquor stores or such locations where
retail liquor licensing has been granted and any sexually oriented businesses,
including, without limitation, accessory and/or escort services. This distance
requirement is not applicable and shall not include wholesale liquor
warehousing facilities/businesses.
   D.   For purposes of subsections A through C of this section, the distance
must be measured from the front door of the proposed CE to the closest point of
the property line of a school, community facility, other specified restricted
use or any other more restrictive measurement method established by Nevada
Revised Statutes 678B.210 or NAC 453D.208. The City Council may provide, by
resolution, any further distance or location restrictions deemed appropriate
which are permitted by State law. (Ord. 2018-03, 12-18-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-03,
10-19-2021)
3-10-10: SECURITY AND SCREENING:
   A.   The establishment must install security surveillance cameras that
monitor all entrances, along with the interior and exterior of the premises.
Recordings from these cameras must be maintained in a retrievable manner for at
least thirty (30) days from the date recorded. All entrances must be
illuminated with dusk till dawn lighting, and shall be visible from a public
street or parking lot.
   B.   The establishment must install and maintain in good working condition
robbery and burglary alarm systems and must comply with subsection
3-10-17Q of this chapter. (Ord. 2018-03, 12-18-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-
2021)
3-10-11: CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIREMENT AND TERM OF
LICENSE:
A cannabis establishment business license is an annual license. Such license is
a revocable privilege and the holder of such a license does not acquire thereby
any vested right. No license under this chapter can be assigned or transferred
except with the approval of the City Council and must follow all Nevada
Division policies and procedures for transferring of ownership. A cannabis
establishment business must comply at all times with all applicable laws,
regulations or licensing requirements in the conduct of the business.
   A.   License Required:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for a person to engage in any form of business
or commerce involving the cultivation, processing, manufacturing, storage,
sale, distribution, transportation, or consumption of cannabis other than those
forms of businesses and commerce that are expressly contemplated herein and by
Nevada Revised Statutes 678A-D, inclusive and any administrative rules duly
adopted by the State regulating authority and without first making application
and securing a cannabis establishment license to do so from the City of West
Wendover. Such application shall be first subject to the stated pre-
requirements of subsection
3-10-5K of this chapter.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any cannabis
establishment in the City without a valid adult-use cannabis establishment
license duly issued by the State regulating authority, and a license issued
pursuant to this chapter and operating in compliance with any and all
applicable State laws and this Code.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to provide cannabis, edible
cannabis products or cannabis infused products to a cannabis establishment
within the City without an adult-use cannabis establishment license duly issued
by the State regulating authority and a license issued by the City.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any licensed cannabis establishment located
within the City to accept for sale any cannabis, edible cannabis products or
any cannabis infused products from any person who has not obtained an adult-use
cannabis establishment license from the State regulating authority, or who is
not duly licensed under this chapter for the provision of such products.
      5.   Unless otherwise permitted by resolution of the City Council and
authorized by State law, a City cannabis establishment business license is
required for each cannabis establishment adult-use cannabis establishment
license an individual holds to operate in each location where that activity is
to occur in the City as required under this chapter.
      6.   A person operating more than one type of cannabis establishment in
the same location must have a separate City license for each type of cannabis
establishment adult-use cannabis establishment license unless otherwise
permitted by resolution of the City Council.
      7.   The license requirement set forth in this chapter shall be in
addition to, and not in lieu of, any other licensing and permitting
requirements imposed by any other Federal, State or local law.
      8.   A license issued pursuant to this section does not provide any
exception, defense or immunity to any person in regard to any potential
criminal liability the person may have for the production, distribution or
possession of cannabis.
      9.   Distributors/transporters delivering product to a recreational
cannabis facility from a location outside the City or receiving product from a
recreational facility located in the City to transport it to a location outside
the City do not need a City business license unless the operation has, or would
be required to have, a physical location within the City in the event such
activities were conducted by a business regulated by chapter 1 of this title.
   B.   Posting License; Failure As Grounds For Revocation: All licenses issued
for cannabis establishments shall be posted in a conspicuous place in order
that they may be readily available for inspection by authorized State and City
officials. Failure to comply with the provisions of this subsection shall
constitute grounds for revocation of any such license not so posted.
   C.   Location Transfer: A cannabis establishment business license may not be
transferred to a new location within the City unless it is in accordance with
this chapter and shall be inspected and approved by the Community Development
Department, Building Official and Fire Chief to ensure safety and compliance
with applicable City ordinances and regulations. A transfer fee in the amount
of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) shall be paid for the location transfer. A
change of location must also be approved by the Nevada Division pursuant to
Nevada Revised Statutes 678B.500.
   D.   License; Corporation, Partnership, Limited Liability Company; Changes
In Membership: In the case of a corporate licensee, any and all changes in the
officers of such corporation must be reported to the business license official
within thirty (30) days of such change. Such new officers shall be required to
qualify for a license as required in this chapter. Any new manager of a
corporate licensee shall be required to qualify for a license as required in
this chapter. In the case of a partnership or limited liability company, any
change in ownership of the partnership or limited liability company must be
reported to the City Clerk within thirty (30) days of such change. Any new
partners or managers shall be required to qualify for a license as required in
this chapter.
   E.   Notice Of Change To Key Employee: It shall be a condition of the
license to inform the City Clerk of any change in the employment status of a
registered employee who serves in a management position, or as a key employee
within ten (10) days of the effective date of the change in employment status.
A change of employment status includes termination, leave of absence, and
promotion to a management position or key employee.
   F.   Transportation Of Cannabis Products: A cannabis establishment may
transport cannabis, paraphernalia, edible cannabis products and cannabis
infused products between another cannabis establishment as may be permitted by
Nevada Revised Statutes 678D.410. Transportation must meet all requirements of
the State regulating authority. Product must be placed in unmarked,
nontransparent transportation containers. All required transportation logs must
be in the vehicle and made available to law enforcement upon being stopped by a
law enforcement officer within the City, each driver must identify to the
officer that the product contained within the vehicle is cannabis, edible
cannabis products or cannabis infused products, as the case may be, from a
licensed cannabis establishment and must present to the officer a State agent
registration card, the route the vehicle was authorized to travel and the
actual travel log.
   G.   Receiver Or Assignee: If a receiver or assignee for the benefit of
creditors, guardians and personal representatives is appointed during the time
for which the license is granted, the receiver, assignee, guardian,
administrator or executor may continue to carry on the business on the
designated premises for the balance of the term of the license, with the same
rights and subject to the same restrictions and liabilities as if he were the
original license holder. Before continuing the business, the receiver or other
such person shall file a written and verified statement with the City Clerk,
addressed to the City Council, setting forth the facts and circumstances under
which he has succeeded to the rights of the original license holder. The
written statement must include documentation that the division has approved the
transfer of the operations. (Ord. 2018-03, 12-18-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-
19-2021)
3-10-12: LAND USE AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS; CONFORMANCE WITH ZONING:
   A.   No cannabis establishment license will be issued unless the location is
in accordance with the requirements of this Code.
   B.   Approval of a location or of a conditional use permit pursuant to this
Code does not guarantee or constitute approval of any cannabis establishment
license. (Ord. 2018-03, 12-18-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-10-13: HOURS OF OPERATION:
There are no hour restrictions except that the City Council may establish
permissible or restricted hours of operation by resolution. Nothing herein
however permits operations which violate existing City codes, including, but
not limited to, nuisance and disturbing the peace provisions. (Ord. 2018-03,
12-18-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-10-14: FACILITIES NOT LOCATED WITHIN THE CITY:
A cannabis cultivation facility, an independent testing laboratory or a
cannabis production facility which does not have substantial day to day
business operations within the City of West Wendover and which has obtained a
cannabis establishment business license in a jurisdiction other than the City
need not apply for a City of West Wendover license to only provide testing of
cannabis and/or only deliver cannabis products to a cannabis establishment
located within the City. This shall not apply to recreational cannabis
distributor operations which shall be appropriately licensed. (Ord. 2018-03,
12-18-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-10-15: LICENSE CLASSIFICATION:
   A.   The City Council may issue licenses for the following types of cannabis
establishments:
      1.   Cultivation Facility: A cultivation facility license allows the
licensee to acquire, possess, cultivate, deliver, transfer, transport, supply
and sell wholesale cannabis and related supplies to a cannabis dispensary,
cannabis production facility, or to other cultivation facilities only.
      2.   Independent Testing Laboratory: An independent testing laboratory
license allows the licensee to independently test cannabis, edible cannabis
products and cannabis infused products that are to be sold at cannabis
establishments operating in accordance with the requirements of Nevada Revised
Statutes 678B.290.
      3.   Cannabis Production Facility: A cannabis production facility license
allows the licensee to acquire, process, manufacture, deliver, transfer,
transport, package, and label usable cannabis and cannabis infused products for
sale at wholesale to cannabis dispensaries only.
      4.   Cannabis Distribution Facility: A cannabis distribution facility is
as defined by the Nevada Revised Statutes and/or Nevada Administrative Code and
allows the licensee to transport and deliver cannabis between medical and/or
recreational facilities.
      5.   Retail Cannabis Store: A retail cannabis store license allows the
licensee to acquire, possess, supply and sell or dispense usable cannabis,
edible cannabis products, cannabis infused products and cannabis paraphernalia.
(Ord. 2018-03, 12-18-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-10-16: LICENSE APPLICATION PROCEDURE AND FEES:
Each application for a cannabis establishment business license must include,
without limitation:
   A.   Completed Application: A complete cannabis establishment application
provided on a form by the City that may contain but not be limited to the
following:
      1.   The mailing address of the applicant;
      2.   The applicant's date of birth;
      3.   The name, address, telephone number and date of birth of the
proposed key employee;
      4.   The telephone number of the applicant, including cell phone number;
      5.   Proposed hours of operation;
      6.   The e-mail address of the applicant;
      7.   An attestation that the information provided to the City to apply
for the cannabis establishment license is true and correct according to the
information known by the applicant at the time of signing; and
      8.   The signature of the natural person for the proposed cannabis
establishment;
   B.   Application Fee: One-time, nonrefundable application fee of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00);
   C.   Type Of License: Whether the applicant is applying for a cannabis
establishment license for an independent testing laboratory, cultivation
facility, a distribution facility, a facility for production of edible cannabis
products, cannabis infused products, cannabis distributor, retail cannabis
store;
   D.   Name Of Establishment: The name of the proposed cannabis establishment,
as reflected in the articles of incorporation or other documents filed with the
Nevada Secretary of State;
   E.   Type Of Business Organization: The type of business organization of the
applicant, such as individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability
company, association or cooperative, joint venture or any other business
organization. It is the intent of this chapter that all individuals with a
direct or indirect ownership interest in a cannabis establishment be disclosed
and be subject to the requirements of this chapter;
   F.   List Of Persons Receiving Registration Card: A list of persons
associated with the cannabis establishment who have received, or will request,
a cannabis establishment agent registration card from the State regulating
authority;
   G.   Other Ownership Interests: The name and physical address of any other
cannabis establishment within the City, within another city within the State of
Nevada or another state where such business activities are licensed which any
owner, officer, manager or director has ownership interest in, a contractual
relationship with or is otherwise associated with;
   H.   Information Of Providing Facility Or Laboratory: The name and location
of the off-site cannabis cultivation facility providing the cannabis, if
applicable. The name and location of the cannabis testing laboratory providing
laboratory services, if applicable;
   I.   Address Of Establishment And Owners: The physical address where the
proposed cannabis establishment will be located and the physical address of any
owner, co-owner, or person otherwise affiliated with the cannabis
establishment;
   J.   Description Of Products: A complete description of the products and
services to be produced or sold by the cannabis establishment;
   K.   Accompanying Documents: A complete and accurate copy of the application
and all accompanying documents filed or to be filed with the State regulating
authority pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 678B.210 including, but not
limited to:
      1.   All proposals for operations, business plans, attestations,
financial documentation, and required tax reports;
      2.   All documents detailing proposed organizational structure, all
narratives, and resumes;
      3.   All documentation required concerning the adequacy of the proposed
building and construction plans with supporting details in the form specified
by the Community Development Department and the payment of all required review
and inspection fees;
      4.   All testing, transportation, policy, operations manuals, financial
plan, environmental plan, and procedures manual to ensure the use of adequate
security measures; and,
      5.   Any other documents deemed necessary by the City.
   L.   Sign And Advertising Plan: A sign and advertising plan including all
proposed interior and exterior signage;
   M.   Floor Plan: The floor plan of the establishment;
   N.   Copy Of Contracts: A copy of all contracts, proposed contracts for
consulting, management, renting or leasing the premises for the proposed
establishment, including written documentation stating that the property owner
of the proposed location for the establishment is fully aware of the property's
intended use or a copy of the deed to such property showing ownership vested in
the applicant;
   O.   Statement Acknowledging Federal Laws: A written statement acknowledging
that the applicant understands applicable Federal laws, any guidance, or
directives issued by the U.S. Department of Justice, the laws of the State of
Nevada and the laws and regulations of the City applicable thereto, concerning
the operation of a marijuana/cannabis establishment. The written statement
shall also acknowledge that any violation of any laws or regulations of the
State of Nevada, or of the City, or any activity in violation of any guidance
or directives issued by the U.S. Department of Justice, in such place of
business, or in connection therewith, or the commencement of any legal
proceeding relating to such marijuana/cannabis establishment by Federal
authorities, may render such license subject to immediate suspension or
revocation;
   P.   Statement Holding City Harmless; Bond: A written statement to the
business license official that the applicant will hold harmless, indemnify, and
defend the City against all claims and litigation arising from the issuance of
a license, including any claims and litigation arising from the establishment,
operation, or ownership of the cannabis establishment, and a bond to secure
such obligation in the amount of two hundred fifty thousand dollars
($250,000.00) will be provided prior to the issuance of any license;
   Q.   Suitability Of Persons Holding Ownership Interest: An acknowledgment
that the applicant is seeking a privilege license and understands that each
person with an ownership interest must be found suitable to hold such license
by the City Council prior to the issuance of any license; that the applicant
understands and acknowledges that the burden of proving qualifications to
receive such a permit or license is at all times on the applicant; that the
granting of a cannabis establishment license is at the discretion of the City
Council; and that the applicant agrees to abide by the decision;
   R.   Fingerprint Based Background Checks: All applicants with at least a
five percent (5%) ownership interest and those who may otherwise be determined
necessary by the West Wendover Police Department applying for a cannabis
establishment license with the City of West Wendover are required to provide
the City with a full set of fingerprints. Fingerprinting shall be completed at
the West Wendover Police Department. In all cases where the applicant for a
cannabis establishment license is a firm, partnership, association or
corporation, all the members, principal officers, directors, stockholders, and/
or managers shall present themselves to the West Wendover Police Department for
fingerprinting. Fingerprint data will be used to conduct State and national
criminal records checks. Upon receipt of the fingerprint data, the West
Wendover Police Department is authorized to transmit the fingerprint data to
the Nevada Department of Public Safety to conduct State criminal records
checks. The Nevada Department of Public Safety is authorized to exchange this
fingerprint data with the Federal Bureau of Investigation to conduct national
criminal records checks. The results of the State and national criminal checks
will be disseminated to the West Wendover Police Department. Upon completion of
the investigation, the Police Chief shall prepare and submit a report
containing findings and a recommendation of approval or disapproval to the City
Council;
   S.   Investigation Fees:
      1.   Fees Enumerated:
         a.   Investigation And Fingerprinting Fee: Each application for a
license filed pursuant to this chapter shall be accompanied by an additional
investigation and fingerprinting fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per
person to be investigated. This fee is nonrefundable and is in addition to
other fees collected pursuant to this title. In the event of the dual licensee
or similar situation, the City will permit the use of prior completed
background investigations of persons previously investigated within the
previous two (2) years;
         b.   Actual Cost: In addition to the fees required to accompany the
application, the applicant shall be required to pay the City the actual cost
incurred by the City or its designated agent to complete the necessary
investigations;
   T.   Confidentiality Required: All information, other than the criminal
history information, of a confidential nature supplied under the terms of this
chapter shall be maintained by the licensing authority, in a confidential file,
to be opened for inspection only by City officials and law enforcement
officers; provided, however, the applicant may waive the requirements of this
subsection or the City may be required to disclose information pursuant to a
court order, license discipline actions and/or a valid Public Records Act
request. (Ord. 2018-03, 12-18-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-10-17: SECURITY REQUIREMENTS:
To prevent unauthorized access to the cannabis, each cannabis establishment
must submit, maintain, and follow a security plan that includes customer,
building and product security measures. Except as may be pre-empted by State
law, the security plan must meet all the criteria established by the State
regulating authority and the following minimum requirements:
   A.   Each licensed premises must have a security system which monitors all
perimeter entry points, windows, and controlled areas by a centrally monitored
alarm company properly licensed with the City or approved by the West Wendover
Police Department, and whose agents are properly licensed and registered under
applicable laws;
   B.   Immediate automatic or electronic notification to alert the West
Wendover Police Department of an unauthorized breach of security at the
cannabis establishment in the interior of each building of the establishment;
   C.   All recorded images must clearly and accurately display the time and
date. Time is to be measured in accordance with the U.S. National Institute of
Standards and Technology standards;
   D.   The surveillance system's data storage device must be secured on site
in a lockbox, cabinet, closet, room or secured in another manner to protect
from employee or third party tampering or criminal theft;
   E.   At least one (1) twenty four inch (24") or greater call-up monitor;
   F.   A video printer capable of immediately producing a clear still photo
from any video camera image;
   G.   Video cameras with a recording resolution of at least 1920 x 1080 or
the equivalent providing coverage of all entrances to and exits from limited
access areas and all entrances to and exits from the building, capable of
identifying any activity occurring in or adjacent to the building;
   H.   A video camera at each point of sale location, if applicable;
   I.   A video camera in each grow room capable of identifying any activity
occurring within the grow room in low light conditions; at least one video
camera, able to identify activity in low light conditions, covering outside
cultivation, including cultivation in a pilot project, shall be required for
every ten thousand (10,000) square feet of cultivated property and shall be
maintained to provide video coverage for the entire area under cultivation;
   J.   A method for storing video recordings from the video cameras for at
least thirty (30) calendar days from the date recorded;
   K.   Sufficient battery backup for video cameras and recording equipment to
support at least one hour of recording in the event of a power outage;
   L.   A sign must be posted in any public areas that video surveillance is
being conducted;
   M.   The establishment shall be responsible for ensuring compliance with all
local and State regulations regarding the facility and must monitor parking
areas and outdoor areas of the licensed premises for loitering, unlawful sale
of cannabis, and consumption of cannabis;
   N.   Any theft of items containing cannabis or the observance of any
unauthorized transactions of cannabis on the licensed premises must be reported
to the West Wendover Police Department;
   O.   In addition to complying with all requirements set by the State
regulating authority, any licensed cannabis establishment shall secure the
facility with full video surveillance capable of clearly identifying any
activities occurring within twenty feet (20') of the exterior of the building
and any parking, fenced, or loading areas. A lighting system must be employed
to illuminate the building, parking area, gate area; and loading areas in low
light conditions;
   P.   All cannabis, edible cannabis products, or cannabis infused products,
during non-business hours, must be stored in a separated and secured area;
   Q.   Each licensed premises shall have security fencing acceptable to the
Community Development Department at least eight feet (8') high, and a security
guard which shall have responsibility for the entirety of the premises,
including, without limitation, the parking areas. One security department/
system may be approved for adjacent, common ownership, or dual licensing
facilities.
   R.   The City Council may by resolution, from time to time, require
additional security measures or reduce security measures. (Ord. 2018-03, 12-18-
2018; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-10-18: PRELIMINARY FINDING; CITY COUNCIL ACTION ON APPLICATION; DENIAL OF
BUSINESS LICENSE:
The City Clerk shall upon completion of the initial review refer the
application to the City Manager for review. The City Manager shall review the
application and, upon finding the application suitable, refer it to the City
Council for consideration.
   A.   Preliminary Finding Of Suitability: The preliminary finding of
suitability will be based on the information submitted to the City Clerk or
City Manager as outlined in this chapter.
   B.   Notification Of Denial; Adult-Use Cannabis Establishment License
Required: Applicants or applications preliminarily found unsuitable by the City
Clerk or City Manager shall be notified in writing within ten (10) business
days after receipt of the application and any requested follow up information.
All applicants that satisfy the preliminary finding of suitability will move
forward to the City Council for consideration. At the conclusion of the State
provisional licensing process and a fully completed application with the City,
all suitable applicants will be submitted to the City Council for final
consideration.
   C.   City Council Action: City Council shall consider the following criteria
that will include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   In any case where selection of an applicant will exclude another
pending submitted applicant in whole or in part, ranking provided by the
Department of Taxation, the full information provided by the applicant, the
order in which applications were received, the vested interests of the
applicant in the City, the merits of the proposed facilities, location of
facility, any public interest determined by the Council in preferring any
proposed type or category of establishment and/or offer terms of purchase of
property from the City, if any. The City may give preference to the applicant
who submitted a complete application first and, further, the City is not
obligated to ensure that qualifying property is available within the City at
any time;
      2.   Information regarding any bankruptcy proceedings involving owners or
board members;
      3.   The identity, character, and background of the applicant, capacity,
capitalization;
      4.   Operational plan, organizational structure, environmental
sustainability and mitigation plans, interior floor plans of the buildings,
odor control systems and suitability of the building for the use proposed, site
plan as to parking, traffic movement and aesthetics;
      5.   Impact on the surrounding area, the type and degree of security and
facilities and any other factors that in its discretion are deemed necessary to
the safety, peace, order and welfare of the public.
   D.   Other Inspections: All applicants selected by the City Council must
satisfy all required community development, building, fire inspection criteria,
and applicable food safety inspections before commencing operations.
   E.   Denial: The following persons are declared not to be qualified to hold
a cannabis establishment license under the provisions of this chapter:
      1.   A person who does not possess, or who does not have a reputation for
possessing a good moral character;
      2.   A person under the age of twenty one (21) years;
      3.   A person who has been convicted of a felony;
      4.   A person who has been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude
which includes, but is not limited to: possession of a controlled substance,
theft, fraud, falsification in official matters, offenses against privacy,
lewdness, voyeurism, or violent or aggravated conduct involving persons or
property;
      5.   A person who is currently on parole or probation to any court, penal
institution, or governmental entity, including being under house arrest or
subject to a tracking device;
      6.   A person who has been incarcerated in a Federal or State prison;
      7.   A person who illegally resides in the United States;
      8.   A person who at the time of renewal of any license issued under this
chapter, would not be eligible for such license upon a first application;
      9.   A partnership, limited partnership, association or limited liability
company, unless all the partners, managers and members of such partnership,
limited partnership, association or limited liability company required to
submit to a background investigation under the provisions of section
3-10-16 of this chapter are found to be suitable;
      10.   A corporation, if any principal officer required to submit to a
background investigation under the provisions of this chapter is not found
suitable;
      11.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought or does not have a lease or provisional lease thereon for a
minimum of one year;
      12.   The proposed business does not qualify for a license due to
location or other license restrictions that would not allow it to be lawfully
operated under this chapter.
   F.   Violations: No license shall be issued to any person who has violated
any provision of this chapter, this title, or the Act, or who has violated any
provision of a license to sell cannabis issued by the City or any other
governmental agency, or who has had such a license revoked. (Ord. 2018-03, 12-
18-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-10-19: COMMENCEMENT; NONOPERATIONAL STATUS OF BUSINESS:
The licensee must commence operation of the business within ninety (90) days
after the license has been approved by the State regulating authority and the
City and may not discontinue operation of the business for more than a three
(3) month period without City Council approval. The City Council may approve
nonoperational status or seasonal dormancy of specified facilities as provided
for in subsection
3-10-5J of the business beyond the initial three (3) month period in time
increments not to exceed one year but in no event shall the City Council
approve any nonoperational status beyond a maximum of one year. A license shall
be automatically revoked at the expiration of the time periods provided by this
section and subsection
3-10-5J unless City Council approval has been granted pursuant to this section.
All license fees must be paid notwithstanding the licensee's nonoperational
status or seasonal dormancy. Further, a licensee shall pay such fees to be
placed on nonoperational status or seasonal dormancy as set forth herein or by
resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 2018-03, 12-18-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-03,
10-19-2021)
3-10-20: ON SITE USE PROHIBITED:
No cannabis shall be smoked, ingested, or otherwise consumed on the premises of
any cannabis establishment. (Ord. 2018-03, 12-18-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-
19-2021)
3-10-21: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2018-03, 12-18-2018)
3-10-22: EMPLOYEE RESTRICTIONS:
Except as may be otherwise provided by State law, the following restrictions
apply to cannabis establishments within the City:
   A.   In the event the City Council determines by resolution to require work
permits, it is unlawful for any person to work as an employee, volunteer
employee or independent contractor (herein referred to as "employee") for a
cannabis establishment, unless such person is the holder of a valid current
work permit issued by the Chief of Police or his designee in accordance with
this chapter. Further, all persons required to obtain a work permit shall first
be required to obtain an agent ID card from the division and, in addition, all
officers, board members and directors of a licensee must have their agent ID
card from the division on their person while on the premises of the
establishment. The foregoing shall not apply to independent contractors who are
required by the division to be logged in as visitors and given visitor IDs by
the establishment.
   B.   Every employee of each licensee shall be registered with the Chief of
Police or his designee on application forms provided by the Chief of Police or
his designee. Each applicant shall furnish:
      1.   Personal history record listing the applicant's:
         a.   Personal identifying information.
         b.   Marital information, including previous marriages.
         c.   Family information.
         d.   Arrests and detentions excluding minor traffic violations which
shall include a statement of the offense, the place of its occurrence, the date
of its occurrence, and the disposition of the case.
         e.   Detail all wants and warrants.
         f.   Names and addresses of all employers in the preceding five (5)
years.
         g.   All addresses in the preceding five (5) years.
         h.   Any other information deemed necessary or useful by the Council
or the Chief of Police or his designee.
      2.   A full set of fingerprints of the applicant.
      3.   Work card application must be accompanied with an application fee,
which is set by resolution of the City Council and may be increased from time
to time.
   C.   The Chief of Police or his designee shall investigate the accuracy of
all information supplied by any applicant on the registration form.
   D.   No person may work in any manner in or for a cannabis establishment:
      1.   Concerning crimes in this State:
         a.   Has ever been convicted of a category A or B felony;
         b.   Has been convicted of a category C or D felony within the past
five (5) years;
         c.   Has been convicted of a category E felony within the past year;
         d.   Has been convicted of a gross misdemeanor in this State within
the past year, except a gross misdemeanor of obstructing justice or resisting
an officer within the past five (5) years shall be a further prohibition;
         e.   Has been convicted within the past six (6) months of misdemeanor
offenses involving theft, larceny, embezzlement, battery, illegal drugs/
substances or misdemeanor offenses deemed predatory, abusive, dishonest, or
inappropriate towards minors or elders;
         f.   Has any wants and/or warrants.
      2.   Concerning crimes outside this State:
         a.   Has ever been convicted of a crime for which the term of
imprisonment imposed, as opposed to the actual length of imprisonment, was
greater than ten (10) years;
         b.   Has been convicted of a crime within the past five (5) years, for
which the term of imprisonment imposed, as opposed to the actual length of
imprisonment, was at least one year but less than ten (10) years;
         c.   Has been on probation or parole, from a term of imprisonment,
within the past year;
         d.   Has been convicted of a misdemeanor within the past six (6)
months involving theft, larceny, embezzlement, battery, illegal drugs/
substances or misdemeanor offenses deemed predatory, abusive, dishonest, or
inappropriate towards minors or elders;
         e.   Has any wants and/or warrants.
      3.   Concerning other restrictions:
         a.   If registered under the provisions of this chapter, such
licensing would be contrary to the health, safety or welfare of the City or its
residents;
         b.   Has willfully made any false statement or omission in the
registration form required by subsection B of this section; or
         c.   The Chief of Police or his designee will have the authority to
deny or revoke the work card of an employee who does not qualify under this
section or who is found to be violating this Code or State law. The person
whose work card has been denied or revoked may file an appeal to the City of
West Wendover City Council within thirty (30) calendar days from the date in
which the work permit (card) was denied or revoked.
   E.   All employees must file with the police and maintain in the cannabis
establishment, a current work card with the key employee before commencing
work; no work card shall be transferable; all work cards shall state the name
of the licensed operation where the employee will work. (Ord. 2018-03, 12-18-
2018; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-10-23: FEES:
All fees shall be as set forth in this chapter unless State law requires a
lesser fee, in which case the State law will be controlling. Cannabis
establishment license fees are not prorated and must be paid in advance to the
City by all persons receiving such licenses as follows:
   A.   Origination Fees: Origination license fees, in addition to the annual
license fee listed in this section, are imposed for the following and are
payable prior to the issuance of the marijuana establishment license:
 
License Category      Origination Fee
Cultivation facility  $25,000.00
Production facility   25,000.00
Retail cannabis store 25,000.00
 
   B.   License Fees:
 
License Category      Annual License Fees Quarterly Revenue Tax
Cultivation facility  $5,000.00           3% of the gross revenue
Production facility   5,000.00            3% of the gross revenue
Retail cannabis store 5,000.00            3% of the gross revenue
 
A certification form as required by the City shall be submitted with each
quarterly tax paid to the City as required in this chapter.
   C.   Cannabis Testing Laboratory: Each independent cannabis testing
laboratory shall pay the one-time nonrefundable application fee and a three
percent (3%) quarterly gross revenue license fee.
   D.   Fees Nonrefundable: License fees and quarterly Revenue Tax are
nonrefundable.
   E.   Modification Of Fees: License origination, application fees, quarterly
fees, location transfer fees, non-operational status fees, renewal processing
fees, late renewal fees and reinstatement fees may be modified from time to
time by resolution of the City Council and any potential applicant is directed
to inquire if such a resolution has been adopted. In the event of a conflict,
the fees established by resolution of the City shall be controlling. (Ord.
2018-03, 12-18-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-10-24: RENEWAL; LATE PAYMENT; PENALTY; REINSTATEMENT:
   A.   Renewal Notification:
      1.   All applicants for renewal of a City cannabis establishment business
license will be notified, before the due date, of each license fee required,
however, the failure to notify any lawful business shall not be held to waive
the payment of the business license fee; nor is the actual receipt of such
notice required.
      2.   All applications for renewal of a City cannabis establishment
business license shall be accompanied by a copy of the renewed establishment
adult-use cannabis establishment license from the State regulating authority.
   B.   File Renewal Application: Every cannabis establishment licensee shall
file, together with the license fees and taxes required by this chapter, an
application for renewal which shall be certified by the licensee, manager or
officer thereof. The application for renewal shall contain an accurate report
of all gross revenue for the preceding quarter.
   C.   Certification: The form shall include the following certification:
I, (name of certifier), certify and declare under the penalties of perjury that
I am the owner, partner, (president, treasurer, other {'{'}describe{'}'}) of
the business named above, that this is a true, correct and complete report to
the best of my knowledge, information and belief, and that this application and
report is made with the knowledge and consent of all other individuals named on
the cannabis establishment license.
Signed: Dated: Title:
I further certify that there has been no unreported change in ownership,
management or location of the cannabis establishment license, during the
license period; and that the establishment has a valid state license which has
not been revoked or suspended, conditioned or limited during the licensing
period. I further certify there have been no revenues that have not been
reported as required by law or ordinance of the State of Nevada, Elko County,
or the City of West Wendover.
Signed: Dated: Title:
   D.   Renewal Processing Fee: The licensee shall pay, in addition to all
other fees, a license renewal processing fee of five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) due July 1.
   E.   Late Renewal Fee; Penalty: Cannabis establishment licenses are
delinquent if not paid by the due date. A penalty of two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500.00) shall be required if the renewal processing fee is not paid
by the fifteenth day after the due date.
   F.   Reinstatement: License renewal fees not paid within thirty (30) days
after the due date result in automatic license revocation. Any such license
shall not be reinstated until the past due payment of seven thousand five
hundred dollars ($7,500.00) is made in addition to a five thousand dollar
($5,000.00) reinstatement penalty fee. If the amount due remains unpaid for
greater than forty five (45) days, the license is permanently revoked and a new
license must be sought through the full application process. Moreover, the City
Council may consider any past permanent revocation under this section in its
determination whether to issue a license under a new application.
   G.   No License Issuance: No license shall be issued until all penalties
have been paid in full. (Ord. 2018-03, 12-18-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-
2021)
3-10-25: CONSENT TO INSPECTIONS:
The applicant or licensee shall consent to any and all reasonable inspections
of law enforcement officials and other City officials of the cannabis
establishment business operations and premises with or without notice for the
purpose of ascertaining such compliance with the laws and regulations of the
City and State in areas of health, fire prevention, safety, and consumer
protection, together with such examination of the business books and records as
may be necessary to ascertain the basis for determining the payment of fees.
(Ord. 2018-03, 12-18-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-10-26: REVOCATION OF LICENSES; SUSPENSION; CANCELLATION; NOTICE OF HEARING;
PROCEDURE:
   A.   Events Causing Revocation: All cannabis establishment business licenses
may be revoked or otherwise disciplined to the degree determined appropriate by
the City Council if one or more of the following events occur, but such grounds
are not limited to the following:
      1.   A licensee has violated, or permitted, allowed, or caused a
violation of any provision of this chapter or this Code, whether or not it
relates to the operation, or any regulation issued pursuant to this chapter, or
any condition of approval imposed upon the issuance of the license, or any
State law or regulation relating to operation;
      2.   The State adult-use cannabis establishment license has been
surrendered, suspended or revoked;
      3.   Based on ascertainable facts, the operation substantially aggravates
the crime problems in the City, makes law enforcement unduly difficult, or is
detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare of the City;
      4.   A licensee has made fraudulent statements as to a material fact on
an application form, as to any other information presented as part of the
application process, or in connection with any other information required to be
submitted to the business license authority;
      5.   The licensee has failed to maintain the premises in compliance with
the requirements of the community development, building, fire, health, and
environmental agencies;
      6.   Having committed a felony offense or the licensee or business entity
having permitted, suffered or allowed a felony to be committed in the operation
of the cannabis establishment by an employee or agent;
      7.   Dispensing, delivering or otherwise transferring cannabis to a
person other than a cannabis establishment agent, or another cannabis
establishment;
      8.   Any act or omission committed by any employee, agent, or independent
contractor that occurs in the course of his or her employment, agency, or
contract with the licensee shall be imputed to the licensee for the purpose of
suspension or revocation of the license. Lack of actual knowledge of the acts
or omissions of employees shall not constitute a defense for a licensee.
   B.   City Council May Revoke, Suspend Or Cancel: The City Council, at any
regular or at any special meeting convened and held for that purpose and upon a
show cause order for any willful or serious or multiple violation(s) or
omission(s) of this chapter, may revoke, suspend, or cancel or otherwise
discipline the cannabis establishment licenses by a majority vote. If a license
is revoked, suspended, or canceled pursuant to this provision, it shall be
unlawful for the licensee to maintain or conduct such business under the
license, or at all. If discipline is imposed, the City Council may order
reasonable costs, expenses and attorney fees assessed against the licensee and
may further order a civil penalty not to exceed five thousand dollars
($5,000.00). Upon such revocation, suspension or cancellation, no refund of any
portion of the license fee shall be made to the licensee and the licensee shall
immediately cease all business at all places under such license.
   C.   Notice Of Hearing; Hearing Procedures: Notice and the procedure of a
hearing scheduled for the purposes set forth in this chapter shall be in
accordance with business license revocations and disciplinary actions set forth
in this title, as amended or renumbered from time to time. (Ord. 2018-03, 12-
18-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-10-27: ACTION UPON SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OR CLOSURE:
   A.   In the event of a suspension, revocation or closure of any license, the
establishment shall not remove any cannabis from the premises except under the
supervision of the West Wendover Police Department and must dispose of it in a
manner and location approved by the State regulating authority and/or the
Police Department.
   B.   In the event that the cannabis establishment is closing either
temporarily, or permanently, the establishment shall notify the City Clerk of
the closing fifteen (15) days before the cannabis establishment is closed and
in the case of an emergency, the establishment must notify the City Clerk
within twenty four (24) hours of such closure. (Ord. 2018-03, 12-18-2018; amd.
Ord. 2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-10-28: DISPOSAL OF RECREATIONAL CANNABIS WASTE:
   A.   Disposal of waste of the cannabis establishment must meet all State and
Federal guidelines. Waste must be maintained in a secure location until removal
from the location. All waste must be deposited at the disposal site operated by
the City or its authorized contractor.
   B.   Cannabis and any waste including wastewater must be stored, secured and
managed in accordance with applicable State Statutes and regulations and with a
State approved disposal plan which must be provided to the City. A cannabis
establishment must dispose of cannabis that is not usable cannabis within ten
(10) calendar days of expiration of use. Cannabis waste must be made unusable
prior to leaving a licensed cannabis facility.
      1.   Wastes that must be rendered unusable prior to disposal include, but
are not limited to:
         a.   Cannabis plant waste, including roots, stalks, leaves, and stems
that have not been processed with solvent.
         b.   Solid cannabis sample plant waste possessed by third party
laboratories certified by the State regulating authority for quality assurance
that must be disposed of.
      2.   The allowable method to render cannabis plant waste unusable is by
grinding and incorporating the cannabis plant waste with non-consumable solid
waste or other ground materials so the resulting mixture is at least fifty
percent (50%) non-cannabis waste by volume. Other methods to render cannabis
waste unusable must be approved by the State regulating authority before
implementing.
      3.   Cannabis waste rendered unusable following an approved method in the
facility disposal plan may be delivered to a franchised or licensed solid waste
facility for final disposition.
      4.   Disposal cannot include cannabis products including plant material
entering the City wastewater collection system, storm drain system or any
unsecure rubbish disposal system.
      5.   A cannabis establishment shall not transfer, share, give, sell or
deliver any unused cannabis in the establishment's possession to any other
person, regardless of whether they are licensed as a cannabis establishment.
      6.   A cannabis establishment shall not dispose of cannabis in any manner
other than permitted under this chapter. (Ord. 2018-03, 12-18-2018; amd. Ord.
2021-03, 10-19-2021)
3-10-29: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the terms, conditions or provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Upon conviction thereof such person
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed the maximum allowable under Nevada
Revised Statutes, or by imprisonment for a term not to exceed six (6) months,
or by both such fine and imprisonment. Such conviction shall also subject the
permittee or licensee to have his permit or license revoked or otherwise
disciplined. Thereafter, any person adjudged guilty of a violation of this
chapter or any of the terms, conditions or provisions thereof may, in the
discretion of the City Council, be denied a permit or license. Each violation
or instance of noncompliance shall be considered a separate and distinct
offense. Further, each day of continued violation or noncompliance shall be
considered as a separate offense. All other penalties, fines or remedies
provided by this chapter are cumulative and not exclusive, and are in addition
to any criminal penalties provided herein. (Ord. 2018-03, 12-18-2018; amd. Ord.
2021-03, 10-19-2021)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC SAFETY AND HEALTH
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC SAFETY OFFENSES 1
SECTION:
4-1-1: Definitions (Rep. by Ord. 97-02, 5-20-1997)
4-1-2: Nuisance Unlawful (Rep. by Ord. 97-02, 5-20-1997)
4-1-3: Nuisances Enumerated (Rep. by Ord. 97-02, 5-20-1997)
4-1-4: Degree Of Nuisance (Rep. by Ord. 97-02, 5-20-1997)
4-1-5: Discharge Of Weapons
4-1-6: Storing Dangerous Materials
4-1-7: Waste Materials
4-1-8: Open Burning
4-1-9: Dead Animals
4-1-10: Indecent Exposure
4-1-11: Pending Violation
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 2 of this Title.
4-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 97-02, 5-20-1997)
4-1-2: NUISANCE UNLAWFUL:
(Rep. by Ord. 97-02, 5-20-1997)
4-1-3: NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
(Rep. by Ord. 97-02, 5-20-1997)
4-1-4: DEGREE OF NUISANCE:
(Rep. by Ord. 97-02, 5-20-1997)
4-1-5: DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person:
   A.   Firearms: To discharge any gun, pistol or other firearm anywhere within
the limits of the City; provided, that nothing herein shall prevent the
establishing and running of a shooting gallery properly enclosed and permitted
by license of the City Council; and provided further, that nothing herein shall
apply to any sheriff, deputy sheriff, policeman, marshal or other peace
officer, who shall discharge any pistol or firearm in the lawful exercise of
the duties of his office.
   B.   Slingshots, Airguns: To wilfully or negligently discharge, or cause to
be discharged, any slingshot, airguns and/or BB guns, or similar weapon,
whereby any rock, piece of metal or missile is hurled, propelled and/or driven
with sufficient force to cause damage to property and/or injury to persons,
animals and/or birds, unless within a shooting gallery or special events
function approved by the City.
   C.   Bows And Arrows: To shoot or discharge any arrow from any bow within
the limits of the City unless shot within an archery range approved by the
City. (Ord. 91-35, 11-19-1991)
4-1-6: STORING DANGEROUS MATERIALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to receive, keep, store or have in one
place within the limits of the City, more than fifty (50) pounds of gun powder,
dynamite, nitroglycerine or other explosive substance or more than five hundred
(500) gallons of kerosene oil or one hundred (100) gallons of gasoline, except
by permission from the City Council; provided, that nothing herein shall be
construed to prohibit or prevent the keeping, within such limits, of shotgun
and rifle shells or cartridges and cartridge percussion caps by any person to
be disposed of in the usual course of business. (Ord. 91-35, 11-19-1991)
4-1-7: WASTE MATERIALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit, or cause to be thrown
or deposited, in any street, alley, gutter or highway any dirt, rubbish, ashes,
paper, shavings or other inflammable material or trash; and it shall be
unlawful for any person to kindle or use any fire upon any public street,
alley, highway or anywhere else in the open air 1 ; and it shall also be
unlawful for any owner, agent or occupant of any yard, lot or enclosure to
permit or allow to accumulate therein or thereabouts any refuse, rubbish,
trash, garbage, ashes, paper, excelsior, shavings, wooden boxes, packing-cases
or any other inflammable or combustible material; and every such person upon
receiving a written notice from the Fire Department that such condition exists
in, upon or about any property owned, occupied or managed by such person as
aforesaid, must, within three (3) days thereafter, remove, or cause to be
removed, all such garbage, refuse, boxes or other trash hereinbefore mentioned.
(Ord. 91-35, 11-19-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  4-1-8 of this Chapter.
4-1-8: OPEN BURNING 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person to kindle, ignite or burn in the open, in
any yard or lot or in any street or alley any rubbish, trash, refuse or other
material, whereby, or by reason of which, smoke shall result to the annoyance
of any inhabitant. (Ord. 91-35, 11-19-1991)
 
Notes
1 2. See Section 4-1-7 of this Chapter.
4-1-9: DEAD ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of any animal which may die, to
neglect or refuse to remove or cause to be removed such dead animal to the City
dumping ground or crematory and to provide for the disposal of the same in the
manner provided by law, within six (6) hours after having notice of the death
of such animal. (Ord. 91-35, 11-19-1991)
4-1-10: INDECENT EXPOSURE:
It shall be unlawful for any person, within the limits of the City, to
designedly make an indecent or obscene exposure of his person to the person of
another. (Ord. 91-35, 11-19-1991)
4-1-11: PENDING VIOLATION:
Any court or magistrate before whom there may be pending any proceeding for a
violation of this Chapter shall, in addition to any fine or other punishment
which it may impose for such violation, order such nuisance abated, and all
property unlawfully used in the maintenance thereof destroyed by an officer at
the cost of the defendant. (Ord. 91-35, 11-19-1991)
CHAPTER 2
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Disturbing The Peace
4-2-2: Provoking A Breach Of The Peace
4-2-3: Fighting In Public
4-2-4: Assemblies
4-2-5: Interference With The Normal Activities On Public Grounds Or Buildings
4-2-6: Vagrancy
4-2-7: Prostitution
4-2-8: Battery
4-2-9: Petit Larceny
4-2-10: Trespass
4-2-11: Obstructing A Law Enforcement Officer
4-2-12: Defrauding Proprietors Of Hotels, Inns, Restaurants, Motels, Trailer
Parks
4-2-13: Restricted Activities And Uses In Parks
4-2-14: Public Urination
4-2-15: Contributing To The Delinquency Of A Minor
4-2-1: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
Every person who shall maliciously or wilfully disturb the peace or quiet of
any neighborhood or person or family by disorderly conduct including, but not
limited to, loud or unusual noises or by tumultuous and offensive conduct or by
challenging to fight or fighting, shall have committed an unlawful act. (Ord.
91-36, 11-19-1991)
4-2-2: PROVOKING A BREACH OF THE PEACE:
It shall be unlawful for any person by word, sign or gesture to wilfully
provoke, or attempt to provoke, another person to commit a breach of the peace.
(Ord. 91-36, 11-19-1991)
4-2-3: FIGHTING IN PUBLIC:
It shall be unlawful for two (2) or more persons, by agreement, to fight in a
public place in such a manner as to cause fear or terror to other persons in or
about such public place. (Ord. 91-36, 11-19-1991)
4-2-4: ASSEMBLIES:
   A.   Unlawful Assembly: It shall be unlawful for two (2) or more persons to
assemble together to do an unlawful act.
   B.   Disturbing Lawful Assemblies Or Meetings: It shall be unlawful for any
person, without authority of law, to wilfully disturb any lawful assembly or
meeting.
   C.   Assembling To Disturb The Peace: It shall be unlawful for two (2) or
more persons to assemble for the purpose of disturbing the public peace or
committing any unlawful act or who do not disperse on being commanded or
directed so to do by a municipal judge, city police officer, sheriff, coroner
or other public officer. (Ord. 91-36, 11-19-1991)
4-2-5: INTERFERENCE WITH THE NORMAL ACTIVITIES ON PUBLIC GROUNDS OR BUILDINGS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Commit any acts in any public building on public grounds surrounding
such building which interferes with the peaceful conduct of activities normally
carried on in such building or on such ground.
      2.   Refuse to leave a public building or public grounds which surround
such building upon request by proper officials after such person has committed
an act referred to herein.
   B.   For the purpose of this section, the following words and terms shall
have the following meanings:
    PROPER OFFICIAL: The person designated by the administrative officer or
board in charge of such building.
   PUBLIC BUILDING: Any building used for any public purpose which is owned by
the state, Elko County School District or the city. (Ord. 91-36, 11-19-1991)
4-2-6: VAGRANCY 1 :
Any person who engages in any of the following acts shall have committed an
unlawful act deemed as "vagrancy":
   A.   Solicits anyone to engage in or who engages in lewd conduct in any
public place or in any place open to the public or exposed to public view.
   B.   Accosts other persons in any public place or any place open to the
public for the purpose of begging or soliciting free items for himself.
   C.   Keeps a place where lost or stolen property is concealed.
   D.   Loiters in or about any restroom area open to the public for the
purpose of engaging in or soliciting any unlawful act.
   E.   Loiters or wanders upon the streets or from place to place without any
apparent reason or business and who refuses to identify himself and account for
his presence when requested by any police officer so to do, so long as the
surrounding circumstances are such as to indicate to a reasonable man that the
public safety demands such an identification.
   F.   Loiters, prowls or wanders upon the private property of another, in the
nighttime, without visible or lawful business with the owner or occupant
thereof.
   G.   Lodges in a building, structure or place, whether public or private,
without the permission of the owner entitled to possession or in control
thereof. (Ord. 91-36, 11-19-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. NRS 268.409.
4-2-7: PROSTITUTION:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings herein given them. Further, for purposes of this
section, when not inconsistent with the context, words used in the plural
number include the singular number, and words in the single number the plural
number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
    PROSTITUTION: The act or practice of offering the body for sexual relations
for hire, by males or females.
   B.   Prostitution Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage
in prostitution or solicitation within the city.
   C.   House Of Ill Fame Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
establish, maintain or operate a house of ill fame or repute or any other
business employing any male or female for the purpose of prostitution within
the city.
   D.   Violation And Penalty: Any person violating the terms and provisions of
this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to punishment or
imprisonment as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 91-36, 11-
19-1991)
4-2-8: BATTERY:
It shall be unlawful to wilfully and unlawfully use force or violence upon the
person of another. For purposes of this section, the term "person", in addition
to its normal and customary meaning in misdemeanor crimes, shall include
persons who possess some or all of the powers of a peace officer, persons
employed in firefighting for the benefit or safety of the public or any
licensed or unlicensed person employed by the board of trustees of the school
district. (Ord. 92-1, 5-5-1992)
4-2-9: PETIT LARCENY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to steal, take, carry away, lead or drive
away the personal goods or property of another under the fair market value of
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), with the intent to deprive the owner
thereof permanently. (Ord. 92-1, 5-5-1992)
4-2-10: TRESPASS:
   A.   Every person who goes upon the land or into any building of another
with intent to vex or annoy the owner or occupant thereof or to commit any
unlawful act or wilfully goes or remains upon any land or in any building after
having been warned by the owner or occupant thereof not to trespass, is guilty
of trespass. The meaning of this subsection is not limited by subsection B of
this section.
   B.   Every owner or any occupant of any land is deemed to have given a
sufficient warning against trespassing, within the meaning of this section,
who:
      1.   Posts in a conspicuous manner on each side thereof, upon or near the
boundary, at intervals of not more than seven hundred feet (700'), signs,
legibly printed or painted in the English language, warning persons not to
trespass; or
      2.   Fences the area.
   C.   It is prima facie evidence of trespass for any person to be found on
private or public property which is posted or fenced as provided in subsection
B of this section without lawful business with the owner or occupant of the
property.
   D.   As used in this section, "fence" means a barrier sufficient to
implicate an intent to restrict the area to human ingress or egress, including,
but not limited to, a wall, hedge or chainlink or wire mesh fence. (Ord. 92-1,
5-5-1992)
4-2-11: OBSTRUCTING A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
A person who, in any case or under any circumstances not otherwise specifically
provided for, willfully resists, delays, hinders or obstructs a law enforcement
officer in investigating a crime or discharging or attempting to discharge any
legal duty of his or her office shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (ORD. 2021-
01, 2-16-2021)
4-2-12: DEFRAUDING PROPRIETORS OF HOTELS, INNS, RESTAURANTS, MOTELS, TRAILER
PARKS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person:
      1.   To obtain food, foodstuffs, lodging, merchandise or other
accommodations at any hotel, motel, inn, trailer park, motor court, boarding
house, rooming house, lodging house, furnished apartment house, furnished
bungalow court, furnished auto camp, eating house, restaurant, grocery store,
market or dairy, without paying therefor, with intent to defraud the proprietor
or manager thereof;
      2.   To obtain credit at a hotel, inn, trailer park, motor court,
boarding house, rooming house, lodging house, furnished apartment house,
furnished bungalow court, furnished auto camp, eating house, restaurant,
grocery store, market or dairy by the use of any false pretense; or
      3.   After obtaining credit, food, lodging, merchandise or other
accommodations at a hotel, inn, trailer park, motor court, boarding house,
rooming house, lodging house, furnished apartment house, furnished bungalow
court, furnished auto camp, eating house, restaurant, grocery store, market or
dairy, to abscond or surreptitiously or by force, menace or threats, to remove
any part of his baggage therefrom, without paying for his food or
accommodations.
   B.   Proof that lodging, food, foodstuffs, merchandise or other
accommodations were obtained by false pretense or by false or fictitious show
or pretense of any baggage or other property, or that the person refused or
wilfully neglected to pay for such food, foodstuffs, lodging, merchandise or
other accommodations or that he gave in payment for such food, foodstuffs,
lodging, merchandise or other accommodation negotiable paper on which payment
was refused or that he absconded without paying or offering to pay for such
food, foodstuffs, lodging, merchandise or other accommodations or that he
surreptitiously removed or attempted to remove his baggage, shall be prima
facie evidence of the fraudulent intent mentioned in this section.
   C.   This section does not apply where there has been an agreement in
writing for delay in payment for a period to exceed ten (10) days. (Ord. 92-16,
10-20-1992)
4-2-13: RESTRICTED ACTIVITIES AND USES IN PARKS:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section the following terms, phrases,
words and their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. Words used in
the present tense shall include the future. The masculine gender shall include
the feminine, and the singular shall include the plural and vice versa. The
words "shall" and "must" are always mandatory.
    CAMP: The setting up of tents, shacks or any other temporary shelter for
the purpose of sleeping or otherwise staying in the park overnight.
   CITY: The city of West Wendover, Nevada. Except as otherwise provided
hereafter, with regard to park property administered by the city, the city
shall be responsible for: creating any applicable restrictions, establishing
and maintaining any signs or postings required, and enforcing the provisions of
this section.
   DISTRICT: The West Wendover recreation district. Except as otherwise
provided hereafter, with regard to park property administered by the district,
the district shall be responsible for: creating any applicable restrictions,
establishing and maintaining any signs or postings required, and enforcing any
provisions or restrictions which are not made unlawful by this section.
   LOITER: To be slow in moving, to delay, to hinder, to be dilatory, to spend
time idly, to sleep or protractedly lounge, and/or engage in loud, boisterous,
threatening, abusive, insulting or indecent language.
   PARK: A park, trail, greenway, playground, swimming pool, beach, recreation
center, shelter house or any other area in the city, owned or used by the city
or district and devoted to active or passive recreation for the public.
   PERMIT: Written permission by the city or district and/or an official form
issued by the authorized representative of the city or district. The city or
district shall establish procedures for the permit process as provided herein.
   VEHICLE: Any conveyance on wheels or tracks, whether motor powered, animal
drawn or self-propelled. The term shall include any trailer of any kind or
description. Exception is made for baby carriages or strollers.
   B.   Prohibited: Within the limits of any park, it is unlawful for any
person to:
      1.   Conduct any group rally or assembly of ten (10) or more people,
designed to promote a common course of action of the group, without a permit or
other written authorization by the city or district.
      2.   Use glass containers for the distribution of beverages, including
bottled beverages.
      3.   Litter, as provided for in subsection 4-3-6C of this title.
      4.   Deposit any refuse brought from private property in receptacles
located in parks or similar designated areas/facilities. Nothing in this
section is intended to prohibit the disposal of refuse generated from park use,
such as picnics, barbecues, lunches, etc.
      5.   Stay or continue in noncompliance in a park when directed to leave
or alter conduct by an appropriate city or district employee or police officer
for violations of this code or posted/designated restrictions.
      6.   Loudly use abusive language or conduct oneself in a manner that
interferes with the reasonable use and enjoyment by the general public or
engage in disorderly conduct or behavior tending to breach the public peace or
interfere with the activities of lawful permittees.
      7.   Wilfully or intentionally destroy, damage or injure any property.
      8.   Remove, destroy, break, cut, disturb, sever from the ground, alter,
cover, mutilate or deface any structure, monument, statue, vase, fountain,
wall, fence, railing, vehicle, bench, shrub, tree, fern, plant, flower,
lighting system or sprinkling system or other property lawfully in any park or
similar designated area.
      9.   Climb onto any tree, except those designated for climbing, or climb
onto any wall, fence, shelter, building, statue, monument or other structure,
excluding play apparatus.
      10.   Swim, bathe, wade in or pollute the water of any ornamental pool or
fountain.
      11.   Kindle, build, maintain or use any fire, other than in a permanent
grill.
      12.   Tease, annoy, disturb, molest, catch, injure or kill, throw any
stone or missile of any kind at, or strike with any stick or weapon, any
animal, bird or fowl; or feed any fowl or bird in any area, except those areas
designated by the city or district.
      13.   Distribute, post or place any commercial handbill or circular,
notice or other advertising device or matter, except as permitted by the terms
of any agreement or permit relating to the use of park property.
      14.   Use any devices or materials with jagged or rough ends and edges
which are dangerous to swimmers or bathers.
      15.   Permit any animal to enter and remain within the confines of any
public park area except as otherwise provided in this section.
      16.   Wash, polish or repair cars or other vehicles.
      17.   Enter or remain in any public park during the night hours that the
park is closed, provided that signs are posted indicating the hours that the
park is closed, except when engaged in activities that are a part of a
recreation program approved by the city or district.
      18.   Camp at any park not designated by authorized signs as a
campground.
      19.   Possess or consume alcoholic beverages except in areas designated
by the city or district and when such beverages are purchased or consumed
within the concessionaire's licensed premises. Designated areas are: Scobie
park, Lacombe ball fields, Toana Vista golf course, equestrian grounds, and
such further areas as may be designated by resolution of the city council.
      20.   Disobey rules or signs for designated swimming areas. All persons
using designated swimming areas shall obey all posted pool rules and/or the
instruction of lifeguards, facility managers, or other district employees. No
person shall give or transmit a false signal or false alarm of drowning.
      21.   Park in an area designated for a particular recreational activity
unless participating in that activity and only while participating in that
activity. Vehicles parked in contravention of this section may be impounded at
owner's expense.
      22.   Disobey rules or signs restricting activities or conduct posted
within a distinct area within the park and applying to a distinct specified
area of the park, provided such rules have previously been approved by
resolution of the city council.
   C.   Prohibited Without Permit: Except as authorized by permits and subject
to the terms and conditions imposed by the city or the district, it is unlawful
for any person, within the limits of any public park or similar designated
area, to:
      1.   Cut or remove any wood, plant, grass, soil, rock, sand or gravel.
      2.   Park any vehicle except bicycles on grassed areas or in designated
bicycle racks.
      3.   Amplify music or use battery operated loudspeakers (bullhorns).
      4.   Ride or drive any horse or any other animal.
      5.   Engage in or conduct any activity which creates any sound, noise or
music exceeding eighty (80) dBA sound pressure level taken at a point ten feet
(10') in front of the source for a cumulative time period of at least five (5)
minutes when measured with a calibrated American National Standard Institute
(ANSI) type I or type II sound level meter with weighting set at "A" and
response set at "slow" except any activity which is sponsored by the city or
the district or authorized by permit issued by the city or district.
      6.   Operate a fixed or mobile concession or traveling exhibition.
      7.   Solicit, sell, offer for sale, peddle, hawk, or vend any goods or
services.
      8.   Advertise any goods or services other than the direct handling of
written advertising handed to any one person.
      9.   Distribute any commercial circular, notice, leaflet, pamphlet or
printed material of any kind except in those areas that may be designated by
the district.
      10.   Enter upon, use, or traverse any portion of a park or similar
designated area for commercial purpose, including fundraising and/or fund
solicitation, without written permission from the district.
   D.   Signs: Within the limits of any public park or similar designated area,
it is unlawful for any person, wherever signs are posted prohibiting such
activities, to:
      1.   Operate, park or stand a motor vehicle, including motorcycles and
all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) in violation of such prohibitions or restrictions.
Such signs may impose any prohibition or restriction upon the operation,
parking or standing of motor vehicles which the city or district shall
determine will maximize the enjoyment and use of any park, or similar
designated area, by users.
      2.   Loiter.
      3.   Barbecue or conduct other outdoor cooking for meal preparation.
      4.   Allow pets or allow pets to roam freely without leashes, as provided
for in subsection 4-4-8A of this title, or allow pets to create offensive
odors, excessive noise or unsanitary conditions, which are considered dangerous
to the health, comfort or safety of the public.
      5.   Allow pets to scratch, dig or defecate on any portion of the public
park. In particular, defecation which is not immediately removed by the pet
owner/guardian to a receptacle for disposal.
      6.   Throw, cast, catch, kick or strike any baseball, tennis ball,
football, basketball, croquet ball, soccer ball or any other object.
      7.   Ride upon roller skates, skateboards or bicycles.
      8.   Engage in kite flying.
   E.   Designated Areas: Except in park areas or other similar designated
areas specifically designated for such purposes, it is unlawful for any person
to:
      1.   Engage in model airplane flying.
      2.   Kindle, build or maintain any campfire.
      3.   Discharge firearms for target practice.
      4.   Engage in archery for target practice.
      5.   Launch model rockets.
   F.   Permit Process: Park property is open to use by the public regardless
of race, gender, age, national origin or creed. Whenever permits or written
authorization is required under these provisions the following shall govern:
      1.   On park property administered by the city:
         a.   Permit applications may be obtained from the city offices.
         b.   Applications shall be processed by the city clerk within ten (10)
days of receipt. Fees for the application and fees for the permit shall be as
established by resolution of the city council from time to time.
         c.   If a permit is denied, the city clerk shall set forth the reasons
therefor in writing. Grounds for denial include failure to provide required
accurate and complete information, failure to pay required fees, and events or
activities which endanger the public health, safety and welfare which cannot be
reasonably accommodated at the cost and expense of permittee.
         d.   In the event of a denial, an applicant may appeal, in writing,
the decision to the city council for a full review of the decision of the city
clerk if time permits prior to the proposed event or activity. If there is
insufficient time to permit appeal to the city council, appeal may be made to
the city manager. A decision by the council or city manager is final. Forms for
filing an appeal may be found at the city offices.
         e.   Permits issued are subject to conditions: Permits may be for
single instance, seasonally or for an indefinite time basis; all regulations of
the permit area presently in effect unless otherwise specifically excepted
within the permit in writing; revocation by the city clerk or the chief of
police, or their designees, for violation of any provision of the permit or
this code; failure to follow any lawful directives of the city clerk or police
of the city; and liability for any damage, injury or loss sustained as a result
of permittee's negligence or that of a member of that group.
         f.   No activities may be conducted under a revoked permit. A
revocation may be appealed as provided for the denial of an application. If the
revocation is successfully appealed, reinstatement may be ordered without the
payment of additional fees. If a revocation is upheld, a new application
process must be instituted in order to become permitted for that activity or
event. In the event of revocation all permit and application fees shall be
forfeited.
         g.   Persons holding a valid permit in good standing will be entitled
to exclusive use of the park property subject to the conditions of the permit.
         h.   The permit must be in the possession of the permittee and
available upon request.
         i.   In the event a special event permit is acquired for the
activities for which a permit would be required hereunder, an additional permit
under these provisions shall not be required.
      2.   On park property administered by the district:
         a.   The governing body of the district shall adopt provisions not
inconsistent with the foregoing provisions concerning subsection F1 of this
section.
         b.   Upon presentation to the city council of the provisions adopted
pursuant to subsection F2a of this section, the city council may, at its sole
discretion, approve such provisions by resolution and provide for additional
enforcement of such provisions by city police. (Ord. 2006-01, 6-6-2006)
4-2-14: PUBLIC URINATION:
It is unlawful to urinate on public property, except in a public restroom, or
to urinate on private property in the view of any person on public property.
(Ord. 2009-08, 11-3-2009)
4-2-15: CONTRIBUTING TO THE DELINQUENCY OF A MINOR:
   A.   Neglected Child, Delinquent Child And Child In Need Of Supervision
Defined: As used in this section, unless the context otherwise requires, a
"neglected child", "delinquent child" or "child in need of supervision" means
any person less than eighteen (18) years of age:
      1.   Who is found begging, receiving or gathering alms, or who is found
in any street, road or public place for the purpose of so doing, whether
actually begging or doing so under the pretext of selling or offering for sale
any article, or of singing or playing on any musical instrument, or of giving
any public entertainment or accompanying or being used in aid of any person so
doing.
      2.   Who is destitute, or who is not provided with the necessities of
life by his parents, and who has no other means of obtaining such necessities.
      3.   Whose home is an unfit place for him, by reason of neglect, cruelty
or depravity of either of his parents, or of his guardians or other person in
whose custody or care he is.
      4.   Who is found living in any house of ill fame where any prostitute
plies his or her trade, whether or not it is a legal or illegal place for
prostitution.
      5.   Who is found wandering and either has no home, no settled place of
abode, no visible means of subsistence or no proper guardianship.
      6.   Who frequents the company of criminals, vagrants or prostitutes.
      7.   Who unlawfully visits a saloon where any spirituous, vinous or malt
liquors are sold, bartered, exchanged or given away.
      8.   Who habitually uses intoxicating liquors or who uses opium, cocaine,
morphine, or other similar drug without the direction of a competent physician.
      9.   Who persistently or habitually refuses to obey the reasonable and
proper orders or directions of his parents, guardian or custodian, or who is
beyond the control of such person.
      10.   Who is a habitual truant from school.
      11.   Who writes or uses vile, obscene, profane or indecent language, or
is guilty of indecent, immoral or lascivious conduct.
      12.   Who violates any law of this state or any ordinance of any town,
city or county of this state.
Any child who is a runaway, unmanageable or a habitual truant is a child in
need of supervision as that term is used in title 5 of Nevada Revised Statutes,
and is not a delinquent child.
   B.   Offense; Penalties; Exception:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any person who commits
any act or omits the performance of any duty, which act or omission causes or
tends to cause or encourage any person under the age of eighteen (18) to become
a "neglected child", "child in need of supervision" or "delinquent child", as
defined in subsection A of this section or which act or omission contributes
thereto, or any person who, by any act or omission, or by threats, command or
persuasion, induces or endeavors to induce any person under the age of eighteen
(18) to perform any act or to follow any course of conduct or to so live as
would cause or manifestly tend to cause any such person to become or to remain
a person who is a "neglected child", "child in need of supervision" or
"delinquent child", as defined in subsection A of this section, is guilty of
contributory neglect or contributory delinquency. Contributory neglect or
contributory delinquency is a misdemeanor.
      2.   A person does not commit a violation of subsection B1 of this
section by virtue of the sole fact that he delivers or induces the delivery of
a child to a provider of emergency services pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes
432B.630. (Ord. 2009-08, 11-3-2009)
CHAPTER 3
ANTI-LITTER
SECTION:
4-3-1: Short Title
4-3-2: Definitions
4-3-3: Depositing Litter; Use Of Receptacles
4-3-4: Sweeping Litter Into Streets; Sidewalks To Be Kept Clean
4-3-5: Owner To Maintain Premises Free Of Litter
4-3-6: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
4-3-7: Violation And Penalties
4-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF WEST WENDOVER ANTI-
LITTER ORDINANCE. (Ord. 91-28, 8-6-1991)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words used in
the plural number include the singular number, and words used in the singular
number include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not
merely directory:
AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE: A litter storage and collection receptacle as
required and authorized in this Chapter.
CITY: The City of West Wendover, Nevada.
GARBAGE: Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
LITTER: "Garbage", "refuse" and "rubbish" as defined herein and all other waste
material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a
danger to public health, safety and welfare.
PARK: A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
public area in the City, owned or used by the City and devoted to active or
passive recreation.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
PRIVATE PREMISES: Any dwelling, house, building or other structure, designed or
used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall
include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox
belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building or other structure.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body wastes),
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned
automobiles and solid market and industrial wastes.
RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
materials.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks. (Ord. 91-28, 8-6-1991)
4-3-3: DEPOSITING LITTER; USE OF RECEPTACLES:
   A.   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk
or other public place within the City except in public receptacles, in
authorized private receptacles for collection or in official City dumps.
   B.   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or
upon private property. (Ord. 91-28, 8-6-1991)
4-3-4: SWEEPING LITTER INTO STREETS; SIDEWALKS TO BE KEPT CLEAN 1 :
   A.   Except when authorized by the City at specified times, no person shall
sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within the
City the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or
private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying property shall keep
the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
   B.   No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep into or
deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within the City the
accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or private
sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying places of business within the
City shall keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of
litter. (Ord. 91-28, 8-6-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section 4-3-6 of this Chapter.
4-3-5: OWNER TO MAINTAIN PREMISES FREE OF LITTER:
The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all times
maintain the premises free of litter. Provided, however, that this Section
shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for
collection. (Ord. 91-28, 8-6-1991)
4-3-6: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Throwing Litter From Vehicles: No person, while a driver or passenger
in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit litter upon any street or other public
place within the City, or upon private property.
   B.   Truck Loads Causing Litter: No person shall drive or move any truck or
other vehicle within the City unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded
as to prevent any load, contents or litter from being blown or deposited upon
any street, alley or other public place.
   C.   Litter In Parks: No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park
within the City except in public receptacles and in such a manner that the
litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon
any part of the park or upon any street or other public place. Where public
receptacles are not provided, all such litter shall be carried away from the
park by the person responsible for its presence and properly disposed of
elsewhere as provided herein.
   D.   Litter In Fountains And Waterways: No person shall throw or deposit
litter in any fountain, pond, stream or any body of water in a park or
elsewhere within the City.
   E.   Littering Occupied Private Property: No person shall throw or deposit
litter on any occupied private property within the City, whether owned by such
person or not, except that the owner or person in control of private property
may maintain authorized private receptacles for collection in such a manner
that litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements
upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or upon any private property.
   F.   Littering Vacant Lots: No person shall throw or deposit litter on any
open or vacant private property within the City whether owned by such person or
not. (Ord. 91-28, 8-6-1991)
4-3-7: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined or
imprisoned as provided for in Title 1, Chapter 4 of this Code. Each day such
violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 91-28, 8-6-1991)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL CODE
SECTION:
4-4-1: Short Title
4-4-2: Definitions
4-4-3: Animal Control Officer
4-4-4: City Animal Shelter
4-4-5: Dog And Cat License, Permit And Inoculation Requirements
4-4-6: Veterinarian Certificates And Tags
4-4-7: Dogs And Cats In Heat
4-4-8: Animals Running At Large
4-4-9: Certain Animals Prohibited And Restricted
4-4-10: Animal Noises; Nuisances
4-4-11: Dangerous Or Vicious Animals
4-4-12: Poisonous Snakes; Wild Animals
4-4-13: Impoundment And Redemption Procedures
4-4-14: Destroying Animals And Fowl; Consent And Release Form
4-4-15: Unlawful Acts
4-4-16: Vehicles Injuring Animals
4-4-17: Penalties
4-4-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the ANIMAL CONTROL CODE OF WEST
WENDOVER. (Ord. 91-25, 8-6-1991)
4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates, the following
words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: The person appointed by the Chief of Police with the
approval of the City Council for the purposes of enforcement of the provisions
of this Chapter, together with his deputies and authorized representatives.
ANIMALS: All types of livestock, dogs and all other animals, both domestic and
wild, male and female, singular and plural.
COMMERCIAL KENNEL: Any licensed establishment at which dogs are bred, raised
for sale, trained, rented, boarded, cared for or quarantined, for profit,
excluding dental, medical or surgical care. This definition shall not apply to
the premises of a private dog fancier and the animals raised thereon.
CRUELTY OR TORTURE: Every act of omission or commission whereby unjustifiable
physical pain, suffering or death is caused to any animal.
CUSTODIAN: Any person who has custody of any animal or permits the same to be
kept or to stay on or about such person's premises.
DANGEROUS ANIMAL: Any animal which shall bite, attempt to bite or have a
propensity to bite any human or animal except that any animal that bites or
attempts to bite any person or other animal unlawfully upon its owner's
premises or which is provoked or teased, shall not be deemed a dangerous
animal.
DOG: Shall be intended to mean both male and female.
DOG OR CAT FANCIER: Any person owning, keeping or possessing at one location on
his property in safe and adequate cages in completely enclosed building up to
six (6) adult dogs or cats for the purpose of showing in recognized dog or cat
shows, field trials or obedience trials; for working or hunting; or for
improving the variety of breed in temperament or conformation with a view to
exhibition in shows or trials.
FOWL: All fowl and poultry, domesticated and wild, male and female, singular
and plural.
IMPOUND: Shall not include the voluntary turning in of any animal or fowl by
the owner or custodian of such animal or fowl.
NEUTERED DOG: A dog, whether male or female, which has been surgically rendered
incapable of producing offspring as evidenced by a signed statement to that
effect by a licensed veterinarian.
NON-NEUTERED DOG: A dog, whether male or female, which has not been surgically
rendered incapable of producing offspring, as evidenced by a signed statement
to that effect by a licensed veterinarian.
PET SHOP: Any profit-making or commercial establishment, premises or part
thereof, maintained for the purchase, sale, exchange or hire of animals of any
type; except that the term shall not include livestock auctions.
PUBLIC PLACES: Shall include streets, alleys, public buildings, parks, school
yards and all other property owned or controlled by the City.
RUNNING AT LARGE: Except as herein expressly provided, shall mean within the
City and off the premises of the owner or custodian of the animal or fowl and
not accompanied by the owner, a member of the immediate family of the owner or
the custodian of such animal or fowl, and controlled by a leash (not to exceed
8 feet) or at "heel" beside a competent person and obedient to that person's
commands.
VETERINARIAN: A person who is validly currently licensed to practice veterinary
medicine in the State of Nevada. (Ord. 91-25, 8-6-1991; amd. Ord., 11-19-1991)
4-4-3: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
   A.   Appointment; Term; Police Powers: The Chief of Police may appoint a
part-time or full-time Animal Control Officer, with the approval of the City
Council, who shall have police power and shall hold his office during the
pleasure of the City Council. If at any time there should be no duly appointed
and acting Animal Control Officer in the City, the duties of Animal Control
Officer shall be performed by a police officer appointed by the Chief of
Police.
   B.   Bond: The Animal Control Officer, before entering upon his office,
shall execute a good and sufficient bond to the City, to be approved by the
City Council, in such sum as the Council may require, for the faithful
performance of the duties of the office.
   C.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   Enforcement Generally: The Animal Control Officer is hereby
empowered to enforce all provisions of this Chapter and all laws of the State
relating to the care, treatment, control, regulations and impounding of
animals. The Animal Control Officer is further empowered to take up, impound
and safely keep any animal found to be in violation of the provisions of this
Chapter.
      2.   Impoundment; Right Of Entry; Notice: The Animal Control Officer is
hereby authorized and directed to impound any animal kept or found on private
or public property if such animal has been observed by said Animal Control
Officer to be in violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter, or if such
animal is being subjected to torture or cruelty as defined in NRS 574.050. The
Officer should exercise caution when utilizing this right of entry. Force must
not be used to enter private property which may cause damage or destruction to
property or bodily harm. If the owner, by some act, bars the Officer's way onto
the premises, the Officer should retire from the scene. The Animal Control
Officer shall leave written notice of impoundment on the premises from which
the animal is taken at the time it is taken.
      3.   Records Kept: The Animal Control Officer shall keep a true and
complete record of the number and description of all animals and fowls taken
into his custody, with the date of their receipt and the date and manner of
their disposal, with the fees and charges collected on account of the animals
and fowls and the disposition thereof. The record shall be kept in a book or
books provided for that purpose, which shall be the record book or books of the
office of the Animal Control Officer, and shall not be removed therefrom. He
shall also keep conspicuously posted at the entrance to the City Animal
Shelter, and in his office, a list of all animals and fowl impounded and
detained by him. He shall also provide necessary subsistence for all animals
and fowls while in his custody.
      4.   Financial Accounting: It shall be the duty of the Animal Control
Officer to make each month, and file with the Clerk on or before the second
Monday of each month, a sworn statement of the business transacted by him in
connection with the City Animal Shelter, showing in detail all animals and fowl
received, sold or handled by him, together with a detailed statement under oath
of all monies received and expended by him, and it shall be his duty to turn
into the City Treasurer on or before the fifth day of each month all monies
received by him by virtue of the office during the preceding month. The Animal
Control Officer shall not be responsible for the reporting of any of these
duties that have been otherwise provided for by contract by the City Council.
(Ord. 91-25, 8-6-1991)
4-4-4: CITY ANIMAL SHELTER:
   A.   Shelter Established: A public City Animal Shelter is hereby provided
and established and the same shall be located at such place in the City as
shall be fixed from time to time by the Animal Control Officer by and with the
consent of the City Council.
   B.   Contract For Maintenance And Operation: The City Council of the City
shall have the authority to provide for by contract the maintenance and
operation of the City Animal Shelter by an independent contractor.
   C.   Purchases For Shelter: Unless such powers are otherwise provided for by
contract by the City Council, the Animal Control Officer shall have the power
to purchase, on the credit of the City, all necessary forage or feed for
impounded animals and fowl, and shall certify to all accounts therefor which
upon presentation to the City Council, if found correct, shall be ordered paid.
(Ord. 91-25, 8-6-1991)
4-4-5: DOG AND CAT LICENSE, PERMIT AND INOCULATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License And Inoculation Required: It shall be unlawful for any person
owning, harboring or having the care, custody or possession of any dog or cat
to keep or maintain any such dog or cat in any place in the City, unless such
dog or cat is licensed and such dog or cat is inoculated as provided in this
Chapter.
      1.   The City hereby establishes the West Wendover Police Department as
the rabies control authority.
      2.   All dogs, cats and ferrets within the City must be vaccinated
against rabies as prescribed herein. The rabies control authority is authorized
to issue a citation to the owner of a dog, cat or ferret which is not
vaccinated against rabies as prescribed. Only a certificate of vaccination
against rabies issued pursuant to this subsection A shall be acceptable as
proof of vaccination against rabies.
      3.   The rabies control authority shall investigate each report of a
person bitten by a rabies-susceptible animal to confirm the report, to gather
information about the circumstances of the biting incident, to determine the
disposition of the biting animal and to make recommendations for post-exposure
rabies prophylaxis.
      4.   The rabies control authority shall ensure that the proper procedures
are carried out for the confinement, testing, quarantine or euthanasia of the
biting animal as specified herein. Lagomorphs (rabbits and hares) and rodents
must be submitted for laboratory testing under exceptional circumstances such
as an unprovoked attack.
      5.   The rabies control authority shall investigate each report of a case
having animal rabies or suspected case considered to have animal rabies to
confirm the diagnosis, to identify the source of infection, to identify any
human or animal contacts, to order the disposition of rabid or suspected rabid
animals and to make recommendations for post-exposure rabies prophylaxis.
      6.   The rabies control authority may enter private property for the
purpose of seizing an animal that has bitten a person, to determine if any
animal kept or harbored therein has rabies or has been exposed to rabies or to
implement orders for quarantine, confinement, confiscation or euthanasia of an
animal.
      7.   Unless authorized by the rabies control authority, a person shall
not destroy or allow to be destroyed the head of a rabies-susceptible animal
which has bitten a person.
      8.   The rabies control authority shall cause a dog or cat, regardless of
current vaccination against rabies, which has bitten a person, to be
quarantined and observed for ten (10) days following the bite under the
supervision of a licensed veterinarian or other person designated by the rabies
control authority. The observation must be within an enclosure or with
restraints deemed adequate by the rabies control authority to prevent direct
contact with a person or an animal.
      9.   The dog or cat must be examined by a licensed veterinarian at the
first sign of illness during the ten (10) days of observation. Any illness must
be reported immediately to the rabies control authority. If signs of rabies
develop during the ten (10) days of observation the dog or cat must be
euthanatized and its head removed and shipped under refrigeration for
examination at the laboratory of the Department of Agriculture. If at the end
of the quarantine period, the animal is free of all signs of rabies, the animal
must be returned to its owner upon payment of all costs of quarantine and
veterinary care and examination.
      10.   If, after a reasonable effort is made to locate the owner of an
unwanted or stray dog or cat, the owner is unknown or cannot be located or if
the owner agrees, the unwanted or stray dog or cat which has bitten a person
may be euthanatized and the head submitted for laboratory examination without a
period of quarantine.
      11.   A bat, raccoon, skunk, fox or unvaccinated ferret which has bitten
a person must be euthanatized immediately without a period of quarantine and
the head submitted for laboratory examination.
      12.   A vaccinated ferret or other species of animal which has bitten a
person must be managed as deemed appropriate in the discretion of the rabies
control authority.
      13.   The owner of an animal quarantined pursuant to the provisions of
this Chapter is responsible for all costs of quarantine and veterinary care and
examination.
      14.   Except as otherwise provided in this Section, a wild or exotic
animal that is rabies-susceptible, including an unvaccinated ferret, in close
contact with an animal suspected or known to have rabies must be euthanatized
immediately. The rabies control authority may exempt a rare or valuable animal
from the provisions of this Section.
      15.   Unless the owner of the animal objects, a dog or cat which has not
been vaccinated as herein required and which is considered by the rabies
control authority to have been in close contact with an animal suspected or
known to have rabies, must be euthanatized immediately. If the owner of the
animal objects, the dog or cat must be immediately vaccinated against rabies
and quarantined within an enclosure or with restraints deemed adequate by the
rabies control authority to prevent direct contact with a person or an animal
for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days, under the supervision of a
licensed veterinarian or other person designated by the rabies control
authority. The dog or cat must be vaccinated one month before release.
      16.   A dog, cat or ferret which has been vaccinated pursuant to this
subsection A and which is considered by the rabies control authority to have
been in close contact with an animal suspected or known to have rabies must be:
         a.   Immediately revaccinated and confined for ninety (90) days in a
manner prescribed by the rabies control authority; or
         b.   Upon the request of the owner of the dog, cat or ferret,
euthanatized.
      17.   A domesticated animal of a rabies-susceptible species, other than a
dog, cat or ferret, which is considered by the rabies control authority to have
been in close contact with an animal suspected or known to have rabies, must be
managed according to the discretion of the rabies control authority.
      18.   As used in this Section, "in close contact with an animal suspected
or known to have rabies" means, within the past one hundred eighty (180) days,
to have been bitten, mouthed or mauled by, or closely confined on the same
premises with an animal either suspected or known to have rabies.
      19.   An owner of a dog, cat or ferret shall maintain the dog, cat or
ferret currently vaccinated against rabies in accordance with the
recommendations set forth in "The Compendium of Animal Rabies Control," a
publication of the National Association of State Public Health Veterinarians,
Inc., which is hereby adopted by reference. "The Compendium of Animal Rabies
Control" is available, free of charge, from Virginia Department of Health,
Office of Epidemiology, 109 Governor Street, Room 701, Richmond, Virginia,
23219.
      20.   A licensed veterinarian may exempt a dog, cat or ferret from
vaccination for health reasons. The veterinarian shall record the reasons for
exemption and a specific description of the dog, cat or ferret, including name,
age, sex, breed and color on a rabies vaccination certificate which must bear
the owner's name and address. The veterinarian shall also record whether the
reason for exemption is permanent, and if it is not, the date the exemption
expires.
      21.   A dog, cat or ferret exempted from or too young for vaccination
against rabies must be confined to the premises of the owner or kept under
physical restraint by the owner.
      22.   If the owner of a dog, cat or ferret violates any provision of this
Section, the rabies control authority may impound the dog, cat or ferret.
      23.   The Director of the Nevada Division of Animal Industry of the
Department of Agriculture (state veterinarian) shall review any revision or
amendment of the recommendations for vaccination against rabies of dogs, cats
and ferrets set forth in "The Compendium of Animal Rabies Control" to determine
whether the revision or amendment made to the recommendations is appropriate
for application in this State. For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of
this Section, a revision or amendment of the recommendations is effective in
this State ten (10) days after its revision or amendment unless the Director of
the Nevada Division of Animal Industry of the Department of Agriculture (state
veterinarian) files an objection to the amendment or revision with the Nevada
State Board of Health.
      24.   A veterinarian who vaccinates an animal against rabies shall
complete two (2) copies of a certificate of vaccination against rabies for the
animal vaccinated. The certificate of vaccination against rabies must include,
but is not limited to:
         a.   The name and address of the owner of the animal.
         b.   A description of the animal, including the name, age, sex, breed,
color and weight of the animal.
         c.   The date the vaccination was administered.
         d.   The type of vaccine used (killed or MLV).
         e.   The manufacturer and lot number of the vaccine.
         f.   The date the animal is due for revaccination based on the
duration of immunity provided by the vaccine according to its label.
         g.   The number on the rabies vaccination tag issued.
         h.   The name and address of the veterinarian.
         i.   The signature of the veterinarian who administered the vaccine.
      25.   The veterinarian shall give the original copy of the certificate of
vaccination against rabies to the owner of the animal and retain one copy for
the period that the vaccination is current.
      26.   A veterinarian who vaccinates an animal against rabies shall issue
to the owner a metal rabies vaccination tag, serially numbered to match the
number on the certificate of vaccination against rabies. A rabies vaccination
tag must not conflict with the shape or color of local license tags.
      27.   A veterinarian shall cooperate with any investigation of an animal
bite, or of a case having rabies or suspected case considered to have rabies by
providing all information requested by the rabies control authority.
      28.   Except as otherwise provided:
         a.   A person shall not intentionally keep, harbor or in any way care
for, maintain, lodge or feed on private property, a bat, skunk, raccoon, fox or
coyote.
         b.   Any person violating the provisions of paragraph a. of this
subsection shall, upon request of the rabies control authority and the
Department of Wildlife, relinquish the animal to the rabies control authority
or the Department of Wildlife.
      29.   The rabies control authority with concurrence of the Nevada
Department of Wildlife may grant to any person an exemption from the provisions
of this Section. (Ord. 93-3, 4-6-1993)
   B.   Restrictions On Issuance Of License: The City Clerk, the Deputy City
Clerk or authorized representatives shall not license any dog or cat until:
      1.   It has been inoculated against rabies by a veterinarian and the
owner or custodian of said dog or cat has produced a certificate of inoculation
from such veterinarian, the expiration date of which shall not occur prior to
October 1 of the calendar year from which the license is issued; or
      2.   The owner or custodian of said dog or cat shall furnish a statement
from a veterinarian to the effect that said dog or cat need not be or should
not be inoculated; or
      3.   The owner or custodian of such dog or cat shall provide the Clerk
with proof satisfactory to such Clerk, in lieu of a certificate of inoculation,
that said dog or cat has been inoculated with canine, for dogs, and anti-rabies
vaccine approved by and in the manner prescribed by the Nevada State Department
of Agriculture.
   C.   Collar Or Harness; License And Inoculation Tags: Every owner or
custodian of a dog or cat licensed under the provisions of this Chapter shall
provide such dog or cat with a suitable collar or harness around the neck or
forepart of the body of such dog to which the license tag issued by the City
and the required inoculation tag shall be affixed and shall see that the collar
and the tag are constantly worn. It shall be unlawful for the owner or
custodian of any dog or cat to permit such dog or cat to run at large or to be
on the streets or public places in the City unless such dog or cat is collared
or harnessed with the City license tag and inoculation tag and any dog or cat
which is not wearing the City license tag, inoculation tag and collar or
harness, as herein provided, shall be impounded and disposed of in accordance
with the provisions of this Chapter.
   D.   License Fees:
      1.   Every person owning or having the care, custody or control of or
maintaining any dog or dogs or cat or cats six (6) months old or older in the
City, shall pay to the Clerk of the City an annual license fee as set by
resolution of the City Council for each neutered dog or cat and each non-
neutered dog or cat. All owners of dogs or cats said to be neutered must have
proof of neutering or a certificate from a veterinarian. Such license shall be
for the calendar year or the parts thereof remaining after the date such
license is obtained and shall be payable in advance.
      2.   No prorations or deductions shall be made on fractional parts of any
year. All dog or cat licenses shall expire on December 31 of the year in which
issued. The annual license fee of dogs or cats not previously licensed
hereunder shall be due and payable when such dog or cat reaches six (6) months
of age or upon acquiring ownership or possession of an unlicensed dog or cat
six (6) months of age or older or upon the owner or custodian of any dog or cat
six (6) months of age or older establishing residency in the City. If any dog
or cat license fee payable hereunder is not paid within sixty (60) days from
the date it became due, a penalty as set by resolution of the City Council
shall be paid to the Clerk with and in addition to the regular annual license
fee for such dog or cat.
      3.   All proceeds collected under the provisions of this Section for the
licensing of dogs and cats shall be deposited in the General Fund of the City
and budgeted for the use and benefit of the Animal Shelter.
   E.   Issuance Of License And Tags; Lost Tags: It shall be the duty of the
person making application for any dog or cat license to provide the Clerk with
the name and address of the owner or custodian of such dog and the name, breed
and color of any dog owned or kept by the owner or custodian. Upon proof, by
the applicant for any dog license of the inoculation herein required, the
payment of the proper annual license fee and any penalties applicable and upon
providing the information herein required, the Clerk shall issue an appropriate
dog or cat license or certificate stating the calendar year for which such
license fee is paid, the date of payment, the name and residence address of the
persons to whom such license is issued and the description of the dog or cat
and shall issue a metal or plastic tag number to correspond with the license or
certificate with the calendar year stamped thereon. If such dog or cat shall be
lost at any time prior to the expiration date thereof, it shall be the duty of
the owner or person having control of the dog or cat for which said lost tag
was issued to procure a new tag and pay a fee as set by resolution of the City
Council to the Clerk.
   F.   Nontransferability Of License And Tags; Refund: Dog or cat tags and
licenses shall not be transferable from one dog or cat to another and no refund
shall be made on any dog or cat license fee because of death of the dog or cat
or the owner's leaving the City before the expiration of the license.
   G.   Dog Or Cat Fancier's Permit: No person shall keep more than three (3)
dogs or three (3) cats over six (6) months of age at any place, on any premises
or in any one residence located within the City, used or occupied by human
beings without first obtaining a dog or cat fancier's permit from the City.
Said application for a permit may be refused for a time to meet the
requirements of subsection I herein. If the application is granted, said permit
shall be issued with such restrictions or on such conditions as may be deemed
necessary or advisable by the Animal Control Officer to prevent the keeping of
such dogs or cats from becoming a nuisance and is subject to revocation for
violation of the restrictions or conditions. A dog or cat fancier's permit
shall be issued for an annual fee as set by resolution of the city council,
which is not subject to proration or refund. Any dog or cat fancier meeting the
provisions of this subsection and having a validly issued permit in his
possession need not have the property where the dogs or cats are maintained
rezoned. A dog or cat fancier may not in any event keep and maintain on his
property more than six (6) adult dogs or cats over the age of six (6) months.
Such permit shall be for a term of one calendar year.
   H.   Commercial Kennels; Pet Shops: Every person owning, operating or
maintaining a commercial kennel and/or pet shop within the city must first
obtain a kennel and/or pet shop license in addition to any business license
required from the city to operate said kennel and/or pet shop. The issuance of
any license therefor shall at all times be subject to planning and zoning
regulations of the city 1 ; provided, however, that this subsection as to the
business license shall not apply to quarters maintained by political entities
for the purpose of using animals in law enforcement or animal control or to
quarters maintained by veterinarians for the purpose of surveillance or
treatment of animals on a temporary basis.
   I.   Inspection Of Premises: Any person required to obtain any permit under
any of the provisions of this section shall permit their premises to be
inspected by the animal control officer at reasonable times and the animal
control officer shall approve the permit if he finds all of the following to be
true:
      1.   Keeping the dogs or cats at the location specified in the
application will not violate any ordinance, rule or regulation of the city or
any law of the state; and
      2.   The premises contain an adequate enclosure for keeping the dogs or
cats; and
      3.   Maintenance of the dogs or cats will not endanger the peace, health
or safety of persons residing in the city; and
      4.   The premises are capable of being maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition and any dog or cat therein will not be subject to neglect, cruelty or
abuse; and
      5.   Keeping and maintenance of the dogs or cats will not constitute a
nuisance.
   J.   Exemptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to dogs or
cats owned by or in the custody or in the control of persons who are
nonresidents of the city and are temporarily within the city for a period not
to exceed fifteen (15) days, nor to dogs or cats brought into the city
exclusively for the purpose of participating in any dog or cat show or
exhibition, nor to a dog which has been trained and is actually used to act as
a guide for the blind, provided that no such dog shall run at large in the city
and no owner or custodian of such dog shall permit the same to run at large in
the city. (Ord. 91-25, 8-6-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8 of this code.
4-4-6: VETERINARIAN CERTIFICATES AND TAGS:
   A.   Rabies Inoculation: Every veterinarian inoculating any dog or cat
against rabies shall upon such inoculation issue a tag to the owner suitable
for wearing by such dog or cat on its collar or harness or otherwise affixed
and a certificate to the owner of such dog or cat setting forth at least the
name and address of the owner, a description of the dog or cat sufficient to
identify the dog or cat, the type and lot of vaccine used and the date
reinoculation is required.
   B.   Spayed Or Neutered Dogs Or Cats: Every veterinarian spaying or
neutering any dog or cat shall, upon such spaying or neutering, issue a
certificate to the owner of such animal, stating the necessary information
relating to the operation.
   C.   Posting Of Sterilization Requirements: Every veterinarian shall post
written notice in a conspicuous place of any sterilization requirements
required by local ordinance. (Ord. 2009-08, 11-3-2009)
4-4-7: DOGS AND CATS IN HEAT:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of any female dog or cat in
heat to keep such dog or cat in the city, unless the same is confined in a
boarding kennel or veterinary hospital or on the owner's property in a totally
enclosed area during the entire period such dog or cat is in heat. Any female
dog or cat in heat which is not so confined is hereby declared a public
nuisance and may be apprehended and impounded and disposed of under the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 91-25, 8-6-1991)
4-4-8: ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   Running At Large Prohibited; Leash Or Command Required: The running at
large of all animals in the City is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is
hereby prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any owner or custodian of any
animal, whether licensed or unlicensed under this Chapter, to suffer, permit or
allow such animal to run at large within the City. For the purposes of this
Chapter any animal within the City and off of the premises of the owner or
custodian and not in an automobile, trailer or similar confinement or which is
not effectively restrained by lease, chain, strap or cord not exceeding eight
feet (8') in length attached to the collar or harness of such animal and held
by some person or made fast to some stationary object or unless accompanied by
and under the control and direction of the owner, member of the immediate
family of the owner or custodian of such animal so as to be effectively
restrained by command, shall be deemed running at large and not under the
immediate control of the owner or a member of the immediate family of the owner
or the custodian of such animal.
   B.   Trespassing; Authority Of Property Owner: Any person observing any
animal at large may apprehend, capture or take up the same by any reasonable
and humane means any animal or fowl trespassing upon his property to his injury
or annoyance and immediately turn it over to the owner or custodian or to the
Animal Control Officer or to any police officer of the City who shall impound
and dispose of such animal or fowl pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter.
It shall be unlawful for any person to turn over any animal or fowl to the
Animal Control Officer or a police officer of the City without revealing who
the owner or custodian of such animal or fowl is, if such person knows the
identity of the owner or custodian. It shall be unlawful for any person other
than the Animal Control Officer or any police officer in the performance of his
official duties to apprehend, capture to take up any animal or fowl under the
provisions of this Chapter and retain possession or control of the same for
more than eight (8) hours. (Ord. 91-25, 8-6-1991)
4-4-9: CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED AND RESTRICTED:
   A.   Prohibited Animals: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, raise,
harbor, care for, graze, feed or maintain any one or more goats, hogs or swine
within the City limits; except for reasonable times at commercially licensed
slaughterhouses and meat packing houses for slaughter purposes only.
   B.   Restricted Animals; Nonconforming Uses:
      1.   Restricted Animals:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, raise, graze, feed,
harbor, maintain or care for any one or more horses, cows, sheep, mules,
poultry, turkeys, geese, fowl, hares or rabbits or any other animals or birds,
other than dogs, cats and household pets and birds, anywhere within the City
limits except in or on the following described areas or premises: Nothing
herein shall be deemed to permit or authorize any person to keep, raise, own,
maintain or have any animal, bird or fowl in violation of any covenant,
restriction, declaration or prohibition relating to any land, title or area of
any zoning.
         b.   Provided, in the above-described areas, no such animals or fowl
shall be kept or maintained so that they are within one hundred feet (100') of
any dwelling house (other than that occupied by the owner of such animal or
fowl), any public building, park, school or hospital or any other public place.
         c.   Keeping, having or maintaining any such animals or fowl in areas
prohibited by this Chapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and a
danger to the public health and safety.
      2.   Nonconforming Uses: The keeping of animals and fowl by the owner
thereof in areas prohibited by this Chapter which existed at the effective date
hereof may be continued upon the following terms and conditions and until
terminated as herein provided:
         a.   A certificate of nonconforming use shall be issued by the Clerk
to all such owners of animals or fowl upon written application by such owner
for such certificate. The Clerk shall designate the form for such application,
but shall at least require a statement of the name and address of the owner,
the place where such animal or fowl is being kept and sufficient information to
identify all such animals or fowl. The Clerk shall keep a record of all such
certificates issued.
         b.   No such nonconforming use shall be made or continue without such
certificate.
         c.   No certificate of nonconforming use shall be issued to permit the
keeping of any animal or fowl within one hundred feet (100') of any dwelling,
house (other than that occupied by the owner of such animal or fowl), any
public building, park, school grounds, hospital grounds or any other public
place.
         d.   No such certificate will be issued unless the animals or fowl
are, at all times, kept in an outbuilding, coop or runway which shall, at all
times, be kept clean and free from offensive odors, animal waste, rodents,
flies or any other offensive or unwholesome condition.
         e.   Such certificate shall terminate and thereby terminate the use
thereunder upon the happening of any one or more of the following:
            (1)   Death of the person to whom the certificate is issued.
            (2)   The termination or abandonment of such use by the person to
whom the certificate is issued.
            (3)   The sale, removal, death or other disposition of the animals
or fowl to which the certificate relates.
            (4)   The person to whom such certificate is issued moves from or
vacates the premises on which such animal or fowl is kept or maintained.
      3.   No certificates issued hereunder shall be transferable.
      4.   Application for such certificate must be made at the Clerk's office
within two (2) months from the effected date hereof. Any person who fails to
make such application within such time shall be deemed to have terminated and
abandoned the keeping of all animals and fowl on his premises in areas
prohibited by this Chapter, and no such further nonconforming use shall be
made. (Ord. 91-25, 8-6-1991)
4-4-10: ANIMAL NOISES; NUISANCES 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor or possess any animal
which, by loud and frequent habitual barking, howling, yelping, braying or
other noise, causes annoyance to the neighbors or to any person in the
vicinity. (Ord. 91-25, 8-6-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 4-1-3C1 of this Title.
4-4-11: DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMALS 1 :
   A.   Generally: It shall be prima facie evidence that an animal is dangerous
when it has bitten any person, other than a person who was trespassing upon the
property of the owner or custodian of the animal or when it has attacked or
bitten, injured or killed any livestock or other animal or when it is an animal
of vicious character, habit or disposition.
   B.   Rabies Suspects:
      1.   Whenever the owner of any animal has knowledge that such animal has
bitten a human being, he shall immediately notify the Police Department of the
incident and confine such animal for a period of fourteen (14) days or until a
written release is secured from the Animal Control Officer or a licensed
veterinarian. If the owner is not present, the Animal Control Officer or any
police officer may seize such animal, whether on or off the owner's premises,
and such animal shall be impounded, at owner's expense, for observation and
shall not be released for a period of fourteen (14) days or until a written
release is issued by said Animal Control Officer or licensed veterinarian. If a
dog has been impounded and the owner appears and claims the dog, the Animal
Control Officer shall release the dog to the owner who shall confine the dog on
his premises for the remainder of the fourteen (14) day period.
      2.   If any animal so impounded develops rabies or becomes vicious beyond
control, said animal shall be destroyed in a humane manner.
      3.   No person shall kill, or cause to be killed, any rabid animal, any
animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies or any animal biting a human,
except as herein provided, nor shall any person remove the same from the City
limits without written permission from the Animal Control Officer.
   C.   Dangerous Or Vicious Animals Prohibited; Exceptions: It shall be
unlawful for any person to knowingly own or keep any vicious or dangerous
animal within the City. It shall be no defense to a violation of this Section
that the owner has obtained a license for such animal. This Section does not
prevent the keeping of a "guard" or "sentry" dog, so long as such dog is
trained to such a degree that it complies with this Section and adequate
warning of such dog is provided whenever or wherever required by statutory or
case law of Nevada.
   D.   Authority To Destroy Animal: It shall be lawful for any person to kill
or destroy any dangerous or vicious animal when in the act of attacking any
person who is not trespassing on the premises of the owner or custodian of such
animal and it is necessary for the protection of any person or to prevent the
killing or injuring of another animal or fowl by such vicious animal. (Ord. 91-
25, 8-6-1991)
 
Notes
1 2. See also subsection 4-1-3C2 of this Title.
4-4-12: POISONOUS SNAKES; WILD ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, have, raise, harbor or maintain
any poisonous or dangerous snake or reptile or any dangerous or vicious wild
animal anywhere within the limits of the City, except when properly confined to
prevent escape and is within the City for the purpose of public display in any
circus, zoo or educational display or is being used for medical purposes by a
hospital or medical laboratory. (Ord. 91-25, 8-6-1991)
4-4-13: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Authority To Impound; Citations In Lieu Of Impoundment: It shall be the
duty of the Animal Control Officer and every police officer in the City to
apprehend, seize and take into custody any animal or fowl found running at
large or trespassing contrary to the provisions of this Chapter, any unlicensed
dog or cat, any dog or cat which is not wearing the license and inoculation tag
required, any dog or cat in heat which is not confined as required by this
Chapter, any other animal or fowl which under the provisions of this Chapter is
to be impounded and, subject to the provisions of this Chapter relating to
large animals, dangerous animals and animals attacking persons or livestock, to
impound such animals or fowl in the City Animal Shelter or other suitable
place. When impounded, licensed dogs or cats shall be separated from unlicensed
dogs or cats. When dogs or cats are found running at large and their ownership
is known to the Animal Control Officer, such dogs or cats need not be
impounded, but the agent may, at his discretion, cite the owners of such dogs
or cats to appear in court to answer to charges of violation of this Chapter.
(Ord. 91-25, 8-6-1991; amd. 1993 Code)
   B.   Notice Of Impoundment; Redemption:
      1.   Notice: Not later than one day after the impounding of any animal or
fowl, the owner or custodian of such animal or fowl shall be notified by the
Animal Control Officer, or if the owner or custodian of such animal or fowl is
unknown or cannot be found, written notice shall be posted for three (3) days
at the City police station. The notices are to describe the animal or fowl and
the place and time of taking and place where impounded. (Ord. 94-13, 12-20-
1994)
      2.   Redemption Or Adoption Of Dogs And Cats: The owner or custodian of
any dog or cat so impounded may reclaim such dog or cat upon inoculation or
proof of inoculation as in this Chapter required, the payment of the license
fee and penalties, if any, for such animal if unpaid and all costs and charges
incurred by the City for impounding and maintenance of such dog or cat. Dogs
and cats may not be adopted from the City Animal Shelter unless the prospective
owner shall agree in writing to have such animal neutered. The City Council, by
resolution, shall set the minimum charges that shall be paid to the City for
the Animal Shelter Fund for impounding any dog or cat and for keeping any dog
or cat, for giving notice and reclaiming, for destroying any dog or cat upon
written release and request of the owner, all fees and charges that may have
been incurred by the City to have such dog or cat examined by a veterinarian
together with the costs of any inoculation, treatment, medications and drugs
deemed necessary or advisable by such veterinarian and any costs of advertising
and sale. If the animal is unvaccinated, the owner shall also be required to
pay an additional sum (said sum to be set by the fees charged by licensed
veterinarians) or the City Animal Shelter, for which he shall obtain a receipt.
Said receipt may be presented to any licensed veterinarian of the City within
seventy two (72) hours after the time the dog is released to his custody and
the veterinarian will administer the required vaccination. Said veterinarian
shall then bill the inoculation charge authorized by the Animal Control
Officer's receipt to the City through the City Clerk's office.
      3.   Animals Other Than Dogs And Cats: The owner or custodian of any
animal or fowl, other than dogs and cats, so impounded may reclaim such animal
or fowl upon payment of all costs and charges incurred the City for impounding,
maintaining and selling such animals or fowl. The City Council, by resolution,
shall set the minimum impounding charges payable to the City at the time of
redemption, including the capture, control and transportation of such animals
or fowl, all costs and charges incurred by the City in connection therewith,
for impounding and giving notice thereof, for keeping and feeding, all fees and
charges that may have been incurred by the City to have such animal or fowl
examined by a veterinarian, together with the costs of any inoculation,
treatment, medications and drugs deemed necessary or advisable by such
veterinarian and any costs of advertising and sale.
      4.   Proof Of Ownership: The Animal Control Officer or the City Animal
Shelter or any police officer may require proof of ownership from any person
attempting to redeem any animal or fowl (as the owner or custodian thereof).
(Ord. 91-25, 8-6-1991)
   C.   Disposition Of Unclaimed, Unredeemed Or Infected Animals: It shall be
the duty of the Animal Control Officer to keep all animals and fowl impounded
under the provisions of this Chapter for a period of not less than three (3)
days, unless sooner redeemed, released by the owner or disposed of pursuant to
this Chapter. If at the expiration of three (3) days from the date of notice to
the owner or the posting of notice, any animal or fowl is unclaimed it may be
adopted as herein provided and if no person requests to adopt such animal or
fowl under the procedures herein provided, such animal or fowl may be destroyed
in a humane manner. Any animal or fowl which appears to be suffering from
rabies, mange or other infections or dangerous disease shall not be released
but may be forthwith destroyed by humane means.
   D.   Adoption And Disposition Of Animals:
      1.   Dogs Or Cats: If a dog or cat has not been redeemed within three (3)
days, then such dog or cat may be destroyed in a humane manner under the
direction of the Animal Control Officer; provided, however, that any such
unredeemed dog or cat hereby authorized for destruction may be adopted by any
person requesting the same, who shall pay a pound fee, as set by resolution of
the City Council, the appropriate license fee as provided in subsection 4-4-5D
of this Chapter, the cost of rabies vaccination and shall agree to have the
adopted dog or cat neutered or spayed.
      2.   Animals Other Than Dogs Or Cats: All animals and fowl, other than
dogs or cats impounded and not redeemed within three (3) days, whether domestic
or wild, may be destroyed in a humane manner, but such animal may be given or
sold to any person who shall pay the costs of impoundment and any costs and
expenses incurred by the City in connection with any such animal or fowl. (Ord.
94-13, 12-20-1994)
      3.   Adoption Notice: All animals and fowl, other than dogs or cats,
impounded and not redeemed within the three (3) days provided herein or
destroyed pursuant to this Chapter, may be advertised for adoption by the
Animal Control Officer by written notice posted conspicuously at the entrance
of the City Animal Shelter and at the City police station. The notice of
adoption shall be substantially in the following form and shall describe the
kind and number of animals and fowl to be adopted, with a full description of
each animal including, generally, color, age, marks, brands and owner if known,
together with the date and place taken into custody: (Ord. 91-25, 8-6-1991;
amd. Ord. 94-13, 12-20-1994)
NOTICE OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER'S SALE FOR ADOPTION
Notice is hereby given to the owner or owners of the animals and fowls
hereinafter described, and to whomsoever it may concern; that there are
impounded at the present time in the City Animal Shelter the following
described animals and fowls:
(DESCRIPTIONS)
If said animal(s) and fowl(s) are not claimed and redeemed pursuant to the West
Wendover Animal Control Code, Title 4, Chapter 4 of the West Wendover City
Code, within seven (7) days from the date of this Notice, the same will be sold
for adoption by the Animal Control Officer or Deputy Animal Control Officer, at
public sale for adoption at                       in the City, at the hour of
                      on                 day of                               ,
        to the highest bidder. Any and all bids may be rejected.
      4.   Brand Or Identification Collar: If any animal is branded or is
wearing an identification collar or other means of identification, a copy of
the above notice shall be sent to the owner of such brand as determined by the
Official Brand Book of the State of Nevada, as compiled by the Nevada State
Department of Agriculture, to the person so identified. If the brand or other
means of identification is not legible or the owner cannot be determined, such
mailing may be dispensed with.
      5.   Auction: The Animal Control Officer shall conduct the auction sale
at the time and place specified in such notice. At such sale, the Animal
Control Officer shall sell such animals or fowl to the highest bidder for cash,
provided that if all bids received for any animal or fowl shall be less than
the charges for redemption plus any and all further costs and expenses incurred
by the City in connection with any such animal or fowl and the expense of the
sale, the Animal Control Officer may reject any and all bids. If no bids for
such animal or fowl have been properly accepted pursuant hereto, such animal or
fowl may be destroyed or sold at private sale or otherwise disposed of by the
Animal Control Officer, the City to retain all proceeds therefrom.
   E.   Impounding Large Animals: The Animal Control Officer is authorized to
enter into any agreements necessary to capture, control, transport, care for,
feed and maintain large animals such as horses, cows, sheep and other animals
which cannot be maintained in the City Animal Shelter when it becomes necessary
to take them into custody or impound them pursuant to this Code. All expenses
thus incurred are to be charged to the owner or owners upon redemption. Should
the Animal Control Officer or any police officer be called upon to take into
custody or impound any large animals such as horses, cows, sheep, mules or any
other animal which cannot be maintained in the City Animal Shelter and the
owner of such animal is known to such officer or the name of the owner or
custodian can be reasonably obtained, then such officer in his discretion may,
prior to apprehending or impounding any such large animal, contact such owner
or custodian or any agent or representative thereof and notify him to
immediately take such animal into custody and immediately remove such animals
from the City limits. If such owner or agent has not caused such animal to be
removed from the City limits within one day from such notification, then such
officer shall take possession of and impound such animal pursuant to this
Chapter.
   F.   Proceeds Of Redemption, Sales And Adoption: All proceeds collected
under the provisions of this Chapter and all proceeds from the sale, adoption
or disposition of animals or fowl pursuant hereto, shall be deposited in the
General Fund of the City and budgeted for the use and benefit of the Animal
Shelter.
   G.   Interference With Animal Control Officer: It shall be unlawful for any
person to interfere or attempt to interfere with the Animal Control Officer or
any police officer in the performance of any duty imposed by the provisions of
this Chapter and every person who shall unlawfully take or attempt to take any
dog seized pursuant to the provisions hereof from the custody of the Animal
Control Officer or any police officer and every person who shall remove or
attempt to remove the City Animal Shelter any dog, cat or other animal or fowl
impounded therein, without having first redeemed the same as provided, or
obtained permission from the Animal Control Officer to do so, shall be subject
to the penalties provided by this Chapter. (Ord. 91-25, 8-6-1991)
4-4-14: DESTROYING ANIMALS AND FOWL; CONSENT AND RELEASE FORM:
The Animal Control Officer may dispose of any animal or fowl immediately upon
receipt of a written request of the owner or custodian of such animal or fowl
in substantially the following form:
   CONSENT AND RELEASE
This consent and release executed by                     (owner- custodian) of
                              (address) City of West Wendover, State of Nevada,
as releasor to the City of West Wendover, its agents and employees, releasee.
The animal/fowl with respect to which this release is executed is a male/female
                    (breed or description). Its license number is
                       (if applicable).
The releasor, set forth above, is the owner or custodian of the animal/fowl and
requests that the releasee perform euthanasia upon such animal/fowl and
releasee expressly consents thereto.
Releasor hereby releases and forever discharges releasee from all claims,
damages and causes of action that may arise from the death of such animal/fowl
and from the procedures employed therein.
In witness thereof, releasor executes this release this         day of
                  , 19    .
                                                   
   RELEASOR                        
(Ord. 91-25, 8-6-1991)
4-4-15: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
Except as herein otherwise provided, it shall be unlawful for any person to do
any of the following:
   A.   Maliciously or mischievously apprehend, detain, secrete or impound the
animal or fowl of another person, or to knowingly aid to abet in the commission
of any such act by some other person. Any such person aiding or abetting shall
be considered a principal.
   B.   Maltreat, starve, torture, injure or poison any animal, or having the
right or authority under this Chapter to kill any animal, to kill such animal
in any way except in a humane manner.
   C.   Trap any animal with other than a humane "live" trap which will inflict
no physical injury upon the animal; to lure or entice, by means of food or
otherwise, any animal into other than a humane "live" trap; to leave any animal
trapped by such person without food, water or shelter for an unreasonable
period of time.
   D.   Dispose of any trapped animal in any fashion not otherwise provided by
law. If disposal is not permitted by law, said person shall call the Animal
Control Officer to have said animal picked up, deliver it to the City Animal
Shelter or otherwise dispose of it as directed by the Animal Control Officer.
   E.   Overcrowd any animal in any crate, box or other receptacle or fail to
provide food, water, shelter or sanitation for same.
   F.   Kill any animal running at large except as provided in this Chapter in
connection with dangerous, fierce, vicious or infected animals or animals
attacking persons or livestock.
   G.   Take off or remove from any animal its collar or harness or City
license tag or inoculation tag without the consent of the owner or custodian of
such animal. (Ord. 91-25, 8-6-1991)
   H.   Place any City dog or cat tag or inoculation tag on any dog or cat
other than the dog or cat to which such tag was registered. (Ord., 11-9-1991)
   I.   Take any animal or fowl by stealth, fraud, force or falsely claiming to
be the owner or custodian of such animal or fowl out of the custody, control or
possession of the Animal Control Officer or City Animal Shelter or any police
officer exercising his duty under this Chapter.
   J.   Interrupt or hinder the Animal Control Officer or any police officer
discharging his duties under the provisions of this Chapter.
   K.   Abandon any animal, living or dead, in a public street, road, alley or
any other public place or upon the private property of himself or another.
   L.   Unjustifiably administer any poisonous drug or substance with intent
that the same shall be taken by an animal, whether such animal be the property
of himself or another, or whether said drug or substance is exposed upon such
person's property, the private property of another or any public place;
provided that nothing herein shall be construed to prevent or restrict the
Animal Control Officer or health officer in the exercise and performance of the
powers and duties in this Chapter.
   M.   Wilfully throw, drop or place upon any road, highway, street, alley or
public place, or upon the private property of himself or another, any glass,
nails, pieces of metal or other substances or devices calculated to disable or
injure any animal.
   N.   Carry or enclose, or cause to be carried or enclosed, in or upon any
vehicle or conveyance, any animal in a cruel or inhumane manner.
      1.   No person having charge or custody of any animal, as owner or
otherwise, shall place or confine such animal or allow such animal to be placed
or confined or to remain in a motor vehicle under such conditions or for such
period of time as may endanger the health or well-being of such animal due to
heat, cold, lack of food or drink or such other circumstances as may reasonably
be expected to cause suffering, disability or death. (Ord. 91-25, 8-6-1991)
      2.   The Animal Control Officer or any police officer of the City who
finds an animal in a motor vehicle in violation of this subsection N may break
and enter the motor vehicle, if necessary, to remove the animal. The officer
removing the animal shall take the animal to the City Animal Shelter or to a
veterinary clinic for safekeeping and shall, in the event the person having
custody cannot be contacted, leave in a prominent place in the motor vehicle a
written notice bearing his name and office and the address where the animal may
be claimed by the owner thereof. The animal will be surrendered to the owner if
the owner claims the animal within three (3) days from the time the animal was
removed and pays all reasonable charges that have accrued for the maintenance
of the animal. In the event the owner cannot be contacted or expresses no
interest in reclaiming the animal within three (3) days after contact or
efforts to contact, the Animal Shelter may dispose of the animal, in a humane
manner. (Ord. 94-13, 12-20-1994)
   O.   Display, sell or offer for sale, barter, give away or otherwise dispose
of any animal upon any street, sidewalk, public building, public park or other
public place, with the exception of the city animal shelter.
   P.   Use any live animal as or for a target.
   Q.   Dye or color any animal for purposes of concealing its identity. (Ord.
91-25, 8-6-1991)
   R.   A person shall not restrain a dog:
      1.   Using a tether, chain, tie, trolley or pulley system or other device
that:
         a.   Is less than twelve feet (12') in length;
         b.   Fails to allow the dog to move at least twelve feet (12') or, if
the device is a pulley system, fails to allow the dog to move a total of twelve
feet (12'); or
         c.   Allows the dog to reach a fence or other object that may cause
the dog to become injured or die by strangulation after jumping the fence or
object or otherwise becoming entangled in the fence or object;
      2.   Using a prong, pinch or choke collar or similar restraint; or
      3.   For more than fourteen (14) hours during a twenty four (24) hour
period.
   S.   Any pen or other outdoor enclosure that is used to maintain a dog must
be appropriate for the size and breed of the dog. A court may consider, among
other factors, any guidance or provisions of state law concerning the
appropriate size of an enclosure required by this section.
   T.   The provisions of subsections R and S of this section do not apply to a
dog that is:
      1.   Tethered, chained, tied, restrained or placed in a pen or enclosure
by a veterinarian, as defined by Nevada Revised Statutes 574.330, during the
course of his practice;
      2.   Being used lawfully to hunt a species of wildlife in this state
during the hunting season for that species;
      3.   Receiving training to hunt a species of wildlife in this state;
      4.   In attendance at and participating in an exhibition, show, contest
or other event in which the skill, breeding or stamina of the dog is judged or
examined;
      5.   Being kept at a shelter or boarding facility or temporarily in a
camping area;
      6.   Temporarily being cared for as part of a rescue operation or in any
other manner in conjunction with a bona fide nonprofit organization formed for
animal welfare purposes;
      7.   Living on land that is directly related to an active agricultural
operation, if the restraint is reasonably necessary to ensure the safety of the
dog. As used in this subsection, "agricultural operation" means any activity
that is necessary for the commercial growing and harvesting of crops or the
raising of livestock or poultry; or
      8.   With a person having custody or control of the dog, if the person is
engaged in temporary task or activity with the dog for not more than one hour.
   U.   A person who violates subsection R or S of this section shall be
punished in accordance with Nevada Revised Statutes 574.100(2) to the extent
said punishment is within the jurisdiction of the court. (Ord. 2009-08, 11-3-
2009)
4-4-16: VEHICLES INJURING ANIMALS:
Every operator of any vehicle upon the streets and ways of the city shall,
immediately upon injuring, striking, maiming or running down any animal, stop
and give such aid as he is reasonably able to render. He shall immediately
notify the animal control officer, furnishing facts relative to such injury. It
is the duty of such operator to remain at or near the scene until the owner or
animal control officer arrives, and such operator shall immediately identify
himself to the owner or animal control officer and give the owner or animal
control officer his full name, address and driver's license number.
Alternatively, in the absence of the owner, a person may give aid by taking the
animal to a veterinary hospital and thereafter notifying the animal control
officer, furnishing sufficient facts relative to such injury. (Ord. 91-25, 8-6-
1991)
4-4-17: PENALTIES:
   A.   The penalties provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code, shall apply
to this chapter. In addition, any violation or continued violation of this
chapter, or any nuisance may be enjoined or abated by appropriate proceedings
instituted by the city. All penalties provided under this chapter shall double
in amount or term if succeeding similar offenses occur within a one year
period. The receipt and conviction of three (3) violations of this chapter by
the owner or custodian of any animal within a one year period shall constitute
prima facie evidence for a nuisance.
   B.   All fines imposed by the municipal judge and/or collected for the
violation of this chapter shall be deposited in the general fund of the city
and budgeted for the use and benefit of the animal shelter. (Ord., 11-19-1991)
CHAPTER 5
MINORS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Curfew For Minors
4-5-1: CURFEW FOR MINORS:
   A.   Short Title: This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the WEST
WENDOVER CURFEW ORDINANCE.
   B.   Definitions: For the purposes of this Chapter, the following terms,
phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When
not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number and words in the
singular number include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory
and not merely directory:
    CITY: The incorporated City of West Wendover, Nevada.
   CUSTODIAN: Any person over the age of eighteen (18) years who is in loco
parentis to a minor.
   GUARDIAN: Any person, other than a parent, who has legal guardianship of a
minor.
   MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   PARENT: The natural or adoptive parent of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground or
place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for business
entertainment or other lawful purpose. A public place shall include, but not be
limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley, cafe, theater,
drug store, poolroom, shopping center and any other place devoted to service or
entertainment of the general public. It shall also include the front or
immediate area of the above.
   C.   Curfew Established: It shall be unlawful for any minor to remain, idle,
wander, stroll or play in any public place, either on foot or to cruise about
without a set destination in any vehicle, in, about or upon any place in the
City between the hours of ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. and six o'clock (6:
00) A.M. on school nights and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. on nonschool nights, unless accompanied by a parent, guardian,
custodian or other adult person having custody or control of such minor or
unless the minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or activity
directed or permitted by his parent, guardian or other adult person having the
care and custody of the minor or where the presence of such minor is connected
with or required by some legitimate employment, trade, profession or
occupation.
   D.   Responsibility Of Owners Of Public Places: It shall be unlawful for any
person operating or having charge of any public place to knowingly permit or
suffer the presence of minors under the age of eighteen (18) between the hours
of ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on school nights
and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on nonschool
nights.
   E.   Responsibility Of Parent, Guardian Or Custodian: It shall be unlawful
for the parent, guardian or other adult person having custody or control of any
minor under the age of eighteen (18) to suffer or permit or by inefficient
control to allow such minor to be on the streets or sidewalks or in any public
property or public place within the City between the hours of ten thirty
o'clock (10:30) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on school nights and twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on nonschool nights.
However, the provisions of this subsection do not apply to a minor accompanied
by his parent, guardian, custodian or other adult person having the care,
custody or control of the minor, or if the minor is on an emergency errand or
specific business or activity directed by his parent, guardian, custodian or
other adult having the care and custody of the minor, or if the parent or
guardian or other adult person herein has made a missing person notification to
the Sheriff's office.
   F.   Special Functions: Any minor attending a special function or
entertainment of any church, school, club or other organization that requires
such minor to be out at a later hour than that called for in subsection C
herein shall be exempt from the provisions of subsection C of this Section,
provided the church, school, club or other organization shall notify in advance
the Police Department of the special function and time it shall end. The minors
who attend the function shall be required to be in their homes or usual places
of abode within one-half (1/2) hour after the function is ended.
   G.   Duties And Procedures For Violation:
      1.   The police officer or other law enforcement official, upon finding a
minor in violation of subsection C of this Section shall ascertain the name and
address of such minor and warn the minor that he is in violation of curfew and
shall direct the minor to proceed at once to his or her home or usual place of
abode. The officer shall also notify the parents, guardian or person having
custody or control of the minor.
      2.   If such minor refuses to heed such warning or direction by any
police officer or refuses to give such police officer his correct name and
address, or if the minor has been warned on a previous occasion that he or she
is in violation of curfew, he or she shall be taken to the Police Department
and the parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of
such minor shall be notified to come and take charge of the minor. If the
parent, guardian or other adult person above cannot be located or fails to come
and take charge of the minor, the minor shall be released to the juvenile
authorities.
   H.   Penalties: Any minor violating the provisions of this Section shall be
processed in accordance with the Juvenile Court law and procedure. Any parent,
guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of a minor violating
this Section, after having been previously notified or if the dispatcher has
previously unsuccessfully attempted to so notify such person under subsection
G1 of this Section, shall be fined not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each such subsequent offense. (Ord. 94-6, 7-19-1994)
CHAPTER 6
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: General Provisions
4-6-3: Refuse Preparation; Destruction Of Receptacles
4-6-4: Removal Of Refuse
4-6-5: Time Of Collection
4-6-6: Disposal Of Refuse
4-6-7: Burning Garbage And Rubbish
4-6-8: Collection
4-6-9: Rates To Be Charged
4-6-10: Failure To Remove
4-6-11: City Dump
4-6-12: Certain Acts Unlawful
4-6-13: City Council To Make Regulations
4-6-14: Remedies Cumulative
4-6-15: Violation And Penalty
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
terms and their derivatives shall have the meanings herein given (and when not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular, and words in the
singular number include the plural):
ASHES: The residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke or other combustible
material.
CITY DUMP: That certain sanitary landfill dumping area or other suitable area,
including, but not limited to, the compost facility, set aside by the city
council for the sanitary disposal of ashes, garbage, refuse and rubbish.
GARBAGE: Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
GENERATOR: Any person, lessor, lessee, or such person's agent, who owns or
leases any enterprise, residence, or residential unit which produces refuse.
REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body wastes),
including, but not limited to, garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead
animals, abandoned automobiles and solid market and industrial wastes.
RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid wastes (excluding ashes) consisting of both
combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, weeds, wood, glass, bottles, bedding, rags, straw, sawdust, packing
material, shavings, boxes, trimmings from lawns, trees and gardens, crockery
and similar materials.
WASTE MATTER AND TRASH: As used herein shall mean and be held to be included
within the term "rubbish". (Ord. 93-2, 3-16-1993; amd. Ord. 94-9, 9-20-1994;
Ord. 2001-19, 9-4-2001)
4-6-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   All occupied premises shall have refuse service as herein specified.
   B.   No person owning or occupying any building, lot or premises shall
suffer, allow or permit to collect and remain upon or in said building, lot or
premises, refuse, garbage or rubbish of any kind; provided, however, that this
provision shall not be construed as interfering with a building under
construction.
   C.   No person shall dump, place or bury on any lot, land, street, alley or
other public place or in any water or waterway or ditch or elsewhere, any
garbage, trash, rubbish, refuse, manure or waste matter. (Ord. 93-2, 3-16-1993)
4-6-3: REFUSE PREPARATION; DESTRUCTION OF RECEPTACLES:
   A.   Except as may be otherwise required by a resolution of the city
council, each person in possession, charge or control of any factory, store,
boarding house, restaurant, hotel, apartment, eating or drinking establishment,
dwelling and every other person having refuse shall provide or cause to be
provided and at all times keep or cause to be kept, suitable and sufficient
watertight cans or receptacles, adequate to contain without leakage or escape
of odors, the amount of garbage and waste matter ordinarily accumulating at
such place during the intervals between collections. All cans or receptacles
shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition and the covers shall not be
removed except for the purpose of placing refuse therein or removing refuse
therefrom, and shall at all times be proof against access of flies to the
contents thereof. Such receptacles shall be provided by the city upon
application for water, sewer, and garbage removal service and payment of any
required deposit as set forth by resolution of the city council. The
receptacles shall remain the property of the city. Any person wilfully
destroying or damaging a required receptacle shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.   No garbage, rubbish or trash receptacle shall be placed or kept on or
in any public street, sidewalk, footpath, alley or any public place except on
the designated pick up day where the receptacle shall be placed on the premises
so as to be readily accessible for removing and emptying. (Ord. 2001-19, 9-4-
2001)
   C.   Every contractor or builder engaged in the erection or repair of a
building shall provide a receptacle for the deposit of garbage and other
refuse. He shall keep surroundings free of debris and trash at all times.
   D.   All bulky material shall be broken up before being put out for
collection.
   E.   Garbage cans and refuse accumulations must be kept in a sanitary
manner, and this may, if necessary, require housing of receptacles and cans.
(Ord. 93-2, 3-16-1993)
4-6-4: REMOVAL OF REFUSE:
All refuse hauled by the city, the generator or the franchisee of the garbage
franchise, hereafter referred to as "refuse collector", in watertight, covered,
containers and taken to the city dump in such a manner as to not permit
spillage or leakage on the streets or to be offensive or filthy in relation to
any person, premises, street, alley or roadway. Such container shall be
constructed to withstand fire within and without endangering property and shall
be painted and kept clean and as neat as possible under the circumstances.
Large containers, such as truck bodies, shall be equipped with a tarpaulin or
other suitable covering which shall be drawn over the load as completed to full
depth. All refuse shall be completely covered between points of collection and
disposal. (Ord. 2001-19, 9-4-2001)
4-6-5: TIME OF COLLECTION:
The time of collection and hauling of refuse shall be between the hours of six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. (Ord. 93-2, 3-16-1993)
4-6-6: DISPOSAL OF REFUSE:
   A.   The refuse collector shall dispose of all refuse only at the garbage
disposal site designated by the city council and approved by the county health
officer.
   B.   Unless otherwise specifically stated or agreed upon, all refuse once
collected becomes the property of the city to dispose of as it sees fit
pursuant to the franchise agreement and city regulations, provided disposal
does not conflict with other provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 93-2, 3-16-1993)
4-6-7: BURNING GARBAGE AND RUBBISH:
   A.   Garbage may not be burned in an incinerator other than a multiple
chamber type or an incinerator authorized by the laws of the state or
authorized by the director of the state of Nevada, division of environmental
protection and, in any event, without prior approval of the city.
   B.   Rubbish may not be burned in other than an incinerator authorized by
the laws of the state or an incinerator approved by the director of the state
of Nevada, division of environmental protection, and, in any event, without
prior approval of the city. (Ord. 93-2, 3-16-1993)
   C.   Weeds on empty lots shall come under the provisions of this chapter and
must be removed when found to be a public nuisance. (Ord. 2001-19, 9-4-2001)
4-6-8: COLLECTION:
   A.   By City: Except as may be modified by franchise agreement and
notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the City Council by
resolution may:
      1.   Carry out the provisions of this Chapter;
      2.   Haul all or part of the refuse;
      3.   Purchase such equipment as may be required to carry out the
provisions of this Chapter; and
      4.   Charge and collect charges for services provided pursuant to this
Chapter. Any delinquent uncollected fees for service and the costs, fees and
expenses of collections may be collected by filing a lien upon the property
served. Such lien shall be perfected by filing with the County Recorder a
statement by the City Clerk of the amount of the delinquent service charges due
and unpaid and the costs, fees and expense of collection and a description of
the property subject to the lien. The lien shall be coequal with the latest
lien thereon to secure the payment of general taxes. The lien shall not be
subject to extinguishment by the sale of the property on account of the
nonpayment of general taxes and the lien shall be prior and superior to all
liens, claims, encumbrances and titles other than liens of assessment and
general taxes. The person or entity contracting for garbage service and/or the
property served shall be liable to the City for all costs, expenses and fees of
the City for collecting delinquent service charges.
   B.   By Franchise: The City Council may, if considered to be in the best
interests of the City, enter into a franchise contract or contracts with one or
more persons authorizing the collecting, removing and disposing of all refuse
within said City and for the assessing and collecting of charges for such
services. Such franchise may or may not be exclusive to the franchisee. The
City Council, in letting any such contract or contracts under the provisions of
this Chapter shall include therein such provisions as may be deemed necessary
to protect the best interests of the City and its citizens and inhabitants and,
particularly, provisions relieving the City from any responsibility for any
acts of such franchisee or franchisees and from any damages that may result
from collecting, hauling or disposing of refuse.
      1.   A notice of the intention of the City Council to grant any franchise
to provide garbage and disposal services shall be published once in a newspaper
of general circulation in the City, and the franchise may not be granted until
thirty (30) days after such publication. The City Council shall give full
consideration to any application or bid to supply such services if received
prior to the expiration of such thirty (30) day period and shall grant the
franchise on terms most advantageous to the City and the persons to be
serviced. The City Council may give preference to the franchisee which has been
providing service to the City if it deems the service and such franchisee's
performance satisfactory.
      2.   Each proposal or bid submitted must be signed by the bidder
submitting it to his or its agents and shall be accompanied by a certified
check for two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) payable to the City as guarantee
that the bidder will execute the contract in accordance with his bid. Upon the
awarding of the contract, the execution thereof, the posing of a satisfactory
bond for the faithful performance of the contract in the sum of two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00) and submission of evidence that the bidder carries
satisfactory insurance as hereinafter required, said deposit of two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) shall be returned.
      3.   The City Council shall have the right to waive formalities in
awarding contracts hereunder. It may award one or more contracts with such
designations, differences and restrictions as to districts, areas, nature of
hauling, charges and other matters, as may be deemed proper and may make such
contracts exclusive in the franchisee or franchisees or exclusive as to
districts, nature of hauling or otherwise. Successful bidders shall have such
rights, privileges and duties as determined by such awards and by the terms of
such contracts.
      4.   All franchisees hereunder must qualify by procuring for the period
covered by the contract, full compensation insurance as required by the State,
and public liability insurance to the extent of not less than twenty five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for death of or injury to one person and not less
than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for death or injury to more
than one person and property damage insurance of not less than ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) upon each truck or vehicle to be used by the contractor
under such contract; such insurance to cover and protect both the City and the
franchisee. (Ord. 93-2, 3-16-1993)
4-6-9: RATES TO BE CHARGED:
   A.   A charge shall be made and collected by the City on behalf of the
refuse collector for residential occupied premises in the City for services
rendered under the provisions of this Chapter. Commercial or other accounts
shall be collected by franchisee unless otherwise provided by a resolution of
the City Council. The fees collected by the City as above described shall be as
set forth in a resolution by the City Council from time to time.
   B.   Except as may be modified by a franchise agreement, for the collection,
removal and disposal of refuse by a franchisee there shall be a flat monthly
charge to be based upon the average amount of material at each collection and
for extra services and this charge shall be specifically indicated in the
application for permission to collect and dispose of garbage. This charge shall
not be changed except by consent of the City Council at a regular meeting.
(Ord. 94-9, 9-20-1994)
   C.   In case of dispute over service or charge for service, the City Council
shall investigate and decide proper service and charge for service and its
decision in this matter shall be final. (Ord. 93-2, 3-16-1993)
4-6-10: FAILURE TO REMOVE:
   A.   Removal By City; Lien: If at any time accumulation of refuse or waste
material is not hauled or removed or garbage becomes offensive and is not
removed by the owner or person responsible for the same, an order for such
removal may forthwith be made by the City Council. If not removed within the
time required by such order the City shall declare the same a nuisance, have
such material removed in whatever manner may be reasonable and shall collect
the reasonable charges and costs of such removal from the person or entity
violating this provision and/or the property involved. The City may file a lien
upon the property. Such lien shall be perfected by filing with the County
Recorder a statement by the City Clerk of the amount of the expenses and
charges due and unpaid and describing the property subject to the lien. Such
lien shall be coequal with the latest lien thereon to secure the payment of
general taxes. The lien shall not be subject to extinguishment by the sale of
any of the property on account of the nonpayment of general taxes. Such lien
shall be prior and superior to all claims, encumbrances and titles other than
the liens of assessment and general taxes.
   B.   Ashes And Clinkers: No hot ashes or clinkers shall be kept in any
building or basement but must be moved outside and placed in a metal container
and kept ten inches (10") away from any building or wooden fence and shall not
be placed directly under any roof or protruding part of a building.
   C.   Notices: Notices to owners under this Section and under any other
provision of this Chapter may be given personally or by registered mail
addressed to the owner at his last known address or address appearing on the
tax rolls or otherwise General Delivery, West Wendover, Nevada.
   D.   Compliance By Owner: Anything in this Chapter to the contrary
notwithstanding, the owner shall be responsible for complying with the terms of
this Chapter whether such owner is in possession personally or through a tenant
or otherwise, and the property itself shall in each instance be responsible for
all costs and charges for removal of refuse whether the same accrued during
occupancy of the premises by the owner or by a tenant or while vacant or
otherwise. Nothing contained in this Section shall be construed as relieving
from any civil or criminal liability the person actually responsible for any
violation of this Chapter. (Ord. 93-2, 3-16-1993)
4-6-11: CITY DUMP:
   A.   Designation Of City Dump: The City dump shall be located as designated
by resolution of the City Council.
   B.   City Dump Operator: An employee of the Department of Streets of the
City shall be designated as the City dump operator with authority to direct any
and all dumping operations at the City dump, including, but not being limited
to, the placement of dumping and segregation of dumping materials as to type,
etc.
   C.   Status Of Dumped Material: All material dumped at the City dump, of any
nature or description, be it ashes, garbage, refuse or rubbish, for any length
of time, no matter how short, is deemed abandoned and becomes the property of
the City.
   D.   Operation Of City Dump: All dumping of any material, of any nature or
description, be it ashes, garbage, refuse or rubbish, shall be in conformity to
the following provisions:
      1.   Dumping shall be performed during, and access to the city dump
limited to, only those hours of operation adopted from time to time by the city
council and posted at the main entrance to the city dump.
      2.   All dumping of any materials, of any nature or description, be it
ashes, garbage, refuse or rubbish and all access within the city dump area
shall be at the direction of the city dump operator.
      3.   There shall be no burning at the city dump except under the
direction of the city dump operator.
      4.   There shall be no scavenging or salvaging about the city dump nor
removal of any material, of any nature or description, from the city dump
without the written authorization of the director of the department of streets,
city of West Wendover.
   E.   City Dump User Fee: Any person or entity of any name or nature using
the city dump for disposal of garbage, rubbish, waste material or other refuse,
shall pay a fee therefor in such an amount as shall be determined and set from
time to time by resolution of the city council. The city council may set said
fees based upon the volume of garbage, rubbish, waste material and other refuse
hauled. The city manager may set the fee for the use of the dump for any
demolition projects. Any person or entities outside the city limits who desire
to use the city dump shall pay one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the amount
charged for the same service within the city limits. (Ord. 93-2, 3-16-1993)
4-6-12: CERTAIN ACTS UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the city, a generator, or a
person to whom a contract shall have been awarded or to whom a license shall
have been granted as herein provided to collect or remove refuse in or from the
city. (Ord. 2001-19, 9-4-2001)
4-6-13: CITY COUNCIL TO MAKE REGULATIONS:
The city council is authorized to make any and all necessary or proper
regulations to carry out and enforce the provisions of this chapter including
all matters as to notices, procedures, regulations of hours, segregation of
districts, classifications of services, routes of travel, regulation of dump
grounds or disposal site and similar matters. Licensees, franchisees and, if
permissible, owners hauling their own refuse, shall be bound by all such rules
and regulations of which notice may be given as required by said city council
and as to method of disposal of refuse at the disposal site by notices posted,
and violation of such notices shall be deemed a violation of this chapter,
punishable as herein provided. (Ord. 93-2, 3-16-1993)
4-6-14: REMEDIES CUMULATIVE:
Any and all remedies herein provided shall be deemed cumulative. The city and
the officers thereof shall in addition thereto have the right to exercise and
enforce all rights and remedies otherwise created or existing, including the
right of injunction, the right of abatement of nuisances, the right of action
for damages, the right of prosecution for violation of any statute of the state
or other laws of the city and any other right existing or available, including
all rights arising from breach of any contract or contracts awarded hereunder
and the right to proceed under the provisions of subsection 4-6-8A of this
chapter notwithstanding the issuance of contracts or licenses under provisions
of subsection 4-6-8B of this chapter, if it should appear that refuse is not
being satisfactorily hauled or disposed of by any franchisee or licensee. (Ord.
93-2, 3-16-1993)
4-6-15: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code.
Each day's violation of the provisions of this chapter may be deemed a separate
offense. (Ord. 93-2, 3-16-1993)
CHAPTER 7
GRAFFITI
SECTION:
4-7-1: Purpose And Intent
4-7-2: Definitions
4-7-3: Prohibited Acts
4-7-4: Accessibility To Graffiti Implements
4-7-5: Penalties
4-7-6: Rewards And Reimbursements For Information
4-7-7: Graffiti As Nuisance
4-7-8: Removal Of Graffiti By Perpetrator
4-7-9: Removal Of Graffiti By Property Owner Or City
4-7-10: Ease Of Removal Provisions
4-7-11: Prevention Provisions
4-7-12: Trust Fund
4-7-13: Severability
4-7-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The City Council is enacting this Chapter to help prevent the spread of
graffiti vandalism and to establish a program for the removal of graffiti from
public and private property. The Council is authorized to enact this Chapter
pursuant to its police powers, as specified in chapter 266 of the Nevada
Revised Statutes.
The Council finds that graffiti is a public nuisance and destructive of the
rights and values of property owners as well as the entire community. Unless
the City acts to remove graffiti from public and private property, the graffiti
tends to remain. Other properties then become the target of graffiti, and
entire neighborhoods are affected and become less desirable places in which to
be, all to the detriment of the City.
The City Council intends, through the adoption of this Chapter, to provide
additional enforcement tools to protect public and private property from acts
of graffiti vandalism and defacement. The Council does not intend for this
Chapter to conflict with any anti-graffiti State laws. (Ord. 99-16, 12-7-1999)
4-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this Section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
AEROSOL PAINT CONTAINER: Any aerosol container that is adapted or made for the
purpose of applying spray paint or other substances capable of defacing
property.
BROAD-TIPPED MARKER: Any felt tip indelible marker or similar implement with a
flat or angled writing surface that, at its broadest width, is greater than
one-fourth inch (1/4"), containing ink or other pigmented liquid that is not
water soluble.
ETCHING EQUIPMENT: Any tool, device, or substance that can be used to make
permanent marks on any natural or manmade surface.
GRAFFITI: Any unauthorized inscription, word, figure, design, painting or other
defacement that is written, marked, etched, scratched, sprayed, drawn, painted,
or engraved on or otherwise affixed to any surface of public or private
property, real or personal, by any graffiti implement, to the extent that the
graffiti was not authorized in advance by the owner or occupant of the property
or, despite advance authorization, is otherwise deemed a public nuisance by the
City Council.
GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT: An aerosol paint container, a broad-tipped marker, gummed
label, paint stick or graffiti stick, etching equipment, brush or any other
device capable of scarring or leaving a visible mark on any natural or manmade
surface.
PAINT STICK OR GRAFFITI STICK: Any device containing a solid form of paint,
chalk, wax, epoxy, or other similar substance capable of being applied to a
surface by pressure and leaving a mark of at least one-eighth inch (1/8") in
width.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, cooperative association, private
corporation, personal representative, receiver, trustee, assignee, or any other
legal entity. (Ord. 99-16, 12-7-1999)
4-7-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Defacement: It shall be unlawful for any person to apply graffiti to
any natural or manmade surface on any City-owned property or, without the
permission of the owner or occupant, on any non-City-owned property.
   B.   Possession Of Graffiti Implements:
      1.   By Minors At Or Near School Facilities: It shall be unlawful for any
person under the age of eighteen (18) years to possess any graffiti implement
while on any school property, grounds, facilities, buildings, or structures, or
in areas immediately adjacent to those specific locations upon public property,
or upon private property without the prior written consent of the owner or
occupant of such private property. The provisions of this Section shall not
apply to the possession of broad-tipped markers by a minor attending or
traveling to or from a school at which the minor is enrolled if the minor is
participating in a class at the school that formally requires the possession of
broad-tipped markers. The burden of proof in any prosecution for violation of
this Section shall be upon the minor student to establish the need to possess a
broad-tipped marker.
      2.   In Designated Public Places: It shall be unlawful for any person to
possess any graffiti implement while in or upon any public facility, park,
playground, swimming pool, recreational facility, or other public building or
structure owned or operated by the City or while in or within fifty feet (50')
of an underpass, bridge abutment, storm drain, or similar types of
infrastructure unless otherwise authorized by the City. (Ord. 99-16, 12-7-1999)
4-7-4: ACCESSIBILITY TO GRAFFITI IMPLEMENTS:
   A.   Furnishing To Minors Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person,
other than a parent or legal guardian, to sell, exchange, give, loan, or
otherwise furnish, or cause or permit to be exchanged, given, loaned, or
otherwise furnished, any aerosol paint container, broad-tipped marker, or paint
stick to any person under the age of eighteen (18) years without the written
consent of the parents or guardian of the person.
   B.   Display And Storage:
      1.   Every person who owns, conducts, operates or manages a retail
commercial establishment selling aerosol paint containers, paint sticks, or
broad-tipped markers shall store the containers, sticks or markers in an area
continuously observable, through direct visual observation or surveillance
equipment, by employees of the retail establishment during the regular course
of business.
      2.   In the event that a commercial retail establishment is unable to
store the aerosol paint containers, paint sticks, or broad- tipped markers in
an area as provided above, the establishment shall store the containers,
sticks, and markers in an area not accessible to the public in the regular
course of business without employee assistance.
   C.   Signage Required: Every person who operates a retail commercial
establishment selling graffiti implements shall:
      1.   Place a sign in clear public view at or near the display of such
products stating: "Graffiti is against the law. Any person who defaces real or
personal property with paint or any other liquid or device is guilty of a crime
punishable by imprisonment of up to sixty (60) days and/or a fine of up to one
thousand dollars ($1,000)."
      2.   Place a sign in the direct view of such persons responsible for
accepting customer payment for graffiti implements stating: "Selling spray
paint, paint sticks, or broad-tipped markers to persons under 18 years of age
is against the law and punishable by a fine of up to one thousand dollars
($1,000)." (Ord. 99-16, 12-7-1999)
4-7-5: PENALTIES:
   A.   Fines And Imprisonment: Any person violating this Chapter shall be
punished by a fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for the first
offense; five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the second offense; and one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each subsequent offense, or by imprisonment
for a term not to exceed sixty (60) days, or by both fine and imprisonment at
the discretion of the court; and in addition to any other penalties, an
assessment of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) as provided in Nevada Revised
Statutes 268.4085.
      1.   In the case of a minor, the parents or legal guardian shall be
jointly and severally liable with the minor for payment of all fines.
      2.   Failure of the parents or legal guardian to make payment will result
in the filing of a lien, which includes the fine and administrative costs, on
the parents' or legal guardian's property.
      3.   Upon an application and find of indigence, the court may decline to
order fines against the minor, parents or guardian.
   B.   Restitution: In addition to any punishment specified in this Section,
the court shall order any violator to make restitution to the victim for
damages or loss caused directly or indirectly by the violator's offense in the
amount or manner determined by the court. In the case of a minor, the parents
or legal guardian shall be ordered jointly and severally liable with the minor
to make the restitution.
   C.   Forfeiture Of Personal Property: All personal property, including, but
not limited to, automobiles, motorcycles and bicycles, used or intended to be
used in violating this Chapter shall be forfeitable to the City. In forfeiting
such personal property, the City shall follow the procedures outlined in Nevada
Revised Statutes 179.1156 et seq., concerning forfeitures of personal property.
In any forfeiture proceeding under this Section, the court shall not order a
forfeiture unless it finds that the forfeiture is commensurate with the
severity of the violation to the extent required by the State of Nevada and
United States constitutions.
   D.   Community Service: In lieu of, or as part of the penalties specified in
this Section, a minor or adult may be required to perform community service as
described by the court based on the following minimum requirements:
      1.   The minor or adult shall perform at least thirty (30) hours of
community service.
      2.   At least one parent or guardian of the minor shall be in attendance
a minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the period of assigned community service.
      3.   The entire period of community service shall be performed under the
supervision of a community service provider approved by the Chief of Police.
      4.   Reasonable effort shall be made to assign the minor or adult to a
type of community service that is reasonably expected to have the most
rehabilitative effect on the minor or adult, including community service that
involves graffiti removal.
      5.   Any minor determined to be a ward of the court under Nevada law as a
result of committing an offense in the City shall be required, at the City's
option, to perform community service, including graffiti removal service of not
less than thirty (30) hours nor more than eighty (80) hours.
   E.   Civil Responsibility For Damages For Wrongful Sale, Display Or Storage:
Any person who sells, displays or stores, or permits the sale, display or
storage of any graffiti implement in violation of the provisions of this
Chapter shall be personally liable for all costs, including attorney fees and
court costs, incurred by any party in connection with the removal of graffiti,
the repair of any property containing graffiti, or such party's prosecution of
a civil claim for reimbursement or damages resulting from such graffiti removal
or property repair, arising from the use by any person of such wrongfully sold,
displayed or stored graffiti implement in violation of the provisions of this
Chapter, provided that such liability shall not exceed one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00). (Ord. 99-16, 12-7-1999)
4-7-6: REWARDS AND REIMBURSEMENTS FOR INFORMATION:
   A.   Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 268.4085, the City may offer a
reward in an amount to be established by resolution of the City Council for
information leading to the identification and apprehension of any person who
wilfully damages or destroys any public or private property by the use of
graffiti. In the event of damage to public property, the offender or the
parents or legal guardian of any unemancipated minor must reimburse the City
for any reward paid. In the event of multiple contributors of information, the
reward amount shall be divided by the City in the manner it shall deem
appropriate.
   B.   Claims for rewards under this Section shall be filed with the City in
the manner specified by the City Council.
   C.   No claim for a reward shall be allowed unless the City investigates and
verifies the accuracy of the claim and determines that the requirements of this
Section have been satisfied.
   D.   The City shall reimburse to any person reporting by means of a mobile
or cellular phone an act of graffiti vandalism or existence of graffiti within
the City the amount of the direct phone charges, exclusive of taxes, incurred
by the person. (Ord. 99-16, 12-7-1999)
4-7-7: GRAFFITI AS NUISANCE:
   A.   The existence of graffiti on public or private property in violation of
this Chapter is expressly declared to be a public nuisance and, therefore, is
subject to the removal and abatement provisions specified in this Chapter.
   B.   It is the duty of both the owner of the property to which the graffiti
has been applied and any person who may be in possession or who has the right
to possess such property, to at all times keep the property clear of graffiti.
(Ord. 99-16, 12-7-1999)
4-7-8: REMOVAL OF GRAFFITI BY PERPETRATOR:
Any person applying graffiti on public or private property shall have the duty
to remove the graffiti within twenty four (24) hours after notice by the City
or private owner of the property involved. Such removal shall be done in a
manner prescribed by the Chief of Police, the Director of the Department of
Public Works, or any additional City department head, as authorized by the City
Council. Any person applying graffiti shall be responsible for the removal or
for the payment for the removal. Failure of any person to remove graffiti or
pay for the removal shall constitute an additional violation of this Chapter.
Where graffiti is applied by an unemancipated minor, the parents or legal
guardian shall also be responsible for such removal or for the payment for the
removal. (Ord. 99-16, 12-7-1999)
4-7-9: REMOVAL OF GRAFFITI BY PROPERTY OWNER OR CITY:
If graffiti is not removed by the perpetrator according to Section
4-7-8 of this Chapter, graffiti shall be removed pursuant to the following
provisions:
   A.   Property Owner Responsibility: It is unlawful for any person who is the
owner or who has primary responsibility for control of property or for repair
or maintenance of property in the City to permit property that is defaced with
graffiti to remain defaced for a period of ten (10) days after service by first
class mail of notice of the defacement. The notice shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The street address and legal description of the property sufficient
for identification of the property;
      2.   A statement that the property is a potential graffiti nuisance
property with a concise description of the conditions leading to the finding;
      3.   A statement that the graffiti must be removed within ten (10) days
after receipt of the notice and that if the graffiti is not abated within that
time the City will declare the property to be a public nuisance, subject to the
abatement procedures in this Section; and
      4.   An information sheet identifying any graffiti removal assistance
programs available through the City and private graffiti removal contractors.
   B.   Exceptions To Property Owner Responsibility: The removal requirements
of subsection A of this Section shall not apply if the property owner or
responsible party can demonstrate that:
      1.   The property owner or responsible party lacks the financial ability
to remove the defacing graffiti; or
      2.   The property owner or responsible party has an active program for
the removal of graffiti and has scheduled the removal of the graffiti as part
of that program, in which case it shall be unlawful to permit such property to
remain defaced with graffiti for a period of fifteen (15) days after service by
first class mail or notice of the defacement.
   C.   Right Of City To Remove:
      1.   Use Of Public Funds: Whenever the City becomes aware or is notified
and determines that graffiti is located on publicly or privately owned property
viewable from a public or quasi-public place, the City shall be authorized to
use public funds for the removal of the graffiti, or for the painting or
repairing of the graffiti, but shall not authorize or undertake to provide for
the painting or repair of any more extensive an area than that where the
graffiti is located, unless the City Manager, or the designee of the City
Manager, determines in writing that a more extensive area is required to be
repainted or repaired in order to avoid an aesthetic disfigurement of the
neighborhood or community, or unless the property owner or responsible party
agrees to pay for the costs of repainting or repairing the more extensive area.
      2.   Right Of Entry On Private Property: Prior to entering upon private
property or property owned by a public entity other than the City for the
purpose of graffiti removal, the City shall secure the consent of the property
owner or responsible party and a release of the City from liability for
property damage or personal injury. If the property owner or responsible party
fails to remove the offending graffiti within the time specified by this
Chapter, or if the City has requested consent to remove or paint over the
offending graffiti and the property owner or responsible party has refused
consent for entry on terms acceptable to the City and consistent with the terms
of this Section, the City shall commence abatement and cost recovery
proceedings for the graffiti removal according to the provisions specified
below.
   D.   Abatement And Cost Recovery Proceedings:
      1.   Notice Of Due Process Hearing: The City Manager, or the designee of
the City Manager, serving as the hearing officer, shall provide the property
owner of record and the party responsible for the maintenance of the property,
if a person different than the owner, not less than forty eight (48) hours'
notice of the City's intent to hold a due process hearing at which the property
owner or responsible party shall be entitled to present evidence and argue that
the property does not constitute a public nuisance. Notice shall be served in
the same manner as a summons in a civil action in accordance with the Nevada
Rules of Civil Procedure. If the owner of record cannot be found after a
diligent search, the notice may be served by posting a copy thereof in a
conspicuous place upon the property for a period of ten (10) days and
publication thereof in a newspaper of general circulation published in the area
in which the property is located.
      2.   Determination Of Hearing Officer: The determination of the hearing
officer after the due process hearing shall be final and not appealable. If,
after the due process hearing, regardless of the attendance of the owner or the
responsible party or their respective agents, the hearing officer determines
that the property contains graffiti viewable from a public or quasi-public
place, the hearing officer shall give written notice in an eradication order
that, unless the graffiti is removed within ten (10) days, the City shall enter
upon the property and cause the removal, painting over (in such color as shall
meet with the approval of the hearing officer), or such other eradication
thereof as the hearing officer determines appropriate, and shall provide the
owner and the responsible party thereafter with an accounting of the costs of
the eradication effort on a full cost recovery basis.
      3.   Eradication Effort: Not sooner than the time specified in the order
of the hearing officer, the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager,
shall implement the eradication order and shall provide an accounting to the
owner and the responsible party of the costs thereof.
      4.   Cost Hearing: The owner or responsible party may request a cost
hearing before the hearing officer on the eradication accounting, and
appropriate due process must be extended to the owner or responsible party. If,
following the cost hearing, or if no hearing is requested, after the
implementation of eradication order the hearing officer determines that all or
a portion of the costs are appropriately chargeable to the eradication effort,
the total amount set forth in the eradication accounting, or an amount thereof
determined as appropriate by the hearing officer, shall be due and payable by
the owner or responsible party within thirty (30) days. Any amount of
eradication charges assessed by the hearing officer which is less than the
total amount set forth in the eradication accounting shall be explained by
written letter from the hearing officer to the City Council.
      5.   Lien: As to such property where the responsible party is the
property owner, if all or any portion of the assessed eradication charges
remain unpaid after thirty (30) days, the portion thereof that remains unpaid
shall constitute a lien on the property that was the subject of the eradication
effort. The Director of Public Works shall present a resolution of lien to the
City Council, and upon passage and adoption thereof, shall cause a certified
copy of the lien to be recorded with the City Clerk's office. (Ord. 99-16, 12-
7-1999)
4-7-10: EASE OF REMOVAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Common Utility Colors And Paint Type: Any gas, electric, telephone,
water, sewer, cable, and other utility operating in the City shall paint its
above-surface metal fixtures with a uniform paint type and color that meets
with the approval of the City Manager.
   B.   Conditioned Encroachment Permits: All encroachment permits issued by
the City shall, among other things, be conditioned on:
      1.   The permittee's application of an anti-graffiti material to the
encroaching object of a type and nature that is acceptable to the City Manager
or the City Manager's designee;
      2.   The permittee's immediate removal of any graffiti;
      3.   The City's right to remove graffiti or to paint the encroaching
object; or
      4.   The permittee's providing the City with sufficient matching paint
and/or anti-graffiti material on demand for use in the painting of the
encroaching object containing graffiti.
   C.   Conditioned Tentative Maps: In approving tentative or parcel maps,
conditional use permits, variances, or other similar land use entitlements, the
City shall consider imposing any or all of the following conditions, or other
similar or related conditions, at the public hearing required by law for
approval of the tentative or parcel map, conditional use permit, variance or
other similar land use entitlement:
      1.   Use Of Anti-Graffiti Material: Developer shall apply an anti-
graffiti material of a type and nature that is acceptable to the City Manager,
or the designee of the City Manager, to the publicly viewable surfaces on the
improvements to be constructed at the site deemed by the City Manager or
designee to be likely to attract graffiti;
      2.   Right Of Access To Remove Graffiti: Developer shall grant, prior to
resale of any of the parcels that are within the territory of the map, the
right of entry over and access to such parcels, upon forty eight (48) hours'
posting of notice by authorized City employees or agents to the City for the
purpose of removing or painting over graffiti;
      3.   Supply City With Graffiti-Removal Material: Developer shall, for a
period of two (2) years after the resale of the final lot, provide the City
with sufficient matching paint and/or anti- graffiti material on demand for use
in the painting over or removal of graffiti; or
      4.   Owner To Immediately Remove Graffiti: Developer shall, either as
part of the general conditions, covenants and restrictions, or separate
covenants recorded against individual lots, prior to resale of any of the
parcels, covenant in a form satisfactory to the City that the owner of the lots
shall immediately remove any graffiti placed thereon. (Ord. 99-16, 12-7-1999)
4-7-11: PREVENTION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Design Of Potential Graffiti-Attracting Surfaces: Any applicant for
design review approval, conditional use permit, special use permit,
unclassified permit, development agreement, or other form of development or
building permit, shall, to the extent deemed feasible by the City Manager, or
the designee of the City Manager, have designed any building structure visible
from any public or quasi-public place in such a manner to consider prevention
of graffiti, including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Use of a protective coating to provide for the effective and
expeditious removal of graffiti;
      2.   Use of additional lighting;
      3.   Use of nonsolid fencing;
      4.   Use of landscaping designed to cover large expansive walls such as
ivy or similar clinging vegetation; or
      5.   Use of architectural design to break up long, continuous walls or
solid areas.
   B.   Retrofit Existing Graffiti-Attracting Surfaces, Nonresidential
Structures: The following provisions may be incorporated in a graffiti
eradication order during an abatement hearing, at the discretion of the hearing
officer:
      1.   At Owner's Expense: Any surface of a structure on a parcel of land
used for nonresidential purposes that has been defaced with graffiti more than
five (5) times in twelve (12) months shall be declared a public nuisance and
required to be retrofitted, at the cost of the property owner, with features or
qualities as may be established by the City as necessary to reduce the
attractiveness of the surface for graffiti, or as necessary to permit more
convenient or efficient removal of graffiti. In exercising the authority
hereunder, the City may not impose a cost on the property owner of greater than
one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
      2.   At City's Cost: The owner of property used for nonresidential
purposes on which is located a surface that has been defaced with graffiti more
than five (5) times in twelve (12) months shall permit the City to enter the
property and, at the City's cost, make modification as necessary to reduce the
attractiveness of the surface for graffiti, or as necessary to permit more
convenient or efficient removal of graffiti. (Ord. 99-16, 12-7-1999)
4-7-12: TRUST FUND:
The City Council hereby creates the City of West Wendover Anti- Graffiti Trust
Fund. Penalties assessed against violators of this Chapter shall be placed in
the Fund, along with any monetary donations received from persons wishing to
contribute to the Fund. The Council shall direct the expenditures of monies in
the Fund. Such expenditures shall be limited to the payment of the cost of
graffiti removal, the payment, at the discretion of the City Manager, of
rewards for information leading to the conviction of violation of this Chapter,
the costs of administering this Chapter, and such other public purposes as may
be approved by the Council by resolution. (Ord. 99-16, 12-7-1999)
4-7-13: SEVERABILITY:
Severability is intended throughout and within the provisions of this Chapter.
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this Chapter
is held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction,
then that decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of
this Chapter. (Ord. 99-16, 12-7-1999)
CHAPTER 8
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT CODE
SECTION:
4-8-1: Short Title
4-8-2: Definitions
4-8-3: Emergency Management Supervisor
4-8-4: Supervisor's Duties
4-8-5: Supervisor's Functions
4-8-6: Grants And Funding
4-8-7: Emergency Management Plan
4-8-8: Declaration Of An Emergency
4-8-9: Emergency Operation Plan Implementation
4-8-10: Enacted Emergency Orders
4-8-11: Debris Removal
4-8-12: Continuity Of Government
4-8-13: Violation/Penalty
4-8-1: SHORT TITLE:
Ordinance 95-3B, codified as Chapter 8 of Title 4 of the West Wendover City
Code, hereby is entitled and may be referred to as the EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CODE. (Ord. 95-3B, 6-6-1995)
4-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
EMERGENCY: The actual or threatened existence of unforeseen circumstances and
conditions of disaster or of extreme peril to the safety of persons and
property within this City caused by such conditions as chemical spills,
earthquakes, epidemics, fires, floods, riots, nuclear/radiological accidents,
storms or other conditions, including conditions resulting from a war or
imminent threat of war, which conditions are or are likely to be beyond the
control of the services, personnel, equipment, and facilities of this City, and
require the immediate action and response of the City and/or other governmental
agencies.
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT: The preparation for and carrying out of all emergency
functions, other than functions for which military forces are primarily
responsible, to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage resulting from
emergencies. These functions include firefighting, police services, medical and
health services, searches, rescues, engineering, public warnings,
communications, radiological protection, chemical mitigation, special weapons
of defense, evacuation of persons from stricken areas, disaster welfare
services, emergency transportation, temporary restoration of public utility
services, and other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for
carrying out of the foregoing functions.
PLAN: The emergency operation plan.
SUPERVISOR: The Emergency Management Supervisor. (Ord. 95-3B, 6-6-1995)
4-8-3: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT SUPERVISOR:
The position of Emergency Management Supervisor for the City of West Wendover
is hereby created. The Emergency Management Supervisor ("Supervisor") shall be
appointed by the City Manager and approved by the City Council ("Council"). The
Supervisor shall be responsible for emergency management programs in accordance
with this Chapter, the City's emergency operation plan and the State of
Nevada's emergency management plan. The Supervisor also shall be responsible
for the City's emergency management organization, subject to the direction and
control of the City Manager. The Supervisor shall serve at the pleasure of the
Council and may be removed at any time with or without cause. Unless otherwise
set forth by ordinance, the Supervisor shall not receive any compensation or
benefits for the performance of his duties and functions outlined herein,
except that if the Supervisor is otherwise employed by the City in a separate
position, the hours the Supervisor spends in performing his duties hereunder
may be counted toward his workweek hours for purposes of determining overtime
compensation, if any. (Ord. 95-3B, 6-6-1995)
4-8-4: SUPERVISOR'S DUTIES:
The Supervisor shall be responsible, in collaboration with other public and
private agencies within the State, to develop or cause to be developed,
arrangements for reciprocal aid or assistance in the case of disaster requiring
assistance from other such agencies. Reciprocal aid agreements shall be subject
to approval by the Council and shall be consistent with the State's plan and
program for emergency management. In time of emergency, each local organization
for emergency management shall render assistance in accordance with the
provision of such agreements. (Ord. 95-3B, 6-6-1995)
4-8-5: SUPERVISOR'S FUNCTIONS:
The Supervisor shall, with respect to emergencies, perform and exercise other
such functions, powers and duties as are necessary to promote and provide for
the health, safety and welfare of the citizens within the territorial limits of
the City, including, but not limited to, the development of a City emergency
operation plan ("Plan") and emergency management training education programs
and exercises. In addition, the Supervisor shall conduct such functions outside
the City limits as may be required, pursuant to the provisions of Nevada
Revised Statutes chapter 414. (Ord. 95-3B, 6-6-1995)
4-8-6: GRANTS AND FUNDING:
The Supervisor is hereby authorized and empowered to petition, acquire and
accept funds from the United States Federal Government or any agency or office
thereof, or from the State of Nevada, on behalf of the City for emergency
management purposes, as provided in the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes
414.130. All funds received immediately shall be deposited with the City Clerk.
(Ord. 95-3B, 6-6-1995)
4-8-7: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN:
The Supervisor shall develop an emergency management plan which shall include:
   A.   A basic plan of emergency operations;
   B.   Annexes to the Plan addressing:
      1.   Emergency management
      2.   Fire control operations
      3.   Law enforcement operations
      4.   Ambulance and emergency medical operations
      5.   Public health
      6.   Care and shelter operations
      7.   Evacuation operations
      8.   Rescue operations
      9.   Public works operations
      10.   Resource information
      11.   Emergency public information
      12.   Records management
      13.   Damage assessment
      14.   Animal control
      15.   Hazardous materials
      16.   Communications
      17.   Radiological protection
      18.   Coordination with State emergency plan and State agencies.
The Plan shall take effect upon adoption by resolution of the Council. The
Supervisor shall be responsible for a yearly update and maintenance of said
Plan. (Ord. 95-3B, 6-6-1995)
4-8-8: DECLARATION OF AN EMERGENCY:
In accordance with Nevada Revised Statutes 241.020, the Council may call an
emergency meeting upon the existence of emergency conditions as defined in
Nevada Revised Statutes 241.020(5). If the Council determines that a state of
emergency exists, the Council shall declare in writing that an emergency exists
and shall publicize, by a method deemed appropriate by the Council, the
existence of the emergency. If circumstances prohibit timely action by the
Council, the Fire Chief or City Manager, acting as the City Director of
Emergency Services, as provided in Section
4-8-9 of this Chapter, may declare a state of emergency and seek the
ratification of that declaration by a majority of the Council at its next
lawful meeting. If the Council fails to ratify the action of the Mayor or City
Manager, the state of emergency will cease to exist.
The Council or the City Manager shall terminate the state of emergency when the
emergency no longer exists or the threat of an emergency has passed. (Ord. 95-
3B, 6-6-1995)
4-8-9: EMERGENCY OPERATION PLAN IMPLEMENTATION:
   A.   At the inception of and during an emergency, the City Manager, or his
or her designee, will assume the title and duties as the Director of Emergency
Services, and the Fire Chief will serve as the Assistant Director of Emergency
Services. The Director of Emergency Services:
      1.   Shall implement the Plan, and may direct and control all City
employees as are required to implement said Plan.
      2.   May, through requisition or contract with private parties or other
governmental entities, obtain vital services, supplies and equipment needed to
protect life and property and implement the Plan, and may bind the City for the
value thereof without being required to comply with the normal purchasing
procedures, if compliance with those procedures would unreasonably hamper or
impair the implementation of the Plan.
      3.   May suspend any licensing requirements for persons whose services
are required for implementation of the Plan.
   B.   The emergency powers granted the City Manager and/or Fire Chief under
this Section may be revoked, limited or restricted by order of the Council.
(Ord. 95-3B, 6-6-1995)
4-8-10: ENACTED EMERGENCY ORDERS:
If a declared state of emergency exists within the City, the Council may, if it
deems it necessary to maintain the peace and protect the public, order and
enforce the measures listed in this Section. If circumstances prohibit the
timely action of the Council, the City Manager may, under the same
circumstances, enact the emergency orders listed below. If the Council and the
City Manager are not available or are unable to act, the Fire Chief, acting as
Assistant Director of Emergency Services, shall be empowered to act on behalf
of the Council and City Manager to enact the emergency orders listed below. Any
emergency orders enacted shall be reported to the Council at its next lawfully
scheduled meeting. The emergency orders listed below shall be ratified,
terminated or may be modified by the Council.
Subject to the limitations imposed by subsection 4-8-9B of this Chapter, the
Council, City Manager, and/or Fire Chief may:
   A.   Establish a curfew for the area designated as an emergency area which
fixes the hours during which persons other than officially authorized personnel
may be upon the public streets or in other public places.
   B.   Barricade streets and roads, as well as access points onto streets and
roads, to prohibit or restrict vehicular or pedestrian traffic in the area.
   C.   Prohibit the sale, distribution or giving away of gasoline or any other
flammable or combustible product in any container except a gasoline tank
properly affixed to a motor vehicle, or a type of container generally used in
connection with normal home use or legitimate commercial use.
   D.   Order the closing of all or portions of all gasoline stations and other
establishments which sell, distribute or dispose of liquid flammable or
combustible products.
   E.   Order the closing of retail stores which sell intoxicating liquor.
   F.   Prohibit the sale of intoxicating liquor.
   G.   Order the closing of any or all establishments or portions thereof
which sell, distribute, dispense or give away explosives.
   H.   Enter into contracts and incur obligations necessary to mitigate,
prepare for, respond to or recover from the emergency.
   I.   Redirect funds for emergency use.
   J.   Suspend standard procurement procedures to obtain necessary services or
equipment.
   K.   Commit to mutual aid agreements.
   L.   Perform and exercise such other functions, powers and duties as are
necessary to promote and secure the safety and protection of the civilian
population. (Ord. 95-3B, 6-6-1995)
4-8-11: DEBRIS REMOVAL:
To the extent necessary during or after the existence of a declared emergency,
and under the direction of the City Manager, the Director of the City's Public
Works Department may remove debris which threatens the public health or safety.
Any action taken by the Director of Public Works under this Section shall be
reported by the City Manager to the Council at its next regularly scheduled
meeting. Under the direction and control of the City Manager, the City Public
Works Director may:
   A.   Use the mutual aid agreements with other governmental entities or, if
necessary, private resources.
   B.   Accept funds from the Federal Government or the State and utilize those
funds for the purpose of removing such debris.
Debris which exists on City-owned property may be removed at West Wendover's
expense, provided that the expense of removing any debris caused by the
negligent or intentional act of any person may be recovered from that person.
The City Public Works Director may order that debris which exists on privately
owned property be removed by the owner of the property or the person
responsible for the property at the owner's or other person's expense. Each
order must specify the nature of the threat to the public and the minimum
quantity of debris which must be removed to eliminate the threat. During an
emergency, the order is effective when orally conveyed to the owner or other
person responsible for the property.
Upon the failure of a person to comply with the order described in this
Section, the City Public Works Director may remove or cause the removal of the
debris. The owner of the property or the person responsible for the property
shall be liable to the City for the cost incurred.
When immediate emergency debris removal measures are determined necessary for
protection of public health and safety, or public or private property, and oral
or written authorization cannot be obtained from the owner or other person
responsible for the property, the City Public Works Director may authorize the
entry upon the public or private lands or waters and the performance of such
tasks necessary to the emergency debris removal or clearance operations. (Ord.
95-3B, 6-6-1995)
4-8-12: CONTINUITY OF GOVERNMENT:
In order to assure the continuance of governmental function, it is necessary to
establish replacements for key positions. The following positions are
considered key positions in emergency management, and absences and vacancies
will be filled as follows:
 
Office            Absence Or Vacancy Filled By
Mayor             1. Mayor Pro Tem
City Manager      1. Assistant City Manager
Chief of Police   1. Sergeant
Fire Chief        1. Assistant Fire Chief
Other Departments Vacancies to be filled by appointment as necessary.
 
(Ord. 95-3B, 6-6-1995)
4-8-13: VIOLATION/PENALTY:
It is a misdemeanor, during a declared emergency, for any person to:
   A.   Wilfully obstruct, hinder, or delay any member of the City's emergency
operations organization acting in the enforcement of any lawful rule or
regulation imposed upon such person by virtue of this Chapter;
   B.   Wilfully obstruct, hinder, or delay any member of the City's emergency
operations organization in the performance of his or her emergency-related
duties;
   C.   Do any act forbidden by any lawful rule or regulation issued pursuant
to this Chapter, if such act is of such nature as to imperil the lives or
property of inhabitants of this City, or to prevent, hinder or delay the
protection thereof, or give, or be likely to give assistance to an enemy;
   D.   Wear, carry, or display, without authority, any means of identification
specified by the Nevada State Division of Emergency Management or the City of
West Wendover. (Ord. 95-3B, 6-6-1995)
CHAPTER 9
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-9-1: Definitions
4-9-2: Nuisance Unlawful
4-9-3: Nuisances Enumerated
4-9-4: Investigation, Notice, Hearing
4-9-5: Abatement Order By City Council
4-9-6: Abatement Work By City
4-9-7: Objection To Assessment
4-9-8: Overhead Charge, Civil Penalties
4-9-9: Abatement Cost Collection
4-9-10: Nature Of Lien
4-9-11: Remedies Cumulative
4-9-12: Emergency Declaration And Abatement
4-9-13: Effect
4-9-14: Severability
4-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
Any term used herein in the singular shall include the plural, and any such
term used in the plural shall include the singular. The word "person" shall
include any natural person, firm, company, partnership or corporation, and the
provisions of this chapter shall apply to any owner, lessor or lessee of the
premises.
ABANDONED VEHICLE: Any vehicle:
   A.   Upon a city street, highway or road which is so disabled or in such a
state of disrepair that its normal operation is impossible or impractical;
   B.   That has been left unattended and dangerously close to a travel lane on
a city highway, street or road so as to possibly impede traffic; or
   C.   Which has not been moved or used for more than fourteen (14)
consecutive days and reasonably appears to have been deserted 1 .
ABATEMENT: The removal, stoppage, prostration or destruction of that which
causes or constitutes a nuisance, whether by breaking or pulling it down, or
otherwise destroying, or effacing it.
CLASSIC ROD: Any passenger car or light commercial vehicle entitled to be
registered with the Nevada department of motor vehicles as a "classic rod"
which:
   A.   Has a manufacturer's carrying capacity of one ton or less; and
   B.   Was manufactured not earlier than 1949, but at least twenty (20) years
before the date of application for registration 2 .
CLASSIC VEHICLE: Any passenger car or light commercial vehicle entitled to
registration with the Nevada department of motor vehicles as a "classic
vehicle" which:
   A.   Has a manufacturer's rate carrying capacity of one ton or less;
   B.   Was manufactured at least twenty five (25) years before the date of
application for registration; and
   C.   Contains only the original parts which were used to manufacture the
vehicle or replacement parts that duplicate those original parts 3 .
JUNKED VEHICLE: A vehicle, including component parts, which:
   A.   Has been ruined, wrecked, dismantled or rendered inoperative;
   B.   Is unfit for further use in accordance with the original purpose for
which it was constructed;
   C.   Is not registered with the Nevada department of motor vehicles; and
   D.   Has value principally as scrap which does not exceed two hundred
dollars ($200.00) 4 .
OWNER: The owner of record based on the county assessor's or county recorder's
record or any person with a legal, financial or equitable interest of record in
the property on which the alleged public nuisance exists at the time of the
violation.
PROPERTY: Real property, premises, structure or location on which a public
nuisance is alleged to exist.
STREET ROD: Any passenger car or light commercial vehicle entitled to
registration with the Nevada department of motor vehicles as a "street rod"
which:
   A.   Has a manufacturer's rate carrying capacity of one ton or less; and
   B.   Was manufactured not later than 1948 5 .
UNREGISTERED VEHICLE: Any vehicle or component thereof on which there is not
displayed evidence of current registration with the Nevada department of motor
vehicles or current registration with a similar agency of another state.
VEHICLE: A piece of mechanical equipment intended for the conveyance or
temporary housing of persons or personal property or parts thereof, including,
but not limited to, automobiles, trucks, boats, campers, camper shells, vans,
motor homes, converted buses, motorcycles, ATVs and similar vehicles. (Ord. 97-
02, 5-20-1997; amd. Ord. 04-02, 9-21-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. NRS 487.210.
2 1. NRS 482.3814.
3 2. NRS 482.3816.
4 3. NRS 487.260(6).
5 1. NRS 482.3812.
4-9-2: NUISANCE UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit or maintain a public nuisance or
wilfully omit or refuse to perform any legal duty relating to the removal of
any such nuisance, and it shall be unlawful for any person to let, or permit to
be used, any building or portion thereof, knowing that the same is intended to
be, or is being used for committing or maintaining any such nuisance. (Ord. 97-
02, 5-20-1997)
4-9-3: NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
Each and all of the things, properties, acts, commissions, omissions,
performances, failures and operations in this section set forth, within the
limits of the city, are hereby declared to be and are, and each of them is
declared to be and is, a public nuisance:
   A.   Nuisance Businesses, Premises And Acts:
      1.   Other businesses, occupations, premises, acts and things which are
not ordinarily nuisances per se, are, and each of them is, hereby declared to
be a nuisance when, by reason of its or their location, nature, time or method
of operation, or effect, it or they shall tend to injure or interfere with the
health, morals, peace, comfort, convenience, safety or enjoyment of the
neighborhood or the public or to be prejudicial to the public interest.
      2.   Every place:
         a.   Wherein any fighting between animals and birds shall be
conducted; or
         b.   Wherein any intoxicating liquors are kept for unlawful use, sale
or distribution; or
         c.   Where vagrants resort.
      3.   Every act unlawfully done and every omission to perform a duty,
which act or omission:
         a.   Shall annoy, injure or endanger the safety, health, comfort or
repose of any considerable number of persons; or
         b.   Shall unlawfully interfere with, befoul, obstruct or tend to
obstruct, or render dangerous for passage, a lake, river, stream, canal, ditch
or public park, square, street, alley, bridge or highway.
   B.   Loud Noises: Bells, whistles and other loud and annoying or disturbing
sounds and noises which disturb the peace, enjoyment or sleep of residents in
the neighborhood.
   C.   Dangerous Blasting: Blasting, when the same is injurious to neighboring
property owners or to neighboring property.
   D.   Explosives: The manufacture, storing or keeping of explosives in large
quantities, without the special permission of the city council.
   E.   Unguarded Doors And Entrances: Doors and entrances on or near
sidewalks, streets, alleyways or property open to public access when not
properly safeguarded or protected.
   F.   Dangerous Excavations: Excavations so close to any public street or
alley as to render it dangerous for a person using the way lawfully and with
ordinary care, unless such excavation is properly guarded against the
occurrence of accident.
   G.   Obstructions On Streets Or Alleys: The obstruction of any street or
alley or part thereof, except such part as may be necessary in the erection and
construction of buildings or other improvements upon the adjoining property.
   H.   Contagious Diseases In Public Places: Exposure upon the streets or
public places of contagious diseases.
   I.   Stagnant Water: Collection of surface water upon the streets or upon
private property which is caused by excess or improper water usage including,
but not limited to, irrigating, washing/cleaning or recreational use.
   J.   Offensive Matter: The discharge, storage or maintenance of sewage,
garbage, filth, refuse or other noxious matter.
   K.   Dense Smoke: Any chimney, stationary engine, boiler, smokestack or
other machine, engine, receptacle, pipe or conduit from which is emitted black
or dense smoke or fumes, or smoke, fumes or gases containing soot, cinders or
other matter, at such times or places or in such quantities as to be injurious
to the public health or as to result in such deposits of soot or other
substances as to injure or interfere with the health, comfort, peace or
enjoyment of neighboring residents.
   L.   Tainted Or Spoiled Food Or Drink: Any article of food or drink used or
to be used by man, in the possession or under the control of any person, which
is tainted, decayed, spoiled or otherwise unwholesome or unfit to be eaten or
drunk.
   M.   Noxious Or Dry Weeds: Weeds which are by their nature noxious or which
when dry constitute a danger or menace of catching or spreading of fire.
   N.   Burning Weeds And Rubbish: The burning of weeds or other rubbish,
except with the permission of, and in accordance with, the regulations of the
proper authorities.
   O.   Dangerous Conditions: Public nuisance shall further mean any fence,
wall, shed, deck, house, garage, building, structure or any part of any of the
aforesaid; or any tree, pole, smokestack, vehicle, or any excavation, hole,
pit, basement, cellar, sidewalk subspace, dock, or any lot, land, yard,
premises or location which in its entirety, or in any part thereof, by reason
of the condition in which the same is found or permitted to be or remain, shall
or may endanger the health, safety, life, limb or property, or cause any hurt,
harm, inconvenience, discomfort, damage or injury to any one or more
individuals in the city, in any one or more of the following particulars:
      1.   By reason of being a menace, threat and/or hazard to the general
health and safety of the community.
      2.   By reason of being unsafe for occupancy, or use on, in, upon, about
or around the aforesaid property.
      3.   By reason of being a fire hazard.
      4.   By reason of lack of sufficient or adequate maintenance of the
property, and/or being vacant, and/or failing to complete improvements of any
nature, any of which depreciates the enjoyment and use of the property in the
immediate vicinity to such an extent that it is harmful to the community in
which such property is situated or such condition exists.
   P.   Hazardous Material: Any substance defined as a "hazardous material" by
code of federal regulations 49 or any substance defined as a "hazardous waste"
by code of federal regulations 40 or any substance which is defined as
"hazardous" under other applicable state or federal law, which because of
improper transportation, storage, use or disposal may cause an unreasonable
risk to safety, health and/or property. The spill or escape of any such
substance may, in the discretion of the fire chief or police chief, be
immediately declared a public nuisance and ordered abated at the expense of the
at fault party and/or owner of such substance. (Ord. 97-02, 5-20-1997)
   Q.   Junked, Abandoned And/Or Unregistered Vehicles:
      1.   Except as stated herein, the keeping of, for any reason, any junked,
abandoned and/or unregistered vehicle or vehicles on any highway, street, or
other thoroughfare or upon any public or private property.
      2.   The provisions of subsection Q1 of this section do not apply to:
         a.   Persons licensed pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 487.050 or
487.410;
         b.   Junked or unregistered vehicles on private property of a licensed
dealer, manufacturer, distributor or rebuilder of vehicles;
         c.   Junked or unregistered vehicles on private property used as a
farm, ranch, mine, or licensed vehicle repair shop;
         d.   Junked or unregistered vehicles on private property used by any
person engaged in the restoration of one or more vehicles entitled to be
registered as a street rod, classic rod or classic vehicle;
         e.   No more than two (2) junked vehicles that do not qualify under
subsections Q2a through Q2d of this section, which are:
            (1)   On private property contained within a fenced enclosure which
screens the vehicle from any property line when standing at ground level (at
the fence baseline); or
            (2)   On private property contained in a garage or accessory
building so as to prevent viewing of the vehicle from any property line by
persons standing at ground level.
         f.   No more than two (2) unregistered vehicles which:
            (1)   Are on private property and, if it is on the ground, has all
tires inflated and affixed thereto or, if it is raised, has all tires affixed
thereto.
            (2)   Has no shattered window glass or collision damage, and has
the hood, fender, doors, trunk and all other body parts affixed thereto and
maintained in a closed position.
      3.   The abandonment of a vehicle upon any highway, street or other
public thoroughfare, or upon any public or private property within the city.
      4.   All remedies provided in this chapter are available to abate
nuisances under this subsection Q. In addition, the city may enforce this
subsection Q through the following procedures:
         a.   Whenever a public nuisance under this subsection Q exists on
private property in the city in violation hereof, the chief of police and/or
his employees, who shall administer this subsection Q, shall give not less than
ten (10) days' notice to the owner of the real property or the occupant, if
any, of the premises whereon such public nuisance exists to abate or remove the
same, stating the nature of the public nuisance on private property and that it
must be removed and abated within ten (10) days and further that a request for
a hearing must be made before expiration of said ten (10) day period by the
aggrieved person, such notice to be mailed, by certified or registered mail
with a return receipt requested, to the owner or the occupant of the private
premises whereupon such public nuisance exists. If the notice is returned
undelivered by the United States post office, official action to abate said
nuisance shall be continued to a date not less than ten (10) days from the date
of such return.
         b.   Whenever a public nuisance under this subsection Q exists on
public property or rights of way in the city in violation hereof, the chief of
police and/or his employees, shall give not less than a ten (10) day notice,
stating the nature of the public nuisance on the public property or on a public
right of way and that it must be removed and abated within ten (10) days and
further that a request for a hearing must be made before expiration of said ten
(10) day period, such notice to be mailed, by certified or registered mail with
a return receipt requested, to the owner or the occupant of the public premises
or to the owner or the occupant of the premises adjacent to the public right of
way whereupon such public nuisance exists. If the notice is returned
undelivered by the United States post office, official action to abate said
nuisance shall be continued to a date not less than ten (10) days from the date
of such return.
         c.   A public hearing prior to the removal of the vehicle or part
thereof as a public nuisance is to be held before the city council, or official
of the city as designated by the city council, when such a hearing is requested
by the owner or occupant of the public or private premises or by the owner or
occupant of the premises adjacent to the public right of way on which said
vehicle is located, within ten (10) days after service of notice to abate the
nuisance. Any resolution or order requiring the removal of a vehicle or part
thereof shall include a description of the vehicle, and the identification
number and license number of the vehicle, if available at the site and an order
imposing the costs, expenses and attorney fees incurred by the city as an
assessment against the property.
         d.   If within ten (10) days after receipt of notice from the chief of
police and/or his employees, or his duly authorized agent, to abate the
nuisance, as herein provided, the owner or occupant of the premises gives his
written permission to the chief of police or his employees or authorized agents
for removal of the vehicle from the premises, the giving of such permission
shall be considered compliance with the provisions of subsection Q4c of this
section.
         e.   If such a public nuisance is not abated by said owner or occupant
after notice is given in accordance with this subsection Q, official action may
be taken by the city to abate such nuisance. Vehicles or parts thereof may be
disposed of by removal to a scrapyard, demolishers, or any suitable site
operated by the city for processing as scrap or salvage, which removal or
process shall be considered with subsection Q4f of this section. A vehicle
disposed of to a demolisher, in accordance with this subsection Q, must be
transferred to such demolisher by a form acceptable to the department of motor
vehicles.
         f.   Except as may be limited by applicable search and seizure law,
the chief of police and/or his employees, or his agent, may enter upon private
property for the purposes specified in this subsection Q to examine vehicles or
parts thereof, obtain information as to the identity of vehicles and to remove
or cause the removal of a vehicle or parts thereof declared to be a nuisance
pursuant to this subsection Q. The powers and remedies provided herein are
cumulative, and it shall not be necessary to institute an action in municipal
court to take enforcement actions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the municipal
court of the city shall have authority to issue all warrants or other orders
necessary to enforce these provisions concerning such nuisances whether or not
an action is filed therein.
         g.   Nothing in these provisions shall affect other code provisions or
laws that permit immediate or other removal of a vehicle left on public
property which constitutes an obstruction to traffic or other violation of law.
In addition, these provisions shall not be deemed to affect any other
provisions of this code concerning public nuisances or limit the city to solely
asserting its rights and remedies provided herein.
         h.   If a municipal court action is instituted, upon conviction for
violation of any of these provisions relating to the maintaining of a public
nuisance as described herein or in permitting or allowing such public nuisance
to exist, such violator may be punished by a fine not exceeding five hundred
dollars ($500.00) and each day that such nuisance shall continue after the time
for abatement as herein set out shall constitute a separate offense.
         i.   Should the city incur any costs, expenses or attorney fees in
abating the nuisance as provided herein, such costs shall constitute a special
assessment against the property upon which the condition is or was located.
This may be collected at the same time in the same manner as ordinary county
taxes are collected and is subject to the same penalties and the same procedure
and sale in the case of delinquency. (Ord. 04-02, 9-21-2004)
   R.   Common Law Nuisances: Anything, in addition to the foregoing, held or
adjudged to be a nuisance under the common law shall also constitute a nuisance
within the city. (Ord. 97-02, 5-20-1997; amd. Ord. 04-02, 9-21-2004)
4-9-4: INVESTIGATION, NOTICE, HEARING:
   A.   Investigation: It shall be within the power of the building inspector,
fire chief or police chief or such person or persons as they shall appoint, to
investigate any condition existing in the city which they may deem to
constitute a nuisance.
   B.   Notice: Except as provided in subsection B1 of this section, if, in
his, her or their judgment such nuisance does in fact so exist, the same shall
be reported to the city council which shall order the city clerk to issue a
notice to the person creating, maintaining, causing or committing said nuisance
or owning or in possession, charge or control of the real property upon which
the same is created, maintained, caused or committed to appear before the city
council at a specified regular meeting, to be held not sooner than twelve (12)
days from the date of the mailing of said notice and to there show cause why
said nuisance should not be declared and an order of abatement issued. The city
clerk shall cause such notice to be mailed via certified mail, return receipt,
to the aforesaid person(s) at his or her place of business or residence, but if
neither is known, then no mailing shall be necessary, and the city clerk shall
further cause a copy of said notice to be posted upon the premises where said
nuisance is deemed to exist and an affidavit shall be filed by the city clerk
stating the fact and the date of the mailing and/or posting of said notice.
Such notice shall also be provided to lien holders of record, if any.
      1.   The foregoing notwithstanding, nothing herein prevents the fire
chief, police chief, building inspector or any other person from reporting an
alleged public nuisance to the city attorney who may bring an action for
violation of this chapter and abatement in municipal court or any other court
of competent jurisdiction against the responsible parties. In such case, the
matter must be brought to trial within sixty (60) days of the filing of the
complaint unless the parties have entered a written stipulation for abatement.
The court shall further have the power, upon cause shown, to shorten any
relevant time periods for response by the parties. In addition, the court shall
have jurisdiction to order abatement and assess the costs, expenses and fines
as provided hereinafter for the city council to the extent the same may be made
applicable to municipal court proceedings.
   C.   Notice Requirements: The aforesaid notice to the owner and lien holder,
if any, of the property shall state clearly the findings of the building
inspector, fire chief or police chief with respect to the existence of a public
nuisance. The notice shall further state that the city council may declare the
existence of the nuisance and order the alleged public nuisance abated at the
hearing and that unless the owner thereof shall cause the abatement of the
public nuisance, pursuant to such orders, the public nuisance shall be abated
by the city at the expense of the owner.
   D.   Transfer By Owner: Any person who is the owner of said premises,
location or structure at the time of the notice pursuant to this chapter is
issued and served upon him and/or any person who has been observed to have
caused or maintained the alleged nuisance shall be responsible for complying
with that order and liable for any costs incurred by the city therewith. A
conveyance of the property after the notice of hearing but prior to payment of
the abatement costs incurred by the city, if any, shall render the transferor
and the transferee jointly liable for such costs.
   E.   Hearing: The city council may proceed to take evidence at the hearing
so noticed, and the person so noticed is entitled to be heard and present
evidence. (Ord. 97-02, 5-20-1997)
4-9-5: ABATEMENT ORDER BY CITY COUNCIL:
If in the judgment of the majority of a quorum of the city council, after such
hearing, a nuisance does in fact exist, the city council shall order the same
to be abated or removed within such reasonable time as the city council shall
designate and the city council shall instruct the clerk to give notice of the
order to the owner, lien holder or other responsible party to abate and remove
same. Said notice shall require the commencement of work to abate or remove the
same within fifteen (15) days after the mailing and/or posting of said notice
and to complete the same within a reasonable time thereafter as designated by
the City Council. Notice of the order of abatement shall be made in the same
manner as provided herein for the notice of hearing. It shall not be a defense
to the determination that a public nuisance exists that the property is boarded
up or otherwise enclosed. (Ord. 97-02, 5-20-1997)
4-9-6: ABATEMENT WORK BY CITY:
If work to abate and remove said nuisance is not commenced within said fifteen
(15) day period after the mailing and posting of notice or said nuisance is not
abated or removed within the time designated by the City Council, the City
shall have authority to enter upon the property to abate or remove the
nuisance, and upon the completion of said abatement, the City Clerk shall
prepare a statement of costs to include the amount of work done, all expenses
and costs incurred of any nature whatsoever, a description of the premises upon
which the work was done, and the name of the person(s), if known, chargeable
with such costs and expenses, all as more specifically set forth hereafter. The
City Council thereupon at a regular meeting shall determine if said costs and
expenses were proper. The City Council shall then by resolution adopt or revise
the statement of costs and the sum as assessed shall then and there become due
and payable by the person chargeable therewith. The City Clerk shall give
notice of the statement of costs in the same manner as provided herein for the
notice of hearing. In the event the sum so charged and assessed shall not be
paid within thirty (30) days, the City is authorized and empowered to take any
and all lawful steps to collect said sum and the City is further empowered to
place a lien upon said property for the sum so charged as set forth hereafter.
   A.   Method Of Abatement: In abating such nuisance, the City may go to
whatever extent may be necessary to complete the abatement of the public
nuisance and should it be practicable to salvage any material derived from the
aforesaid abatement, the City may sell the salvaged material at private or
public sale at the best price obtainable and shall keep an accounting of the
proceeds thereof.
   B.   Accounting Of Salvage: The proceeds, if any, obtained from the sale of
any material salvaged as a result of an abatement of a public nuisance by the
City shall be deposited to the General Fund of the City and any deficit between
the amount so received and the cost of the abatement may be levied as an
assessment against the property in question by the City Council and collected
as any other assessment by the City; however, any other alternative collection
method may be utilized by the City to recoup the deficit. Should the proceeds
of the sale of such salvaged material exceed the cost of abatement, the
surplus, if any, shall be paid to the owner of the property from which the
public nuisance was abated when a proper claim to the excess is established.
(Ord. 97-02, 5-20-1997)
4-9-7: OBJECTION TO ASSESSMENT:
   A.   Notice: The owner of the property on which the public nuisance has been
abated or other responsible party may object to the proposed assessment in
writing to the City Clerk within twenty (20) days from the date of mailing such
notice. Upon the expiration of the twenty (20) day period, if no objections
have been received by the Clerk, the Clerk shall file a notice of lien claim
with the County Recorder, which shall therefore constitute a lien against the
property and commence any other collection actions deemed appropriate.
   B.   Objection And Hearing: If objections to the statement of costs are
received by the Clerk prior to the expiration of the twenty (20) day period,
the Clerk shall refer the matter to the City Council for review at the next
regular meeting. The owner shall be notified in writing by regular mail that
the Council shall hear evidence concerning the statement of costs at the
specified date and time.
   C.   Conclusion: If, after the hearing, it is determined that the proposed
assessment or any part of it is proper and authorized, the Council shall direct
the City Clerk to enter a lien in such amount as determined appropriate as
provided in subsection A of this Section. (Ord. 97-02, 5-20-1997)
4-9-8: OVERHEAD CHARGE, CIVIL PENALTIES:
Whenever a nuisance is wholly or partially abated by the City, a civil penalty
of twenty five percent (25%) of the statement of costs shall be charged by the
Court or the City Council against the owner of the nuisance abated and shall be
chargeable against the property as a lien. (Ord. 97-02, 5-20-1997)
4-9-9: ABATEMENT COST COLLECTION:
Nothing herein contained shall prevent an action by the City against any liable
person to collect the expense of such abatement or removal, or the prosecution
criminally under the ordinances of the City of any persons creating,
maintaining, causing or committing a nuisance or owning or in possession,
charge or control of the real property upon which a nuisance is created,
maintained, caused or committed. (Ord. 97-02, 5-20-1997)
4-9-10: NATURE OF LIEN:
Any lien for the expense of abatement and civil penalty as provided herein
shall:
   A.   Be perfected by filing with the County Recorder a statement by the City
Clerk of the amount of expenses due and unpaid and describing the property
subject to the lien, which sum shall include any civil penalty assessed by the
City or Court.
   B.   Be coequal with the latest lien thereon to secure the payment of
general taxes.
   C.   Not be subject to extinguishment by the sale of any property on the
account of the nonpayment of general taxes.
   D.   Be prior and superior to all liens, claims, encumbrances and titles
other than the liens of assessments and general taxes. (Ord. 97-02, 5-20-1997)
4-9-11: REMEDIES CUMULATIVE:
The remedies provided herein are cumulative in nature. Nothing contained herein
shall prevent the City from filing an action in any competent court to have any
nuisance abated or collect any costs or foreclose any lien. In such case, a
court shall admit into evidence the fact that the City Council has declared a
particular matter to be a nuisance, if such is the case, and shall consider
such declaration to be presumptively correct, setting aside such a decision
only where it is arbitrary or capricious. In such court action if abatement is
ultimately ordered, the Court shall, as a part of its order, provide that the
cost of abatement if done by the City shall constitute a lien as provided in
this Chapter. (Ord. 97-02, 5-20-1997)
4-9-12: EMERGENCY DECLARATION AND ABATEMENT:
All provisions in this Chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, whenever the
Building Inspector, or in his or her absence, the City Manager, determines that
a public nuisance exists and that the public health, safety or welfare may be
in immediate danger, then he shall notify the Mayor, who may summarily order
that the nuisance be abated or, if in the Mayor's judgment sufficient time
exists, the Mayor may call an emergency council meeting to seek an abatement
order from the City Council. When emergency abatement is authorized, notice to
the owner is not required prior to abatement; however, the provisions regarding
notice of the statement of costs shall apply. (Ord. 97-02, 5-20-1997)
4-9-13: EFFECT:
This ordinance shall apply to all nuisances concerning any properties,
conditions and uses within the City irrespective of whether the nuisance, use
or condition was commenced or existed prior to the addition of this Chapter.
(Ord. 97-02, 5-20-1997)
4-9-14: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of the Chapter
is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the final decision
of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this Chapter. The City Council declares
that it would have adopted this Chapter and each section, subsection, sentence,
clause, phrase or portion thereof, despite the fact that any one or more
section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion would be declared
invalid or unconstitutional. (Ord. 97-02, 5-20-1997)
CHAPTER 10
NOISE DISTURBANCES
SECTION:
4-10-1: Definitions
4-10-2: Prohibited Noise
4-10-3: Enumeration Of Prohibited Noises
4-10-4: Penalty For Violation
4-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates, the following
terms have the meanings that are ascribed to them as follows:
NOISE DISTURBANCE: Any sound which is unreasonably loud, disturbing or
unnecessary or which endangers or injures the health of humans or annoys or
disturbs a reasonable person of normal sensitivities.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, sidewalk, alley or
similar place which is owned or controlled by a government entity.
PUBLIC SPACE: Any real property or structures thereon which is owned or
controlled by a governmental entity. (Ord. 97-04, 5-6-1997)
4-10-2: PROHIBITED NOISE:
Subject to the provisions of this Chapter, no person shall make, cause, create
or continue any noise disturbance within the City. (Ord. 97-04, 5-6-1997)
4-10-3: ENUMERATION OF PROHIBITED NOISES:
The following acts, among others, are declared to be noise disturbances in
violation of and unlawful under this Chapter. This enumeration is intended to
be illustrative and shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
   A.   Operating or playing, or permitting the operation or playing of, any
radio, television, phonograph, stereo, drum, musical instrument, sound
amplifier or similar device which produces, reproduces, or amplifies sound in
such a manner as to create a noise disturbance.
   B.   Operating or playing in such portable or motor vehicle audio equipment
in such a manner to create a noise disturbance while in park areas, residential
or commercial zones, or in any area where residences, schools, human service
facilities or commercial establishments are found. Sound from a motor vehicle
audio system, such as a radio, tape player or compact disc player, which is
operated at such a volume that it could be clearly heard by a person of normal
hearing at a distance of fifty feet (50') or greater shall be prima facie
evidence of a noise disturbance. (Ord. 97-04, 5-6-1997)
4-10-4: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, is punishable by a fine not to exceed two hundred
five dollars ($205.00) for the first offense, five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for the second offense, and one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for the third
offense or subsequent offenses. (Ord. 97-04, 5-6-1997)
CHAPTER 11
DISCHARGE AND SALE OF FIREWORKS
SECTION:
4-11-1: Statement Of Purpose
4-11-2: Definitions
4-11-3: Discharge Prohibited
4-11-4: Sale Prohibited
4-11-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this Chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to discharge and
sale of fireworks. (Ord. 99-04, 8-17-1999)
4-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
Words or phrases used in this Chapter shall be interpreted so as to give them
the meanings they have in common usage and to give this Chapter its most
reasonable application. (Ord. 99-04, 8-17-1999)
4-11-3: DISCHARGE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Discharge: It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to wilfully
discharge, ignite, explode or cause to be discharged, ignited or exploded any
firecrackers, Roman candles, sky rockets or other fireworks, excepting
specifically herefrom the use of sparklers and fusees at any place within the
boundaries of the City.
   B.   Organized Displays: Public displays by organized groups and
associations with a licensed pyrotechnician, having firefighting equipment
approved by the Fire Chief or designee available at the time of the display are
hereby excepted from the provisions of this Section.
   C.   Misdemeanor: Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be
punished with a fine of not-to-exceed one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for
the first offense. Any subsequent offenses may be punished within the
discretion of the Municipal Court.
   D.   Restitution: Any person violating any of the provisions of this
Section, which violation results in injury to any person or damage to any
property, may be ordered to pay restitution to the full extent permitted by the
Nevada Revised Statutes. (Ord. 99-04, 8-17-1999)
4-11-4: SALE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Sale: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale,
exchange or barter, or give away any fireworks, firecrackers, Roman candles,
sky rockets or any and all pryotechnical displays of any name or nature within
the City, except fusees and sparklers.
   B.   Misdemeanor: Any person or persons violating the provisions of this
Section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 99-04, 8-17-1999)
CHAPTER 12
COMMERCIAL BREEDERS OF DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
4-12-1: Annual Permit Required
4-12-2: Permit Fee
4-12-3: Form Of The Application For The Permit
4-12-4: Definition
4-12-5: Approval, Denial, Revocation
4-12-6: Inspection
4-12-7: Incorporation Of State Law
4-12-8: Penalties
4-12-1: ANNUAL PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any commercial breeder of dogs or cats to hereafter
conduct a commercial breeders business in the city of West Wendover unless such
person shall have first obtained an annual permit permitting the same from the
city as provided in this chapter. The provisions of this chapter shall
supersede and control in any conflict with other provisions of this code, if
any. (Ord. 2013-02, 9-3-2013)
4-12-2: PERMIT FEE:
The permit fee for the annual commercial breeders permit will be set by
resolution of the city council of the city of West Wendover. (Ord. 2013-02, 9-
3-2013)
4-12-3: FORM OF THE APPLICATION FOR THE PERMIT:
An application for the licenses required by this chapter shall be made to the
city council of the city, and filed with the city clerk. Each application
shall:
   A.   Be made on such form as the council shall prescribe.
   B.   Include the name and address of the applicant, who shall be all persons
having an interest in the business to be licensed. If the applicant is a
partnership, the application shall include the names and addresses of all
partners. If the applicant is a corporation, association or other organization,
the application shall include the names and addresses of all officers,
directors, stockholders, resident agents, and all other persons having an
interest in the business to be licensed, and the address of the principal place
of business of the corporation, and the name and address of the person or
persons who shall have the active management of its business.
   C.   Specify the location by street and number of the premises for which the
license is sought, and the name of the owner or owners of the premises where
the business is to be operated.
   D.   Be supplemented by such additional information or documents as the
council shall request from the applicant at any time, it being the duty of the
applicant to supply all such matter.
   E.   Be accompanied by the required annual license fee, which license fee
shall be returned by the city clerk to the applicant in the event the
application is denied.
   F.   Be signed by all persons who shall conduct or have any interest in the
business activities for which the license is required.
   G.   Contain a statement that if such application is approved and a license
issued, it will be accepted by the applicant subject to the terms, conditions
and provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2013-02, 9-3-2013)
4-12-4: DEFINITION:
"Commercial breeder" means a dealer, operator or other person who is
responsible for the operation of a commercial establishment engaged in the
business of breeding dogs or cats for sale or trade. The term does not include
a person who breeds dogs or cats as a hobby. "Hobby" shall not include breeding
for the purpose to sell to a dealer or retailer for purpose of resale and shall
be limited to breeding not more than two (2) total litters of animals of any
kind annually in or on the property of a private residence. (Ord. 2013-02, 9-3-
2013)
4-12-5: APPROVAL, DENIAL, REVOCATION:
The city council may suspend, revoke, or deny a permit sought under this
chapter as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 574.360 to 574.440, inclusive,
to the extent those provisions may be made to apply to breeders in the city.
(Ord. 2013-02, 9-3-2013)
4-12-6: INSPECTION:
The animal control officer or his/her designee may enter and inspect the
premises specified on a permit issued pursuant to this chapter at any
reasonable hour. (Ord. 2013-02, 9-3-2013)
4-12-7: INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW:
The provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes 574.356 to 574.510 are hereby
incorporated as if fully set forth and shall be applicable within the city to
the extent such provisions may be made applicable. Violations may be prosecuted
as violations of this code. The titles of these Nevada Revised Statutes
provisions are as follows:
Statute Reference Description
Statute Reference Description
NRS 574.356       Prohibited acts
NRS 574.360       Buildings and grounds; housing facilities
NRS 574.370       Enclosures generally
NRS 574.380       Dogs and cats kept outdoors
NRS 574.390       Primary enclosures generally
NRS 574.400       Floor space of primary enclosure
NRS 574.410       Dogs or cats kept in primary enclosures together
NRS 574.420       Food and water
NRS 574.430       Sanitization
NRS 574.440       Program to control disease and care for health
                  Examination by veterinarian; sale of cat or dog that requires
NRS 574.450       immediate treatment prohibited; conditions under which
                  presence of parasites requires treatment
NRS 574.460       Provision of written statement to purchase of cat: required
                  disclosures; signature of seller and purchaser
NRS 574.470       Provision of written statement to purchaser of dog: required
                  disclosures; signature of seller and purchaser
NRS 574.480       Posting of notice concerning dog or cat offered for sale
NRS 574.485       Imposition of administrative fines for violation of NRS
                  574.460, 574.470 or 574.480; deposit in state general fund
NRS 574.490       Duties upon determination that pet was sold with condition
                  that requires immediate treatment
NRS 574.500       Separating dog or cat from mother; penalty
NRS 574.510       Knowingly selling dog or cat with condition requiring
                  immediate treatment prohibited; penalties
 
(Ord. 2013-02, 9-3-2013)
4-12-8: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, shall, upon
conviction be punished as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code. Each
day's violation of the provisions of this chapter may be deemed a separate
offense. (Ord. 2013-02, 9-3-2013)
TITLE 5
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Purpose, Amendment, Interpretation And Conflict
5-1-2: Traffic Laws
5-1-3: Mandatory Motor Vehicle Insurance
5-1-1: PURPOSE, AMENDMENT, INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICT:
   A.   The purposes of this Title are to adopt, by reference, the traffic laws
of NRS Chapters 484A through 484E, inclusive, as amended from time to time, to
apply to the City insofar as such may be made applicable. In the event the City
may not enact or exercise jurisdiction over various portions of any such laws
by reason of preemption by State law or otherwise, those portions shall be of
no force and effect within the Municipal Court of the City and may only be
enforced as allowed by State law.
   B.   The City Council may amend the provisions adopted by reference at any
time by ordinance as provided by law. In the event any of the State laws herein
adopted are amended by the State, such amendments are hereby adopted by the
City to the extent permissible by law. If amendments are made by the State and
the foregoing is not sufficient to establish the City Code herein is thereby so
amended, the City Council may adopt any such amendments as deemed desirable by
resolution, which changes to the Code shall be effective upon approval thereof.
   C.   Whenever an adopted provision of NRS Chapters incorporated herein
refers to another provision of the Nevada Revised Statutes, the referenced
provision is also adopted by reference to the extent it is consistent with the
purpose herein set forth. During the prosecution of a complaint involving a
substantially continuous event that involves at least one misdemeanor
established by this Chapter and additional violations which are civil
infractions, the City may elect to treat all offenses/violations as
misdemeanors and/or may treat offenses/violations as a combination of
misdemeanors and/or civil infractions provided that the traffic laws of the
State of Nevada do not prohibit such prosecution.
   D.   Violations of adopted provisions of NRS Chapters 484A through 484E,
inclusive, within the City shall be deemed violations of this Chapter. The
Municipal Court may exercise jurisdiction over any violation of NRS Chapters
484A through 484E, inclusive, which occurs within the City, regardless of
whether the charging document alleges a specific violation of a provision of
this Chapter under the City Code or a specific violation of a provision of NRS
Chapters 484A through 484E, inclusive, and regardless of which law enforcement
agency investigated the violation or instituted the charging document.
   E.   In the event of a conflict between any State law and any City code
adopted in this Chapter, the State law shall prevail. (Ord. 2022-02, 12-6-2022)
5-1-2: TRAFFIC LAWS:
The City hereby adopts, by reference, NRS Chapters 484A through 484E,
inclusive, as amended from time to time. The commission of any act within the
limits of the City, or the failure to perform any act within the City, which is
made a civil infraction or a misdemeanor by NRS Chapters 484A through 484E,
inclusive, constitutes a violation of this section. Violations of any
provisions or portions thereof of NRS 484A through 484E, inclusive, which may
be made misdemeanors under NRS 484A through 484E, inclusive, are hereby made
misdemeanors within the City under this City Code, which include, without
limitation, NRS 484B.100, 484B.117, 484B.127, 484B.130, 484B.135, 484B.150,
484B.157, 484B.267, 484B.317, 484B.330, 4484B.600, 484B.607, 484B.650.
484B.653, 484B.657, and those provisions of NRS Chapter 484C and Chapter 484E.
All other violations shall constitute a civil infraction within the City. (Ord.
2022-02, 12-6-2022)
5-1-3: MANDATORY MOTOR VEHICLE INSURANCE:
The City hereby adopts the provisions of NRS 485.187 Unlawful Acts; Fines;
Exceptions concerning mandatory motor vehicle insurance to the full extent such
can be made applicable to the City. (Ord. 2022-02, 12-6-2022)
CHAPTER 2
USE OF OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-2: Operator Requirements
5-2-3: Additional Restrictions Regarding Driving Or Operating Off-Highway
Vehicles
5-2-4: General Rules And Regulations
5-2-5: Designated Off-Highway Vehicle Routes
5-2-6: Enforcement
5-2-7: Towing And Storage Of Off-highway Vehicles
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms, and phrases, and their derivations, when used in
this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except
where the context clearly indicates different meaning:
           The entire width between the boundary lines of every wav maintained by a public
HIGHWAY:   authority when any part of such way is open to the use of the public for purposes
           of vehicular traffic.
LARGE ALL- Any all-terrain vehicle that includes seating capacity for at least two people
TERRAIN    abreast and either:
VEHICLE:
          1.   At least two additional back seats such that there is a total seating
           capacity for at least four people; or
          2.   A truck bed located behind the two front seats.
OFF        1.   A motor vehicle that is designed primarily for off-highway and all-terrain
HIGHWAY    use. The term includes, but is not limited to:
VEHICLE:
              (a)   An all-terrain vehicle, including, without limitation, a large all-
          terrain vehicle without regard to whether that large all-terrain vehicle is
           registered by the Department of Motor Vehicles in accordance with NRS 490.0825 as
           a motor vehicle intended to be operated upon the highways of this State;
             (b)   An all-terrain motorcycle;
             (c)   A dune buggy;
             (d)   A snowmobile; and
             (e)   Any motor vehicle used on public lands for the purpose of recreation.
          2.   The term does not include:
             (a)   A motor vehicle designed primarily for use in water;
             (b)   A motor vehicle that is registered by the Department of Motor Vehicles in
           accordance with Chapter 482 of NRS;
             (c)   A low-speed vehicle as defined in NRS 484B.637; or
             (d)   Special mobile equipment, as defined in NRS 482.123.
TOW:       To transport an off-highway vehicle to a storage facility using a truck or other
           vehicle suitable for such purpose.
TRAIL:     An unpaved path or track across unimproved land that is authorized for use by off-
           highway vehicles.
TRAIL      A route not more than 2 miles in length and designated by resolution that permits
CONNECTOR: off-highway vehicles to travel to and from one or more trails. (Ord. 2024-03, 8-
           20-2024)
 
5-2-2: OPERATOR REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter or under State law, a
person may operate an off-highway vehicle on a highway that is designated as an
off-highway vehicle route by resolution of the City Council
   B.   No person under the age of sixteen (16) shall operate an off-highway
vehicle on any highway.
   C.   No person shall operate an off-highway vehicle on any highway unless:
      1.   The person possesses a valid motor vehicle operator’s license in
compliance with State law;
      2.   The person possesses evidence of liability insurance coverage for
the off-highway vehicle to the extent such insurance coverage and evidence of
coverage are required by NRS Chapter 490;
      3.   A certificate of registration is attached to the off-highway
vehicle; provided- a certificate of registration is not required for an off-
highway vehicle which:
         a.   Is owned and operated by:
            (1)   A federal agency;
            (2)   An agency of this state; or
            (3)   A county, incorporated city or unincorporated town in this
state;
         b.   Is part of the inventory of a dealer of off highway vehicles;
         c.   Is registered or certified in another state and is located in
this state for not more than ninety (90) days;
         d.   Is used solely for husbandry on private land or on public land
that is leased to the owner or operator of the off-highway vehicle; or
         e.   Is used for work conducted by or at the direction of a public or
private utility.
   D.   No person shall operate an off-highway vehicle on a highway for a
distance of more than two (2) miles.
   E.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection E.2 and in addition to the
requirements set forth in NRS 490.070, a person shall not operate an off-
highway vehicle on a highway unless the off-highway vehicle has:
      1.   At least one headlamp that illuminates objects at least 500 feet
ahead of the vehicle;
      2.   At least one tail lamp that is visible from at least 500 feet behind
the vehicle;
      3.   At least one red reflector on the rear of the vehicle, unless the
tail lamp is red and reflective;
      4.   A stop lamp on the rear of the vehicle; and
      5.   A muffler which is in working order and which is in constant
operation when the vehicle is running.
   F.   A person shall not, except as otherwise provided in this Subsection F,
operate an off- highway vehicle on a highway that is not otherwise designated
for use by off-highway vehicles. A person may operate an off-highway vehicle on
a highway that is not otherwise designated for use by off-highway vehicles:
      1.   If the off-highway vehicle is operated on the highway for the
purpose of crossing the highway, conies to a complete stop before crossing and
crosses as close as practicable to perpendicular to the direction of travel on
the highway;
      2.   If the off-highway vehicle is operated on the highway for the
purpose of loading or unloading the off-highway vehicle onto or off of another
vehicle or trailer, if the loading or unloading is as close as practicable to
the place of operation of the off- highway vehicle; or
      3.   During an emergency if it is impossible or impracticable to use
another vehicle or if a peace officer directs the operation of the off-highway
vehicle.
      4.   If the off-highway vehicle is operated on a portion of highway that
is designated as a trail connector for a trail authorized for use by off-
highway vehicles for not more than 2 miles. (Ord. 2024-03, 8-20-2024)
5-2-3: ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS REGARDING DRIVING OR OPERATING ATV:
   A.   No person who is sixteen (16) years of age or older who owns or
possesses an off- highway vehicle may give another person who is under sixteen
(16) years of age permission to operate the off-highway vehicle on any highway
without regard to whether the highway is designated as an off-highway vehicle
route.
   B.   The operator and each occupant of an off-highway vehicle that is being
driven on a highway shall wear a helmet.
   C.   The operator of an off-highway vehicle shall comply with the West
Wendover Traffic Code (Title 5, Chapter 1) and the Nevada Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 2024-03, 8-20-2024)
5-2-4: GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   No person shall leave or allow any off-highway vehicle to remain
unattended on any public highway or public property while the motor is running
or with the starting key left in the ignition.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person operating an off-highway vehicle to
make, permit, continue or cause to be made or to create any unreasonably loud,
disturbing and unnecessary noise that is audible to a person with ordinary
hearing within one hundred fifty feet (1501) of any district zoned residential.
(Ord. 2024-03, 8-20-2024)
5-2-5: DESIGNATED OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE ROUTES:
A.   Except as otherwise specifically permitted in Section 7-6-2(F) of this
Code, off-highway vehicles shall only be used and operated on highways and
trails that are designated as off- highway vehicle routes or trail connectors
by resolution of the City Council.
B.   The City may post signs establishing designated crossing routes over
streets, roads and highways whether or not designated as off-highway vehicle
routes.
C.   No person shall operate an off-highway vehicle on a sidewalk. (Ord. 2024-
03, 8-20-2024)
5-2-6: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   A violation of this Chapter shall constitute a criminal offense. Any
person violating any provision of this Chapter shall, upon conviction therefor,
be punished as provided in Title 1, Chapter 4 of this Code.
   B.   Conviction of three (3) violations of this Chapter by an owner or
operator of an off- highway vehicle within a three (3) year period shall
constitute prima facie evidence of a nuisance and the Court may make such
orders as it deems necessary to abate such nuisance, including, without
limitation, an order prohibiting the owner or operator from operating or
permitting others to operate an off-highway vehicle on highways within the
City.
   C.   The responsibility for compliance with the provisions of this Chapter
shall rest with:
      1.   The operator of the off-highway vehicle, and
      2.   The owner of the off-highway vehicle who contributes to a violation,
or who enables or induces an operator to commit a violation, in which event the
operator and owner may be jointly or severally prosecuted for the violation.
   D.   It shall not be a defense to an alleged violation of this Chapter that
the owner or operator of the off-highway vehicle is a minor.
   E.   A parent or guardian who fails to properly supervise a minor and
thereby permits the minor to violate this Chapter may be held liable for the
violation committed by the minor. (Ord. 2024-03, 8-20-2024)
5-2-7: TOWING AND STORAGE OF OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES:
   A.   Off-highway vehicles may be towed and stored by the City subject to
this Section.
   B.   The City may tow, or have towed by a licensed towing company, an off-
highway vehicle under the following circumstances:
      1.   The off-highway vehicle constitutes a nuisance pursuant to Title 4,
Chapter 9 of this Code, subject to the provisions of that Chapter.
      2.   The City is authorized to tow, or have towed, the off-highway
vehicle pursuant to state law, subject to all applicable statutory
requirements.
   C.   No off-highway vehicle shall remain parked at the same location within
a public right-of-way for more than twenty-four (24) consecutive hours. (Ord.
2024-03, 8-20-2024)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS, CURBS AND GUTTERS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Definitions, Designations And Specifications
6-1-2: Permit And License Required
6-1-3: License, Bond And Fee
6-1-4: Construction, Reconstruction And Repair Requirements
6-1-5: Penalties
6-1-1: DEFINITIONS, DESIGNATIONS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
The following terms, whenever used in this Title, shall have the meanings,
designations and specifications indicated:
   A.   Arterial Street:
      1.   Definition: The term "arterial street" shall mean a major
thoroughfare designed to accommodate a significant amount of traffic. Such
major thoroughfares shall usually form boundaries for neighborhoods, have minor
access control, have multi-laned intersections and have restricted parking.
      2.   Specifications:
 
Pavement        70 feet in width
Sidewalks       10 feet total width (5 feet on each side)
Curb and gutter 4 feet total width (2 feet on each side),
                high back curb and gutter
Total           84 feet in width
 
      3.   Construction Standards: Construction standards for arterial streets
shall be as set forth by resolution of the City Council.
   B.   Collector Street:
      1.   Definition: The term "collector street" shall mean a main interior
street, the primary function of which is to move traffic between arterial and
residential areas. The secondary function of such collector streets is to
provide access to abutting properties.
      2.   Specifications:
 
Pavement        48 feet in width
Sidewalks       8 feet total width (4 feet on each side)
Curb and gutter 4 feet total width (2 feet on each side), business frontage
                high back curb and gutter.
Total           60 feet in width
 
      3.   Construction Standards: Construction standards for collector streets
shall be as set forth by resolution of the City Council.
   C.   Residential Street:
      1.   Definition: The term "residential street" shall mean a local service
street within a standard residential development. Said street may abut other
residential streets or collector streets.
      2.   Specifications:
 
Pavement        40 feet in width
Sidewalks       8 feet total width (4 feet on each side)
Curb and gutter 4 feet total width (2 feet on each side), optional design,
                preference toward rolled curb and gutter in residential areas.
Total           52 feet in width
 
      3.   Construction Standards: Construction standards for residential
streets shall be as set forth by resolution of the City Council.
   D.   Lane:
      1.   Definition: The term "lane" shall mean any nondedicated street
servicing self-contained developments including RMH-1, 3, and 4, RMF and PUDs.
      2.   Specifications:
 
Pavement        30 feet in width
Sidewalks       8 feet total width (4 feet on each side)
Curb and gutter 4 feet total width (2 feet on each side), optional design,
                preference toward rolled curb and gutter in residential areas.
Total           42 feet in width
 
      3.   Construction Standards: Construction standards for lanes shall be as
set forth by resolution of the City Council.
   E.   Alley:
      1.   Definition: The term "alley" shall mean any public or private way
providing secondary vehicular access and service to properties which may also
abut a street.
      2.   Specifications:
 
Pavement        20 feet in width (paved or maintained gravel)
Sidewalks       Optional
Curb and gutter Optional
 
      3.   Construction Standards: Construction standards for alleys shall be
as set forth by resolution of the City Council.
   F.   Cul-De-Sac:
      1.   Definition: The term "cul-de-sac" shall mean a residential street
having one end permanently terminating in and including a vehicular turn area.
Said street may be a maximum of five hundred feet (500') in length and must
have a minimum turning radius of ninety feet (90'). Paving, sidewalk and gutter
of said street must be consistent with residential streets or lanes depending
on neighborhood.
      2.   Construction Standards: Construction standards for cul-de- sacs
shall be as set forth by resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 97-06, 8-5-1997)
6-1-2: PERMIT AND LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Permit: It shall be unlawful for any person to hereafter install,
construct or lay, or cause to be installed, constructed or laid, any sidewalk
or sidewalks, curb or gutter within the street lines of the City without first
obtaining a permit authorizing the same from the City Council to be issued by
the City Manager, and it shall also be unlawful for any person to construct,
install or lay any sidewalk, curb or gutter for any other person until such
person shall have first obtained a permit permitting the same from the City
Council, as in this Chapter provided.
   B.   License: It shall be unlawful for any person to hereafter install,
construct or lay or cause to be installed, constructed or laid for any other
person, any sidewalk or sidewalks, curb or gutter within the street lines of
the City or contract to install, construct or lay any such sidewalk, curb or
gutter, unless first duly licensed by the City Council as provided by Section
6-1-3 of this Chapter. (Ord. 97-06, 8-5-1997)
6-1-3: LICENSE, BOND AND FEE:
Any person desiring to construct or lay or desiring to contract to construct or
lay, any sidewalk or sidewalks, curb or gutter, shall first obtain from the
City Council a license to so construct, lay or install sidewalks, curbs or
gutters, and shall post a bond in an amount to be approved by the Council, but
not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00), for faithful performance of such
work as provided herein and in accordance with the plans and specifications as
and when approved by the City Council, or the City Manager, and shall pay for
such license a fee as set by resolution of the City Council. Said license shall
be for the unexpired term of the City Council issuing it and shall be revocable
for failure to comply with the terms and conditions of this Chapter and the
plans and specifications provided herein.
   A.   Streets; Location And Arrangement:
      1.   Whenever a tract to be subdivided embraces part of a street
designated in the City's Official Street and Highway Plan, as is shown in the
Official Master Plan of the City, such street shall be platted in conformance
therewith.
      2.   Street layout shall provide for the continuation of such streets as
the Council may designate.
      3.   Whenever the tract is located within an area for which a
neighborhood plan has been approved by the Council, the street arrangement
shall conform to such plan.
      4.   Certain proposed streets, as designated by the Council, shall be
extended to the tract boundary to provide future connection with adjoining
unplatted lands. Such extensions shall, generally, not be farther apart than
the maximum permitted length of a block, as hereinafter provided.
      5.   Residential streets shall be so arranged as to discourage their use
by traffic originating outside the immediate neighborhood.
      6.   Lots intended for single-family residential use shall not normally
front or have access from arterial streets. Where a proposed subdivision abuts
an existing or proposed arterial street, the Council may require marginal
access streets or reverse property frontage with nonaccess easements abutting
the arterial street or such other treatment as may be justified for protection
of residential properties from the nuisance and hazard of high volume traffic
and for protection of the traffic function of the arterial street.
      7.   Where a residential subdivision abuts the right of way of a
railroad, a limited access highway or a commercial or industrial land use, the
Council may require location of a street approximately parallel to such right
of way or use at a distance being determined with due regard for approach
grades, drainage, bridges and future grade separation.
      8.   Streets shall be so arranged in relation to topography as to produce
desirable lots or maximum utility and streets of reasonable gradient and to
facilitate adequate surface drainage.
      9.   Where alleys are platted, their alignment and arrangement shall be
such as to minimize back-tracking and single-tier service by trash collection
forces and to avoid the facing of residences directly into alley openings.
      10.   Half streets shall be prohibited unless approved by the City
Council, and conditions which will be considered for approval are:
         a.   Where necessary, to provide right of way indicated on the
Official Street and Highway Plan, as is shown in the Official Master Plan of
the City;
         b.   To complete a street pattern already begun; or
         c.   To ensure reasonable development of an adjoining unplatted
parcel.
Where a platted half street exists abutting to residential lots the remaining
half street shall be platted within the tract.
      11.   Dead-end streets shall be prohibited unless a modification is
granted by the Council in locations designated by the Council as necessary for
future street connection to adjacent unplatted lands. This shall include cul-
de-sacs.
      12.   Whenever any street or highway is proposed requiring a separation
of grades or requiring any special form of intersection design at its
intersection with any street, highway or railway, the subdivision shall be so
designed to conform to any plan adopted by the City for the intersection
design, and all lots within the subdivision shall, when necessary, be provided
with suitable access from another public way. Any street or highway
intersecting with another street or highway shall intersect it at any angle as
nearly a right angle as shall be practicable.
   B.   Street Naming: At the preliminary plat stage, the subdivider shall
propose names for all streets, which names shall be subject to be approved by
the Council.
   C.   Conformance To Public Improvement Standards: The design and
construction of all streets within the City shall conform to the West Wendover
Construction Standards and Specifications Manual. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
6-1-4: CONSTRUCTION, RECONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Sidewalks, Curbs And Gutters Required: Sidewalks, curbs and gutters
shall be required on all lots or parcels of land which are hereafter improved
or upon which any building or construction shall take place; provided, however,
that upon application by a property owner or a contractor and for cause shown,
the City Council may waive this requirement in the event of repair, remodeling
or addition to existing improvements on all lots or parcels of land.
   B.   Compliance With Plans And Specifications: Any sidewalk, curb or gutter
hereafter constructed by any person shall be constructed in strict compliance
with specifications and plans and upon grades and lines to be approved by the
city council or the city manager.
   C.   Construction Specifications: Specifications shall be as set forth
hereinabove with the inner line of walk being laid one foot (1') from the
property line except that wherever any sidewalk has been constructed under the
authority of any former ordinance of the city in any manner other than in
accordance with the lines established in this section, sidewalks for the
remaining properties in the same block shall be so constructed that uniformity
of lines may be maintained. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
   D.   Maintenance, Repair And Reconstruction:
      1.   Duty To Maintain Sidewalks: It is the responsibility of all property
owners in the city to maintain a sidewalk in a public right of way that abuts
the owner's property including, without limitation, sweeping, the removal of
snow, ice and weeds and maintenance of any grass, shrubs or trees that encroach
on the sidewalk within the street lines of the city. The responsibility imposed
is that of a reasonable person and is not a duty greater than imposed by common
law duty. Furthermore, this subsection is not intended and cannot be relied
upon to define the standard of care in any civil action for negligence or for
the establishment of negligence per se for its violation.
      2.   Circumstances Requiring Action: The city may require the
reconstruction and repair of sidewalks in the following circumstances:
         a.   Imposing an assessment or other charge authorized by law for any
reconstruction or repair of a sidewalk that the governing body causes to be
performed within a public right of way;
         b.   Requiring any reconstruction or repair of a sidewalk as a
condition of approval for a change in the use of the land;
         c.   The repair and reconstruction of a sidewalk in the public right
of way that abuts the property of the owner if the owner caused the need for
such repair or reconstruction.
      3.   Owner's Responsibility; Time Limit: Any sidewalk ordered repaired or
reconstructed by the city council shall be repaired or reconstructed by the
owners of the property which abut upon the sidewalk. The property owner shall
be given a time certain in which to complete said reconstruction and repair,
not to exceed sixty (60) days.
      4.   Remedy By City; Costs And Lien:
         a.   If the owner fails to complete the sidewalk improvements as
required within the time limits designated, the city manager shall proceed to
have the work done by city forces or by contracting for such work in accordance
with law. A report of the proceeding and an accurate account of the costs of
such improvements on each separate property shall be made and filed with the
city clerk.
         b.   The city clerk shall, upon receiving the account and report of
costs, notify each property owner of record as provided of the costs to be
assessed against the property.
         c.   If the owner fails to pay the costs within thirty (30) days of
billing by the city clerk, the costs and all expenses entailed by the city in
building the sidewalk and collecting of the costs of the same shall be a lien
against the property. The lien shall be enforced as all other liens under the
laws of the state 1 . The city council shall adopt a resolution assessing said
amounts as liens upon the respective parcels of land as they are shown upon the
latest available assessment roll.
         d.   After confirmation of the assessment roll, the city clerk shall
certify a copy of such roll with the county treasurer (ex officio city
treasurer for these purposes) who is hereby expressly authorized to assume and
discharge the duty of collecting special assessments by adding the amounts of
the same to the next regular bills for taxes levied against lots and parcels of
land in the city. Thereafter, the amounts shall be collected at the same time
and in the same manner as general ad valorem taxes are collected and shall be
subject to the same penalties and same procedure for foreclosure and sale in
the case of delinquency as provided for general ad valorem taxes in Elko
County. (Ord. 2005-01, 3-1-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. NRS 108.221 et seq.
6-1-5: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be punished as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code. Each
day's violation of the provisions of this chapter may be deemed a separate
offense. (Ord. 97-06, 8-5-1997; amd. Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
CHAPTER 2
WATER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Short Title
6-2-2: Definitions
6-2-3: Water Department
6-2-4: General Provisions
6-2-5: Regular Water Service
6-2-6: Water Main Extensions
6-2-7: Water Systems In Subdivisions
6-2-8: General Use Regulations
6-2-9: Meters
6-2-10: Credit Established For Service
6-2-11: Water Rates And Charges
6-2-12: Bills For Service
6-2-13: Discontinuance Or Refusal Of Service; Reconnection
6-2-14: Delinquent Payments
6-2-15: Notices
6-2-16: Damages Through Leaking Pipes And Fixtures
6-2-17: Public Fire Protection
6-2-18: Private Fire Protection Service
6-2-19: Temporary Service
6-2-20: Water Allocations
6-2-21: Penalty
6-2-22: Right Of Way Toll
6-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as WEST WENDOVER WATER REGULATIONS
ORDINANCE for the city of West Wendover, Nevada. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992)
6-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter all words used herein in the present tense
shall include the future, all words in the plural number shall include the
singular number, and all words in the singular number shall include the plural
number.
As used in this chapter the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CITY: The incorporated city of West Wendover, Nevada.
COMMERCIAL USE: The use of water in premises where customer is engaged in a
trade or profession or any situation in which the water is used to obtain
monetary benefits.
CONNECTION: The pipeline and appurtenant facilities such as the curb stop,
meter and meter box, all used to extend water service from a main to premises,
the laying thereof and the tapping of the main. Where services are divided at
the curb or property line to serve several customers, each such branch service
shall be deemed a separate service.
COST: The cost of labor, material, transportation, supervision, engineering and
all other necessary overhead expenses.
COUNCIL: The city council of West Wendover or the water board to the exclusion
of the city council of West Wendover, provided such water board is duly
appointed by the city council.
COUNTY: Elko County, Nevada.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical connection between the piping system from the
city service and that of any other water supply that is not, or cannot be,
approved as safe and potable for human consumption, whereby water from the
unapproved source may be forced or drawn into the city distribution mains.
DOMESTIC USE: The use of water for household residential purposes, including
water for sprinkling lawns, gardens and shrubbery, washing vehicles, watering
animals and livestock and other similar and customary purposes.
MAIN: A water line in a street, highway, alley or easement used for public and
private fire protection and for general distribution of water.
OWNER: The person owning the fee, or the person on whose name the legal title
to the property appears, by deed duly recorded in the County Recorder's office
or the person in possession of the property or buildings under claim of or
exercising acts of ownership over same for himself or as executor,
administrator, guardian or trustee of the owner.
PERSON: An individual or a company, association, copartnership or public or
private corporation.
PREMISES: A lot or parcel of real property under one ownership, except where
there are well-defined boundaries or partitions such as fences, hedges or other
restrictions preventing the common use of the property by the several tenants,
in which case each portion shall be deemed separate premises.
PRIVATE FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE: Water service and facilities for building
sprinkler systems, hydrants, hose reels and other facilities installed on
private property for fire protection and the water available therefor.
PUBLIC FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE: The service and facilities of the entire water
supply, storage and distribution system of the City, including the fire
hydrants affixed thereto and the water available for fire protection, excepting
house service connections and appurtenances thereto.
REGULAR WATER SERVICE: Water service and facilities rendered for normal
domestic, commercial and industrial purposes on a permanent basis and the water
available therefor.
TEMPORARY WATER SERVICE: Water service and facilities rendered for construction
work and other uses of limited duration and the water available therefor.
WATER DEPARTMENT: Personnel appointed by the City to perform functions related
to water service in the City. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992)
6-2-3: WATER DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Creation: A Water Department is hereby created comprised of the City
Council, City Manager, Public Works Director and assigned personnel.
   B.   Public Works Director:
      1.   Position Created: The position of Public Works Director is hereby
created. The Public Works Director shall have such duties as set forth in this
Code. The City Council shall designate who shall be the Public Works Director
for purposes of this Chapter and, further, may designate any person or persons
to act in said capacity upon temporary absence of the Public Works Director for
any reason.
      2.   Duties: The Public Works Director shall:
         a.   Regularly inspect all physical facilities related to the City's
water system, to see that they are in good repair and proper working order and
to note violations of any water regulations.
         b.   Promptly report any violation or disrepair to the City. If the
work required is in the nature of an emergency, he shall take whatever steps
are necessary to maintain service to consumers pending action by the City.
         c.   Supervise all repair or construction work authorized by the
Council and perform any other duties prescribed elsewhere in this Chapter or
which shall be hereafter prescribed by the Council.
      3.   Performance Of Duties: The foregoing duties of the Public Works
Director may be performed by an additional employee or employees. (Ord. 94-10,
12-6-1994)
6-2-4: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Water System: The City will furnish a system, plant, works and
undertaking used for and useful in obtaining and conserving water for public
and private uses, including all parts of the water system, all appurtenances to
it and lands, easements, rights in land, water rights, contract rights,
franchises and other water supply, storage and distribution facilities and
equipment.
   B.   Pressure Condition: All applicants for service connections or water
service shall be required to accept such conditions of pressure and service as
are provided by the distribution system at the location of the proposed service
connection and to hold the City harmless for any damages arising out of low
pressure or high pressure condition or interruptions in service.
   C.   Maintenance Of Water Pressure And Shutting Down For Emergency Repairs:
The City shall not accept any responsibility for the maintenance of pressure
and it reserves the right to discontinue service while making emergency repairs
and shutdowns required in the operation of the water system. Consumers
dependent upon a continuous supply should provide emergency storage.
   D.   Tampering With City Property: No one except an employee or
representative of the City Council shall at any time in any manner operate the
curb cocks or valves except to repair or change private plumbing, main cocks,
gates or valves of the City's system or interfere with meters or their
connections, street mains or other parts of the water system.
   E.   Pools And Tanks: When an abnormally large quantity of water is desired
for filling a swimming pool or for other purposes, arrangements must be made
with the City prior to taking such water. Permission to take water in unusual
quantities will be given only if it can be safely delivered through the City's
facilities and if other consumers are not inconvenienced thereby.
   F.   Responsibility For Equipment: The customer shall, at his own risk and
expense, furnish, install and keep in good and safe condition all equipment
that may be required for receiving, controlling, applying and utilizing water,
and the City shall not be responsible for any loss or damage caused by the
improper installation of such equipment or the negligence or wrongful act of
the customer or of any of his tenants, agents, employees, contractors,
licensees or permittees in installing, maintaining, operating or interfering
with such equipment. The City shall not be responsible for damage to property
caused by faucets, valves and other equipment that are open when water is
turned on at the meter, either originally or when turned on after a temporary
shutdown. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992)
   G.   Rulings Final: All rulings of the City Council shall be final. All
rulings of the Public Works Director shall be final unless appealed in writing
to the City Council within five (5) days. When appealed, the City Council's
ruling shall be final. (Ord. 94-10, 12-6-1994)
6-2-5: REGULAR WATER SERVICE:
   A.   Mandatory Connection: It shall be mandatory for the owner of all
houses, buildings or other properties used for human occupancy, employment,
recreation, commercial, industrial or other like purposes situated within the
City to use the City water system to the exclusion of all others; provided,
however, all of the above described owners on any water system other than the
City water system prior to the effective date hereof, may at their option,
remain on the other water system. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992; amd. 1993 Code)
   B.   Application For Service: A property owner or his agent may make
application for regular water service on the appropriate application form
available at the City office and after paying the required deposit established
by resolution of the City Council.
Such application will signify the customer's willingness and intention to
comply with this Chapter and other ordinances or regulations relating to the
regular water service and to make payment for water service required. (Ord. 94-
10, 12-6-1994)
An application will not be honored unless payment in full has been made for
water service previously rendered to the applicant by the City.
   C.   Installation Of Services; Charges: Regular water services will be
installed at the location desired by the applicant of the size determined by
the Water Department. Service installation will be made only to property
abutting on distribution mains as have been constructed in public streets,
alleys or easements, or to extensions thereof as herein provided. Services
installed in new subdivisions prior to the construction of streets or in
advance of street improvements must be accepted by the applicant in the
installed location.
The charge for a service connection shall be paid as required by a fee schedule
as set by resolution of the City Council.
   D.   Service Connections:
      1.   Rules Generally: It shall be unlawful to maintain a connection
except in conformity with the following rules:
         a.   Separate Building: Each house or building under separate
ownership must be provided with a separate service connection. Two (2) or more
houses under one ownership and on the same lot or parcel of land may be
supplied through the same service connection; provided, that for each house
under a separate roof which shall face a street an additional minimum will be
applied to the single meter serving said houses or a separate service
connection may be provided for each building. The Council reserves the right to
limit the number of houses or the area of land under one ownership to be
supplied by one service connection.
         b.   Single Connection: Not more than one service connection for
domestic or commercial supply shall be installed for one building, except under
special conditions.
         c.   Different Owners: A service connection shall not be used to
supply adjoining property of a different owner or to supply property of the
same owner across a street or alley.
         d.   Divided Property: When property provided with a service
connection is divided, each service connection shall be considered as belonging
to the lot or parcel of land which it directly enters. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992;
amd. 1993 Code)
      2.   Size And Location: The City reserves the right to determine the size
of service connections and their location with respect to the boundaries of the
premises to be served. The laying of the consumer's pipeline to the curb should
not be done until the location of the service connection has been approved by
the Public Works Director. (Ord. 94-10, 12-6-1994)
      3.   Curb Stop: Every service connection installed by the City shall be
equipped with a curb stop on the inlet side of the meter (in addition to any
stops required in the meter yoke). Such curb stop is intended for the exclusive
use of the City in controlling the water supply through the service connection
pipe. If the curb stop is damaged by the consumer's use to an extent requiring
replacement, then such replacement shall be at the consumer's expense.
   E.   Changes In Customer's Equipment: Customers making any material change
in the size, character or extent of the equipment or operations utilizing water
service or whose change in operations results in a large increase in the use of
water, shall immediately give the City notice of the nature of the change and,
if necessary, amend their application.
   F.   Responsibility For Connections And Equipment: The service connections
extending from the water main to the property line and including the meter,
meter box and curb cock or wheel valve, shall be maintained by the City. All
pipes and fixtures extending or lying beyond the property line shall be
installed and maintained by the owner of the property. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992;
amd. 1993 Code)
6-2-6: WATER MAIN EXTENSIONS:
   A.   Application For Main Extension: The following rules are established for
making main extensions:
      1.   Contents: Any owner of one or more lots or parcels of land desiring
the extension of one or more water mains to serve such property, shall make a
written application therefor to the City, said application to contain the legal
description of the property to be served and any additional information which
may be required by the City and be accompanied by a map showing the location of
the proposed connections. All main extensions shall be installed to a point
opposite to distance property line of the applicant servicing his total front
footage. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992)
      2.   Investigation: Upon receipt of the application, the Public Works
Director shall make an investigation and survey of the proposed extension and
shall report his findings to the Council including the estimated cost thereof.
(Ord. 94-10, 12-6-1994)
      3.   Ruling: The Council shall thereupon consider said application and
report and after such consideration, reject or approve it.
      4.   City Lines: All extensions thus provided for, in accordance with
these regulations, shall be and remain the property of the City. (Ord. 91-40,
1-7-1992)
      5.   Dead-End Lines: No dead-end lines shall be permitted, except at the
discretion of the Public Works Director and in cases where circulation lines
are necessary they shall be designed and installed by the City as a part of the
cost of the extension. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992; amd. Ord. 94-10, 12-6-1994)
   B.   Provided By City:
      1.   The City will provide all main extensions upon application for
service.
      2.   The Water Department may make extensions to the facilities
constructed under this Section without obligation to applicant.
   C.   Costs And Guarantees:
      1.   Determination Of Costs; Advance Payment: If, in the opinion of the
Council the cost thereof is in excess of what it is prepared to advance, or it
questions the economic advantage to the City of making such advance, it shall
determine the cost of such line. When the Council so determines, the applicant
shall advance the amount of such estimate and the line shall be installed by
the City.
      2.   Facilities Exceeding Needs: Should the Water Department desire to
install facilities greater than are needed to meet the applicant's service
demands, the cost of the excess size of facilities shall be borne by the City,
unless the Council shall determine that the increased size is necessary to
serve the applicant.
      3.   Adjustment: Adjustment of any substantial difference between the
estimated and reasonable actual total installed cost thereof shall be made
after the completion of the installation. The City shall be paid the amount of
any excess cost and shall refund the amount of any saving.
      4.   Extensions By Applicant: Should the Council determine that the cost
of the main extension should be paid in whole or in part by the applicant, the
Council may, in lieu of requiring the applicant to deposit the cost of the main
extension with the City, enter into an agreement with the applicant whereby the
applicant undertakes to provide for the installation of the facilities
comprising the public main extension in accordance with the plans and
specifications approved by the Council and subject to inspection by the City.
In such event the Council may require the applicant to post a surety bond, cash
or other improvement security with the City to guarantee the satisfactory
completion of the main extension in accordance with the plans and
specifications approved by the Council.
      5.   Reimbursements:
         a.   Where the cost of main extension has been paid by the property
owner pursuant to this subsection C5a and subsection 6-2-7G of this Chapter,
the City shall thereafter, but for not longer than ten (10) years after the
date said extension is originally connected to the City's water system, collect
from any water user connecting to such extension that fraction of the cost of
such extension as approved by the City as the number of front feet or acreage,
or combination of the two (2), held by said water user bears to the total
number of front feet or acreage, or combination of the two (2), which may be
served by such extension is connected to the City's water system. Such sums as
are thus actually received by the City shall be paid by the City only to the
property owner originally installing such extension, but the City shall in no
way be obligated to assure that the property owner making such extension is
paid the total cost thereof nor to initiate any action or incur any expense to
collect any sum to be paid to the property owner; nor shall such refund be from
any revenues derived from the sale of water. Where different property owners
contribute to the making of the extension, such sums shall be refunded to such
property owners pro rata according to the amounts which they severally
contributed towards the extension and pursuant to the preceding plan.
         b.   Where special conditions exist in the opinion of the City which
justify reimbursement to the person paying the cost of a main extension which
justify reimbursement on any basis other than that provided in subsection C5a
of this Section, the Council may authorize a special reimbursement contract by
the City and the person or persons constructing the main extension. Said
special reimbursement agreement shall be made and entered into prior to
acceptance of the work and water main by the City. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992)
   D.   Specifications And Construction: The size, type and quality of
materials and location of the lines shall be specified by the Water Department
and the actual construction will be done by the Water Department or by a
contractor acceptable to it, supervised and inspected by the Public Works
Director. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992; amd. Ord. 94-10, 12-6-1994)
6-2-7: WATER SYSTEMS IN SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Application; Contents: A person desiring to provide a water system
within a tract of land which he proposes to subdivide shall make written
application therefor. The application shall state the name of the subdivision
and its location. It shall be accompanied by a copy of the tentative map and of
the plans, profiles and specifications for the street work therein.
   B.   Deposit Required: Subdividers will be required to advance to the City
one hundred twelve percent (112%) of the estimated cost of the labor and
material necessary to install the main lines, valves, service connections and
fire hydrants within the subdivision. Fire hydrants shall be so located that
each lot is within a reasonable distance of a hydrant as determined by the
Council.
   C.   Cost Adjustments: Adjustments of any substantial difference between the
estimated and actual number of feet of line installed shall be made at or
before the completion of the installation and any excess shall be refunded to
the subdivider and any storage will be paid by him to the City. (Ord. 91-40, 1-
7-1992)
   D.   Specifications And Construction: The size, type and quality of
materials and location of the lines shall be specified by the Water Department
and the actual construction will be done by the Water Department or by a
contractor acceptable to it, supervised and inspected by the Public Works
Director. (Ord. 94-10, 12-6-1994)
   E.   Property Of City: All facilities shall be the property of the City.
   F.   Connections: The subdivider shall, at his cost, provide all connections
to houses constructed by him, as herein provided.
   G.   Main Extension By Application: In lieu of the provisions of this
Section relating to the deposit of construction cost of the main extension with
the City, the Council may, upon written request of the applicant, authorize a
subdivision main extension agreement between the applicant and the City. The
main extension agreement, in such event, shall provide for the construction of
the water facilities in accordance with plans and specifications provided by
the applicant and approved by the Council and subject to inspection by the
City. The agreement shall also provide for the payment by the subdivider of all
costs and expenses of the City relating to the installation of the subdivision
water system including, but not limited to, the City's costs of engineering,
inspection, legal and administrative expenses, and may provide for the deposit
by applicant of cash or surety bonds or other improvement security satisfactory
to the City to guarantee the faithful performance of the agreement for the
water main extension. Said cash deposits, surety bonds or other improvement
security shall be in the sum or sums of the estimated costs of the engineering,
inspection, legal and administrative expenses of the City and the estimated
cost of the installation of the water main extension and said bond or
improvement security shall, in addition to guaranteeing the faithful
performance of the work, guarantee the maintenance of the water system to be
installed pursuant to the agreement for a period of one year following
completion and acceptance of the work by the City. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992)
6-2-8: GENERAL USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Number Of Services Per Premises: The applicant may apply for as many
services as may be reasonably required for his premises provided that the
pipeline system for each service be independent of the others and that they are
not interconnected.
   B.   Water Waste: No customer shall negligently or knowingly permit leaks or
waste of water. Where water is wastefully used on a customer's premises, the
City may discontinue the service if such conditions are not corrected within
five (5) days after giving the customer written notice. Waste is defined as
nonbeneficial use.
   C.   Responsibility For Equipment On Customer Premises: All facilities
installed by the City on private property for the purpose of rendering water
service shall remain the property of the City and may be maintained, repaired
or replaced by the Water Department without consent or interference of the
owner or occupant of the property. The property owner shall use reasonable care
in the protection of the facilities. No payment shall be made for placing or
maintaining said facilities on private property.
   D.   Damage To Water System Facilities: The customer shall be liable for any
damage to the service facilities when such damage is from causes originating on
the premises by an act of the customer or his tenants, agents, employees,
contractors, licensees or permittees, including the breaking or destruction of
locks by the customer or others on or near a meter and any damage to a meter
that may result from hot water or steam from a boiler or heater on the
customer's premises. The City shall be reimbursed by the customer for any such
damage promptly on presentation of a bill.
   E.   Ground-Wire Attachments: All individuals or business organizations are
forbidden to attach any ground-wire or wires to any plumbing which is or may be
connected to a service connection or main belonging to the City. The City will
hold the customer liable for any damage to its property occasioned by such
ground-wire attachments.
   F.   Control Valve On Customer Property: The customer shall provide a valve
on his side of the service installation, as close to the meter location as
practicable, to control the flow of water to the piping on his premises. The
customer shall not use the service curb stop to turn water on and off for his
convenience.
   G.   Cross-Connections 1 :
      1.   The customer must comply with State and Federal laws governing the
separation of dual water systems or installations of backflow protective
devices to protect the public water supply from the danger of cross-
connections. Backflow protective devices must be installed as near the service
as possible and shall be open to test and inspection by the Water Department.
Plans for installation of backflow protective devices must be approved by the
Water Department prior to installation.
      2.   In special circumstances, when the customer is engaged in the
handling of especially dangerous or corrosive liquids or industrial or process
waters, the City may require the customer to eliminate certain plumbing or
piping connections as an additional precaution and as a protection to the
backflow protective devices.
      3.   Whenever backflow protection has been found necessary on a water
supply line entering a customer's premises, then any and all water supply lines
from the City's mains entering such premises, buildings or structures shall be
protected by an approved backflow device, regardless of the use of the
additional water supply lines.
      4.   The double check valve or other approved backflow protection devices
may be inspected and tested periodically for watertightness by the City. The
devices shall be serviced, overhauled or replaced whenever they are found
defective and all costs of repair and maintenance shall be borne by the
customer.
      5.   The service of water to any premises may be immediately discontinued
by the City if any defect is found in the check valve installations or other
protective devices or if it is found that dangerous unprotected cross-
connections exist. Service will not be restored until such defects are
corrected. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992; amd. 1993 Code)
   H.   Relief Valves: As a protection to the customer's plumbing system, at
locations determined by the Public Works Director, a suitable pressure relief
valve must be installed and maintained by him, at his expense, when check
valves or other protective devices are used. The relief valve shall be
installed between the check valves and the water heater. (Ord. 94-10, 12-6-
1994)
   I.   Interruptions In Service: The City shall not be liable for damage which
results from an interruption in service from a cause beyond the control of the
Water Department.
   J.   Ingress And Egress: Representatives from the Water Department shall
have the right of ingress and egress to the customer's premises at reasonable
hours for any purpose reasonably connected with furnishing of water service.
(Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992; amd. 1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Chapter 9 of this Title.
6-2-9: METERS:
   A.   Installations And Costs:
      1.   All services shall be metered, except that a flat rate service shall
apply where circumstances require such service and approval of the Public Works
Director has been given.
      2.   All residential meters shall be obtained directly from the City by
payment of a one time use fee. All commercial meters shall be purchased by the
user and approved as to size, type and manufacturer by the City Manager and/or
City Engineer or by the Public Works Director prior to installation.
      3.   Meters will be installed in the street, sidewalk area or other
public area when approved by the City Engineering Department or by the Public
Works Director. Upon installation, all meters will become the property of the
City, no rent or other charge will be paid by the City for the meter or other
facilities and the City will thereafter maintain all meters. All meters will be
sealed by the City at the time of installation and no seal shall be altered or
broken except by an authorized employee or agent of the City.
      4.   All connection and installation fees as set forth hereinafter or by
resolution of the City Council shall be paid to the City prior to the
installation of the meters. (Ord. 94-10, 12-6-1994)
   B.   Change In Location: Meters moved for the convenience of the customer
will be relocated at the customer's expense. Meters moved to protect the City's
property will be moved at its expense. If the lateral distance which the
customer desires to have the meter moved exceeds eight feet (8'), he will be
required to pay for new service at the desired location. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992)
   C.   Meter Tests:
      1.   Deposit Required: All meters will be tested prior to installation
and no meter will be installed which registers more than two percent (2%) fast.
If a customer desires to have the meter serving his premises tested, he shall
make the deposit as is applicable and is set by resolution of the City Council.
All customers shall be present when the meter is tested in the Water Department
and each customer shall be charged a testing fee based upon the time and
materials involved. (Ord. 94-10, 12-6-1994)
      2.   Adjustment Of Meter Errors:
         a.   Overcharged: If a meter tested at the request of a customer is
found to be more than two percent (2%) fast, the excess charges for the time
service was rendered the customer requesting the test or for a period of six
(6) months, whichever shall be the lesser, shall be refunded to the customer.
         b.   Undercharged: If a matter tested at the request of a customer is
found to be more than twenty five percent (25%) slow in the case of domestic
services or more than five percent (5%) slow for other than domestic services,
the City may bill the customer for the amount of the undercharge based upon
corrected meter readings for the period, not exceeding six (6) months, that the
meter was in use.
      3.   Nonregistering Meters; Estimate Of Charges: If a meter is found to
be not registering, the charges for service shall be at the minimum monthly
rate or based on the estimated consumption, whichever is greater. Such
estimates shall be made from previous consumption for a comparable period or by
such other method as is determined by the Water Department and its decision
shall be final.
   D.   Damage To Meters: The Council reserves the right to set and maintain a
meter on any service connection. The water consumer shall be held liable,
however, for any damage to the meter due to his intentional or negligent or
careless acts and in particular for damage caused by hot water or steam from
the premises. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992)
6-2-10: CREDIT ESTABLISHED FOR SERVICE:
   A.   Establishment And Maintenance: Each applicant for service shall
establish and maintain credit to the satisfaction of the City by a cash
guarantee deposit, as hereinafter provided, or otherwise, before service will
be rendered. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992)
   B.   Guarantee Deposit: The amount of deposit required will be equal to two
(2) months of minimum usage and a connection fee. No interest will be paid on
guarantee deposits. (Ord. 94-10, 12-6-1994)
   C.   Return Of Guarantee Deposit: A guarantee deposit with the Water
Department made by a consumer who owns the premises for which the deposit was
made and whose account has not been in arrears at any time during the first
year of said deposit, is returnable after the expiration of said year. If the
service is discontinued in less than a year, the deposit will be returned
provided all outstanding bills against the consumer for water service have been
paid. Any deposit uncalled for within five (5) years from the date when made
will become the property of and be retained by the City.
   D.   Deposit By Other Than Owner: Deposits made by applicants other than the
owner shall be refunded only on discontinuance of service.
   E.   Loss And Reestablishment Of Credit: Any amount due for water service
that remains unpaid for twenty (20) days after presentation of a bill therefor,
during the depositor's first year of service, may be deducted from the
guarantee deposit and service shall be subject to discontinuance until the
deposit is again restored to the original amount. Any such unpaid amount
accruing subsequently to the depositor's first year of service, where the
premises are owned by the depositor, may also be deducted from any guarantee
deposit remaining in the City's possession. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992)
6-2-11: WATER RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Service Charges:
      1.   Monthly Minimum Service Charge: The minimum service charge for all
services shall be fixed by the Council from time to time and shall be set forth
in a resolution, copies of which shall be maintained at the office of the City
Clerk.
      2.   Charges For Water Services: The charge for services and water used
within the City shall be fixed from time to time by resolutions of the Council.
      3.   Service Outside The Boundaries Of City: For water and service
furnished to each premises outside the City boundaries, a monthly charge shall
be in such amount as the Council shall from time to time in its sole discretion
set by resolution. This action shall not be construed as imposing any
obligation on the Council to provide water or service outside the boundaries of
the City.
   B.   Connection Charges: The connection charges shall be fixed by the City
Council from time to time and shall be as set forth in a resolution. (Ord. 91-
40, 1-7-1992; amd. 1993 Code)
6-2-12: BILLS FOR SERVICE:
   A.   Billing Period: The regular billing period will be annually, monthly or
bimonthly at the option of the City, however, the method adopted shall be
uniform to all users.
   B.   Meter Reading: Meters will be read as nearly as possible on the same
day of each month. Billing periods containing less than twenty seven (27) days
or more than thirty three (33) days for bills rendered monthly or less than
fifty four (54) days and more than sixty six (66) days for bills bimonthly,
will be prorated.
   C.   Opening And Closing Bills: Opening and closing bills for less than the
normal billing period shall be prorated both as to minimum charges and quantity
blocks. If the total period for which service is rendered is less than one
month, the bill shall not be less than the monthly minimum charge applicable.
Closing bills may be estimated by the City for the final period as an
expediency to permit the customer to pay the closing bill at the time service
is discontinued. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992)
   D.   Rendition And Payment Of Bills; Delinquencies:
      1.   Water charges are due and payable at the office of the City on the
date of mailing the bill to the property owner or his agent as designated in
the application and delinquent fifteen (15) days after the post cancellation
date. Service may be discontinued if payment is not made by the delinquent
date. (Ord. 94-10, 12-6-1994)
      2.   Bills for metered water service shall be rendered at the end of each
billing period. Flat rate services, if any, shall be billed in advance. Bills
shall be payable on presentation. On each bill for water service rendered by
the City, shall be printed substantially the following: "If this bill is not
paid within fifteen (15) days after the post office cancellation date of this
card, service may be discontinued. A reconnection charge and penalties will be
made and collected prior to renewing service following a discontinuance".
   E.   Billing Of Separate Meters Not Combined: Separate bills will be
rendered for each meter installation except where the Water Department has, for
its own convenience, installed two (2) or more meters in place of one meter.
Where such installations are made the meter readings will be combined for
billing purposes.
   F.   Consumer's Guarantee: The water charge begins when a service connection
is installed and the meter is set, unless the water is ordered to be left
shutoff when the service connection is ordered to be installed. Before water is
turned on by the City for any purpose whatever, the property owner must sign a
form in which he guarantees payment of future water bills for the service
required. The person signing the guarantee form or meter set form will be held
liable for water used until the Council is notified in writing to discontinue
service or to transfer the account to another property owner.
   G.   Water Used Without Regulation Application Being Made: A person taking
possession of premises and using water from an active service connection
without having made application to the City for water service, shall be held
liable for the water delivered from the date of the last recorded meter reading
and if the meter is found inoperative the quantity consumed will be estimated.
If proper application for water service is not made upon notification to do so
by the City and if accumulated bills for service are not paid immediately, the
service may be discontinued by the City without further notice. (Ord. 91-40, 1-
7-1992)
6-2-13: DISCONTINUANCE OR REFUSAL OF SERVICE; RECONNECTION:
   A.   Disconnection For Nonpayment: Service may be discontinued for
nonpayment of bills on or before the fifteenth day following the date of post
office cancellation on the notice of amount due. (Ord. 94-10, 12-6-1994)
   B.   Reconnection Charge:
      1.   Failure to receive bill does not relieve consumer of liability. Any
amount due shall be deemed a debt to the City and any person failing,
neglecting or refusing to pay said indebtedness shall be liable to an action in
the name of the City in any court of competent jurisdiction for the amount
thereof. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992)
      2.   A reconnection charge set by resolution of the Council plus
penalties will be made and collected prior to renewing service following a
discontinuance. (Ord. 94-10, 12-6-1994)
   C.   Unsafe Apparatus: Water service may be refused or discontinued to any
premises where apparatus or appliances are in use which might endanger or
disturb the service to other customers.
   D.   Cross-Connections 1 : Water service may be refused or discontinued to
any premises where there exists a cross- connection in violation of State or
Federal laws.
   E.   Fraud Or Abuse: Service may be discontinued if necessary to protect the
City against fraud or abuse.
   F.   Noncompliance With Regulations: Service may be discontinued for
noncompliance with this or any other ordinance or regulation relating to the
water service.
   G.   Upon Vacating Premises: Customers desiring to discontinue service
should so notify the Water Department two (2) days prior to vacating the
premises. Unless discontinuance of service is ordered, the customer shall be
liable for charges whether or not the water is used. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Chapter 9 of this Title.
6-2-14: DELINQUENT PAYMENTS:
   A.   Penalties: All charges not paid, when due, shall become delinquent and
shall be subject to a basic penalty of ten percent (10%) for the first month
delinquent. In addition, a penalty of one and one-half percent (11/2%) per
month for nonpayment of the charges and the basic penalty shall thereafter be
imposed.
   B.   Suit: All unpaid rates and charges and penalties herein provided may be
collected by suit except as provided for in subsection D of this Section. (Ord.
91-40, 1-7-1992)
   C.   Notice Of Disconnect For Delinquent Payment: Prior to disconnecting any
services for nonpayment, City personnel shall post at the door of the user, or
personally deliver to a person of suitable age at the door of the user, a forty
eight (48) hour notice of disconnect allowing forty eight (48) hours to make
the required payment. The notice shall state that the delinquent water user may
contest the disconnection of services by contacting the Public Works Director
within forty eight (48) hours of posting or delivery of the notice and shall
state how the Public Works Director may be contacted.
   D.   Lien: Any charges due for services rendered under this Chapter is a
lien upon the property to which the service is rendered and shall be perfected
by filing with the County recorder a statement by the City Clerk of the amount
due and unpaid and describing the property subject to the lien. Each such lien
shall:
      1.   Be coequal with the latest lien thereon to secure the payment of
general taxes.
      2.   Not be subject to extinguishment by the sale of any property on
account of the nonpayment of general taxes.
      3.   Be prior and superior to all liens, claims, encumbrances and titles
other than the liens of assessments and general taxes.
   E.   Costs: Defendant shall pay all costs of suit and attorney fees, if any,
in any judgment rendered in favor of the City or incurred by the City in
perfecting and collecting under the lien procedure outlined above. (Ord. 94-10,
12-6-1994)
6-2-15: NOTICES:
   A.   Notices To Customers: Notices from the City to a customer will normally
be given in writing and either delivered or mailed to him at his last known
address. Where conditions warrant and in emergencies, the City may resort to
notification either by telephone or messenger. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992)
   B.   Notices From Customers: Notice from the customer to the City may be
given by him or his authorized representative in writing at the City's
operating office or to the Public Works Director. (Ord. 94-10, 12-6-1994)
6-2-16: DAMAGES THROUGH LEAKING PIPES AND FIXTURES:
When turning on water supply as requested and the house or property is vacant,
the owner or a representative of the owner shall ascertain if water is running
on the inside of the building. If such is found to be the case, the water will
be left shutoff at the curb cock on the inlet side of the meter. The Council's
jurisdiction and responsibility ends at the property line and the Council will
in no case be liable for damages occasioned by water running from open or
faulty fixtures or from broken or damaged pipes inside the property line. (Ord.
91-40, 1-7-1992)
6-2-17: PUBLIC FIRE PROTECTION:
   A.   Use Of Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants are for use by the City or by
organized fire protection agencies pursuant to contract with the City. Other
parties desiring to use fire hydrants for any purpose must first obtain written
permission from the Water Department prior to use and shall operate the hydrant
in accordance with instructions issued by the Water Department. Use of the fire
hydrants shall constitute "temporary service" and is subject to guidelines
established in Section
6-2-19 of this Chapter. Unauthorized use of hydrants will be prosecuted
according to law. (Ord. 94-10, 12-6-1994)
   B.   Moving Of Fire Hydrants: When a fire hydrant has been installed in the
location specified by the proper authority, the City has fulfilled its
obligation. If a property owner or other party desires to change in the size,
type or location of the hydrant, he shall bear all costs of such charges,
without refund. Any change in the location of a fire hydrant must be approved
by the proper authority. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992)
6-2-18: PRIVATE FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE:
   A.   Payment Of Installation Cost: The applicant for private fire protection
service shall pay the total actual cost of installation of the service from the
distribution main to the customer's premises including the cost of a detector
check meter or other suitable and equivalent device, valve and meter box, said
installation to become the property of the City. The City may agree to install
the connection and meter at the cost plus ten percent (10%).
   B.   No Connection To Other System: There shall be no connections between
this fire protection system and any other water distribution system on the
premises.
   C.   Use: There shall be no water used through the fire protection service
except to extinguish fires and for testing the firefighting equipment.
   D.   Meter Rates: Any consumption recorded on the meter will be charged for
at double the regular service rates except that no charge will be made for
water used to extinguish fires where such fires have been reported to the duly
authorized fire protection agency.
   E.   Monthly Rates: The monthly rates for private fire protection shall be
established by the City Council upon receipt of application.
   F.   Water For Fire Storage Tanks: Occasionally water may be obtained from a
private fire service for filling a tank connected with the fire service, but
only if written permission is secured from the City in advance and an approved
means of measurement is available. The regular water rates will be applied.
   G.   Water Pressure And Supply: The City assumes no responsibility for loss
or damage due to lack of water or pressure, either high or low, and merely
agrees to furnish such quantities and pressures as are available in its general
distribution system. The service is subject to shutdowns and variations
required by the operation of the system.
   H.   Rules: The following rules shall apply to fire service connections:
      1.   Valve: When a fire service connection is installed, the valve
governing same will be closed and sealed and remain so until a written order is
received from the owner of the premises to have the water turned on.
      2.   Meter: If the City does not require a meter and if water is used
through a fire service connection for any other purpose than extinguishing of
fires, it shall have the right to place a meter on the fire service connection
and at the owner's expense or shut off the entire water supply from such
premises.
      3.   Additional Service: The City shall have the right to take a
domestic, commercial or industrial service connection from the fire service
connection at the curb to supply the same premises as those to which the fire
service connection belongs. The City shall also have the right to determine the
proportion of the installation costs properly chargeable to each service
connection, if such segregation of costs shall become necessary.
      4.   Check Valve: The City Council reserves the right to install on all
fire service connections a check valve of a type approved by the National Board
of Fire Underwriters and to equip the same with a bypass meter at the expense
of the owner of the property.
   I.   Violations; Discontinuance Of Service: If water is used from a private
fire service in violation of the agreement or of these regulations, the City
may, at its option, discontinue and remove the service. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992)
6-2-19: TEMPORARY SERVICE:
   A.   Installation And Operation: All facilities for temporary service to the
customer connection shall be made by the Water Department and shall be operated
in accordance with its instructions. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992; amd. 1993 Code)
   B.   Deposit: The applicant shall deposit, in advance, the estimated cost of
installing and removing the facilities required to furnish said service
exclusive of the cost of salvageable material. Upon discontinuance of service,
the actual cost shall be determined and an adjustment made as an additional
charge, refund or credit. If service is supplied through a fire hydrant, the
applicant shall pay a refundable security deposit established by resolution of
the Council and a nonrefundable setup fee as established by resolution of the
Council. (Ord. 94-10, 12-6-1994)
   C.   Responsibility For Meters And Installations: The customer shall use
reasonable care to prevent damage to the meter or to any other loaned
facilities of the City which are involved in furnishing temporary service from
the time they are installed until they are removed, or until forty eight (48)
hours' notice in writing has been given to the City that the contractor or
other person is through with the meter or meters and the installation. If the
meter or other facilities are damaged, the cost of making repairs shall be paid
by the customer. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992; amd. 1993 Code)
   D.   Use Of Fire Hydrants:
      1.   Permit Required; Fee: An applicant for temporary use of water from a
fire hydrant must secure a permit therefor from the City and pay the necessary
deposits and fees charged for the installation and removal of a meter to be
installed on said hydrant; provide himself with a hydrant wrench necessary to
operate such hydrant, or pay the City Council five dollars ($5.00) for the loan
of such equipment, and pay for the water used in accordance with the meter
readings, at the rates prescribed by the City Council. (Ord. 94-10, 12-6-1994)
      2.   Unauthorized Use Of Hydrants: Tampering with any fire hydrant for
the unauthorized use of water therefrom or for any other purpose, is a
misdemeanor, punishable by law. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992; amd. 1993 Code)
   E.   Rates: The rates for regular service shall be increased by fifty
percent (50%) for temporary service. The minimum charge for water shall be
twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 94-10, 12-6-1994)
   F.   Credit: The applicant shall pay the estimated cost of service in
advance or shall be otherwise required to establish credit.
   G.   Duration Of Service: Temporary service connections shall be
disconnected and terminated within six (6) months after installation unless an
extension of time is granted in writing by the City. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992;
amd. 1993 Code)
6-2-20: WATER ALLOCATIONS:
   A.   Mandatory Compliance: No building permit shall be issued or land
divisions approved nor shall any water be allocated to any person without first
complying with the provisions of this Section. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992; amd. 1993
Code)
   B.   Request For Allocation:
      1.   Requests for water allocations for any new or remodeled buildings or
structures or relocation of existing structures or land divisions must be made
in writing to the City Manager's office. The request must include the
following:
         a.   The amount of water needed.
         b.   One set of building or development plans.
         c.   Schedule of construction if the water allocation is ultimately
allowed. (Ord. 94-10, 12-6-1994)
      2.   In addition, the applicant shall supply any and all details
requested by the City Manager to allow that official to estimate the amount of
water needed to satisfy the intended use. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992; amd. 1993
Code; Ord. 94-3, 1-18-1994)
   C.   Will-Serve Letters: If the application is approved by the City Manager
for the quantities requested, the application will be issued a "will-serve"
letter. Water will be allocated according to the date of issue on the will-
serve letter. All applications on file with the City Manager but not approved
as of the effective date hereof shall be given initial time priority over any
applications filed subsequent to the effective date hereof. This Section does
not apply to allocations previously granted by the Council either through the
issuance of building permits or other documents.
   D.   Notice Of Availability Of Water; Time Limit On Application: The
applicant shall have six (6) months to apply for a building permit beginning
from the date of receipt of final written notification that water is available.
Failure of the applicant to apply for a permit within said time shall result in
the applicant's will-serve letter becoming null and void. Water will be
allocated at the time a final map is filed with the County Recorder. Unless
otherwise exempted under subsection I or J of this Section, all builders must
secure a building permit within one year or else would be subject to reapplying
for allocations for each building.
   E.   Time For Construction; Effect:
      1.   Construction might begin and proceed within six (6) months after a
permit is issued in accordance with a schedule submitted and approved by the
City Manager or the allocation assigned to the applicant may be removed from
the project and the applicant will have to reapply for the necessary will-
serve letter.
      2.   Before any application is voided, written notice of the intention to
void shall be given to the applicant by registered mail, return receipt
requested, at the address provided by the applicant upon applying at least
twenty (20) days prior to the effective date. Within twenty (20) days from the
postmark of the mailing of the notice, the applicant may, by written notice to
the City Manager, register opposition to the action and, upon such notice of
opposition, the matter shall be placed upon the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the Council. Any action to void is stayed pending a hearing before
the Council. At the conclusion of such hearing, the Council may confirm the
action of voiding the application, deny the action or may condition the action
upon compliance with certain terms and conditions.
   F.   Nontransferability Of Will-Serve Letters: Water allocations approved by
the City Manager shall not be transferable from the specific project for which
they were approved; however, the owner of the will-serve letter may assign or
transfer the ownership of a will-serve letter upon transfer of the ownership of
the specific project for which the permit was allocated.
   G.   Waiver Or Extension Of Time: Upon good cause shown by the applicant,
all of the times set forth above may be extended or waived by the Council.
   H.   Reports; Final Approval: The City Manager shall submit to the Council a
monthly summary report of the number of applications approved together with the
total amount of water potentially to be allocated. Regardless of any provisions
herein to the contrary, any such applications approved or disapproved by the
City Manager shall be subject to the final approval, disapproval or
modification by the City Council at the monthly meeting wherein the report is
presented. The City Council may, upon good cause, continue its discretion on
such applications to one or more later meetings.
   I.   Conditional Exemptions: The following forms of water needs are exempt
from the requirements of this Section and may be allocated by the City Manager
in accordance with water availability.
      1.   A new single-family residence for the owner's use and occupancy.
This exemption is limited to one per year unless the water need is less than
one thousand (1,000) gallons per day. A "single-family residence" means a
detached building containing only one dwelling unit.
      2.   Remodeling of a single-family residence for the owner's use and
occupancy.
      3.   Any commercial application which the city manager has determined has
a need of five hundred (500) gallons per day or less.
      4.   Any project requiring special consideration because of a regulatory
agency's order or rule is based upon health, welfare or safety purposes.
   J.   Exemptions:
      1.   Damage, Destruction, Obsolescence: This section does not apply to
buildings required to be rebuilt or replaced due to damage or destruction in
whole or in part from fire, weather, obsolescence or other similar causes. In
such cases, the owner shall retain the same water allocation right which
preexisted the rebuilding or damage.
      2.   Special Agreements: Upon good cause shown and consistent with the
general welfare and development of the community, the council may require and
enter into special water agreements for the development and use of water
without compliance with the terms of this section.
   K.   Reservation Of Right: The council reserves the right, based upon
evidence that the general health, welfare or safety of the inhabitants of the
city would be substantially enhanced, to allocate water to other projects that
may not have received a "will serve" letter according to subsection C of this
section and adjust the allocation accordingly. (Ord. 94-10, 12-6-1994)
6-2-21: PENALTY:
For the failure of the customer to comply with all or any part of this chapter
and any ordinance, resolution or order fixing rates and charges of this city, a
penalty shall be imposed as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code, the
customer's service shall be discontinued and the water shall not be supplied
such customer until he shall have complied with the rule or regulation, rate or
charge which he has violated or, in the event that he cannot comply with said
rule or regulation, until he shall have satisfied the city that in the future
he will comply with all the rules and regulations established by ordinance of
the city and with all rates and charges of this city. (Ord. 91-40, 1-7-1992;
amd. 1993 Code)
6-2-22: RIGHT OF WAY TOLL:
The West Wendover municipal water utility shall pay a right of way toll, to be
charged to the water enterprise fund, to the city of West Wendover, as
established by resolution of the city council. Upon its receipt of payments of
the right of way toll collected and transmitted to the city of West Wendover,
the city of West Wendover shall allocate one hundred percent (100%) of the
proceeds to the city's general fund. (Ord. 2015-01, 4-7-2015)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Rules And Regulations Adopted; Compliance Required
6-3-2: Purpose
6-3-3: Definitions
6-3-4: Sewer Use Charges
6-3-5: Use Of Public Sewers Required
6-3-6: Permits And Fees
6-3-7: Building Sewers And Connections
6-3-8: Public Sewer Construction
6-3-9: Use Restrictions
6-3-10: Schedule Of Rates; Billings
6-3-11: Protection From Damage
6-3-12: Inspections
6-3-13: Relief From Provisions
6-3-14: Enforcement
6-3-15: Right Of Way Toll
6-3-16: Wastewater Department
6-3-1: RULES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
The following rules and regulations respecting sewer construction and disposal
of sewage and drainage of buildings and connection to the sewage works in the
incorporated city of West Wendover, Nevada, are hereby adopted, and all work in
respect thereto shall be performed as herein required and not otherwise. (Ord.
91-41, 1-7-1992)
6-3-2: PURPOSE:
This chapter is intended to provide certain minimum standards, provisions and
requirements for design, methods of construction and use of materials in
sanitary sewage facilities in lateral sewers hereafter installed, altered or
repaired. This chapter shall not apply retroactively and, in the event of an
alteration or repair hereafter made, it shall apply only to the new materials
and methods used therein. (Ord. 91-41, 1-7-1992)
6-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
APPLICANT: The person making application for a permit for sewer installation
and shall be the owner of the premises to be served by the sewer for which a
permit is requested or his authorized agent.
BUILDING: Any structure used for human habitation or a place of business,
recreation or other purpose containing sanitary facilities.
CITY: The city of West Wendover.
CITY MANAGER/ENGINEER: The inspector acting for the city or his duly authorized
agent.
CONTRACTOR: An individual, firm, corporation, partnership or association duly
licensed by the state of Nevada to perform the type of work to be done under
the permit and shall be the owner or his agent.
COUNCIL: The city council.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and
from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
HOUSE SEWER: Any sewer or drain beginning at the plumbing or drainage outlets
of any buildings and running to the property line.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct from
sewage.
LATERAL SEWER: The portion of the side sewer within a public street.
OUTSIDE SEWER: A private sewer beyond the limits of the city.
PERMIT: Any written authorization required pursuant to this or any other rule,
regulation or resolution of the council for the installation of any sewage
works.
PERSON: Any human being, firm, company, partnership, association and private,
public or municipal corporation, the United States Of America, the state of
Nevada, districts and all political subdivisions and governmental agencies
thereof.
PRIVATE SEWER: One which has an independent sewage disposal not connected with
a public sewer and which accommodates one or more houses.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer lying within a street or easement and which is controlled
by or under the jurisdiction of the city.
SEWAGE: A combination of water carried wastes from buildings and industrial
establishments connected to sewage works or from any private sewer.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collection, pumping, treating and disposing of
sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit which carries sewage and/or industrial wastes to which
storm, surface and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
SIDE SEWER: The part of the horizontal piping beginning at the foundation wall
of any building and terminating in the public sewer.
STREET: Any public highway, road, street, avenue, alley, easement or right of
way.
USER CHARGE: A charge levied on users of sewer treatment works for the
operation and maintenance of such works. (Ord. 91-41, 1-7-1992; amd. Ord. 92-8,
5-5-1992)
6-3-4: SEWER USE CHARGES:
   A.   Classification: Users shall be divided into two (2) classes:
      1.   Residential - class 1.
      2.   Commercial - class 2. (Ord. 92-8, 5-5-1992)
   B.   Minimum Charge: The minimum sewer use charge for any class shall be
determined by resolution of the city council.
   C.   Annual Review Of Financial Status:
      1.   The city council will conduct an annual review of the expenditures
and revenues generated from wastewater treatment operations to determine their
sufficiency with respect to operation, maintenance, repair costs, debt service
and reserve funds for replacement costs and planned capital improvements.
      2.   The council may take such action as is necessary to ensure that
expenditures and revenues meet the above described concerns of the treatment
operations, and, if no action is taken, the council shall specifically state
why no action was taken.
   D.   Notification: Each user will be notified, at least annually, in
conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user
charges which are attributable to wastewater treatment service. This notice
shall separate user charge from other fees.
   E.   Inconsistent Agreements: The city council may have preexisting
agreements which address: 1) the reservation of capacity in the West Wendover
treatment plant; or 2) the charges to be collected by the city in providing
wastewater treatment services or reserving capacity. This user charge shall
take precedence over any terms or conditions of agreements or contracts between
the city and users which are inconsistent with the requirements of NAC
445.42158 through 445.42164, inclusive.
   F.   Service To Users Outside City Limits: The council shall have the
authority to make and enter into such agreements as may be necessary,
convenient or proper with respect to sewer service for improved property
outside the territorial limits of the city and with respect to the payment of
proper charges for such service, including, but not limited to, connection
charges. Such charges shall in no case be less than rates established for users
within the city. No such contract shall impair the ability of the department to
properly serve its customers within the city. Users outside the City shall be
charged user fees at the same user charge rate as users inside the city in the
same class. (Ord. 94-11, 12-6-1994)
6-3-5: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Public Sewer Use Required: The owner of any dwelling or structure
situated within the City requiring sewage disposal is hereby required, at his
expense, to connect said dwelling or structure directly with the proper public
sewer in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter; provided, however, any
owner using a sewer system other than the public sewer system of Elko County
prior to the effective date hereof may, at his option, remain on such system,
provided it is in compliance with all applicable rules, regulations and
resolutions of the City and State. Any expansion or addition by any owner must
be made according to the applicable rules, regulations and resolutions of the
City and State. Any expansion or addition by any owner using the system other
than the public sewer system of the City which predates the effective date
hereof shall require Council approval. If no Council approval is given, any
additions or expansions shall be in violation of this Code. All provisions to
the contrary notwithstanding, the Council may, upon good cause and upon such
terms as appear in the public interest, waive or suspend the requirements set
forth herein.
   B.   Private Sewage Systems:
      1.   Except as herein provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, seepage pit or other
facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
      2.   The further maintenance or use of cesspools or other local means of
sewage disposal constitutes a public nuisance and it shall be unlawful for any
person to connect to, construct, install or provide, maintain and use any other
means of sewage disposal from any dwelling place, provided the dwelling to be
connected is within four hundred feet (400') of an existing public sewer, in
which connection to in the usual manner is possible.
   C.   Unlawful Disposal Of Wastes: It shall be unlawful for any person to
place, deposit or permit to be deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or
private property within the City or in any area under the jurisdiction of said
City, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   D.   Treatment Of Wastes Required: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any
stream or watercourse any sewage, industrial wastes or other polluted water
except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with provisions
of this Chapter. (Ord. 91-41, 1-7-1992)
6-3-6: PERMITS AND FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance or perform any work of any sewer or drainage system without first
obtaining a written permit from the City.
   B.   Application For Permit:
      1.   Any person, legally entitled to apply for and receive a permit shall
make such application on forms provided by the City for that purpose. He shall
give a description of the character of the work proposed to be done and the
location, ownership, occupancy and use of the premises in connection therewith.
The City may require plans, specifications or drawings and such other
information as may be deemed necessary.
      2.   If the City determines that the plans, specifications, drawings,
descriptions or information furnished by the applicant is in compliance with
the ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the City it shall issue
the permit applied for upon payment of the required fees as hereinafter fixed.
(Ord. 91-41, 1-7-1992)
   C.   Compliance With Permit: After approval of the application, evidenced by
the issuance of a permit, no change shall be made in the location of the sewer,
the grade, materials or other details from those described in the permit or as
shown on the plans and specifications for which the permit was issued except
with written permission from the Council, the City Manager or other authorized
representative. (Ord. 94-11, 12-6-1994)
   D.   Agreement: The applicant's signature on an application for any permit
as set forth in subsection B of this Section, shall constitute an agreement to
comply with all of the provisions, terms and requirements of ordinances,
resolutions, rules and regulations of the City and with the plans and
specifications he has filed with his application, if any, together with such
corrections he has filed with his application, if any, together with such
corrections or modifications as may be made or permitted by the City, if any.
Such agreement shall be binding upon the applicant and may be altered only by
the City upon the written request for the alteration from the applicant.
   E.   Classes Of Permits: There shall be those classes of permits, as shown
in Exhibit "A" attached to Ordinance 91-41, on file in the office of the City
Clerk and by reference incorporated herein.
   F.   Fees; Connection Charges: All connection charges, fees and other
charges in the City and in areas annexed thereto, rules and regulations set
forth in resolutions, rules and regulations of the City, as heretofore or
hereafter fixed, shall be paid and complied with in the manner provided in said
resolutions, rules and regulations. The charges shall be as shown by resolution
of the City Council.
   G.   Performance Bond: Prior to the issuance of a permit for public sewer
construction, the applicant shall furnish to the City a faithful performance
bond or cash in the amount of the total estimated cost of the work or other
approved surety at the option of the Council, said bond to be secured by a
surety or sureties satisfactory to the City. The cash deposit or faithful
performance bond shall be conditioned upon the performance of the terms and
conditions of the permit and shall guarantee the correction of faulty
workmanship and the replacement of defective materials for a period of one year
after the date of acceptance of the work. Cost of plans and engineering shall
be the responsibility of the property owner.
   H.   Disposition Of Fees: All fees collected on behalf of the City shall be
deposited with the City Clerk.
   I.   Inspections:
      1.   Inspections Required: All sewer construction work shall be inspected
by an inspector acting for the City to ensure compliance with all requirements
of the City. No sewer shall be covered at any point until it has been inspected
and passed for acceptance. No sewer shall be connected to the City's public
sewer until the work covered by the permit has been completed, inspected and
approved by the City. If the test proves satisfactory, the City shall issue a
certificate of satisfactory completion.
      2.   Notification For Inspection: It shall be the duty of the person
doing the work authorized by permit to notify the City in writing that said
work is ready for inspection. Such notification shall be given not less than
twenty four (24) hours before the work is to be inspected. It shall be the duty
of the person doing the work to make sure that the work will stand the tests
required by the City before giving the above notification.
      3.   Condemned Work: When any work has been inspected and work condemned
and no certification of satisfactory completion given, a written notice to that
effect shall be given instructing the owner of the premises, or the agent of
such owner, to repair the sewer or other work authorized by the permit in
accordance with the resolutions, rules and regulations of the City.
   J.   Construction Costs; Liability Of Owner: All costs and expenses incident
to the installation and connection of any sewer or other work for which a
permit has been issued shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify
the City from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the work.
   K.   Sewers Outside City Limits:
      1.   Permit Required: Permission shall not be granted to connect any lot
or parcel of land outside the City to any public sewer in or under the
jurisdiction of the City unless a permit therefor is obtained. The applicant
shall first enter into a contract in writing whereby he shall bind himself, his
heirs, successors and assigns to abide by all ordinances, resolutions, rules
and regulations in regard to the manner in which such sewer shall be used, the
manner of connecting therewith and drainage in connection therewith, and also
shall agree to pay in advance all fees required for securing the permit and a
monthly or annual fee in the amount set by the City for the privilege of using
such sewer. The granting of such permission in any event shall be optional with
the Council.
      2.   Special Outside Agreements: Where special conditions exist relating
to an outside sewer, they shall be the subject of a special contract between
the applicant and the City.
   L.   Street Excavation Permit: A separate permit must be secured from the
State, City or any other person having jurisdiction thereover by owners or
contractors intending to excavate in a public street for the purpose of
installing sewers or making sewer connections.
   M.   Time Limit On Permits: If work under a permit is not commenced within
six (6) months from the date of issuance or if after partial completion the
work is discontinued for a period of one year, the permit shall thereupon
become void and no further work shall be done until a new permit shall have
been secured. A new fee shall be paid upon the issuance of said new permit.
   N.   Nonliability Of City: The city and its officers, agents and employees
shall not be answerable for any liability or injury or death to any person or
damage to any property arising during or growing out of the performance of any
work by any such applicant. The applicant shall be answerable for, and shall
save the city and its officers, agents and employees harmless from any
liability imposed by law upon the city or its officers, agents or employees,
including all costs, expenses, fees and interest incurred in defending same or
in seeking to enforce this provision. Applicant shall be solely liable for any
defects in the performance of his work or any failure which may develop
therein. (Ord. 91-41, 1-7-1992)
6-3-7: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: In accordance with section
6-3-6 of this chapter, no person shall construct a building sewer, lateral
sewer or make a connection with any public sewer without first obtaining a
written permit from the city and paying all fees and connection charges as
required herein. (Ord. 91-41, 1-7-1992)
   B.   Compliance With Regulations: Construction and inspection of building
sewers and lateral sewers shall be in accordance with the requirements of the
city and the international building code 1 . (Ord. 92-8, 5-5-1992; amd. Ord.
2005-07, 12-20-2005)
   C.   Connection To Public Sewer: The connection of the building sewer into
the public sewer shall be made in strict accordance with city requirements, at
the applicant's expense, and in the presence of the city manager and under his
supervision and direction. Any damage to the public sewer shall be repaired at
the cost of the applicant to the satisfaction of the city manager. (Ord. 91-41,
1-7-1992; amd. Ord. 94-3, 1-18-1994)
   D.   Separate Sewers Required: No two (2) adjacent lots fronting on the same
street or alley shall be permitted to join in the use of the same side sewer.
Every building or industrial facility must be separately connected with a
public sewer if such public sewer exists in the street upon which the property
abuts or in an easement which will serve said property. However, one or more
buildings located on property belonging to the same owner may be served with
the same side sewer during the period of said ownership. Upon the subsequent
subdivision and sale of a portion of said lot the portion not directly
connected with such public sewer shall be separately so connected with a public
sewer, and it shall be unlawful for the owner thereof to continue to use or
maintain such indirect connection. (Ord. 91-41, 1-7-1992)
   E.   Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are found, upon examination and test by the city
manager to meet all requirements of the city. (Ord. 91-41, 1-7-1992; amd. Ord.
94-3, 1-18-1994)
   F.   Cleanouts: Cleanouts in building sewers shall be provided in accordance
with the rules, regulations and resolutions of the city. All cleanouts shall be
maintained watertight. A cleanout shall be located at the property line on each
lateral sewer.
   G.   Check Valves: An approved check valve shall be installed on all
building sewers where the floor elevation of the building is lower than the
ground level of the sewer main.
   H.   Sewer Too Low: In all buildings in which any building sewer is too low
to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such
building sewer shall be lifted by artificial means, approved by the city and
discharged to the public sewer at the expense of the owner.
   I.   Excavations: All excavations for side sewer installations shall be
adequately guarded with barricades or lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other property disturbed in the course
of work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city and/or any other
person having jurisdiction thereover.
   J.   Maintenance Of Side Sewer: Side sewers shall be maintained by the owner
of the property served thereby, which includes the horizontal piping beginning
at the foundation wall of any building and terminating in the main sewer. (Ord.
91-41, 1-7-1992)
   K.   Testing: All building sewers shall be tested in the presence of the
city manager, or his duly authorized agent, by filling the line with water or
air and inspecting for excessive leakage under pressure. Compressors, pumps,
fittings, plugs, water and labor for testing shall be furnished by the person
constructing the sewer. All lines showing excessive leakage shall be repaired
or replaced at the expense of the person doing the work and shall be done at
the direction and to the satisfaction of the City. (Ord. 94-11, 12-6-1994)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 1 of this code.
6-3-8: PUBLIC SEWER CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Permit Required: In accordance with Section
6-3-9 of this Chapter, no person shall construct, extend or connect to any
public sewer without first obtaining a written permit from the City and paying
all fees and connection charges and furnishing bonds as required therein. The
provisions of this Section requiring permits shall not be construed to apply to
contractors constructing sewers and appurtenances under contracts awarded and
entered into by the City.
   B.   Plans, Profiles And Specifications Required: The application for a
permit for public sewer construction shall be accompanied by complete plans,
profiles and specifications, complying with all applicable resolutions, rules
and regulations of the City showing all details of the proposed work based on
an accurate survey of the ground. The application, together with plans,
profiles and specifications shall be examined by the Council who shall approve
them as filed or require them to be modified as it deems necessary for proper
installation. When the Council is satisfied that the proposed work is proper
and the plans, profiles and specifications are sufficient and correct, it shall
order the issuance of a permit predicated upon the payment of all connection
charges and fees, and the furnishing of an agreement in form to be approved by
the Council that the applicant will construct the facilities in strict
accordance with the approved plans and specifications, the faithful performance
bond in an amount and with sureties satisfactory to the City. The permit shall
prescribe such terms and conditions as the Council finds necessary in the
public interest.
   C.   Design And Construction Standards:
      1.   Minimum standards for the design and construction of sewers within
the City shall be in accordance with the applicable provisions of the
resolutions, rules and regulations. The City may permit modifications or may
require higher standards where unusual conditions are encountered.
      2.   As-built drawings showing the actual location of all mains,
structures, wyes, tees, laterals and cleanouts shall be filed with the City
before final acceptance of the work.
   D.   Persons Authorized To Perform Work: Only properly licensed contractors
shall be authorized to perform the work of public sewer construction within the
City. All terms and conditions of the permit issued by the City to the
applicant shall be binding on the contractor. The requirements of this Section
shall apply to side sewers installed concurrently with public sewer
construction.
   E.   Grade Stakes: Grade and line stakes shall be set by a registered
professional engineer prior to the start of the work on any public sewer
construction. The contractor shall be responsible for accurately transferring
grades to grade bars and sewer invert.
   F.   Excavations:
      1.   Any person constructing a sewer within a street shall comply with
all State and City laws, resolutions, rules and regulations pertaining to the
cutting of pavement, opening, barricading, lighting and protecting of trenches,
backfilling and repaving thereof and shall obtain all permits and pay all fees
required by the department having jurisdiction prior to the issuance of a
permit by the City.
      2.   The applicant shall maintain such barriers, lights and signs as are
necessary to give warning to the public at all times that a sewer is under
construction and of each dangerous condition to be encountered as a result
thereof. He shall also likewise protect the public in the use of a sidewalk
against any such conditions in connection with the construction of the sewer.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be reinstalled in a manner satisfactory to the City and/or any
person having jurisdiction thereover.
   G.   Easements Or Rights Of Way: In the event that an easement is required
for the extension of the public sewer or the making of connections, the
applicant shall procure and have accepted by the Council a proper easement or
grant of right of way sufficient in law to allow the laying and maintenance of
such extension or connection. (Ord. 91-41, 1-7-1992)
6-3-9: USE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Drainage Into Sanitary Sewers Prohibited:
      1.   No leaders from roofs and no surface drains for rainwater shall be
connected to any sanitary sewer. No surface or subsurface drainage, rainwater,
storm water, seepage, cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters
shall be permitted to enter any sanitary sewer by any device or method
whatsoever.
      2.   Before any matter may be discharged into the sewer system, which
discharge might reasonably be considered a violation of this Chapter, the user
must seek the approval of the Engineer and the nature and acceptability of such
matter shall be determined to the satisfaction of the Engineer. The
responsibility of initiating such determinations, of any costs involved of
submitting the results and the decision as to whether or not a permit shall be
issued, shall be the responsibility of the Engineer. The fact that any matter
has been discharged into the sewer system prior to the passage of this Chapter
or subsequent thereto but without any objection from the Engineer does not
constitute a valid right to so discharge such matter. If, upon discovery by the
Engineer at any time that any matter being discharged into the sewer does not
conform to the requirements of this Chapter, the Engineer may immediately stop
the discharge of such matter into the sewer system. (Ord. 92-8, 5-5-1992)
   B.   Prohibited Substances: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant including, but not limited
to, cyanides in excess of two milligrams per liter (2 mg/l).
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.5
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, asphalts,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground or ground by garbage grinders. (Ord. 91-41, 1-7-1992)
   C.   Materials Under Special Review:
      1.   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the City Manager that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving waters
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance.
In forming the opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the City
Manager will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject
wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage, treatment process, capacity
of the sewage treatment plant, degree or treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
(Ord. 94-11, 12-6-1994)
         a.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
         b.   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty two degrees Fahrenheit (32°F) (0°C) and one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C). (Ord. 91-41, 1-7-1992)
         c.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) hp or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the City
Manager. (Ord. 94-11, 12-6-1994)
         d.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid metallic pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not. (Ord. 91-
41, 1-7-1992)
         e.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc,
heavy metals and similar objectionable or toxic substances or wastes exerting
an excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material
received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the
limits established by the City Manager for such materials.
         f.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the City Manager as necessary, after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the State, Federal or other public agencies
of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters. (Ord. 94-11, 12-6-
1994)
         g.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the City in compliance with
applicable State or Federal regulations.
         h.   Materials which exert or cause:
            (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as,
but not limited to: fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate).
            (2)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions).
            (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
            (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes
constituting "slugs".
         i.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
      2.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or wasted or are proposed to
be discharged or wasted to the public sewers, which waters contain the
substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in subsection C1 hereof,
and which in the judgment of the Council may have a deleterious effect upon the
sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters or which otherwise
create a hazard of life or constitute a public nuisance, the Council may:
         a.   Reject the wastes: (Ord. 91-41, 1-7-1992)
            (1)   Matter Excluded From All Sewers: Sewage, waste or any matter
having any of the following characteristics shall, under no conditions, be
discharged into, be placed where they might find their way into or be allowed
to run, leak or escape into any part of the sewer system:
               (A)   Ashes, cinders, sand, earth, coal rubbish or any matter
which is chemically or physically stable for at least five (5) days at twenty
degrees centigrade (20°C) or damage or reduce the capacity of the sewer into
which it was placed.
               (B)   Inflammable, explosive or poisonous liquids, gases or
solids or any matter which after entrance into a sewer might reasonably be
expected to form in any way such flammable, explosive or poisonous liquids,
gases or solids.
               (C)   Liquid matter of any nature containing suspended solids in
excess of one thousand (1,000) parts per million (1,000,000).
               (D)   Matter of any nature containing five (5) day Biochemical
Oxygen Demand in excess of three hundred (300) parts per million (1,000,000) or
any petroleum products.
               (E)   Animal or vegetable greases, oils or matter containing
animal or vegetable greases or oil or any nature in excess of three hundred
(300) parts per million (1,000,000).
               (F)   Liquid matter with a hydrogen ion (pH) concentration below
five and five-tenths (5.5) or above nine and zero tenths (9.0).
               (G)   Any matter that would be poisonous to or inhibit the
biologic organisms associated with any sewage treatment process and which, in
the opinion of the Engineer, might interfere with the satisfactory operation of
any treatment facility or any portion of the sewer system.
Upon obtaining the written approval of the Engineer, sewage wastes or other
matters herein excluded may be discharged into the sewage system upon the
payment to the City of the additional costs for processing the same as
hereinafter provided and set forth.
            (2)   Matter Excluded From Storm Sewers: In addition to the matter
excluded heretofore, all other matter of any nature shall be excluded from
those parts of the sewer system designated by the Engineer as storm sewers,
excepting only surface drainage waters. Such drainage water shall be directed
into storm sewer only under authorization and direction of the Engineer.
            (3)   Matter Excluded From Sanitary Sewers: In addition to the
matter excluded heretofore, all surface drainage water shall be excluded from
all parts of the sewer system designated by the Engineer as the Sanitary Sewer
System. This shall include roof drains and other sources of uncontaminated
water. (Ord. 92-8, 5-5-1992)
         b.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         c.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         d.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of Section
6-3-10 of this Chapter. (Ord. 91-41, 1-7-1992)
      3.   If the Board permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the City Manager and subject to such terms and
conditions as might be required by the City. (Ord. 94-11, 12-6-1994)
   D.   Interceptors: Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when,
in the opinion of the City Manager they are necessary for the proper handling
of liquid wastes, sand and other harmful ingredients; except, that such
interceptors shall not be required for buildings used for residential purposes.
All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the City and shall
be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
All grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be maintained by the owner, at his
expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times. (Ord. 91-41, 1-7-
1992; amd. Ord. 94-3, 1-18-1994)
   E.   Maintenance Of Pretreatment Facilities: Where preliminary treatment
facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his
expense. (Ord. 91-41, 1-7-1992)
   F.   Measurements, Tests And Analyses:
      1.   When required by the City, the owner of any property served by a
side sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole
in the side sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and
shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the City Manager. The
manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense and shall be maintained
by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times. (Ord. 91-41, 1-7-1992;
amd. Ord. 94-3, 1-18-1994)
      2.   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in subsections B and C of this
Section, shall be determined in accordance with standard methods and shall be
determined at the control manhole provided for in subsection F1 of this Section
or upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
side sewer is connected.
   G.   Special Agreements: No statement contained in this Section shall be
construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the City
and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the City for treatment, subject to payment
therefor by the industrial concern and subject to such terms and conditions as
might be required by the City. (Ord. 91-41, 1-7-1992)
   H.   Pretreatment Of Sewage: When at any time it becomes necessary or
desirable to discharge into the sewer system any matter from any source which
does not conform to the requirements outlined in this Chapter, it is hereby
required that the producer of such matters shall pretreat the same at his own
expense to a degree that will produce an effluent which does conform to the
requirements of this Chapter. Such pretreatment processes shall be understood
to include grease trap, chemical or biochemical plants, sedimentation chambers
and any other devices which effect a change of any nature in the
characteristics of the matter being treated. Any and all such processes,
devices and equipment shall be subject to the approval of the Engineer and
shall not be put into operation without a written permit of approval issued by
the Engineer; be provided with all necessary features of construction to permit
inspection of operations and testing of material passing through them; and be
open to the inspection of the Engineer at any time. Notwithstanding the above,
the producer, in lieu of the treatment of said sewage as hereinabove provided,
may, with the prior written approval of the Engineer, discharge said sewage,
waste or other matter into said sewage system, subject to the provisions of
this Chapter and subject to the payment of the additional cost of the treatment
hereof, as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 94-11, 12-6-1994)
6-3-10: SCHEDULE OF RATES; BILLINGS:
   A.   Fee Schedule: The fee schedule for sewer service within the City shall
be fixed by the City Council and shall be as set forth by resolution.
   B.   Billings:
      1.   Billing And Collection: The amount of sewer service shall be billed
monthly, bimonthly or annually at the option of the Council. Opening and
closing bills for less than the normal billing period shall be prorated.
      2.   Billing Time: Bills for sewer service shall be rendered at the
beginning of each billing period and are payable on presentation and delinquent
fifteen (15) days after the post office cancellation date.
      3.   Penalties: All charges shall become due and payable on the first day
of the billing period specified in the bill. All charges not paid, when due,
shall become delinquent and shall be subject to a basic penalty of ten percent
(10%) for the first month delinquent. In addition, a penalty of one and one-
half percent (11/2%) per month for nonpayment of the charges and the basic
penalty shall thereafter be imposed. (Ord. 91-41, 1-7-1992)
      4.   Notice Of Disconnect: The City shall post at the door of the user,
or personally deliver to a person of suitable age at the door, a notice of
disconnect on all delinquent accounts allowing forty eight (48) hours to make
required payment. In the event no payment is made within the forty eight (48)
hours allowed, the City shall disconnect sewer service without any further
notice. The notice shall state that the delinquent water user may contest the
disconnection of services by contacting the City Manager within forty eight
(48) hours of posting or delivery of the notice and shall state how the City
Manager may be contacted.
      5.   Liens And Suits: Until paid, such charges shall constitute a
perpetual lien on and against the property served and any such lien may be
perfected as described in Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 266 and foreclosed in
the same manner as provided by the laws of the State for the foreclosure of
mechanics' liens. In addition, and as an alternative to any of the other
procedures herein provided, the City may bring an action against the person or
persons who occupy the premises of the delinquent rate and penalties and costs
of collection, including a reasonable attorney fee. (Ord. 94-11, 12-6-1994)
6-3-11: PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the City's sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to the penalties provided by law. (Ord. 91-41, 1-7-
1992)
6-3-12: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Inspection Official: The City Council shall employ the City Manager or
such other person as may be designated by the City Council to perform the
duties of inspecting the installation, connection, maintenance and use of all
lateral sewers and plumbing, sewerage, sanitary drainage work and facilities in
connection therewith in the City. If such person is not previously employed by
the City, he shall receive as compensation for his services for making
inspections required to be made by the ordinances, and orders and regulations
from time to time enacted and ordered by said City Council a sum to be fixed by
the City Council, and he shall serve during the pleasure of the City Council.
(Ord. 94-11, 12-6-1994)
   B.   Powers And Authorities Of Inspectors: The officers, inspectors and any
duly authorized employees of the city shall wear or carry an official badge of
office or other evidence establishing their positions as such and upon
exhibiting the proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter in and upon any and all buildings, industrial facilities and properties
for the purposes of inspection, reinspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, testing or otherwise performing such duties as may be necessary in
the enforcement of the provisions of the ordinances, resolutions, rules and
regulations of the city. (Ord. 91-41, 1-7-1992)
6-3-13: RELIEF FROM PROVISIONS:
   A.   Relief On Application: When any person by reason of special
circumstances is of the opinion that any provision of this chapter is unjust or
inequitable as applied to his premises, he may make written application to the
city stating the special circumstances, citing the provision complained of and
requesting suspension or modification of that provision as applied to his
premises.
   B.   Relief On Own Motion: The city council may, on its own motion, find
that by reason of special circumstances any provision of this regulation and
chapter should be suspended or modified as applied to a particular premises and
may, by resolution, order such suspension or modification for such premises
during the period of such special circumstances or any part thereof. (Ord. 91-
41, 1-7-1992)
6-3-14: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Notice Of Violation; Remedy Required: Any person found to be violating
any provision of this chapter or any other ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation of the city, shall be served by the city manager or other authorized
person with written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a
reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. Said time limit
shall not be less than two (2) nor more than seven (7) working days. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violations. All persons shall be held strictly responsible for any
and all acts of agents or employees done under the provisions of this chapter
or any other resolution, rule or regulation of the city. Upon being notified by
the city manager of any defect arising in any sewer or of any violation of the
resolutions, rules or regulations of the city, the person or persons having
charge of said work shall immediately correct the same.
   B.   Disconnection And Reconnection:
      1.   As an alternative method of enforcing the provisions of this chapter
or any other resolution, rule or regulation of the city, the city manager shall
have the power to disconnect the user of the sewer system from the public sewer
of the city. Upon disconnection the city manager shall estimate the cost of
disconnection from and reconnection to the system, and such user shall deposit
the cost, as estimated, of disconnection and reconnection before such user is
reconnected to the system. The city manager shall refund any part of the
deposit remaining after payment of all costs of disconnection and reconnection.
(Ord. 94-11, 12-6-1994)
      2.   During the period of such disconnection, habitation of such premises
by human beings shall constitute a public nuisance, whereupon the city shall
cause proceedings to be brought for the abatement of the occupancy of said
premises by human beings during the periods of such disconnection.
   C.   Nuisance Declared; Abatement: Continued habitation of any building or
continued operation of any industrial facility in violation of the provisions
of this chapter or any other ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation of the
city is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. The city may cause proceedings
to be brought for the abatement of the occupancy of the building or industrial
facility during the period of such violation.
   D.   Means Of Enforcement Only: The city hereby declares that the foregoing
procedures are established as a means of enforcement of the terms and
conditions of its ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations and not as a
penalty.
   E.   Liability For Violation: Any person violating any of the provisions of
the resolutions, rules and regulations of the city shall become liable to the
city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the city by reason of such
violation. (Ord. 91-41, 1-7-1992)
6-3-15: RIGHT OF WAY TOLL:
The West Wendover municipal sewer utility shall pay a right of way toll, to be
charged to the sewer enterprise fund, to the city of West Wendover, as set
forth by resolution of the city council. Upon its receipt of payments of the
right of way toll collected and transmitted to the city of West Wendover, the
city of West Wendover shall allocate one hundred percent (100%) of the proceeds
to the city's general fund. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-7-2015)
6-3-16: WASTEWATER DEPARTMENT:
A wastewater department is hereby created to maintain, monitor and regulate the
public sewage and wastewater/reuse systems of the city of West Wendover. Such
department shall consist of the city council, city manager, public works
director and assigned personnel. Nothing prohibits the joint use of public
works personnel between the water department and the wastewater department in
the performance of these duties and functions. (Ord. 2011-04, 4-19-2011)
CHAPTER 4
CABLE TELEVISION
SECTION:
6-4-1: Title
6-4-2: Purpose And Authority
6-4-3: Definitions
6-4-4: Application For Franchise; Contents
6-4-5: Granting Of Franchise; Procedure
6-4-6: Period Of Franchise; Renewal
6-4-7: Expansion Of Franchise Area
6-4-8: Franchise Fees
6-4-9: Rates
6-4-10: Bond
6-4-11: Compliance With Laws, Regulations; Payment Of Cost Of Repairs;
Insurance
6-4-12: Authority For Use Of Streets
6-4-13: Conditions Of Street Occupancy
6-4-14: Erection Of Poles
6-4-15: Undergrounding
6-4-16: Condition Of Plant
6-4-17: Removal, Relocation Of Facilities
6-4-18: Notice Of Sale, Transfer, Assignment, Lease
6-4-19: Forfeiture
6-4-20: Procedure Upon Termination
6-4-21: Complaints; Reports And Procedures
6-4-22: Indemnification By Grantee
6-4-23: Alternative Remedies
6-4-24: Auditing And Financial Records
6-4-25: Nonenforcement
6-4-26: Applicability, Compliance With Laws And Requirements
6-4-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the WEST WENDOVER CABLE
TELEVISION ORDINANCE. (Ord. 92-9, 7-7-1992)
6-4-2: PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   The City Council finds that the development of cable television and
communications systems has the potential of having great benefit and impact
upon the residents of West Wendover, Nevada. Because of the complex and rapidly
changing technology associated with cable television, the Council further finds
that the public convenience, safety and general welfare can be best served by
establishing regulatory powers which should be vested in the City or such
persons as the City shall designate. It is the intent of this Chapter to
provide for and specify the means to attain the best possible public interest
and public purpose in these matters and any franchise issued pursuant to this
Chapter shall be deemed to include this finding as an integral part thereof.
   B.   Pursuant to the power granted the Council by the Nevada Revised
Statutes, nonexclusive franchises are hereby created for the purpose of
operating a cable television system and the right and privilege to use City
property or that portion of the City dedicated for public use for the
installation and maintenance of cables, wires, poles or any other underground
or overhead devices for the transmission of television signals in any area of
the City which may be designated for such cable television service by the
Council. (Ord. 92-9, 7-7-1992)
6-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section and when not inconsistent with the context,
words used in the present tense include the future, words used in the plural
include the singular and words in the singular include the plural:
AFFILIATE: An entity which owns or controls, is owned or controlled by or is
under common ownership with grantee.
BASIC SUBSCRIBER REVENUES: All remuneration received directly by the franchisee
from subscribers in payment for regularly furnished cable television service,
but shall not include any taxes on services furnished by the franchisee imposed
on any subscriber or user by any government, governmental unit, political
subdivision, agency or instrumentality and collected by the franchisee.
CABLE ACT: The Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, as amended.
CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM, SYSTEM: A facility consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control
equipment that is designed to provide cable service, which includes producing,
receiving, transmitting, amplifying and distributing audio, video and other
forms of electronic or electrical signals, to multiple subscribers within the
unincorporated areas of the City.
CITY: The City of West Wendover, County of Elko, State of Nevada and all of the
incorporated area within its boundaries over which the City exercises
jurisdiction.
COUNCIL: The City Council of the City of West Wendover.
FRANCHISE: The initial authorization or renewal thereof, issued by the
franchising authority, whether such authorization is designated as a franchise,
permit, license, resolution, contract, certificate or otherwise, which
authorizes construction and operation of the cable system for the purpose of
offering cable service or other service to subscribers. Such authorization
must, however, be in writing and approved by the Council.
STREET: The surface of and the space above and below any public street, way,
place, right of way, road, highway, freeway, bridge, tunnel, lane, path, bike
path, alley, court, sidewalk, parkway, drive, communications or utility
easement, by whatever name called, now or hereafter existing as such. (Ord. 92-
9, 7-7-1992)
6-4-4: APPLICATION FOR FRANCHISE; CONTENTS:
   A.   Any person desiring to apply for a new franchise shall submit an
application in writing to the City Manager/Engineer. The application must
include at a minimum:
      1.   A clear description of the identity of the applicant, including but
not limited to the name of the applicant, the address of the applicant, the
nature of the business entity and evidence of compliance by the business entity
with all applicable law;
      2.   The applicant's background, business references and financial
statements for the last two (2) years;
      3.   The proposed rates, service charges or other fees to be charged
subscribers;
      4.   An estimate of the cost for installation of the system and how the
cost will be financed;
      5.   The number and description of television channels the applicant will
distribute in the City immediately after the service is in operation and the
channels contemplated for future distribution;
      6.   Detailed plans and specifications for the proposed system, including
the physical location of cables, wires, poles and other equipment, as well as
their relationship to public property and/or rights of way;
      7.   The precise boundaries of the geographic area in the City for which
the franchise is sought and must have attached to the application a map or maps
which clearly depict that geographic area; and
      8.   A schedule of construction and a timetable for completion of the
proposed system, which shall be reflected on the map(s) required by subsection
A7 of this Section.
   B.   The City Council, or the City Manager/Engineer or his designee, may
demand that the applicant submit any additional relevant information deemed
helpful to the consideration of the application. (Ord. 92-9, 7-7-1992)
6-4-5: GRANTING OF FRANCHISE; PROCEDURE:
   A.   The Council may grant a new franchise for all or any defined portion of
the City. The service area shall be the entire area defined in the franchise
agreement.
   B.   In the event the Council shall grant a nonexclusive, revocable
franchise to construct, operate, maintain and reconstruct, a cable television
system within the City or a renewal of an existing franchise, said franchise
shall constitute both a right and an obligation to provide the services of a
cable television system as required by the provisions of this Chapter and the
franchise agreement.
   C.   Any franchise granted under the terms and conditions of this Chapter
shall be consistent with Federal laws and regulations and State general laws
and regulations. In the event of conflict between the terms and conditions on
which the Council may grant a franchise, the general law and/or statutory
requirements shall, without exception, control.
   D.   Nothing in the franchise shall be deemed to waive the requirements of
all other applicable codes, ordinances, regulations or laws regarding permits,
fees to be paid or manner of construction.
   E.   No cable television system shall be allowed, unless an existing
franchisee is in the process of renewing a franchise, to occupy or use the
streets in the City or be allowed to operate without having entered into a
franchise agreement in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
   F.   The Council may establish by resolution appropriate requirements for
new franchises or franchise renewals and may modify these requirements from
time to time to reflect changing conditions and state of art in the cable
industry. Such requirements shall not be retroactive to franchises then in
effect, but shall become applicable when the franchise is renewed.
   G.   Any franchise granted pursuant to this Chapter shall be nonexclusive.
The Council specifically reserves the right to grant, at any time, such
additional franchises for a cable television system as it deems appropriate.
   H.   After an application is received, the City Manager/Engineer or his
designee shall conduct an investigation of the applicant and the feasibility of
its proposal.
   I.   After the investigation is completed, the City Manager/Engineer shall
schedule one or more public hearings on the application at regularly-held or
special meetings of the Council. The Council may consider competing franchise
applications at the hearing. The hearing must be noticed in accordance with
Nevada's Open Meeting law, and, additionally, by publication of one notice in a
newspaper of general circulation which serves the area of the City to be
included in the proposed franchise.
   J.   At the time of hearing, the Council shall consider all relevant
evidence and hear comments from the public. At the hearing the applicant must
insure that:
      1.   The safety, functioning and appearance of property and the
convenience and safety of other persons will not be adversely affected by the
installation or construction of facilities necessary for the system.
      2.   The cost of the installation, construction, operation or removal of
the facilities will be borne by the applicant or subscribers or a combination
of both.
      3.   The owners of any property affected by the installation, operation,
maintenance or removal of the system will be justly compensated for any damages
caused by the installation, operation, maintenance or removal of the system.
      4.   Access to cable service will not be denied to any group of potential
residential cable subscribers based upon their income level.
      5.   The applicant will be able to provide adequate service to the
potential subscribers.
   K.   A decision shall be made by the Council not later than ninety (90) days
after the conclusion of all such public hearings and based upon the evaluation
of the application(s), the hearings and any other information the Council deems
relevant, the Council may grant one or more franchises for any service area or
may decline to grant any franchise.
   L.   Any franchise granted pursuant to this Chapter shall not become
effective until a written franchise agreement is entered into between the
successful applicant and the City, and the performance bond and certificates of
insurance required by Sections
6-4-10 and
6-4-11 of this Chapter have been filed. The written franchise agreement must be
executed within ninety (90) days of the granting of the franchise and shall
contain such provisions and conditions which are deemed by the Council to be
reasonable and necessary to insure quality service and compliance with all
applicable laws, rules and regulations. If agreement cannot be reached on the
terms and conditions of a written franchise agreement as required by this
Section, the franchise may be declared by the City to be void. (Ord. 92-9, 7-7-
1992)
6-4-6: PERIOD OF FRANCHISE; RENEWAL:
   A.   A franchise granted pursuant to this Chapter is a franchise for the
maintenance and operation of a cable television system within the City for a
period of up to fifteen (15) years after the date the franchise becomes
effective.
   B.   Subject to Cable Act, during the three (3) year period immediately
preceding the expiration of a franchise, the Council may commence proceedings
which afford the public in the franchise area appropriate notice and
participation for the purpose of:
      1.   Identifying the future cable-related community needs and interests;
and
      2.   Reviewing the performance of the franchisee under the franchise
during the then current franchise term.
   C.   During the three (3) year period immediately preceding the expiration
of a franchise, a franchisee seeking renewal of a franchise may on its own
initiative or at the request of the Council, submit a proposal for renewal.
Subject to applicable Federal law, any such proposal shall address such issues
as the Council may direct, including proposals for an upgrade of the cable
system. The Council may establish a date by which such proposal shall be
submitted.
   D.   Upon submittal by a franchisee of a proposal to the Council for the
renewal of a franchise, the Council may commence an administrative proceeding,
after providing notice to the franchisee and the public of such proceeding, to
consider whether:
      1.   The franchisee has substantially complied with the material terms of
the existing franchise and with applicable law;
      2.   The quality of the franchisee's service, including signal quality,
response to consumer complaints and billing practices, has been reasonable in
light of community needs;
      3.   The franchisee has the financial, legal and technical ability to
provide the services, facilities and equipment as set forth in the franchisee's
proposal; and
      4.   The franchisee's proposal is reasonable to meet the future cable-
related community needs and interests, taking into account the cost of meeting
such needs and interests.
   E.   In any proceeding under subsection D of this Section, the franchisee,
the public and the Council or its designee, shall be afforded fair opportunity
for participation, including the right to offer testimony and introduce
evidence, including testimony and evidence related to issues raised in a
proceeding under subsection B of this Section any other matters relevant to the
issue of franchise renewal.
   F.   At the completion of a proceeding under subsection D of this Section,
the Council shall issue a written decision granting or denying the proposal for
renewal based upon the record of such proceeding and transmit a copy of such
decision to the franchisee. Such decision shall state the reasons therefor.
(Ord. 92-9, 7-7-1992)
6-4-7: EXPANSION OF FRANCHISE AREA:
Due to development of new areas within the City, expansion of franchise areas
may be necessary to provide service to such newly developed areas. Application
for expansion of existing franchise areas shall be made as follows:
   A.   Any person desiring to provide service to an area not previously
covered by a franchise agreement shall submit an application to the City
Manager/Engineer. The application shall contain all relevant details required
by Section
6-4-4 of this Chapter.
   B.   The City shall schedule a public hearing at which public comment on the
proposal will be received and considered. The Council may also consider
proposals submitted prior to the hearing by other persons to service the
unfranchised area.
   C.   Within a reasonable time after the hearing the Council may grant one or
more franchises for the previously unfranchised area. If the franchise is
granted to an existing franchisee, the boundaries of the existing franchise
will be automatically expanded to include the newly franchised area. (Ord. 92-
9, 7-7-1992)
6-4-8: FRANCHISE FEES:
   A.   The franchisee shall pay the City a franchise fee of not more than five
percent (5%) of the gross subscriber revenues received for cable television
operations, which shall include sales tax or other taxes levied on a per
subscription basis imposed and collected by the franchisee. The franchisee
shall provide the City with quarterly and annual reports showing gross
subscriber revenues received during the applicable period. (Ord. 93-7, 8-3-
1993)
   B.   The franchisee shall pay in quarterly installments. All payments are
due thirty (30) days after the end of a quarter. Any franchise fees which
remain unpaid after the date specified in this Section shall be delinquent and
shall thereafter accrue interest at the maximum legal rate until paid.
   C.   The fee requirements under this Section shall apply to new franchises
granted or existing franchises which are renewed after the effective date of
this Chapter.
   D.   No acceptance of any payment shall be construed as an accord that the
amount paid is, in fact, the correct amount, nor shall acceptance be construed
as a release of any claim which the City may have for additional sums payable
under the provisions of this Section. (Ord. 92-9, 7-7-1992)
6-4-9: RATES:
The franchisee shall maintain on file with the City Manager/Engineer a schedule
setting forth all rates and charges to subscribers for cable television
service, including connection and services charges. Notice of changes in rates
and charges shall be filed with the City Manager/Engineer at least thirty (30)
days in advance of the effective date thereof and must be approved by the City
Council prior to becoming effective, unless otherwise provided by Federal or
State law. (Ord. 93-7, 8-3-1993)
6-4-10: BOND:
   A.   Franchisee shall, within twenty (20) days after the date of the
granting of a franchise, file with the City Manager/Engineer and at all times
thereafter maintain in full force and effect for the entire term of the
franchise, at its expense, a faithful performance bond executed by a surety
company approved by the Council and in form satisfactory to the Council, in the
amount of fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) renewable annually and
conditioned on the faithful performance by the franchisee of all the terms,
conditions and covenants contained in the franchise. If the franchisee fails to
comply with any one or more of the provisions of the franchise, there shall be
recoverable jointly and severally from the principal and surety of such bond
any damages or losses suffered by the City as a result thereof.
   B.   Neither the provisions of any bond accepted by the City pursuant
hereto, nor any damages recovered by the City thereunder, shall be construed to
excuse faithful performance by franchisee or limit the liability of franchisee
under the franchise or for damages or preclude the exercise of any other right
or remedy given to the City by law. (Ord. 92-9, 7-7-1992)
6-4-11: COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS, REGULATIONS; PAYMENT OF COST OF REPAIRS;
INSURANCE:
Every franchisee shall:
   A.   Construct, install and maintain or cause to be constructed, installed
and maintained all lines, wires, cable and appurtenances in accordance with any
and all of the ordinances, rules and regulations heretofore or hereafter
adopted by the Council in the exercise of its police powers and in accordance
with the general laws and regulations relating to the location and maintenance
of such facilities.
   B.   Pay to the City, on demand, the reasonable cost of all repairs to
public property made necessary by any operations under the franchise.
   C.   Maintain in full force and effect throughout the term of the franchise
the following insurance in a form and with insurer(s) satisfactory to the City:
      1.   Workers' compensation insurance in compliance with the laws of the
State of Nevada;
      2.   Bodily injury liability insurance with limits of five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000.00) per person, and one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per occurrence; and
      3.   Property damage liability insurance with limits of one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per occurrence.
   D.   The City must be named as an additional insured on each policy of
insurance set forth in subsections C2 and C3 of this Section.
   E.   File and maintain with the City Manager/Engineer a current certificate
of insurance evidencing the insurance coverage required by subsections C2 and
C3 of this Section. (Ord. 92-9, 7-7-1992)
6-4-12: AUTHORITY FOR USE OF STREETS:
   A.   For the purposes of operating and maintaining a cable television system
in the City, the franchisee may erect, install, construct, repair, replace,
reconstruct and retain in, on, over, under, upon, across and along the streets
within the City such lines, cables, conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults,
manholes, amplifiers, appliances, pedestals, attachments and other property and
equipment as are necessary and appurtenant to the operation of the system,
provided that all applicable permits are applied for and granted, all fees paid
and all other City Code provisions otherwise complied with.
   B.   Prior to construction or alteration of the system, the franchisee shall
in each case file plans and all appropriate City agencies and utility companies
and receive written approval of such plans, which approval shall be
unreasonably withheld. Upon request of the City, franchisee shall provide a
monthly progress report to City through the completion of construction or
alteration.
   C.   Franchisee shall construct and maintain the system so as not to
interfere with other uses of streets. Where technically and economically
feasible, franchisee shall make use of existing poles and other facilities
available to it. Franchisee shall individually notify all residents affected by
proposed construction prior to the commencement of that work.
   D.   Notwithstanding the above grant to use streets, no street shall be used
by franchisee if City, in its sole opinion, determines that such use is
inconsistent with the terms, conditions or provisions by which such street was
created or dedicated, or presently used. (Ord. 92-9, 7-7-1992)
6-4-13: CONDITIONS OF STREET OCCUPANCY:
   A.   All structures, lines and equipment erected or maintained by the
franchisee within the City shall be so located as to cause minimum interference
with the proper use of streets, alleys and other public ways and places and to
cause minimum interference with the rights and reasonable convenience of
property owners who abut any of the said streets, alleys or other public ways
and places.
   B.   In case of disturbance of any street, sidewalk, alley, public way or
paved area, the franchisee shall, at its own cost and expense and in a manner
approved by the City of Engineering Department, replace and restore such
street, sidewalk, alley, public way or paved area in as good a condition as
before the work causing such disturbance was done. (Ord. 92-9, 7-7-1992)
6-4-14: ERECTION OF POLES:
No franchise shall be deemed to expressly or impliedly authorize the franchisee
to construct or install poles or wire-holding structures within streets for the
purpose of placing cables, wires or lines without the written consent of the
Council. Such consent shall be given upon such terms and conditions as the
Council in its sole discretion may prescribe and which shall include a
requirement that the franchisee perform, at its sole expense, all acts required
to maintain the poles clear of obstructions. (Ord. 92-9, 7-7-1992)
6-4-15: UNDERGROUNDING:
Unless permission of the Council to do otherwise is obtained, in all areas of
the City where the cables, wires and other like facilities of a public utility
district are placed underground, each franchisee shall construct and install
its cables, wires and other facilities underground. (Ord. 92-9, 7-7-1992)
6-4-16: CONDITION OF PLANT:
All structures and all lines, equipment and connections, in, over, under and
upon all streets of the franchise area shall be kept and maintained in a safe
and suitable condition and in good order and repair by the franchisee. (Ord.
92-9, 7-7-1992)
6-4-17: REMOVAL, RELOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   The franchisee shall, at its expense, protect, support, temporarily
disconnect, relocate in the same street or other public place or remove from
the street or other public place any property of the franchisee when required
by the Council by reason of traffic conditions, public safety, street vacation,
freeway and street construction, change or establishment of street grade,
installation of sewers, drains, gas or water pipes or any other type of
alteration or improvement by the Council.
   B.   The franchisee shall, upon request, temporarily raise or lower its
wires to permit the moving of buildings, provided:
      1.   The expense of such temporary raising or lowering of wires is paid
by the person moving such building, including, if required by the franchisee,
making such payment in advance; and
      2.   The franchisee is given not less than seven (7) business days'
advance notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes. (Ord. 92-9, 7-7-
1992)
6-4-18: NOTICE OF SALE, TRANSFER, ASSIGNMENT, LEASE:
The person receiving each franchise shall, thirty (30) days before any
transaction is to become effective, file with the City Clerk written notice of
any contemplated sale, transfer, assignment or lease of the franchise or any
part thereof, or of any of the rights or privileges granted thereby, other than
to an affiliate. No such sale, transfer, assignment or lease of the franchise,
or any part thereof, shall be effective until first approved by the Council;
except that a transfer in trust by mortgage or other transfer by franchisee
solely to secure indebtedness shall not require prior consent. Approval of such
sale, transfer, assignment or lease shall not be unreasonably withheld. (Ord.
92-9, 7-7-1992)
6-4-19: FORFEITURE:
If any person securing a franchise fails, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions or conditions of this Chapter and does not within ten
(10) days after written demand for compliance begin the work of compliance or
after such beginning does not prosecute the work of compliance with due
diligence to completion, then the Council may declare such franchise forfeited.
(Ord. 92-9, 7-7-1992)
6-4-20: PROCEDURE UPON TERMINATION:
Upon expiration of the franchise, or upon termination as otherwise provided
herein, if the franchisee shall not have perfected a renewal thereof, it may
have, and it is hereby granted, the right to enter upon the streets or other
property of the City for the purpose of removing therefrom any or all of its
property. In so removing said property, the franchisee shall refill, at its
expense, any excavation that it shall make and shall leave said streets in as
good condition as that prevailing prior to the franchisee's removal of its
property. (Ord. 92-9, 7-7-1992)
6-4-21: COMPLAINTS; REPORTS AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Each franchise agreement shall contain a procedure for hearing and
resolution of subscriber complaints.
   B.   Upon request of the City, the franchisee shall submit a monthly report
to the City Manager/Engineer describing in general categories the types and
numbers of complaints received from subscribers. If requested by the City
Manager/Engineer or his designee, the franchisee will supply names and
addresses of the complainants, subject to the privacy provisions in the Cable
Act.
   C.   The complaints will be listed in two (2) categories:
      1.   Those involving reception or service; and
      2.   Other such as billing disputes.
   D.   The report shall state which complaints were resolved and how and when
they were resolved.
   E.   Each franchise agreement will contain provisions allowing reduction of
bills for periods of service failure.
   F.   All customer complaints shall be promptly resolved by the franchisee.
(Ord. 92-9, 7-7-1992)
6-4-22: INDEMNIFICATION BY GRANTEE:
   A.   Each franchisee shall, at its sole expense, fully indemnify, defend and
hold harmless the City and in their capacity as such, the officers, agents and
employees thereof, from and against any and all claims, suits, actions,
liability and judgments for damages or otherwise:
      1.   For actual or alleged injury to persons or property, including loss
of use of property due to an occurrence, whether or not such property is
physically damaged or destroyed, in any way arising out of or through or
alleged to arise out of or through the acts or omissions of the franchisee or
its officers, agents, employees or contractors or to which the franchisee's or
its officer's, agent's employees' or contractor's acts or omissions in any way
contribute;
      2.   Arising out of or alleged to arise out of any claim for damages for
invasion of the right of privacy, defamation of any person, firm or corporation
or the violation or infringement of any copyright, trademark, trade name,
service mark or patent or of any other right of any person, firm or
corporation; and
      3.   Arising out of or alleged to arise out of franchisee's failure to
comply with the provisions of any statute, regulation or ordinance of the
United States, State of Nevada or any local agency applicable to the franchisee
in its business.
   B.   Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the parties indemnified and
held harmless herein from participating in the defense of any litigation by
their own counsel at the franchisee's sole expense. Such participation shall
not under any circumstances relieve the franchisee from its duty of defense
against liability or of paying any judgment entered against such party. (Ord.
92-9, 7-7-1992)
6-4-23: ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES:
No provision of this Chapter shall be deemed to bar the right of the City or
franchisee to seek or obtain judicial relief from a violation of any provision
of the franchise or any rule, regulation, requirement or directive promulgated
thereunder. Neither the existence of other remedies identified in this Chapter
nor the exercise thereof shall be deemed to bar or otherwise limit the right of
the City or franchisee to recover monetary damages for such violation by the
franchise, or judicial enforcement of the franchisee's or City's obligations by
means of specific performance, injunction relief or mandate, or any other
judicial remedy by law or in equity. (Ord. 92-9, 7-7-1992)
6-4-24: AUDITING AND FINANCIAL RECORDS:
   A.   The auditor of the City may, from time to time during the term of a
franchise, prescribe standards governing the nature, extent and type of
accounting system and accounting procedures utilized by a franchisee and
require changes in accounting standards or procedures utilized by a franchisee
and require changes in accounting standards or procedures utilized by a
franchisee for the purpose of promoting the efficient administration of the
franchise fee requirements of this Chapter. Any such standards shall be in
compliance with generally accepted accounting principles and shall be in
writing filed with the City Manager/Engineer. Any changes in such standards or
type of accounting system shall be mailed to the franchisee to whom directed. A
franchisee shall promptly comply with all such reasonable standards.
   B.   During the term of each franchise, the City may, not more frequently
than once each year, conduct an audit of the books, records and accounts of the
franchisee for the purpose of determining whether the franchisee has paid the
appropriate franchise fee. The audit may be conducted by the auditor of the
City or by an independent certified public accounting firm retained by the City
and shall be conducted at the sole expense of the City. The party conducting
the audit shall prepare a written report containing its findings, and the
report shall be filed with the City Manager/Engineer and mailed to the
franchisee.
   C.   Each franchisee shall make available for inspection by authorized
representatives of the City, its books, accounts and all other financial
records at reasonable times and upon reasonable advance notice for the purpose
of permitting exercise of the authorities conferred by this Section. (Ord. 92-
9, 7-7-1992)
6-4-25: NONENFORCEMENT:
A franchisee shall not be relieved of any of litigation to comply with any of
the provisions of the franchise or any rule, regulation, requirement or
directive promulgated thereunder by reason of any failure of the City or its
officers, agents or employees to enforce prompt compliance. (Ord. 92-9, 7-7-
1992)
6-4-26: APPLICABILITY, COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   In Public Law 98-549, known as the Cable Communications Policy Act of
1984, the United States Congress began the process of deregulation of cable
television systems by states and local governments. By amendment to chapter 711
of NRS effective July 1, 1985, the Nevada Public Service Commission was removed
from the field of cable television regulation and the regulatory responsibility
was shifted to counties and cities. The effect of such legislation was not
immediate, and a number of existing laws and regulations were left in effect
for varying periods of time. To the extent that such laws and regulations and
their amendments allow, the State laws and this Chapter in effect at the time
of granting a franchise or any renewal or extension thereto, shall be
applicable to any franchise granted under the provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   A franchise issued by the City prior to the effective date of this
Chapter and any extensions thereof allowing the use of public property for the
installation of cable television facilities shall remain effective for the term
of such franchise to the extent of the authority granted by such franchise.
Provided, however, that in order to continue operation of an existing franchise
after the expiration of the term thereof, the franchisee shall be required to
secure a new or supplemental franchise subject to the provisions of this
Chapter. (Ord. 92-9, 7-7-1992)
CHAPTER 5
GASEOUS FUELS FRANCHISE
SECTION:
6-5-1: Title
6-5-2: Definitions
6-5-3: Exclusive Grant Of Authority
6-5-4: Term Of Franchise
6-5-5: Compliance With Applicable Laws And Ordinances
6-5-6: Service Standards
6-5-7: Conditions For Occupancy Of Public Ways
6-5-8: Construction Standards
6-5-9: Indemnification And Insurance
6-5-10: Bond
6-5-11: Annexed Or Consolidated Areas
6-5-12: Assignment
6-5-13: Franchise Fee
6-5-14: Nature Of Gas Supplied
6-5-15: Conversion To Natural Gas
6-5-16: Rates
6-5-17: Records And Reports
6-5-18: Business License
6-5-19: Publication Costs
6-5-20: Remedies
6-5-21: Violation Of Franchise
6-5-22: Procedure Upon Termination
6-5-23: Severability
6-5-24: Repeal
6-5-1: TITLE:
Ordinance 96-02, codified as Chapter 5 of Title 6 of the West Wendover City
Code, is hereby entitled and may be cited as the GASEOUS FUELS FRANCHISE. (Ord.
96-02, 3-19-1996)
6-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms and their
derivatives shall have the meaning herein given (and when not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular, and words in the singular number include
the plural):
CITY: The City of West Wendover, Nevada.
CUSTOMER: Any person or entity receiving and paying for natural gas services.
FRANCHISE AREA: That area within the incorporated City of West Wendover,
Nevada, as now or hereinafter constituted.
GASEOUS FUELS: Natural gas, artificial gas, liquefied natural gas, liquefied
petroleum gas, manufactured gas or any mixture thereof used for heating,
cooking, cooling, power generation or other purposes.
GRANTEE: Propane of Wendover, Inc., and its successors and assigns as allowed
within this Chapter.
PERSON: Any natural person, company, or entity of any kind. (Ord. 96-02, 3-19-
1996)
6-5-3: EXCLUSIVE GRANT OF AUTHORITY:
Upon acceptance as provided herein, an exclusive franchise and right is hereby
granted by the City to grantee to locate, build, construct, purchase, maintain,
operate and extend into, within and through the City pipelines and facilities
for the purchase, manufacture, storage, transmission and distribution of
gaseous fuels, as defined herein, for heating, cooking, cooling, power
generation, or other purposes, with the right and privilege for the period and
upon the terms and conditions hereinafter specified to furnish, sell and
distribute said gaseous fuels to the City and the inhabitants thereof by means
of pipes, mains, or otherwise, over, under, along, across and through any
extension, connection with or continuation of the same and/or on, over, under,
along, across and through any and all such new streets, alleys and public ways
and places as may hereafter be laid out, opened, located or constructed within
the territory now or hereafter included in the boundaries of the City. (Ord.
96-02, 3-19-1996)
6-5-4: TERM OF FRANCHISE:
The franchise herein granted shall take effect and be in force from and after
the final passage and publication hereof as required by law and upon the filing
of acceptance by the grantee within twenty (20) days after the effective date
of this Ordinance, and shall continue in force and effect for a term of twenty
five (25) years from and after such passage, unless otherwise terminated as
provided herein; provided, however, should the grantee fail to begin to provide
gaseous fuels service within the City to businesses and residents within two
(2) years from and after the date of final passage of this Ordinance the City
may terminate the franchise. (Ord. 96-02, 3-19-1996)
6-5-5: COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS AND ORDINANCES:
The grantee shall, at all times during the life of this franchise, be subject
to all lawful exercise of police powers by the City, and to such reasonable
regulation as the City shall hereafter by resolution or ordinance provide.
Grantee shall further be responsible for compliance with any applicable State
or Federal laws or regulations. (Ord. 96-02, 3-19-1996)
6-5-6: SERVICE STANDARDS:
The grantee shall maintain and operate its system and render efficient service
in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter and in accordance with the
rules, regulations and orders of the Public Service Commission of the State as
they now exist and as they may hereafter be amended or changed. (Ord. 96-02, 3-
19-1996)
6-5-7: CONDITIONS FOR OCCUPANCY OF PUBLIC WAYS:
All pipes and appurtenances laid or placed by the grantee shall be so located
in the public roads of the City as not to obstruct or interfere with any pipes,
sewers, drains, valves or other structures already installed or presently
master planned by the City to be installed. The grantee shall, when
practicable, avoid interfering with the use of any public road where the paving
or surface or such public road would be disturbed.
   A.   Pipes And Appurtenances: Subject to the conditions herein contained,
grantee shall have the right of installing, maintaining and using any or all of
such pipes and appurtenances from time to time as may be necessary or proper.
   B.   Repair Of Public Roads: Grantee shall promptly, but in no case later
than thirty (30) days after installing, maintaining, or using said pipes and
appurtenances or any part thereof, at its own cost and expense, place any
public road in which it may install pipes and appurtenances, or so much thereof
as may have been damaged thereby, in as good order and condition as that in
which such public roads were found before being disturbed or excavated by
grantee.
   C.   Repair Of Damage: If any portion of a street, alley, or public road
shall be damaged by reason of defects in any of the pipes and appurtenances
maintained or constructed under this grant, or by reason of any other cause
arising from the grantee's operations, or the existence of any pipes and
appurtenances constructed or maintained under this grant, said grantee shall,
at its own cost and expense, within fifteen (15) days repair any such damage
and restore such street, alley, or public road, or portion thereof, to as good
a condition as existed before such defect or other cause of damage occurred.
   D.   Relocation: The grantee shall relocate, without expense to the City,
any pipes and appurtenances theretofore installed and then maintained or used
under this franchise if and when made necessary by any lawful change of grade,
alignment or width of any public road by the City, including the construction
of any subway or viaduct; provided, however, that this provision shall remain
in effect only so long as such public road, subway or viaduct shall remain
under the jurisdiction of said City as a public road. This provision shall
cease to be applicable to any public road if and when the City shall cease to
have jurisdiction over or shall cease to be obligated to maintain such public
road, and nothing herein contained shall be construed as constituting a
contractual obligation of the grantee running to the authority assuming
jurisdiction over or the obligation to maintain such public road.
   E.   Placement And Inspections: Before the work of installing any pipes and
appurtenances is commenced, the grantee shall file with the City plans showing
the location thereof, and the City may give such directions for the location of
such pipes and appurtenances as may be reasonably necessary to avoid sewers,
water pipes, conduits or other structures lawfully in or under the street,
alleys and public roads of the City. All work of installing pipes and
appurtenances shall be subject to the inspection of the City, and to the
approval of the City, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld.
   F.   Restoration: In case of any disturbance of pavement, sidewalk, driveway
or other surfacing, the grantee shall, at its own cost and expense, and in the
manner approved by the City, replace and restore all such paving, sidewalk,
driveway or surface disturbed, in as good a condition as before said work was
commenced.
   G.   Repair Of Water Pipes, Sewers, Drains And Other Structures: The grantee
shall, at its own cost and expense, immediately repair or replace as necessary
any and all water pipes, mains, service lines, valves, meters, sewer lines,
culverts, conduits, and all other materials and equipment utilized in
connection with water service, sewer service and drainage damaged in any way by
the grantee. (Ord. 96-02, 3-19-1996)
6-5-8: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
All pipes and appurtenances which shall be laid and used under and pursuant to
the provisions of this franchise and in the exercise hereof shall be installed,
constructed and maintained in accordance with any applicable codes, ordinances
and regulations of the city, Nevada statutes and the rules, regulations and
orders of the Nevada public service commission, and in a good and workmanlike
manner and shall be maintained in compliance with all such valid laws,
ordinances, rules, regulations and codes from time to time in force. (Ord. 96-
02, 3-19-1996)
6-5-9: INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE:
   A.   The city shall not be liable or responsible for any acts or damages
that may occur in the construction, operation or maintenance by the grantee of
its pipes and appurtenances hereunder, including liabilities arising under
environmental statutes or regulations, and the acceptance of this franchise
shall be deemed an agreement on the part of grantee, its successors and
assigns, to indemnify the city and hold it harmless against any and all
liability, loss, cost, damage or expense sustained by the city on account of
any suit, judgment, execution, claim or demand whatsoever, resulting from the
negligence, default, misconduct or failure to act on the part of the grantee in
the construction, operation or maintenance of its pipes, appurtenances and gas
system hereunder. The city shall notify the grantee's representative in the
city promptly after the presentation of any claim or demand, either by suit or
otherwise, made against the city. (Ord. 96-02, 3-19-1996)
   B.   Prior to commencement or construction and continuously throughout the
duration of this franchise and any extensions or renewals thereof, the grantee,
in addition to complying with the Nevada industrial insurance act, shall
maintain the types and amounts of insurance as shall be set forth by resolution
of the council.
In five (5) year intervals, the established amounts of insurance shall be
increased if requested by the city to compensate for inflation as measured by
the consumer price index. The grantee shall furnish to the city clerk
certificates of insurance for this coverage prior to commencing its performance
under this agreement and annually thereafter. (Ord. 2001-22, 12-18-2001)
6-5-10: BOND:
   A.   Grantee shall, within twenty (20) days after the date of the granting
of a franchise, file with the city clerk and at all times thereafter maintain
in full force and effect for the entire term of the franchise, at its expense,
a faithful performance bond executed by a surety company approved by the city
and in form satisfactory to the city, in the amount of fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000.00), renewable annually and conditioned on the faithful performance by
the grantee of all the terms, conditions and covenants contained in the
franchise. If the grantee fails to comply with any one or more of the
provisions of the franchise, there shall be recoverable jointly and severally
from the principal and surety of such bond any damages or losses suffered by
the city as a result thereof.
   B.   Neither the provisions of any bond accepted by the city pursuant
hereto, nor any damages recovered by the city thereunder, shall be construed to
excuse faithful performance by grantee or limit the liability of grantee under
the franchise or for damages or preclude the exercise of any other right or
remedy given to the city by law. (Ord. 96-02, 3-19-1996)
6-5-11: ANNEXED OR CONSOLIDATED AREAS:
This franchise and the provisions of this Chapter shall apply to any area which
may hereafter be added to the City by annexation, consolidation or otherwise.
Upon any such annexation, consolidation or other procedure whereby the City
limits are expanded or changed the grantee shall, and by acceptance of this
franchise agrees to, waive, relinquish or abandon any and all franchise rights,
privileges, easements and rights of way personally owned or held by the grantee
within the area which hereafter becomes part of the City and such additional
area shall become subject to the franchise rights granted herein and the terms
and provisions and conditions of this Chapter. (Ord. 96-02, 3-19-1996)
6-5-12: ASSIGNMENT:
The grantee shall not sell, transfer or assign this franchise, or any rights or
privileges under this franchise to any person, corporation, partnership or
entity without prior City approval, which approval shall not be unreasonably
withheld. No sale, transfer or assignment shall be effective until the vendee,
assignee or lessee has filed in the office of the City Clerk an instrument,
duly executed, reciting the fact of such sale, assignment or lease, accepting
the terms of this franchise and this Chapter, and agreeing to perform all of
the conditions hereof, and in addition thereto, the proposed transferee must
have the necessary operating authority and certificates of public convenience
as are required by the Nevada Public Service Commission or such other
governmental department, agency or commission as may then be regulating or
controlling the activities or services of the grantee or the proposed
transferee. (Ord. 96-02, 3-19-1996)
6-5-13: FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.   The grantee shall, during the term of this franchise, or any renewal or
extension hereof, pay to the City for the privilege of operating a gaseous
fuels distribution system under this franchise the sum computed on the gross
revenue taken in or received by the grantee from all sales of gaseous fuels
within the City received from the operation of the distribution system as
follows:
      1.   Three percent (3%) for the first two (2) years;
      2.   Four percent (4%) for the next two (2) years; and
      3.   Five percent (5%) for the remaining years of the franchise.
   B.   Payment shall be made to the City in quarterly installments, the first
installment payment to be paid three (3) months from the date of commencement
of service under this franchise and payments to be made quarterly thereafter,
each installment to be based upon the total gross revenue for the preceding
three (3) month period. If such payments are not made within thirty (30) days
after the expiration of the quarter, the City may, in addition to any other
remedy either at law or as otherwise provided within this agreement, assess a
late penalty two percent (2%) per month on the delinquent amount. (Ord. 96-02,
3-19-1996)
6-5-14: NATURE OF GAS SUPPLIED:
The gaseous fuels to be supplied hereunder shall contain a monthly average
gross heating value of not less than the heating value set forth in the
policies filed with or fixed by the Public Service Commission. (Ord. 96-02, 3-
19-1996)
6-5-15: CONVERSION TO NATURAL GAS:
Grantee shall convert from liquefied petroleum gas or other form of gaseous
fuel to natural gas upon the occurrence of both of the following conditions: a)
a delivered natural gas supply becomes available to grantee for purchase via
pipeline at the Nevada-Utah state line; and b) the natural gas supply can be
purchased by grantee at a price, inclusive of all necessary conversion costs,
below the price being paid at that time by grantee for liquefied petroleum gas
or other gaseous fuel. The conversion to natural gas required hereunder shall
be completed by grantee within a reasonable period of time after the occurrence
of the conditions set forth herein, which period shall not exceed one year.
(Ord. 96-02, 3-19-1996)
6-5-16: RATES:
The grantee shall furnish gaseous fuels to the City and its inhabitants for
heating, cooking, cooling, power or any other lawful purposes under the
policies and the rates as are from time to time filed with or fixed by the
Public Service Commission. Unless otherwise prohibited by law, notice of
changes in rates and charges shall be filed with the City Clerk at least thirty
(30) days in advance of the effective date thereof. (Ord. 96-02, 3-19-1996)
6-5-17: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
The City shall have access at all reasonable hours to all of the grantee's
books, records, reports, contracts and bookkeeping and accounting procedures
relating to the property and the operations of the grantee within the area
covered by this franchise and all other records required to be kept by the
Public Service Commission of the State or such other governmental department,
agency or commission which may hereafter have the control or regulation of the
grantee. The following records and reports shall be filed with the Clerk by the
grantee:
   A.   A true and correct conformed copy of the rates, rules, regulations,
terms and conditions adopted by the grantee and approved by the Public Service
Commission.
   B.   A quarterly summary report showing gross revenues received by the
grantee from its operations within the City during the preceding three (3)
month period and such other information as the City shall request with respect
to properties and operations relating to the grantee's service within the City.
(Ord. 96-02, 3-19-1996)
6-5-18: BUSINESS LICENSE:
Grantee shall be required to obtain and maintain a City business license;
however, the cost of such license may be deducted from the franchise fee
required to be paid herein if such deduction is required by law to avoid
payments by the grantee in excess of the maximum franchise fee which may be
imposed upon a franchise. (Ord. 96-02, 3-19-1996)
6-5-19: PUBLICATION COSTS:
The grantee shall assume the costs of publication of this ordinance as such
publication is required by law. A bill for publication costs shall be presented
to the grantee by the Clerk upon the grantee's filing of acceptance of this
franchise and such costs shall be paid at that time. (Ord. 96-02, 3-19-1996)
6-5-20: REMEDIES:
Anything in this Chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, acceptance of this
franchise by grantee shall result in this Ordinance becoming a contract between
the City and the grantee and the parties hereby agree that each party shall
have all remedies in law and in equity, including injunctive relief, for the
enforcement of the provisions of this franchise. (Ord. 96-02, 3-19-1996)
6-5-21: VIOLATION OF FRANCHISE:
In the event that the City believes the grantee, or subject to the restrictions
on transfer, its vendees, successor or assigns, has not complied with the terms
of this franchise, it shall notify the grantee in writing of the exact nature
of the alleged noncompliance. Grantee shall have thirty (30) days from the
receipt of the notice to respond to the City contesting the assertion of
noncompliance, or to cure such default, or, in the event that, by the nature of
default, such default cannot be cured within thirty (30) days, initiate
reasonable steps to remedy such default and notify the City of the steps being
taken and the projected date that compliance will be met. In the event that
such default is not cured within the thirty (30) day period, or within the
projected date of compliance, which date shall be within a reasonable period of
time, the City may terminate this agreement. The grantee shall not be relieved
of any of its obligations to comply promptly with any provision of this
agreement by reason of any failure by the City to enforce prompt compliance.
(Ord. 96-02, 3-19-1996)
6-5-22: PROCEDURE UPON TERMINATION:
Upon expiration of the franchise, or upon termination as otherwise provided
herein, if the grantee shall not have perfected a renewal thereof, it may have,
and it is hereby granted, the right to enter upon the streets or other property
of the City for purposes of removing therefrom any or all of its property. In
so removing said property, grantee shall refill, at its expense, any excavation
that it shall make, and shall leave said streets or other property in as good
condition as that prevailing prior to the grantee's removal of its property.
Grantee may, in lieu of removal of such property, transfer its interest in such
property to a third party provided such third party is approved by the City as
a franchisee. (Ord. 96-02, 3-19-1996)
6-5-23: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Chapter shall for any
reason be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or
unenforceability of such section, paragraph, clause or provision shall in no
way affect the validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this
Chapter. (Ord. 96-02, 3-19-1996)
6-5-24: REPEAL:
All ordinances, parts of ordinances or chapters, sections, subsections or
paragraphs or resolutions previously adopted by the City, which are in conflict
with this Chapter, are hereby repealed. (Ord. 96-02, 3-19-1996)
CHAPTER 6
ELECTRIC COMPANY FRANCHISE
SECTION:
6-6-1: Title
6-6-2: Definitions
6-6-3: Nonexclusive Grant Of Authority
6-6-4: Term Of Franchise
6-6-5: Compliance With Applicable Laws And Ordinances
6-6-6: Service Standards
6-6-7: Conditions For Occupancy Of Public Ways
6-6-8: Construction Standards
6-6-9: Indemnification And Insurance
6-6-10: Bond
6-6-11: Annexed Or Consolidated Areas
6-6-12: Assignment
6-6-13: Franchise Fee
6-6-14: Nature Of Electricity Supplied
6-6-15: Rates
6-6-16: Records And Reports
6-6-17: Business License
6-6-18: Publication Costs
6-6-19: Remedies
6-6-20: Violation Of Franchise
6-6-21: Procedure Upon Termination
6-6-22: Severability
6-6-23: Repeal
6-6-1: TITLE:
Ordinance 96-07, codified as Chapter 6 of Title 6 of the West Wendover City
Code is hereby entitled and may be cited as the ELECTRIC COMPANY FRANCHISE.
(Ord. 96-07, 7-16-1996)
6-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms and their
derivatives shall have the meaning herein given (and when not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular, and words in the singular number include
the plural):
CITY: The City of West Wendover, Nevada.
CUSTOMER: Any person or entity receiving and paying for electrical services.
ELECTRICITY: That form of energy for heating, cooking, cooling, power
generation, lighting or other purposes which is commonly referred to as
electricity.
FRANCHISE AREA: That area within the incorporated City of West Wendover,
Nevada, as now or hereinafter constituted.
GRANTEE: Wells Rural Electric Company and its successors and assigns as allowed
within this Chapter.
PERSON: Any natural person, company, or entity of any kind. (Ord. 96-07, 7-16-
1996)
6-6-3: NONEXCLUSIVE GRANT OF AUTHORITY:
Upon acceptance as provided herein, a nonexclusive franchise and right is
hereby granted by the City to grantee to locate, build, construct, purchase,
maintain, operate and extend into, within and through the City pipelines,
streets, rights of way and facilities for the purchase, manufacture, storage,
transmission and distribution of electricity, as defined herein, for heating,
cooking, cooling, power generation, lighting or other purposes, with the right
and privilege for the period and upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
specified to furnish, sell and distribute said electricity to the City and the
inhabitants thereof by means of poles, towers, appliances, cables, PVC pipes,
underground or limited overhead wiring as required by the applicable City
codes, over, under, along, across and through any extension, connection with or
continuation of the same and/or on, over, under, along, across and through any
and all such new streets, alleys and public ways and places as may hereafter be
laid out, opened, located or constructed within the territory now or hereafter
included in the boundaries of the City. (Ord. 96-07, 7-16-1996)
6-6-4: TERM OF FRANCHISE:
The franchise herein granted shall take effect and be in force from and after
the final passage and publication hereof as required by law and upon the filing
of acceptance by the grantee within twenty (20) days after the effective date
of this Ordinance, and shall continue in force and effect for a term of twenty
five (25) years from and after such passage, unless otherwise terminated as
provided herein. (Ord. 96-07, 7-16-1996)
6-6-5: COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS AND ORDINANCES:
The grantee shall, at all times during the life of this franchise, be subject
to all lawful exercise of police powers by the City, and to such reasonable
regulation as the City shall hereafter by resolution or ordinance provide.
Grantee shall further be responsible for compliance with any applicable State
or Federal laws or regulations. (Ord. 96-07, 7-16-1996)
6-6-6: SERVICE STANDARDS:
The grantee shall maintain and operate its system and render efficient service
in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter and in accordance with the
rules, regulations and orders of the Public Service Commission of the State as
they now exist and as they may hereafter be amended or changed, and to the
extent applicable to grantee. (Ord. 96-07, 7-16-1996)
6-6-7: CONDITIONS FOR OCCUPANCY OF PUBLIC WAYS:
All wiring, cables, poles, towers, appliances, conduits, pipes and
appurtenances laid or placed by the grantee shall be so located in the public
roads of the City as not to obstruct or interfere with any other pipes, sewers,
drains, valves or other structures already installed or presently master
planned by the City to be installed. The grantee shall, when practicable, avoid
interfering with the use of any public road where the paving or surface or such
public road would be disturbed.
   A.   PVC Pipes, Wiring, Conduits, Pipes And Appurtenances: Subject to the
conditions herein contained, grantee shall have the right of installing,
maintaining and using any or all of such wiring, conduits, PVC pipes, cables,
towers, poles, appliances and appurtenances from time to time as may be
necessary or proper.
   B.   Repair Of Public Roads: Grantee shall promptly, but in no case later
than thirty (30) days after installing, maintaining, or using said wiring,
conduits, PVC pipes, cables, towers, poles, appliances and appurtenances or any
part thereof, at its own cost and expense, place any public road in which it
may install wiring, conduits, PVC pipes and appurtenances, or so much thereof
as may have been damaged thereby, in as good order and condition as that in
which such public roads were found before being disturbed or excavated by
grantee.
   C.   Repair Of Damage: If any portion of a street, alley, or public road
shall be damaged by reason of defects in any of the wiring, conduits, PVC
pipes, cables, towers, poles, appliances and appurtenances maintained or
constructed under this grant, or by reason of any other cause arising from the
grantee's operations, or the existence of wiring, conduits, PVC pipes and
appurtenances constructed or maintained under this grant, said grantee shall,
at its own cost and expense, within fifteen (15) days repair any such damage
and restore such street, alley, or public road, or portion thereof, to as good
a condition as existed before such defect or other cause of damage occurred.
   D.   Relocation: The grantee shall relocate, without expense to the City,
any wiring, conduits, PVC pipes, cables, towers, poles, appliances and
appurtenances theretofore installed and then maintained or used under this
franchise if and when made necessary by any lawful change of grade, alignment
or width of any public road by the City, including the construction of any
subway or viaduct; provided, however, that this provision shall remain in
effect only so long as such public road, subway or viaduct shall remain under
the jurisdiction of said City as a public road. This provision shall cease to
be applicable to any public road if and when the City shall cease to have
jurisdiction over or shall cease to be obligated to maintain such public road,
and nothing herein contained shall be construed as constituting a contractual
obligation of the grantee running to the authority assuming jurisdiction over
or the obligation to maintain such public road.
   E.   Placement And Inspections: Before the work of installing any wiring,
conduits, PVC pipes, cables, towers, poles, appliances and appurtenances is
commenced, the grantee shall file with the City plans showing the location
thereof, and the City may give such directions for the location of such wiring,
conduits, PVC pipes, cables, towers, poles, appliances and appurtenances as may
be reasonably necessary to avoid sewers, water pipes, drains or other
structures lawfully in, over or under the streets, alleys and public roads by
the City. All work of installing wiring, conduits, PVC pipes, cables, towers,
poles, appliances and appurtenances shall be subject to the right of inspection
by the City, though it is expressly understood that the City undertakes no
responsibility or liability concerning the placement location, the workmanship
of such installation or any damages associated with such installation.
   F.   Restoration: In case of any disturbance of pavement, sidewalk, driveway
or other surfacing, the grantee shall, at its own cost and expense, and in the
manner approved by the City, replace and restore all such paving, sidewalk,
driveway or surface disturbed, in as good a condition as before said work was
commenced.
   G.   Repair Of Water Pipes, Sewers, Drains And Other Structures: The grantee
shall, at its own cost and expense, immediately repair or replace as necessary
any and all water pipes, mains, service lines, valves, meters, sewer lines,
culverts, conduits, and all other materials and equipment damaged by grantee in
providing its services. (Ord. 96-07, 7-16-1996)
6-6-8: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
All wiring, conduits, PVC pipes and appurtenances which shall be laid and used
pursuant to the provisions of this franchise and in the exercise hereof shall
be installed, constructed and maintained in accordance with any applicable
codes, ordinances and regulations of the City, Nevada statutes and the rules,
regulations and orders of the Nevada Public Service Commission, and in a good
and workmanlike manner and shall be maintained in compliance with all such
valid laws, ordinances, rules, regulations and codes from time to time in
force. (Ord. 96-07, 7-16-1996)
6-6-9: INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE:
   A.   The City shall not be liable or responsible for any acts or damages
that may occur in the construction, operation or maintenance by the grantee of
its services, wiring, conduits, PVC pipes, cables, towers, poles, appliances
and appurtenances hereunder, including liabilities arising under environmental
statutes or regulations, and the acceptance of this franchise shall be deemed
an agreement on the part of grantee, its successors and assigns, to indemnify
the City and hold it harmless against any and all liability, loss, cost, damage
or expense sustained by the City on account of any suit, judgment, execution,
claim or demand whatsoever, resulting from the negligence, default, misconduct
or failure to act on the part of the grantee in the construction, operation or
maintenance of its services, wiring, conduits, PVC pipes, cables, towers,
poles, appliances, appurtenances and electric system hereunder. The City shall
notify the grantee's representative in the City promptly after the presentation
of any claim or demand, either by suit or otherwise, made against the City.
   B.   Prior to commencement or construction and continuously throughout the
duration of this franchise and any extensions or renewals thereof, the grantee,
in addition to complying with the Nevada Industrial Insurance Act, shall
maintain the following types and amounts of insurance:
General liability at least in the amounts of:
 
$ 5,000,000.00 for property damage per occurrence,
20,000,000.00  for property damage aggregate,
5,000,000.00   for personal bodily injury to any one person,
20,000,000.00  for personal bodily injury aggregate.
 
Motor vehicle liability insurance at least in the amounts of:
 
$ 1,000,000.00 for bodily injury or death per occurrence,
500,000.00     for property damage per occurrence.
 
In five (5) year intervals, the foregoing amounts of insurance shall be
increased if requested by the City to compensate for inflation as measured by
the Consumer Price Index. The grantee shall furnish to the City Clerk
certificates of insurance for this coverage prior to commencing its performance
under this agreement and annually thereafter. (Ord. 96-07, 7-16-1996)
6-6-10: BOND:
   A.   Grantee shall, within twenty (20) days after the date of the granting
of a franchise, file with the City Clerk and at all times thereafter maintain
in full force and effect for the entire term of the franchise, at its expense,
a faithful performance bond executed by a surety company approved by the City
and in form satisfactory to the City, in the amount of fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000.00), renewable annually and conditioned on the faithful performance by
the grantee of all the terms, conditions and covenants contained in the
franchise. If the grantee fails to comply with any one or more of the
provisions of the franchise, there shall be recoverable jointly and severally
from the principal and surety of such bond any damages or losses suffered by
the City as a result thereof.
   B.   Neither the provisions of any bond accepted by the City pursuant
hereto, nor any damages recovered by the City thereunder, shall be construed to
excuse faithful performance by grantee or limit the liability of grantee under
the franchise or for damages or preclude the exercise of any other right or
remedy given to the City by law. (Ord. 96-07, 7-16-1996)
6-6-11: ANNEXED OR CONSOLIDATED AREAS:
This franchise and the provisions of this Chapter shall apply to any area which
may hereafter be added to the City by annexation, consolidation or otherwise.
Upon any such annexation, consolidation or other procedure whereby the City
limits are expanded or changed the grantee shall, and by acceptance of this
franchise agrees to, waive, relinquish or abandon any and all franchise rights,
privileges, easements and rights of way personally owned or held by the grantee
within the area which hereafter becomes part of the City and such additional
area shall become subject to the franchise rights granted herein and the terms
and provisions and conditions of this Chapter. (Ord. 96-07, 7-16-1996)
6-6-12: ASSIGNMENT:
The grantee shall not sell, transfer or assign this franchise, or any rights or
privileges under this franchise to any person, corporation, partnership or
entity without prior City approval, which approval shall not be unreasonably
withheld. No sale, transfer or assignment shall be effective until the vendee,
assignee or lessee has filed in the office of the City Clerk an instrument,
duly executed, reciting the fact of such sale, assignment or lease, accepting
the terms of this franchise and this Chapter, and agreeing to perform all of
the conditions hereof, and in addition thereto, the proposed transferee must
have the necessary operating authority and certificates of public convenience
as are required by the Nevada Public Service Commission or such other
governmental department, agency or commission as may then be regulating or
controlling the activities or services of the grantee or the proposed
transferee. (Ord. 96-07, 7-16-1996)
6-6-13: FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.   The grantee shall, during the term of this franchise, or any renewal or
extension hereof, pay to the City for the privilege of operating an electricity
distribution system under this franchise the sum of five percent (5%) of the
gross revenue taken in or received by the grantee from all sales of electricity
within the City received from the operation of the distribution system.
   B.   Payment shall be made to the City in quarterly installments, the first
installment payment to be paid three (3) months from the date of commencement
of service under this franchise and payments to be made quarterly thereafter,
each installment to be based upon the total gross revenue for the preceding
three (3) month period. If such payments are not made within thirty (30) days
after the expiration of the quarter, the City may, in addition to any other
remedy either at law or as otherwise provided within this agreement, assess a
late penalty two percent (2%) per month on the delinquent amount. (Ord. 96-07,
7-16-1996)
6-6-14: NATURE OF ELECTRICITY SUPPLIED:
The electricity to be supplied hereunder shall be appropriate for its intended
uses by the inhabitants and businesses of the City and shall be consistent in
quantity and quality with the electricity supplied throughout the State. (Ord.
96-07, 7-16-1996)
6-6-15: RATES:
Unless otherwise prohibited by law, notice of changes in rates and charges
shall be filed with the City Clerk at least thirty (30) days in advance of the
effective date thereof. (Ord. 96-07, 7-16-1996)
6-6-16: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
The City shall have access at all reasonable hours to all of the grantee's
books, records, reports, contracts and bookkeeping and accounting procedures
relating to the property and the operations of the grantee within the area
covered by this franchise and all other records required to be kept by the
Public Service Commission of the State of Nevada or such other governmental
department, agency or commission which may hereafter have the control or
regulation of the grantee. The following records and reports shall be filed
with the Clerk by the grantee:
   A.   A true and correct conformed copy of the rates, rules, regulations,
terms and conditions adopted by the grantee.
   B.   A quarterly summary report showing gross revenues received by the
grantee from its operations within the City during the preceding three (3)
month period and such other information as the City shall request with respect
to properties and operations relating to the grantee's service within the City.
(Ord. 96-07, 7-16-1996)
6-6-17: BUSINESS LICENSE:
Grantee shall be required to obtain and maintain a City business license;
however, the cost of such license may be deducted from the franchise fee
required to be paid herein if such deduction is required by law to avoid
payments by the grantee in excess of the maximum franchise fee which may be
imposed upon a franchise. (Ord. 96-07, 7-16-1996)
6-6-18: PUBLICATION COSTS:
The grantee shall assume the costs of publication of this Ordinance as such
publication is required by law. A bill for publication costs shall be presented
to the grantee by the Clerk upon the grantee's filing of acceptance of this
franchise and such costs shall be paid at that time. (Ord. 96-07, 7-16-1996)
6-6-19: REMEDIES:
Anything in this Chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, acceptance of this
franchise by grantee shall result in this Ordinance becoming a contract between
the City and the grantee and the parties hereby agree that each party shall
have all remedies in law and in equity, including injunctive relief, for the
enforcement of the provisions of this franchise. (Ord. 96-07, 7-16-1996)
6-6-20: VIOLATION OF FRANCHISE:
In the event that the City believes the grantee, or subject to the restrictions
on transfer, its vendees, successor or assigns, has not complied with the terms
of this franchise, it shall notify the grantee in writing of the exact nature
of the alleged noncompliance. Grantee shall have thirty (30) days from the
receipt of the notice to respond to the City contesting the assertion of
noncompliance, or to cure such default, or, in the event that, by the nature of
default, such default cannot be cured within thirty (30) days, initiate
reasonable steps to remedy such default and notify the City of the steps being
taken and the projected date that compliance will be met. In the event that
such default is not cured within the thirty (30) day period, or within the
projected date of compliance, which date shall be within a reasonable period of
time, the City may terminate this agreement upon written notice to the grantee.
The grantee shall not be relieved of any of its obligations to comply promptly
with any provision of this agreement by reason of any failure by the City to
enforce prompt compliance. (Ord. 96-07, 7-16-1996)
6-6-21: PROCEDURE UPON TERMINATION:
Upon expiration of the franchise, or upon termination as otherwise provided
herein, if the grantee shall not have perfected a renewal thereof, it may have,
and it is hereby granted, the right to enter upon the streets or other property
of the City for purposes of removing therefrom any or all of its property. In
so removing said property, grantee shall refill, at its expense, any excavation
that it shall make, and shall leave said streets or other property in as good
condition as that prevailing prior to the grantee's removal of its property.
Grantee may, in lieu of removal of such property, transfer its interest in such
property to a third party provided such third party is approved by the City as
a franchisee. (Ord. 96-07, 7-16-1996)
6-6-22: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Chapter shall for any
reason be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or
unenforceability of such section, paragraph, clause or provision shall in no
way affect the validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this
Chapter. (Ord. 96-07, 7-16-1996)
6-6-23: REPEAL:
All ordinances, parts of ordinances or chapters, sections, subsections or
paragraphs or resolutions previously adopted by the City, which are in conflict
with this Ordinance, are hereby repealed. (Ord. 96-07, 7-16-1996)
CHAPTER 7
CITIZEN'S TELECOM FRANCHISE
SECTION:
6-7-1: Title
6-7-2: Definitions
6-7-3: Nonexclusive Grant Of Authority
6-7-4: Term Of Franchise
6-7-5: Compliance With Applicable Laws And Ordinances
6-7-6: Service Standards
6-7-7: Conditions For Occupancy Of Public Ways
6-7-8: Construction Standards
6-7-9: Indemnification And Insurance
6-7-10: Bond
6-7-11: Annexed Or Consolidated Areas
6-7-12: Assignment
6-7-13: Franchise Fee
6-7-14: Nature Of Telephone Communications Supplied
6-7-15: Rates
6-7-16: Records And Reports
6-7-17: Business License
6-7-18: Publication Costs
6-7-19: Remedies
6-7-20: Violation Of Franchise
6-7-21: Procedure Upon Termination
6-7-22: Severability
6-7-23: Repeal
6-7-1: TITLE:
Ordinance 96-08, codified as Chapter 7 of Title 6 of the West Wendover City
Code, is hereby entitled and may be cited as the CITIZEN'S TELECOM FRANCHISE.
(Ord. 96-08, 7-16-1996)
6-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms and their
derivatives shall have the meaning herein given (and when not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular, and words in the singular number include
the plural):
CITY: The City of West Wendover, Nevada.
CUSTOMER: Any person or entity receiving and paying for electrical services.
FRANCHISE AREA: That area within the incorporated City of West Wendover,
Nevada, as now or hereinafter constituted.
GRANTEE: Citizen's Telecom, a Corporation, and its successors and assigns as
allowed within this Chapter.
PERSON: Any natural person, company, or entity of any kind.
TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS: Any aural transfer made in whole or in part through
the use of facilities for the transmission of communications by the aid of
wire, cable or other like connector. (Ord. 96-08, 7-16-1996)
6-7-3: NONEXCLUSIVE GRANT OF AUTHORITY:
Upon acceptance as provided herein, a nonexclusive franchise and right is
hereby granted by the City to grantee to locate, build, construct, purchase,
maintain and operate telephone lines and associated facilities, and other
structures for the purpose of conveying telephone communications over and
through the City streets and rights of way, with the right and privilege for
the period and upon the terms and conditions hereinafter specified to furnish,
sell and distribute said telephone communications to the City and the
inhabitants thereof. (Ord. 96-08, 7-16-1996)
6-7-4: TERM OF FRANCHISE:
The franchise herein granted shall take effect and be in force from and after
the final passage and publication hereof as required by law and upon the filing
of acceptance by the grantee within twenty (20) days after the effective date
of this Ordinance, and shall continue in force and effect for a term of twenty
five (25) years from and after such passage, unless otherwise terminated as
provided herein. (Ord. 96-08, 7-16-1996)
6-7-5: COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS AND ORDINANCES:
The grantee shall, at all times during the life of this franchise, be subject
to all lawful exercise of police powers by the City, and to such reasonable
regulation as the City shall hereafter by resolution or ordinance provide.
Grantee shall further be responsible for compliance with any applicable State
or Federal laws or regulations. (Ord. 96-08, 7-16-1996)
6-7-6: SERVICE STANDARDS:
The grantee shall maintain and operate its system and render efficient service
in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter and in accordance with the
rules, regulations and orders of the Public Service Commission of the State as
they now exist and as they may hereafter be amended or changed, and to the
extent applicable to grantee. (Ord. 96-08, 7-16-1996)
6-7-7: CONDITIONS FOR OCCUPANCY OF PUBLIC WAYS:
All wiring, cables, poles, towers, appliances, conduits, pipes and
appurtenances laid or placed by the grantee shall be so located in the public
roads of the City as not to obstruct or interfere with any other pipes, sewers,
drains, valves or other structures already installed or presently master
planned by the City to be installed. The grantee shall, when practicable, avoid
interfering with the use of any public road where the paving or surface of such
public road would be disturbed.
   A.   PVC Pipes, Wiring, Conduits, Cables And Appurtenances: Subject to the
conditions herein contained, grantee shall have the right of installing,
maintaining and using any or all of such wiring, conduits, PVC pipes, cables,
towers, poles, appliances, structures and appurtenances from time to time as
may be necessary or proper.
   B.   Repair Of Public Roads And Structures: Grantee shall promptly, but in
no case later than thirty (30) days after installing, maintaining, or using
said wiring, conduits, PVC pipes, cables, towers, poles, appliances and
appurtenances or any part thereof, at its own cost and expense, place any
public road, street or alley or any structure thereon in which it may install
wiring, conduits, PVC pipes and appurtenances, or so much thereof as may have
been damaged thereby, in as good order and condition as that in which such
public roads or such structures were found before being disturbed or excavated
by grantee.
   C.   Repair Of Damage: If any portion of a street, alley, or public road, or
any structure thereon, shall be damaged by reason of defects in any of the
wiring, conduits, PVC pipes, cables, towers, poles, appliances and
appurtenances maintained or constructed under this grant, or by reason of any
other cause arising from the grantee's operations, or the existence of wiring,
conduits, PVC pipes and appurtenances constructed or maintained under this
grant, said grantee shall, at its own cost and expense, within fifteen (15)
days repair any such damage and restore such street, alley, or public road, or
portion thereof, or any structure thereon, to as good a condition as existed
before such defect or other cause of damage occurred.
   D.   Relocation: The grantee shall relocate, without expense to the City any
wiring, conduits, PVC pipes, cables, towers, poles, appliances, structures and
appurtenances theretofore installed and then maintained or used under this
franchise if and when made necessary by any lawful change of grade, alignment
or width of any public road by the City, including the construction of any
subway or viaduct; provided, however, that this provision shall remain in
effect only so long as such public road, subway or viaduct shall remain under
the jurisdiction of said City as a public road. This provision shall cease to
be applicable to any public road if and when the City shall cease to have
jurisdiction over or shall cease to be obligated to maintain such public road,
and nothing herein contained shall be construed as constituting a contractual
obligation of the grantee running to the authority assuming jurisdiction over
or the obligation to maintain such public road.
   E.   Placement And Inspections: Before the work of installing any wiring,
conduits, PVC pipes, cables, towers, poles, appliances and appurtenances is
commenced, the grantee shall file with the City plans showing the location
thereof, and the City may give such directions for the location of such wiring,
conduits, PVC pipes, cables, towers, poles, appliances and appurtenances as may
be reasonably necessary to avoid sewers, water pipes, drains or other
structures lawfully in, over or under the street, alleys and public roads of
the City. All work of installing wiring, conduits, PVC pipes, cables, towers,
poles, appliances, structures and appurtenances shall be subject to inspection
by the City, though it is expressly understood that the City undertakes no
responsibility or liability concerning the placement, location, the workmanship
of such installation or any dangers associated with such installation.
   F.   Restoration: In case of any disturbance of pavement, sidewalk, driveway
or other surfacing, the grantee shall, at its own cost and expense, and in the
manner approved by the City, replace and restore all such paving, sidewalk,
driveway or surface disturbed, in as good a condition as before said work was
commenced.
   G.   Repair Of Water Pipes, Sewers, Drains And Other Structures: The grantee
shall, at its own cost and expense, immediately repair or replace as necessary
any and all water pipes, mains, service lines, valves, meters, sewer lines,
culverts, conduits, and all other structures, materials and equipment damaged
by grantee in providing its services. (Ord. 96-08, 7-16-1996)
6-7-8: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
All wiring, conduits, PVC pipes, structures and appurtenances which shall be
laid and used pursuant to the provisions of this franchise and in the exercise
hereof shall be installed, constructed and maintained in accordance with any
applicable codes, ordinances and regulations of the City, Nevada statutes and
the rules, regulations and orders of the Nevada Public Service Commission, and
in a good and workmanlike manner and shall be maintained in compliance with all
such valid laws, ordinances, rules, regulations and codes from time to time in
force. (Ord. 96-08, 7-16-1996)
6-7-9: INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE:
   A.   The City shall not be liable or responsible for any acts, omissions or
damages that may occur in the construction, operation or maintenance by the
grantee of its services, wiring, conduits, PVC pipes, cables, towers, poles,
appliances, structures and appurtenances hereunder, including liabilities
arising under environmental statutes or regulations, and the acceptance of this
franchise shall be deemed an agreement on the part of grantee, its successors
and assigns, to indemnify the City and hold it harmless against any and all
liability, loss, cost, damage or expense sustained by the City on account of
any suit, judgment, execution, claim or demand whatsoever, resulting from the
negligence, default, misconduct or failure to act on the part of the grantee in
the construction, operation or maintenance of its services, wiring, conduits,
PVC pipes, cables, towers, poles, appliances, structures, appurtenances and
telephone communications system hereunder. The City shall notify the grantee's
representative in the City promptly after the presentation of any claim or
demand, either by suit or otherwise, made against the City.
   B.   Prior to commencement or construction and continuously throughout the
duration of this franchise and any extensions or renewals thereof, the grantee,
in addition to complying with the Nevada Industrial Insurance Act, shall
maintain the following types and amounts of insurance:
General liability at least in the amounts of:
 
$ 5,000,000.00 for property damage per occurrence,
20,000,000.00  for property damage aggregate,
5,000,000.00   for personal bodily injury to any one person,
20,000,000.00  for personal bodily injury aggregate.
 
Motor vehicle liability insurance at least in the amounts of:
 
$ 1,000,000.00 for bodily injury or death per occurrence,
500,000.00     for property damage per occurrence.
 
In five (5) year intervals, the foregoing amounts of insurance shall be
increased if requested by the City to compensate for inflation as measured by
the Consumer Price Index. The grantee shall furnish to the City Clerk
certificates of insurance for this coverage prior to commencing its performance
under this agreement and annually thereafter. (Ord. 96-08, 7-16-1996)
6-7-10: BOND:
   A.   Grantee shall, within twenty (20) days after the date of the granting
of a franchise, file with the City Clerk and at all times thereafter maintain
in full force and effect for the entire term of the franchise, at its expense,
a faithful performance bond executed by a surety company approved by the City
and in form satisfactory to the City, in the amount of fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000.00), renewable annually and conditioned on the faithful performance by
the grantee of all the terms, conditions and covenants contained in the
franchise. If the grantee fails to comply with any one or more of the
provisions of the franchise, there shall be recoverable jointly and severally
from the principal and surety of such bond any damages or losses suffered by
the City as a result thereof.
   B.   Neither the provisions of any bond accepted by the City pursuant
hereto, nor any damages recovered by the City thereunder, shall be construed to
excuse faithful performance by grantee or limit the liability of grantee under
the franchise or for damages or preclude the exercise of any other right or
remedy given to the City by law. (Ord. 96-08, 7-16-1996)
6-7-11: ANNEXED OR CONSOLIDATED AREAS:
This franchise and the provisions of this Chapter shall apply to any area which
may hereafter be added to the City by annexation, consolidation or otherwise.
Upon any such annexation, consolidation or other procedure whereby the City
limits are expanded or changed the grantee shall, and by acceptance of this
franchise agrees to, waive, relinquish or abandon any and all franchise rights,
privileges, easements and rights of way personally owned or held by the grantee
within the area which hereafter becomes part of the City and such additional
area shall become subject to the franchise rights granted herein and the terms
and provisions and conditions of this Chapter. (Ord. 96-08, 7-16-1996)
6-7-12: ASSIGNMENT:
The grantee shall not sell, transfer or assign this franchise, or any rights or
privileges under this franchise to any person, corporation, partnership or
entity without prior City approval, which approval shall not be unreasonably
withheld. No sale, transfer or assignment shall be effective until the vendee,
assignee or lessee has filed in the office of the City Clerk an instrument,
duly executed, reciting the fact of such sale, assignment or lease, accepting
the terms of this franchise and this Chapter, and agreeing to perform all of
the conditions hereof, and in addition thereto, the proposed transferee must
have the necessary operating authority and certificates of public convenience
as are required by the Nevada Public Service Commission or such other
governmental department, agency or commission as may then be regulating or
controlling the activities or services of the grantee or the proposed
transferee. (Ord. 96-08, 7-16-1996)
6-7-13: FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.   The grantee shall, during the term of this franchise, or any renewal or
extension hereof, pay to the City for the privilege of operating a telephone
communications system under this franchise the sum of five percent (5%) of the
gross revenue taken in or received by the grantee from all sales or
distribution of telephone communications within the City received from the
operation of the franchise herein.
   B.   Payment shall be made to the City in quarterly installments, the first
installment payment to be paid three (3) months from the date of commencement
of service under this franchise and payments to be made quarterly thereafter,
each installment to be based upon the total gross revenue for the preceding
three (3) month period. If such payments are not made within thirty (30) days
after the expiration of the quarter, the City may, in addition to any other
remedy either at law or as otherwise provided within this agreement, assess a
late penalty two percent (2%) per month on the delinquent amount. (Ord. 96-08,
7-16-1996)
6-7-14: NATURE OF TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS SUPPLIED:
The telephone communications to be supplied hereunder shall be appropriate for
its intended uses by the inhabitants and businesses of the City and shall be
consistent in quantity and quality with the telephone communications supplied
throughout the State. (Ord. 96-08, 7-16-1996)
6-7-15: RATES:
Unless otherwise prohibited by law, notice of changes in rates and charges
shall be filed with the City Clerk at least thirty (30) days in advance of the
effective date thereof. (Ord. 96-08, 7-16-1996)
6-7-16: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
The City shall have access at all reasonable hours to all of the grantee's
books, records, reports, contracts and bookkeeping and accounting procedures
relating to the property and the operations of the grantee within the area
covered by this franchise, if any, and all other records required to be kept by
the Public Service Commission of the State or such other governmental
department, agency or commission which may hereafter have the control or
regulation of the grantee. The following records and reports shall be filed
with the Clerk by the grantee:
   A.   A true and correct conformed copy of the rates, rules, regulations,
terms and conditions adopted by the grantee.
   B.   A quarterly summary report showing gross revenues received by the
grantee from its operations within the City during the preceding three (3)
month period and such other information as the City shall request with respect
to properties and operations relating to the grantee's service within the City.
(Ord. 96-08, 7-16-1996)
6-7-17: BUSINESS LICENSE:
Grantee shall be required to obtain and maintain a City business license;
however, the cost of such license may be deducted from the franchise fee
required to be paid herein if such deduction is required by law to avoid
payments by the grantee in excess of the maximum franchise fee which may be
imposed upon a franchise. (Ord. 96-08, 7-16-1996)
6-7-18: PUBLICATION COSTS:
The grantee shall assume the costs of publication of this Ordinance as such
publication is required by law. A bill for publication costs shall be presented
to the grantee by the Clerk upon the grantee's filing of acceptance of this
franchise and such costs shall be paid at that time. (Ord. 96-08, 7-16-1996)
6-7-19: REMEDIES:
Anything in this Chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, acceptance of this
franchise by grantee shall result in this Ordinance becoming a contract between
the City and the grantee and the parties hereby agree that each party shall
have all remedies in law and in equity, including injunctive relief, for the
enforcement of the provisions of this franchise. (Ord. 96-08, 7-16-1996)
6-7-20: VIOLATION OF FRANCHISE:
In the event that the City believes the grantee, or subject to the restrictions
on transfer, its vendees, successor or assigns, has not complied with the terms
of this franchise, it shall notify the grantee in writing of the exact nature
of the alleged noncompliance. Grantee shall have thirty (30) days from the
receipt of the notice to respond to the City contesting the assertion of
noncompliance, or to cure such default, or, in the event that, by the nature of
default, such default cannot be cured within thirty (30) days, initiate
reasonable steps to remedy such default and notify the City of the steps being
taken and the projected date that compliance will be met. In the event that
such default is not cured within the thirty (30) day period, or within the
projected date of compliance, which date shall be within a reasonable period of
time, the City may terminate this agreement upon written notice to the grantee.
The grantee shall not be relieved of any of its obligations to comply promptly
with any provision of this agreement by reason of any failure by the City to
enforce prompt compliance. (Ord. 96-08, 7-16-1996)
6-7-21: PROCEDURE UPON TERMINATION:
Upon expiration of the franchise, or upon termination as otherwise provided
herein, if the grantee shall not have perfected a renewal thereof, it may have,
and it is hereby granted, the right to enter upon the streets or other property
of the City for purposes of removing therefrom any or all of its property. In
so removing said property, grantee shall refill, at its expense, any excavation
that it shall make, and shall leave said streets, structures or other property
in as good condition as that prevailing prior to the grantee's removal of its
property. Grantee may, in lieu of removal of such property, transfer its
interest in such property to a third party provided such third party is
approved by the City as a franchisee. (Ord. 96-08, 7-16-1996)
6-7-22: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Chapter shall for any
reason be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or
unenforceability of such section, paragraph, clause or provision shall in no
way affect the validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this
Chapter. (Ord. 96-08, 7-16-1996)
6-7-23: REPEAL:
All ordinances, parts of ordinances or chapters, sections, subsections or
paragraphs or resolutions previously adopted by the City, which are in conflict
with this ordinance, are hereby repealed. (Ord. 96-08, 7-16-1996)
CHAPTER 8
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
SECTION:
6-8-1: Definitions
6-8-2: Penalties
6-8-3: Other Remedies
6-8-4: Registration Of Carriers And Providers
6-8-5: Telecommunications License
6-8-6: License Agreement
6-8-7: Nonexclusive Grant Of License
6-8-8: License Rights Granted
6-8-9: Term Of Grant Of License
6-8-10: License Route
6-8-11: Location Of Facilities
6-8-12: Construction Permits; Licensee
6-8-13: Compensation To City
6-8-14: Service To City
6-8-15: Amendment Of Grant Of License
6-8-16: Renewal Of License
6-8-17: Telecommunications Franchise
6-8-18: Franchise Agreement
6-8-19: Nonexclusive Grant Of Franchise
6-8-20: Term Of Grant Of Franchise
6-8-21: Franchise Rights Granted
6-8-22: Franchise Territory
6-8-23: Location Of Facilities; Franchise
6-8-24: Construction Permits; Franchisee
6-8-25: Compensation To The City; Franchise
6-8-26: Nondiscrimination
6-8-27: Service To City; Franchise
6-8-28: Amendment Of Grant Of Franchise
6-8-29: Renewal Of Franchise
6-8-30: Fees And Compensation
6-8-31: Conditions Of Grant
6-8-32: Construction Standards
6-8-33: Existing Telecommunications Franchises
6-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter and the interpretation and enforcement thereof,
the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings, unless the
context of the sentence in which they are used shall indicate otherwise:
AFFILIATE: A person that (directly or indirectly) owns or controls, is owned or
controlled by, or is under common ownership or control with another person.
CITY: The city of West Wendover.
CITY PROPERTY: Means and includes all real property owned by the city, or other
than public streets and utility easements as those terms are defined herein,
and all property held in a proprietary capacity by the city, which are not
subject to right-of-way licensing and franchising as provided in this chapter.
EXCESS CAPACITY: The volume or capacity in any existing or future duct,
conduit, manhole, handhole or other utility facility within the public way that
is or will be available for use for additional telecommunications facilities.
FCC OR FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION: The federal administrative agency, or
lawful successor, authorized to regulate and oversee telecommunications
carriers, services and providers on a national level.
OTHER WAYS: The highways, streets, alleys, utility easements or other rights of
way within the city, but under the jurisdiction and control of a governmental
entity other than the city.
OVERHEAD FACILITIES: Utility poles, utility facilities and telecommunications
located above the surface of the ground, including the underground supports and
foundations for such facilities.
PERSON: Means and includes corporations, companies, associations, joint stock
companies or associations, firms, partnerships, limited liability companies and
individuals and includes their lessors, trustees and receivers.
PUBLIC WAY: Means and includes all public streets and utility easements, as
those terms are defined herein, now or hereafter owned by the city, but only to
the extent of the city's right, title, interest or authority to grant a license
or franchise to occupy and use such streets and easements for
telecommunications facilities.
STATE: The state of Nevada.
SURPLUS SPACE: That portion of the usable space on a utility pole which has the
necessary clearance from other pole users, as required by the orders and
regulations of the Nevada public utilities commission, to allow its use by a
telecommunications carrier for a pole attachment.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER: Means and includes every person that directly or
indirectly owns, controls, operates or manages plant, equipment or property
within the city, used or to be used for the purpose of offering
telecommunications service.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES: The plant, equipment and property, including,
but not limited to, cables, wires, conduits, ducts, pedestals, antennas,
electronics and other appurtenances used or to be used to transmit, receive,
distribute, provide or offer telecommunications services.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: The providing or offering for rent, sale or lease,
or in exchange for other value received, of the transmittal of voice, data,
image, graphic and video programming information between or among points by
wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio, satellite or similar
facilities, with or without benefit of any closed transmission medium.
UNDERGROUND FACILITIES: Utility and telecommunications facilities located under
the surface of the ground, excluding the underground foundations or supports
for overhead facilities.
UTILITY EASEMENT: The plant, equipment and property, including, but not limited
to, the poles, pipes, mains, conduits, ducts, wires, plant and equipment
located under, on or above the surface of the ground within the public ways of
the city and used or to be used for the purpose of providing utility or
telecommunications services. (Ord. 2000-07, 10-3-2000)
6-8-2: PENALTIES:
Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting or
refusing to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each offense. A separate and distinct offense shall be deemed
committed each day on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 2000-07, 10-
3-2000)
6-8-3: OTHER REMEDIES:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any judicial remedies
that the city may have, at law or in equity, for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-07, 10-3-2000)
6-8-4: REGISTRATION OF CARRIERS AND PROVIDERS:
   A.   Registration Required: All telecommunications carriers and providers
that offer or provide any telecommunications service for a fee directly to the
public, either within the city or outside the corporate limits from
telecommunications facilities within the city, shall register with the city
pursuant to this chapter on forms to be provided by the city clerk, which shall
include the following:
      1.   The identity and legal status of the registrant, including any
affiliates.
      2.   The name, address, and telephone number of the officer, agent or
employee responsible for the accuracy of the registration statement.
      3.   A description of the registrant's existing or proposed
telecommunications facilities within the city.
      4.   A description of the telecommunications services that the registrant
intends to offer or provide, or is currently offering or providing, to persons,
firms, businesses or institutions within the city.
      5.   Information sufficient to determine whether the registrant is
subject to public way licensing or franchising under this city.
      6.   Information sufficient to determine that the applicant has applied
for and received any construction permit, operating license or other approval
required by the federal communications commission to provide telecommunications
services of facilities within the city.
      7.   Information sufficient to determine that the applicant has applied
for and received any construction permit, operating license or other approval
required by the state of Nevada to provide telecommunications services or
facilities within the city.
      8.   Such other information as the city clerk may reasonably require.
   B.   Registration Fee: Each application for registration as a
telecommunications carrier or provider shall be submitted with a registration
fee which amount shall be set by resolution of the city council.
   C.   Purpose Of Registration: The purpose of registration under this chapter
is to:
      1.   Provide the city with accurate and current information concerning
the telecommunications carriers and providers who offer or provide
telecommunications services within the city, or that own or operate
telecommunications facilities within the city.
      2.   Assist the city in enforcement of this chapter.
      3.   Assist the city in the collection and enforcement of any municipal
taxes, franchise fees, license fees or charges that may be due the city.
      4.   Assist the city in monitoring compliance with local, state and
federal laws. (Ord. 2000-07, 10-3-2000)
6-8-5: TELECOMMUNICATIONS LICENSE:
Except as otherwise provided herein, any telecommunications carriers who desire
to construct, install, operate, maintain, or otherwise locate
telecommunications facilities in, under, over or across any public way of the
city for the sole purpose of providing telecommunications service to persons
and areas outside the city shall first obtain a license granting the use of
such public ways from the city.
   A.   License Application: Any person that desires a telecommunications
license pursuant to this chapter shall file an application with the city which
shall include the following information:
      1.   The identity of the license applicant, including all affiliates of
the applicant.
      2.   A description of the telecommunications services that are or will be
offered or provided by the licensee over its telecommunications facilities.
      3.   A description of the transmission medium that will be used by the
licensee to offer or provide such telecommunications services.
      4.   Preliminary engineering plans, specifications and a network map of
the facilities to be located within the city, all in sufficient detail to
identify:
         a.   The location and route requested for applicant's proposed
telecommunications facilities.
         b.   The location(s), if any, for interconnections with the
telecommunications facilities of other telecommunications carriers.
         c.   The specific trees, structures, improvements, facilities and
obstructions, if any, that applicant proposes to temporarily or permanently
remove or relocate.
      5.   Applicants proposing to install telecommunications facilities which
must be placed aboveground to technically operate must provide the proposed
locations of said facilities, including acreage amounts for fall areas and
isolation purposes.
      6.   If the applicant is proposing an underground installation in
existing ducts or conduits within the public ways, information in sufficient
detail to identify:
         a.   The excess capacity currently available in such ducts or conduits
before installation of the applicant's telecommunications facilities.
         b.   The excess capacity, if any, that will exist in such ducts or
conduits after installation of the applicant's telecommunications facilities.
      7.   If the applicant is proposing any underground installation within
new ducts or conduits to be constructed within the public ways, information in
sufficient detail to identify:
         a.   The location proposed for the new ducts or conduits.
         b.   The excess capacity that will exist in such ducts or conduits
after installation of the applicant's telecommunications facilities.
      8.   A preliminary construction schedule and completion date.
      9.   A preliminary traffic-control plan in accordance with the federal
highway administration manual on uniform traffic control devices.
      10.   Financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles demonstrating the applicant's financial ability to
construct, operate, maintain, relocate and remove the facilities.
      11.   Information in sufficient detail to establish the applicant's
technical qualifications, experience and expertise regarding the
telecommunications facilities and services described in the application.
      12.   Information to establish that the applicant has obtained all other
governmental approvals and permits to construct and operate the facilities and
to offer or provide the telecommunications services.
      13.   All fees, deposits or changes required pursuant to this chapter.
      14.   Such other and further information as may be required by the city
manager.
   B.   Determination By The City: Within ninety (90) days after receiving a
complete application under subsection A of this section, the city council shall
issue a written determination granting or denying the application in whole or
in part, applying the following standards. If the application is denied, the
written determination shall include the reasons for denial.
      1.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
      2.   The legal ability of the applicant.
      3.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate the applicant's
proposed facilities.
      4.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate additional utility
and telecommunications facilities if the license is granted.
      5.   The damage or disruption, if any, of public or private facilities,
improvements, service, travel or landscaping if the license is granted.
      6.   The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of
construction within the public ways.
      7.   The service that applicant will provide to the community and region.
      8.   The effect, if any, on public health, safety and welfare if the
license is granted.
      9.   The availability of alternate routes and/or locations for the
proposed facilities.
      10.   Applicable federal and state telecommunications laws, regulations
and policies.
      11.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the grant to use the
public ways will serve the community interest. (Ord. 2000-07, 10-3-2000)
6-8-6: LICENSE AGREEMENT:
No license granted hereunder shall be effective until the applicant and the
city have executed a written agreement setting forth the particular terms and
provisions under which the license to occupy and use public ways of the city
will be granted. (Ord. 2000-07, 10-3-2000)
6-8-7: NONEXCLUSIVE GRANT OF LICENSE:
No license under this chapter shall confer any exclusive right, privilege,
license or franchise to occupy or use the public ways of the city for delivery
of telecommunications services or any other purposes. (Ord. 2000-07, 10-3-2000)
6-8-8: LICENSE RIGHTS GRANTED:
No license granted under this chapter shall convey any right, title or interest
in the public ways, but shall be deemed a license only to use and occupy the
public ways for the limited purposes and term stated in the grant. Further, no
license shall be construed as any warranty of title. (Ord. 2000-07, 10-3-2000)
6-8-9: TERM OF GRANT OF LICENSE:
The term of the agreement shall be specified in the license agreement. (Ord.
2000-07, 10-3-2000)
6-8-10: LICENSE ROUTE:
A telecommunications license granted under this chapter shall be limited to a
grant of specific public ways and defined portions thereof. (Ord. 2000-07, 10-
3-2000)
6-8-11: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
Unless otherwise specified in a license agreement, all facilities shall be
constructed, installed and located in accordance with the following terms and
conditions:
   A.   Telecommunications facilities shall be installed within an existing
underground duct or conduit whenever excess capacity exists and is available
within such utility facility.
   B.   All licensees with permission to install overhead facilities shall
install their telecommunications facilities only in approved areas.
   C.   Whenever any existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located underground within a public way of
the city, a licensee with permission to occupy the same public way must also
locate its telecommunications facilities underground.
   D.   Whenever any new or existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located or relocated underground within a
public way of the city, a grantee that currently occupies the same public way
shall relocate its facilities underground within a reasonable period of time,
which shall not be later than the end of the grant term. Absent extraordinary
circumstances or undue hardship as determined by the city engineer, such
relation shall be made concurrently to minimize the disruption of the public
ways.
   E.   Whenever new telecommunications facilities will exhaust the capacity of
a public street or utility easement to reasonably accommodate future
telecommunications carriers or facilities, the grantee shall provide additional
ducts, conduits, manholes and other facilities for nondiscriminatory access to
future telecommunications carriers.
   F.   The specific location and routing of new telecommunications facilities
within a public street, easement and/or right of way shall be approved by the
city engineer. (Ord. 2000-07, 10-3-2000)
6-8-12: CONSTRUCTION PERMITS; LICENSEE:
All licensees are required to obtain construction permits for
telecommunications facilities as required in section
6-8-31 of this chapter, provided, however, that nothing in this chapter shall
prohibit the city and a licensee from agreeing to alternative plan review,
permit and construction procedures in a license agreement, provided such
alternative procedures provide substantially equivalent safeguards for
responsible construction practices. (Ord. 2000-07, 10-3-2000)
6-8-13: COMPENSATION TO CITY:
Each license granted under this chapter is subject to the city's right, which
is expressly reserved, to fix a fair and reasonable compensation to be paid for
the property rights granted to the licensee; provided nothing in this chapter
shall prohibit the city and a licensee from agreeing to the compensation to be
paid. Said compensation shall be set by the city and shall be substantially the
same for any licensee providing similar services. (Ord. 2000-07, 10-3-2000)
6-8-14: SERVICE TO CITY:
A licensee may be permitted to offer or provide telecommunications services to
persons or areas within the city upon submitting a franchise application for
approval pursuant to section
6-8-17 of this chapter. (Ord. 2000-07, 10-3-2000)
6-8-15: AMENDMENT OF GRANT OF LICENSE:
   A.   A new license application and grant shall be required of any
telecommunications carrier that desires to extend or locate its
telecommunications facilities in public ways of the city which are not included
in a license previously granted under this chapter.
   B.   If ordered by the city to locate or relocate its telecommunications
facilities in public ways not included in a previously granted license, the
city shall grant a license amendment without further amendment. (Ord. 2000-07,
10-3-2000)
6-8-16: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Renewal Applications: A grantee that desires to renew its license under
this chapter shall, not more than one hundred eighty (180) days nor less than
ninety (90) days before expiration of the current license, file an application
with the city for renewal of its license which shall include the following
information:
      1.   The information required pursuant to section
6-8-5 of this chapter.
      2.   Any information required pursuant to the license agreement between
the city and the grantee.
   B.   Renewal Determinations: Within ninety (90) days after receiving a
complete application, the city council shall issue a written determination
granting or denying the renewal application in whole or in part, applying the
following standards. If the renewal application is denied, the written
determination shall include the reasons for nonrenewal.
      1.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
      2.   The legal ability of the applicant.
      3.   The continuing capacity of the public ways to accommodate the
applicant's existing facilities.
      4.   The applicant's compliance with the requirements of this chapter and
the license agreement.
      5.   Applicable federal, state and local telecommunications laws, rules
and policies.
      6.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the continued grant to
use the public ways will serve the community interest.
   C.   Obligation To Cure As A Condition Of Renewal: No license shall be
renewed until any ongoing violations or defaults in the licensee's performance
of the license agreement, or of the requirements of this chapter, have been
cured or a plan detailing the corrective action to be taken by the grantee has
been approved by the city. (Ord. 2000-07, 10-3-2000)
6-8-17: TELECOMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE:
A telecommunications franchise shall be required of any telecommunications
carrier who desires to occupy public ways of the city and to provide
telecommunications services to any person or area in the city.
   A.   Franchise Application: Any person that desires a telecommunications
franchise pursuant to this section shall file an application with the city
which shall include the following information:
      1.   The identity of the franchise applicant, including all affiliates of
the applicant.
      2.   A description of the telecommunications services that are or will be
offered or provided by the franchise applicant over its existing or proposed
facilities.
      3.   A description of the transmission medium that will be used by the
franchisee to offer or provide such telecommunications services.
      4.   Preliminary engineering plans, specifications and a network map of
the facilities to be located within the city, all in sufficient detail to
identify:
         a.   The location and route requested for applicant's proposed
telecommunications facilities.
         b.   The location(s), if any, for interconnection with the
telecommunications facilities of other telecommunications carriers.
         c.   The specific trees, structures, improvements, facilities and
obstructions, if any, that the applicant proposes to temporarily or permanently
remove or relocate.
      5.   Applicants proposing to install telecommunications facilities which
must be placed aboveground to technically operate must provide the proposed
locations of said facilities, including acreage amounts for fall areas and
isolation purposes.
      6.   If the applicant is proposing an underground installation in
existing ducts or conduits within the public ways, information in sufficient
detail to identify:
         a.   The excess capacity currently available in such ducts or conduits
before installation of the applicant's telecommunications facilities;
         b.   The excess capacity, if any, that will exist in such ducts or
conduits after installation of the applicant's telecommunications facilities.
      7.   If the applicant is proposing an underground installation within new
ducts or conduits to be constructed within the public ways:
         a.   The location proposed for the new ducts or conduits.
         b.   The excess capacity that will exist in such ducts or conduits
after installation of the applicant's telecommunications facilities.
      8.   A preliminary construction schedule and completion dates.
      9.   A preliminary traffic-control plan in accordance with the federal
highway administration manual on uniform traffic control devices.
      10.   Financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles demonstrating the applicant's financial ability to
construct, operate, maintain, relocate and remove the facilities.
      11.   Information in sufficient detail to establish the applicant's
technical qualifications, experience and expertise regarding the
telecommunications facilities and services described in the application.
      12.   Information to establish that the applicant has obtained all other
governmental approvals and permits to construct and operate the facilities and
to offer or provide the telecommunications services.
      13.   Whether the applicant tends to provide cable service, video
dialtone service or other video programming service, and sufficient information
to determine whether such service is subject to cable franchising.
      14.   An accurate map showing the location of any existing
telecommunications facilities in the city that the applicant intends to use or
lease.
      15.   A description of the services or facilities that the applicant will
offer or make available to the city and other public, educational and
governmental institutions.
      16.   A description of the applicant's access and line extension
policies.
      17.   The area or areas of the city the applicant desires to serve and a
schedule for build-out to the entire franchise area.
      18.   All fees, deposits or charges required pursuant to section
6-8-30 of this chapter.
      19.   Such other and further information as may be requested by the city
manager.
   B.   Determination By The City: Within ninety (90) days after receiving a
completed application under this chapter, the city council shall issue a
written determination granting or denying the application in whole or in part,
applying the following standards. If the application is denied, the written
determination shall include the reasons for denial.
      1.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
      2.   The legal ability of the applicant.
      3.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate additional utility
and telecommunications facilities if the franchise is granted.
      4.   The damage or disruption, if any, of public or private facilities,
improvements, service travel or landscaping if the franchise is granted.
      5.   The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of
construction within the public ways.
      6.   The service that the applicant will provide to the community and
region.
      7.   The effect, if any, on public health, safety and welfare if the
franchise requested is granted.
      8.   The availability of alternate routes and/or locations for the
proposed facilities.
      9.   Applicable federal and state telecommunications laws, regulations
and policies.
      10.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the grant to use the
public ways will serve the community interest. (Ord. 2000-07, 10-3-2000)
6-8-18: FRANCHISE AGREEMENT:
No franchise shall be granted hereunder unless the applicant and the city have
executed a written agreement setting forth the particular terms and provisions
under which the franchise to occupy and use public ways of the city will be
granted. (Ord. 2000-07, 10-3-2000)
6-8-19: NONEXCLUSIVE GRANT OF FRANCHISE:
No franchise granted under this chapter shall confer any exclusive right,
privilege, license or franchise to occupy or use the public ways of the city
for delivery of telecommunications services or any other purposes. (Ord. 2000-
07, 10-3-2000)
6-8-20: TERM OF GRANT OF FRANCHISE:
The term of grant of franchise shall be specified in the franchise agreement.
(Ord. 2000-07, 10-3-2000)
6-8-21: FRANCHISE RIGHTS GRANTED:
No franchise granted under this chapter shall convey any right, title or
interest in the public ways, but shall be valid for a franchise only to use and
occupy the public ways for the limited purposes and term stated in the grant.
Further, no franchise shall be construed as any warranty of title. (Ord. 2000-
07, 10-3-2000)
6-8-22: FRANCHISE TERRITORY:
A telecommunications franchise granted under this chapter shall be limited to
the specific geographic area of the city to be served by the franchise grantee
and the specific public ways necessary to serve such areas. (Ord. 2000-07, 10-
3-2000)
6-8-23: LOCATION OF FACILITIES; FRANCHISE:
Unless otherwise specified in the franchise agreement, all facilities shall be
constructed, installed and located in accordance with the following terms and
conditions:
   A.   Telecommunications facilities shall be installed within an existing
underground duct or conduit whenever excess capacity exists and is available
within such utility facility.
   B.   All licensees with permission to install overhead facilities shall
install their telecommunications facilities only in approved areas.
   C.   Whenever any existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located underground within a public way of
the city, a franchisee with permission to occupy the same public way must also
locate its telecommunications facilities underground.
   D.   Whenever any new or existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located or relocated underground within a
public way of the city, a grantee that currently occupies the same public way
shall relocate its facilities underground within a reasonable period of time,
which shall not be later than the end of the grant term. Absent extraordinary
circumstances or undue hardship as determined by the city engineer, such
relocation shall be made concurrently to minimize the disruption of the public
ways.
   E.   Whenever new telecommunications facilities will exhaust the capacity of
a public street or utility easement to reasonably accommodate future
telecommunications carriers or facilities, the grantee shall provide additional
ducts, conduits, manholes and other facilities for nondiscriminatory access to
future carriers.
   F.   The specific location and routing of a new telecommunications facility
within a public street, easement and/or right of way shall be approved by the
city engineer. (Ord. 2000-07, 10-3-2000)
6-8-24: CONSTRUCTION PERMITS; FRANCHISEE:
All franchisees are required to obtain construction permits for
telecommunications facilities as required in section
6-8-31 of this chapter, provided, however, that nothing in this chapter shall
prohibit the city and a franchisee from agreeing to alternative procedures
providing substantially equivalent safeguards for responsible construction
practices. (Ord. 2000-07, 10-3-2000)
6-8-25: COMPENSATION TO THE CITY; FRANCHISE:
Each franchise granted under this chapter is subject to the city's right, which
is expressly reserved, to fix a fair and reasonable compensation to be paid for
the property rights granted to the franchisee, provided nothing in this chapter
shall prohibit the city and franchisee from agreeing to the compensation to be
paid. Said compensation shall be set by the city and shall be substantially the
same for any franchisee offering similar services. (Ord. 2000-07, 10-3-2000)
6-8-26: NONDISCRIMINATION:
A franchisee shall make its telecommunications services available to any
customer within its franchise area who shall request such service, without
discrimination as to the terms, conditions, rates or charges for grantee's
services; provided, however, that nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a
franchisee from making any reasonable classifications among differently
situated customers. (Ord. 2000-07, 10-3-2000)
6-8-27: SERVICE TO CITY; FRANCHISE:
A franchisee shall make its telecommunications services available to the city
at its most favorable rate for similarly situated users, unless otherwise
provided in a license or franchise agreement. (Ord. 2000-07, 10-3-2000)
6-8-28: AMENDMENT OF GRANT OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   A new franchise application and grant shall be required of any
telecommunications carrier that desires to extend its franchise territory or to
locate its telecommunications facilities in public ways of the city which are
not included in a franchise previously granted under this chapter.
   B.   If ordered by the city to locate or relocate its telecommunications
facilities in public ways not included in a previously granted franchise, the
city shall grant a franchise amendment without further application. (Ord. 2000-
07, 10-3-2000)
6-8-29: RENEWAL OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   Applications: A grantee that desires to renew its franchise under this
chapter shall, not more than one hundred eighty (180) days nor less than ninety
(90) days before expiration of the current franchise, file an application with
the city for renewal of its franchise which shall include the following
information:
      1.   The information required pursuant to subsection
6-8-17A of this chapter.
      2.   Any information required pursuant to the franchise agreement between
the city and grantee.
   B.   Renewal Determinations: Within ninety (90) days after receiving a
complete application under this section, the city council shall issue a written
determination granting or denying the renewal application in whole or in part,
applying the following standards. If the renewal application is denied, the
written determination shall include the reasons for nonrenewal.
      1.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
      2.   The legal ability of the applicant.
      3.   The continuing capacity of the public ways to accommodate the
applicant's existing facilities.
      4.   The applicant's compliance with the requirements of this chapter and
the franchise agreement.
      5.   Applicable federal, state and local telecommunications laws, rules
and policies.
      6.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the continued grant to
use the public ways will serve the community interest.
   C.   Obligation To Cure As A Condition Of Renewal: No franchise shall be
renewed until any ongoing violations or defaults in the grantee's performance
of the franchise agreement, or of the requirements of this chapter, have been
cured or a plan detailing the corrective action to be taken by the grantee has
been approved by the city. (Ord. 2000-07, 10-3-2000)
6-8-30: FEES AND COMPENSATION:
It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the payment and recovery of
all direct and indirect costs and expenses of the city related to the
enforcement and administration of this chapter.
   A.   Application And Review Fee:
      1.   Any applicant for a license or franchise pursuant to this chapter
shall pay a fee as established by resolution of the city council.
      2.   The application and review fee shall be deposited with the city as
part of the application filed pursuant to this chapter.
      3.   An applicant whose license or franchise application has been
withdrawn, abandoned or denied shall, within sixty (60) days of its application
and review fee written request, be refunded the balance of its deposit under
this chapter, less all ascertainable costs and expenses incurred by the city in
connection with the application.
   B.   Other City Costs: All license or franchise grantees shall, within
thirty (30) days after written demand therefor, reimburse the city in
connection with any modification, amendment, renewal or transfer of the license
or franchise or any license or franchise agreement.
   C.   Reserved Compensation For Public Ways: The city reserves its right to
annually fix a fair and reasonable compensation to be paid for the property
rights granted to a telecommunications license or franchise grantee. Nothing in
this chapter shall prohibit the city and a grantee from agreeing to the
compensation to be paid for the granted property rights.
   D.   Compensation For City Property: If the right is granted by lease,
license, franchise or other manner to use and occupy city property for the
installation of telecommunications facilities, the compensation to be paid
shall be fixed by the city.
   E.   Construction Permit Fee: Prior to issuance of a construction permit,
the permittee shall pay any required permit fees.
   F.   Regulatory Fees And Compensation: The regulatory fees and costs
provided for in this chapter, and any compensation charged and paid for the
public ways provided for in this chapter, are separate from and additional to
any and all federal, state, local and city taxes as may be levied, imposed or
due from a telecommunications carrier or provider, its customers or
subscribers, or on account of the lease, sale, delivery or transmission of
telecommunications services. (Ord. 2000-07, 10-3-2000)
6-8-31: CONDITIONS OF GRANT:
   A.   Location Of Facilities: All facilities shall be constructed, installed
and located in accordance with the following terms and conditions, unless
otherwise specified in a license or franchise agreement:
      1.   A grantee shall install its telecommunications facilities within an
existing underground duct or conduit whenever excess capacity exists and is
available within such utility facility.
      2.   All licensees with permission to install overhead facilities shall
install their telecommunications facilities only in approved areas.
      3.   Whenever any existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located underground within a public way of
the city, a grantee with permission to occupy the same public way must also
locate its telecommunications facilities underground.
      4.   Whenever any new or existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located or relocated underground within a
public way of the city, a grantee that currently occupies the same public way
shall relocate its facilities underground within a reasonable period of time,
which shall not be later than the end of the grant term. Absent extraordinary
circumstances or undue hardship as determined by the city engineer, such
relocation shall be made concurrently to minimize the disruption of the public
ways.
      5.   Whenever new telecommunications facilities will exhaust the capacity
of a public street or utility easement to reasonably accommodate future
telecommunications carriers or facilities, the grantee shall provide additional
ducts, conduits, manholes and other facilities for nondiscriminatory access to
future carriers.
      6.   The specific location and routing of new telecommunications
facilities within a public street, easement and/or right of way shall be
approved by the city engineer.
   B.   Construction Permits: All license or franchise grantees are required to
obtain construction permits for telecommunications facilities as required in
section
6-8-32 (construction standards) of this chapter. However, nothing in this
chapter shall prohibit the city and a grantee from agreeing to alternative plan
review, permit and construction procedures in a license or franchise agreement,
provided such alternative procedures provide substantially equivalent
safeguards for responsible construction practices.
   C.   Interference With The Public Ways: No license or franchise grantee may
locate or maintain its telecommunications facilities so as to unreasonably
interfere with the use of the public ways by the city, by the general public,
or by other persons authorized to use or be present in or upon the public ways.
All such facilities shall be moved by the grantee temporarily or permanently,
as determined by the city engineer.
   D.   Damage To Property: No license or franchise grantee nor any person
acting on a grantee's behalf shall take any action or permit any action to be
done which may impair or damage any city property, public ways of the city,
other ways or other property located in, on or adjacent thereto.
   E.   Notice Of Work: Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise
agreement, no license or franchise grantee, nor any persons acting on the
grantee's behalf, shall commence any nonemergency work in or about the public
ways of the city or other ways without ten (10) working days' notice to the
city.
   F.   Repair And Emergency Work: In the event of an unexpected repair or
emergency, a grantee may commence such repair and emergency response work as
required under the circumstances, provided the grantee shall notify the city as
promptly as possible, before such repair or emergency work or as soon
thereafter as possible if advance notice is not practicable.
   G.   Maintenance Of Facilities: Each license or franchise grantee shall
maintain its facilities in good and safe condition and in a manner that
complies with all applicable federal, state and local requirements.
   H.   Relocation Or Removal Of Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the city, a license or franchise grantee shall, at its own
expense, temporarily or permanently remove, relocate, change or alter the
position of any telecommunications facilities within the public ways, whenever
the city council shall have determined that such removal, relocation, change or
alteration is reasonably necessary for:
      1.   The construction, repair, maintenance or installation of any city or
other public improvement in or upon the public way.
      2.   The operations of the city or other governmental entity in or upon
the public way.
   I.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the city, any grantee, telecommunications carrier, or other
person that owns, controls or maintains any unauthorized telecommunications
system, facility or related appurtenances within the public ways of the city
shall, at its own expense, remove such facilities or appurtenances from the
public ways of the city. A telecommunications system or facility is
unauthorized and subject to removal in the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the grantee's telecommunications
license or franchise.
      2.   Upon abandonment of a facility within the public ways of the city.
      3.   If the system or facility was constructed or installed without prior
grant of a telecommunications license or franchise.
      4.   If the system or facility was constructed or installed without prior
issuance of a required construction permit.
      5.   If the system or facility was constructed or installed at a location
not permitted by the grantee's telecommunications license or franchise.
   J.   Emergency Removal Of Relocation Of Facilities: The city retains the
right so privilege to cut or move any telecommunications facilities located
within the public ways of the city as the city may determine to be necessary,
appropriate or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency.
   K.   Damage To Grantee's Facilities: Unless directly and proximately caused
by the wilful, intentional or malicious acts by the city, the city shall not be
liable for any damage to or loss of any telecommunications facilities within
the public ways of the city as a result of or in connection with any public
works, public improvements, construction, excavation, grading, filling, or work
of any kind in the public ways by or on behalf of the city.
   L.   Restoration Of Public Ways, Other Ways And City Property:
      1.   When a license or franchise grantee, or any person acting on its
behalf, does any work in or affecting public ways, other ways, or city
property, it shall, at its own expense, promptly remove any obstructions
therefrom and restore such ways or property to as good a condition as existed
before the work was undertaken, unless otherwise directed by the city.
      2.   If weather or other condition does not permit the complete
restoration required by this section, grantee shall temporarily restore the
affected ways or property. Such temporary restoration shall be at the
licensee's sole expense, and the licensee shall promptly undertake and complete
the required permanent restoration when the weather or other conditions no
longer prevent such permanent restoration.
      3.   A grantee or other person acting in its behalf shall use suitable
barricades, flags, flagmen, lights, flares and other measures as required for
the safety of all members of the general public and to prevent injury or damage
to any person, vehicle or property by reason of such work in or affecting such
ways or property.
   M.   Facilities Maps: Each license or franchise grantee shall provide the
city with an accurate map or maps certifying the location of all
telecommunications facilities within the public ways. Each grantee shall
provide updated maps annually.
   N.   Duty To Provide Information: Within ten (10) days of a written request
from the city manager, each license or franchise grantee shall furnish the city
with information sufficient to demonstrate:
      1.   That grantee has complied with all requirements of this chapter.
      2.   That all taxes, fees and/or charges due to the city in connection
with the telecommunications services and facilities provided by the grantee
have been properly collected and paid by the grantee.
      3.   All books, records, maps and other documents maintained by the
grantee with respect to its facilities within the public ways shall be made
available for inspection by the city at reasonable times and intervals.
   O.   Leased Capacity: A license or franchise grantee shall have the right,
without prior city approval, to offer or provide capacity or bandwidth to its
customers, provided:
      1.   Grantee shall furnish the city with a copy of any such lease or
agreement.
      2.   The customer or lessee has complied, to the extent applicable, with
the requirements of this chapter.
   P.   Grantee Insurance: Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise
agreement, each grantee shall, as a condition of the grant, secure and maintain
the following liability insurance policies insuring both grantee and the city,
and the city's elected and appointed officers, officials, agents as employees
as coinsureds:
      1.   Comprehensive general liability insurance with limits of not less
than:
         a.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person;
         b.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
         c.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability.
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with a
limit of three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for each person and three
million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for each accident.
      3.   Workers' compensation within statutory limits and employer's
liability insurance with limits of not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00).
      4.   Comprehensive form premises-operations, explosions and collapse
hazard, underground hazard and products completed hazard with limits of not
less than three million dollars ($3,000,000.00).
      5.   The liability insurance policies required by this section shall be
maintained by the grantee throughout the term of the telecommunications license
or franchise, and such other period of time during which the grantee is
operating without a franchise or license hereunder or is engaged in the removal
of its telecommunications facilities. Each such insurance policy shall contain
the following endorsements:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until ninety (90) days after receipt by the
City, by registered mail, or a written notice addressed to the City Manager of
such intent to cancel or not to renew.
      6.   Within sixty (60) days after receipt by the city of said notice, and
in no event later than thirty (30) days prior to said cancellation, the grantee
shall obtain and furnish to the city replacement insurance policies meeting the
requirements of this section.
   Q.   General Indemnification: Each license or franchise agreement shall
include, to the extent permitted by law, grantee's express undertaking to
defend, indemnify and hold the city and its officers, employees, agents and
representatives harmless from and against any and all damages, losses and
expense, including reasonable attorney fees and costs of suit or defense,
arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or result from the
negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to act, or misconduct
of the grantee or its affiliates, officers, employees, agents, contractors or
subcontractors in the construction, operation, maintenance, repair or removal
of its telecommunications facilities and in providing or offering
telecommunications services over the facilities or network, whether such acts
or omissions are authorized, allowed or prohibited by this chapter or by a
grant agreement made or entered into pursuant to this chapter.
   R.   Performance And Construction Surety: Before a license or franchise
granted pursuant to this chapter is effective, and as necessary thereafter, the
grantee shall provide and deposit such monies, bonds, letters of credit or
other instruments in form and substance acceptable to the city as may be
required by this chapter or by an applicable license or franchise agreement.
   S.   Construction And Completion Bond: Unless otherwise provided in a
license or franchise agreement, a performance bond written by a corporate
surety acceptable to the city, equal to at least one hundred percent (100%) of
the estimated cost of constructing grantee's telecommunications facilities
within the public ways of the city, shall be deposited before construction is
commenced.
      1.   The construction bond shall remain in force until sixty (60) days
after substantial completion of the work, as determined by the city engineer,
including restoration of public ways and other property affected by the
construction.
      2.   The construction bond shall guarantee, to the satisfaction of the
city:
         a.   Timely completion of the construction;
         b.   Construction in compliance with applicable plans, permits,
technical codes and standards;
         c.   Proper location of the facilities as specified by the city;
         d.   Restoration of the public ways and other property affected by the
construction;
         e.   The submission of "as-built" drawings after completion of the
work as required by this chapter;
         f.   Timely payment and satisfaction of all claims, demands, or liens
for labor, material or services provided in connection with the work.
   T.   Coordination Of Construction Activities: All grantees are required to
cooperate with the city and with each other.
      1.   By February 1 of each year, grantees shall provide the city with a
schedule of their proposed construction activities in, around or that may
affect the public ways.
      2.   Each grantee shall meet with the city, other grantees and users of
the public ways annually or as determined by the city to schedule and
coordinate construction in the public ways.
      3.   All construction locations, activities and schedules shall be
coordinated, as ordered by the city engineer, to minimize public inconvenience,
disruption or damages.
   U.   Assignments Or Transfers Of Grants: Ownership or control of a
telecommunications system, license or franchise may not, directly or
indirectly, be transferred, assigned or disposed of by sale, lease, merger,
consolidation or other act of the grantee, by operation of law or otherwise,
without the prior consent of the city, which consent shall not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed, as expressed by ordinance, and then only on such
reasonable conditions as may be prescribed therein.
      1.   No grant shall be assigned or transferred in any manner within
twelve (12) months after the initial grant of the license or franchise, unless
otherwise provided in a license or franchise agreement.
      2.   Absent extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances, no grant,
system or integral part of a system shall be assigned or transferred before
construction of the telecommunications system has been completed.
      3.   Grantee and the proposed assignee or transferee of the grant or
system shall provide and certify the following information to the city not less
than one hundred fifty (150) days prior to the proposed date of transfer:
         a.   Complete information setting forth the nature, terms and
conditions of the proposed transfer or assignment.
         b.   All information required for a telecommunications license or
franchise applicant pursuant to subsection 6-8-5A or 6-8-17A of this chapter
with respect to the proposed transferee or assignee.
         c.   Any other information reasonably required by the city.
      4.   No transfer shall be approved unless the assignee or transferee has
the legal, telecommunications, financial and other requisite qualifications to
own, hold and operate the telecommunications system pursuant to this chapter.
      5.   Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise agreement, the
grantee shall reimburse the city for all direct and indirect fees, costs, and
expenses reasonably incurred by the city in considering a request to transfer
or assign a telecommunications license or franchise.
      6.   Any transfer or assignment of a telecommunications grant, system or
integral part of a system without prior approval of the city under this
section, or pursuant to a license or franchise agreement, shall be void and is
cause for revocation of the grant.
   V.   Transactions Affecting Control Of Grant: Any transactions which
singularly or collectively result in a charge of ten percent (10%) or more of
the ownership or working control of the grantee, of the ownership or working
control of a telecommunications license or franchise, of the ownership or
working control of affiliated entities having ownership or working control of
the grantee or of a telecommunications system, or of control of the capacity or
bandwidth of the grantee's telecommunications system, facilities or substantial
parts thereof, shall be considered an assignment or transfer requiring city
approval pursuant to subsection U of this section. Transactions between
affiliated entities are not exempt from city approval.
   W.   Revocation Or Termination Of Grant: A license or franchise granted by
the city to use or occupy public ways of the city may be revoked for the
following reasons:
      1.   Construction or operation in the city or in the public ways of the
city without a license or franchise grant of authorization.
      2.   Construction or operation at an unauthorized location.
      3.   Unauthorized substantial transfer of control of the grantee.
      4.   Unauthorized assignment of a license or franchise.
      5.   Unauthorized sale, assignment or transfer of grantee's franchise or
license assets, or a substantial interest therein.
      6.   Misrepresentation or lack of candor by or on behalf of a grantee in
any application to the city.
      7.   Abandonment of telecommunications facilities in the public ways.
      8.   Failure to relocate or remove facilities as required in this
chapter.
      9.   Failure to pay taxes, compensation, fees or costs when and as due
the city.
      10.   Insolvency or bankruptcy of the grantee.
      11.   Violation of material provisions of this chapter.
      12.   Violation of the material terms of a license or franchise
agreement.
   X.   Notice And Duty To Cure: In the event that the city manager believes
that grounds exist for revocation of a license or franchise, he shall give the
grantee written notice of the apparent violation or noncompliance, providing
the grantee a reasonable period of time not exceeding thirty (30) days to
furnish evidence:
      1.   That corrective action has been or is being actively and
expeditiously pursued to remedy the violation or noncompliance.
      2.   That rebuts the alleged violation or noncompliance.
      3.   That it would be in the public interest to impose some penalty or
sanction less than revocation.
   Y.   Hearing: In the event that a grantee fails to provide evidence
reasonably satisfactory to the city manager as provided in subsection X of this
section, the city manager shall refer the apparent violation or noncompliance
to the city council. The city council shall provide the grantee with notice and
a reasonable opportunity to be heard concerning the matter.
   Z.   Standards For Revocation Or Lesser Sanctions: If persuaded that the
grantee has violated or failed to comply with material provisions of this
chapter, or of a franchise or license agreement, the city council shall
determine whether to revoke the license or franchise, or to establish some
lesser sanction and cure, considering the nature, circumstances, extent and
gravity of the violation as reelected by one or more of the following factors:
      1.   Whether the misconduct was egregious.
      2.   Whether substantial harm resulted.
      3.   Whether the violation was intentional.
      4.   Whether there is a history of prior violation of the same or other
requirements.
      5.   Whether there is a history of overall compliance.
      6.   Whether the violation was voluntarily disclosed, admitted or cured.
(Ord. 2000-07, 10-3-2000)
6-8-32: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   General: No person shall commence or continue with the construction,
installation or operation of telecommunications facilities within the city
except as provided in this chapter.
   B.   Construction Codes:
      1.   Telecommunications facilities shall be constructed, installed,
operated and maintained in accordance with all applicable federal, state and
local codes, rules and regulations, including the national electrical safety
code.
      2.   Telecommunications facilities shall be constructed and installed in
accordance with the city of West Wendover construction standards and any
applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
   C.   Construction Permits: No person shall construct or install any
telecommunications facilities within the city without first obtaining any
required construction permit therefor; provided, however:
      1.   No permit shall be issued for the construction or installation of
telecommunications facilities within the city unless the telecommunications
carrier has filed a registration statement with the city pursuant to section
6-8-4 of this chapter.
      2.   No permit shall be issued for the construction or installation of
telecommunications facilities in the public ways unless the telecommunications
carrier has applied for and received a license or franchise pursuant to
sections
6-8-5 and
6-8-17 of this chapter.
      3.   No permit shall be issued for the construction or installation of
telecommunications facilities without payment of any and all construction
permit fees.
   D.   Applications: Applications for permits to construct telecommunications
facilities shall be submitted upon forms to be provided by the city and shall
be accompanied by drawings, plans and specifications in sufficient detail to
demonstrate:
      1.   That the facilities will be constructed in accordance with all
applicable codes, rules and regulations.
      2.   The location and route of all facilities to be installed on existing
utility poles.
      3.   The location and route of all facilities to be located under the
surface of the ground, including the line and grade proposed for the burial at
all points along the route which are within the public ways.
      4.   The location and route of all existing underground utilities,
conduits, ducts, pipes, mains and installations which are within the public
ways along the underground route proposed by the applicant.
      5.   The location of all other facilities to be constructed within the
city, but not within the public ways.
      6.   The construction methods to be employed for protection of existing
structures, fixtures, and facilities within or adjacent to the public ways.
      7.   The location and dimension and types of all trees within or adjacent
to the public ways along the route proposed by the applicant, together with
landscape plan for protecting, trimming, removing, replacing and restoring any
trees or areas to be described during construction.
   E.   Engineer's Certification: All permit applications shall be accompanied
by the certification of registered professional engineer that the drawings,
plans and specifications submitted with the application comply with applicable
technical codes, rules and regulations.
   F.   Traffic-Control Plan: All permit applications which involve work on,
in, under, across or along any public ways shall be accompanied by a traffic-
control plan demonstrating the protective measures and devices that will be
employed, consistent with the uniform manual of traffic control devices, to
prevent injury or damage to persons or property and to minimize disruptions to
efficient pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   G.   Issuance Of Permit: Within forty five (45) days after submission of all
plans and documents required of the applicants and payment of the permit fees
required by this chapter, the city engineer, if satisfied that the
applications, plans and documents comply with all requirements of this chapter,
shall issue a permit authorizing construction of the facilities, subject to
such further conditions, restrictions or regulations affecting the time, place
and manner of performing the work as he may deem necessary or appropriate.
   H.   Construction Schedule: The permittee shall submit a written
construction schedule to the city engineer ten (10) working days before
commencing any work in or about the public ways. The permittee shall further
notify the city engineer not less than two (2) working days in advance of any
excavation or work in the public ways.
   I.   Compliance With Permit: All construction practices and activities shall
be in accordance with the permit and approved final plans and specifications
for the facilities. The city engineer and his representatives shall be provided
access to the work and such further information as he may require to ensure
compliance with such requirements.
   J.   Display Of Permit: The permittee shall maintain a copy of the
construction permit and approved plans at the construction site, which shall be
displayed and made available for inspection by the city engineer or his
representatives at all times when construction work is occurring.
   K.   Survey Of Underground Facilities: If the construction permit specifies
the location of facilities by depth, line, grade, proximity to other facilities
or other standards, the permittee shall cause the location of such facilities
to be verified by a registered Nevada land surveyor. The permittee shall
relocate any facilities which are not located in compliance with permit
requirements.
   L.   Noncomplying Work: Upon order of the city engineer, all work which does
not comply with the permit, the approved plans and specifications for the work
or the requirements of this chapter shall be removed.
   M.   Completion Of Construction: The permittee shall promptly complete all
construction activities so as to minimize disruption of the city ways and other
public and private property. All construction work authorized by a permit
within city ways, including restoration, must be completed within one hundred
twenty (120) days of the date of issuance.
   N.   As-Built Drawings: Within sixty (60) days after completion of
construction, the permittee shall furnish the city with two (2) complete sets
of plans, drawn to scale and certified to the city as accurately depicting the
location of all telecommunications facilities constructed pursuant to the
permit.
   O.   Restoration Of Improvements: Upon completion of any construction work,
the permittee shall promptly repair any and all public ways and provide
property improvements, fixtures, structures and facilities in the public ways
or otherwise damaged during the course of construction, restoring the same as
nearly as practicable to its condition before the start of construction.
   P.   Landscape Restoration: All trees, landscaping and grounds removed,
damaged or disturbed as a result of the construction, installation,
maintenance, repair or replacement of telecommunications facilities, whether
such work is done pursuant to a franchise, license or permit, shall be replaced
or restored as nearly as may be practicable to the condition existing prior to
the performance of the work. All restoration work within the public ways shall
be done in accordance with landscape plans approved by the city engineer.
   Q.   Construction Surety: Prior to issuance of a construction permit, the
permittee shall provide a performance bond as provided in subsection 6-8-31R of
this chapter.
   R.   Exception: Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise
agreement, all telecommunications carriers are subject to the requirements of
this chapter.
   S.   Responsibility Of Owner: The owner of the facilities to be constructed
and, if different, the license or franchise grantee, are responsible for
performance of and compliance with all provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2000-
07, 10-3-2000)
6-8-33: EXISTING TELECOMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISES:
Any franchise ordinances or agreements effective on the effective date hereof
shall remain in effect until the expiration or renewal date. Upon renewal, the
franchisees may be required to follow the provisions of this chapter or may be
allowed to remain under the existing franchise, at the city's option. (Ord.
2000-07, 10-3-2000)
CHAPTER 9
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL CODE 1
SECTION:
6-9-1: Purpose
6-9-2: Definitions
6-9-3: Cross-Connection Protection Requirements
6-9-4: Backflow Prevention Assemblies
6-9-5: Administrative Procedures
6-9-6: Water Service Termination
6-9-7: Enforcement, Penalties
6-9-8: Severability
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsections 6-2-8G and 6-2-13D of this Title.
6-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is: a) to protect the public water supply against
actual or potential contamination through cross-connections by isolating
sources of contamination that may occur within a water user's premises because
of some undiscovered or unauthorized cross-connection on the premises; b) to
eliminate existing connections between drinking water systems and other sources
of water that are not approved as safe and potable for human consumption; c) to
eliminate cross-connections between drinking water systems and sources of
contamination; d) to prevent the making of cross-connections in the future.
(Ord. 99-13, 9-21-1999)
6-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
AWWA STANDARD: An official standard developed and approved by the American
Water Works Association (AWWA).
AIR-GAP SEPARATION (AG): A physical break between a supply pipe and a receiving
vessel. The air-gap shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe
measured vertically above the top rim of the vessel, but in no case less than
one inch (1").
APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY: An assembly that has been manufactured
in full conformance with the standards established by the American Water Works
Association entitled, AWWA C506 (Current Revision) Standards for Reduced
Pressure Principle and Double Check Valve Backflow Prevention Devices, and
which has passed laboratory and field evaluation tests performed by a
recognized testing organization which has demonstrated their competency to
perform such tests for the City of West Wendover.
APPROVED WATER SUPPLY: Any water supply whose potability is regulated by a
State or local health agency.
AUXILIARY SUPPLY: Any water supply on or available to the premises other than
the approved water supply.
BACKFLOW: A flow condition, caused by a differential in pressure, that causes
the flow of water or other liquids, gases, mixtures or substances into the
distributing pipes of a potable supply of water from any source or sources
other than an approved water supply source. Backsiphonage is one cause of
backflow. Backpressure is the other cause.
CONTAMINATION: A degradation of the quality of the potable water by any foreign
substance which creates a hazard to the public health or which may impair the
usefulness or quality of the water.
CROSS-CONNECTIONS: As used in this Chapter means any unprotected actual or
potential connection between a potable water system used to supply water for
drinking purposes and any source or system containing unapproved water or
substances that is not or cannot be approved as safe, wholesome and potable.
Bypass arrangements, jumper connection, removable sections, swivel or
changeover assemblies, or other assemblies through which backflow could occur,
shall be considered to be cross-connection.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY (DC): An approved backflow prevention assembly of
two (2) internally loaded, independently acting check valves, including
resilient seated shut-off valves on each end of the assembly and test cocks for
testing the watertightness of each check valve.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, company, association, partnership,
municipality, public utility, or other public body or institution.
PREMISES: Any and all areas on a water user's property which are served or have
the potential to be served by the public water system.
PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM: A system for the provision of piped water to the public
for human consumption that has fifteen (15) or more service connections or
regularly serves an average of twenty five (25) individuals daily at least
sixty (60) days out of the year.
RECLAIMED WATER: A wastewater, which as a result of treatment is suitable for
uses other than potable use.
REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY: An approved backflow
prevention assembly incorporating two (2) internally loaded check valves,
including resilient seated shut- off valves on each end of the assembly and
equipped with necessary test cocks for testing the assembly.
SERVICE CONNECTIONS: Refers to the point of connection of a user's piping to
the water supplier's facilities.
WATER SUPPLIER: The person who owns or operates an approved water supply
system.
WATER USER: Any person obtaining water from an approved water system. (Ord. 99-
13, 9-21-1999)
6-9-3: CROSS-CONNECTION PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   Unprotected cross-connections with the public water supply are
prohibited. Nevada Administrative Code 445, section 408 requires the State
Health Officer's written approval to interconnect water supplies.
      2.   Whenever backflow protection has been found necessary, the City will
require the water user to install an approved backflow prevention assembly by
and at the user's expense for continued services or before new service will be
granted. For new water meter sets, the required backflow assembly shall be
installed, inspected, approved and certified test results provided to the City
within five (5) days of meter set, unless the Building Official or designee
approves otherwise. The service will be locked off if inspections and
certifications are not completed as specified above. A twenty five dollar
($25.00) fee will be assessed on the building permit for the installation of
the backflow device.
      3.   Wherever backflow protection has been found necessary on a water
supply line entering a water user's premises, then any and all water supply
lines for the City mains entering such premises, buildings, or structures shall
be protected by an approved backflow prevention assembly. The type of assembly
to be installed will be in accordance with the requirements of this Chapter.
   B.   Where Protection Is Required:
      1.   Each service connection from the City water system for supplying
water to premises that have an auxiliary water supply shall be protected
against backflow of water from the premises into the public water system unless
the auxiliary water supply is an approved water supply. Nevada Administrative
Code 445, section 408 requires the State Health Officer's written approval to
interconnect water supplies.
      2.   Each service connection from the City water system for supplying
water to the premises in which any substance is handled in such fashion as may
allow its entry into the water system shall be protected against backflow of
the water from the premises into the public system. This shall include the
handling of process waters and waters originating from the City water system
which have been subjected to deterioration of sanitary quality.
      3.   Backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed on the service
connection to any premises having: a) internal cross- connections that cannot
be permanently corrected and controlled to the satisfaction of the City, or b)
intricate plumbing and piping arrangements or where entry to all portions of
the premises is not readily accessible for inspection purposes, making it
impractical or impossible to ascertain whether or not cross-connections exist.
   C.   Type Of Protection Required:
      1.   The type of protection that shall be provided to prevent backflow
into the approved water supply shall be commensurate with the degree of hazard
that exists on the water user's premises. The type of protective assembly that
shall be required (listing in an increasing level of protection) includes:
double check valve assembly (DC), reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly (RP), and an air-gap separation (AG). The water user may
choose a higher level of protection than required by the City. The minimum
types of backflow protection required to protect the approved water supply, at
the user's water connection, are given in Nevada Administrative Code 445A.67215
through 445A.67265. Situations that are not covered in those sections of the
Nevada Administrative Code shall be evaluated on a case-by-case basis, and the
City shall determine the appropriate backflow protection.
      2.   When two (2) or more services supply water from different street
mains to the same building, structure, or premises through which an interstreet
main flow may occur, each water service shall have at least a standard check
valve on to be located adjacent to and on the property side of the respective
meters. Such check valves shall not be considered adequate if backflow
protection is deemed necessary to protect the mains from pollution or
contamination. In such cases the installation of approved backflow assemblies
at such service connections shall be required. (Ord. 99-13, 9-21-1999)
6-9-4: BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES:
   A.   Approved Backflow Prevention Assemblies:
      1.   Only backflow prevention assemblies which have been approved by the
City shall be acceptable for installation by a water user connected to the
City's potable water system.
      2.   The City will provide, upon request, to any affected user, a list of
approved backflow prevention assemblies.
   B.   Backflow Prevention Assembly Installation:
      1.   Backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed in a manner
prescribed in the Standards and Specifications for Public Works Construction
adopted by the City. Location of the assemblies shall be as close as practical
to the user's service connection. The City shall have the final authority in
determining the required location of a backflow prevention assembly.
         a.   Air-Gap Separation (AG): The air-gap separation shall be located
on the user's side of and as close to the service connection as practical. All
piping from the service connection to the receiving tank shall be above grade
and be entirely visible. No water use shall be provided from any point between
the service connection and the air-gap separation. The water inlet piping shall
terminate a distance of at least two (2) pipe diameters of the supply inlet,
but in no case less than one inch (1") above the overflow rim of the receiving
tank.
         b.   Reduced Pressure Principle Backflow Prevention Assembly (RP): The
approved reduced pressure principle assembly shall be installed on the user's
side of and as close to the service connection as is practical. The assembly
shall be installed a minimum of twelve inches (12") above grade and not more
than thirty six inches (36") above grade, measured from the bottom of the
assembly and with a minimum of twelve inches (12") side clearance. The assembly
shall be installed so that it is readily accessible for maintenance and
testing. Water supplied from any point between the service connection and the
RP assembly shall be protected in a manner approved by the City.
         c.   Double Check Valve Assembly (DC): The approved double check valve
assembly shall be installed on the user's side of and as close to the service
connection as is practical. The DC shall be installed above grade, if possible,
and in a manner where it is readily accessible for testing and maintenance. If
a double check valve assembly is put below grade, it must be installed in a
vault such that there is a minimum of six inches (6") between the bottom of the
vault and the bottom of the assembly, so that the top of the assembly is a
maximum of eight inches (8") below grade, so there is a minimum of twenty four
inches (24") of clearance between the side of the assembly with the test cocks
and the side of the vault, and so there is a minimum of twelve inches (12")
clearance between the other side of the assembly and the side of the vault.
Special consideration must be given to double check valve assemblies of the "Y"
type. These assemblies must be installed on their "side" with the test cocks in
a vertical position so that either check valve may be removed for service
without removing the assembly. Vaults that do not have an integrated bottom
must be placed on a three inch (3") layer of gravel.
   C.   Backflow Prevention Assembly Testing And Maintenance:
      1.   Testing Requirements; Repair And Maintenance; Costs: The owner of
any premises on which, or on account of which, backflow prevention assemblies
are installed shall have the assemblies tested by a person who has demonstrated
competency in testing of these assemblies to the City. Backflow prevention
assemblies must be tested at least annually and immediately after installation,
relocation or repair. The City may require a more frequent testing schedule if
it is determined to be necessary. No assembly shall be placed back in service
unless it is functioning as required. A report in a form acceptable to the City
must be filed with the City each time an assembly is tested, relocated or
repaired. These assemblies shall be serviced, overhauled, or replaced whenever
they are found to be defective, and all costs of testing, repair and
maintenance shall be borne by the water user.
      2.   List Provided; Notification Of Testing; Forms: The City will supply
affected water users with a list of persons acceptable to the City to test
backflow prevention assemblies. The City will notify affected customers by mail
when periodic testing of an assembly is required and will also supply users
with the necessary forms which must be filled out each time an assembly is
tested or repaired.
      3.   City Testing; Charges: Upon request, the City will test a water
user's backflow prevention assembly to fulfill the requirements of this
Chapter. The water user will be charged on the next regular water bill for the
test and any maintenance found necessary to keep the assembly in working order.
      4.   Backflow Prevention Assembly Removals: Approval must be obtained
from the City before a backflow prevention assembly is removed, relocated, or
replaced.
         a.   Removal: The use of an assembly may be discontinued and the
assembly removed from service upon presentation of sufficient evidence to the
City to verify that a hazard no longer exists or is not likely to be created in
the future.
         b.   Relocation: An assembly may be relocated following confirmation
by the City that the relocation will continue to provide the required
protection and satisfy installation requirements. A retest will be required
following the relocation of the assembly.
         c.   Repair: An assembly may be removed for repair, provided the water
use is either discontinued until the repair is completed and the assembly is
tested and returned to service, or the service connection is equipped with
other backflow protection approved by the City. The retest will be required
following the repair of the assembly.
         d.   Replacement: An assembly may be removed and replaced provided the
water use is discontinued until the replacement assembly is installed and
tested. All replacement assemblies must be approved by the City and must be
commensurate with the degree of hazard involved. A retest will be required
following the replacement of the assembly. (Ord. 99-13, 9-21-1999)
6-9-5: ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Water System Survey:
      1.   The City shall review all requests for new service to determine if
backflow protection is needed. Plans and specifications must be submitted to
the City upon request for review of possible cross-connection hazards as a
condition of service for new service connections. If it is determined that a
backflow prevention assembly is necessary to protect the public water system,
the required assembly must be installed before service will be granted.
      2.   The City may require an on-site inspection to evaluate cross-
connection hazards. The City will transmit a written notice requesting an
inspection appointment to each affected water user. Any water user who cannot
or will not allow an on-premises inspection of the premises' piping system
shall be required to install the backflow prevention assembly or air-gap which
the City considers necessary.
      3.   The City may, at is discretion, require a reinspection for cross-
connection hazards of any premises to which it serves water. The City will
transmit a written notice requesting an inspection appointment to each affected
water user. Any water user who cannot or will not allow an on-premises
inspection of the premises' piping systems shall be required to install the
backflow prevention or air-gap which the City considers necessary.
   B.   Customer Notification - Assembly Installation:
      1.   The City will notify the water user of the survey findings, listing
the corrective actions to be taken if any are required. A period of ninety (90)
days will be given to complete all corrective actions required, including
installation and testing of approved backflow prevention assemblies or air-gap,
unless a written extension is granted.
      2.   A second notice will be sent to each water user who does not take
the required corrective actions prescribed in the first notice, within the
sixty (60) day period allowed. The second notice will give the water user a two
(2) week period to take the required corrective action. If no action is taken
within the two (2) week period, the City may terminate water service to the
affected water user until the required corrective actions are taken.
   C.   Customer Notification - Testing And Maintenance:
      1.   The City will notify each affected water user when it is time for
the backflow prevention assembly installed on their service connection to be
tested or the air-gap to be inspected. This written notice shall give the water
user thirty (30) days to have the assembly tested or air-gap inspected and
supply the water user with the necessary form to be completed and resubmitted
to the City.
      2.   A second notice shall be sent to each water user who does not have
the backflow prevention assembly tested or air-gap inspected as prescribed in
the first notice within the thirty (30) day period allowed. The second notice
will give the water user a two (2) week period to have the backflow prevention
assembly tested or the air-gap inspected. If no action is taken within the two
(2) week period, the City may terminate water service to the affected water
user until the subject assembly is tested or air- gap inspected. (Ord. 99-13,
9-21-1999)
6-9-6: WATER SERVICE TERMINATION:
   A.   General: When the City encounters water users that represent a clear
and immediate hazard to the water supply that cannot be immediately abated, the
City shall institute the procedure for discontinuing the City water service.
   B.   Basis For Termination: Conditions or water uses that create a basis for
water service termination shall include, but are not limited to, the following
items:
      1.   Refusal to install a required backflow prevention assembly or air-
gap separation;
      2.   Refusal to test a backflow prevention assembly or inspect an air-gap
separation;
      3.   Refusal to repair a faulty backflow prevention assembly;
      4.   Refusal to replace a faulty backflow prevention assembly;
      5.   Direct or indirect connection between the public water system and a
sewer line;
      6.   Unprotected direct or indirect connection between the public water
system and a system or equipment containing contamination;
      7.   Unprotected direct or indirect connection between the public water
system and an auxiliary water system;
      8.   A situation that presents an immediate health hazard to the public
water system.
   C.   Water Service Termination Procedures:
      1.   For conditions in subsections B1 through B4 of this Section, the
City will terminate service to the customer's premises after two (2) written
notices have been sent specifying the corrective action needed and the time
period in which it must be done. If no action is taken within the allotted time
period, water service may be terminated.
      2.   For conditions in subsections B5 through B8 of this Section, the
City will take the following steps:
         a.   Make reasonable effort to advise the water user of intent to
terminate water service.
         b.   Terminate the water supply and lock the service valve. The water
service will remain inactive until the City has approved corrections of
violations. (Ord. 99-13, 9-21-1999)
6-9-7: ENFORCEMENT, PENALTIES:
The City Public Works Director or his/her designee shall have the authority to
enforce this Chapter.
It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation at any time to make or
maintain or cause to be made or maintained, temporarily or permanently, for any
period of time whatsoever, any cross-connection between plumbing pipes or water
fixtures being served with water by the City water system and any other source
of water supply or to maintain any sanitary fixture or other appurtenances or
fixtures which, by reason of their construction, may cause or allow backflow of
water or other substances into the water supply system of the City and/or the
service of water pipes or fixtures of any customer of the City.
Any violations of the provisions of this Chapter, or rules or regulations
promulgated thereof, shall be an infraction, punishable by a fine of not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00). Each day that a violation exists shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense. (Ord. 99-13, 9-21-1999)
6-9-8: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase
of this Chapter, or any part thereof, is for any reason held to be invalid,
such decision should not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
Chapter or any part thereof. The West Wendover City Council declares that it
would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence,
clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or phrases
is declared invalid. (Ord. 99-13, 9-21-1999)
CHAPTER 10
NEWSRACKS
SECTION:
6-10-1: Intent And Purpose
6-10-2: Definitions
6-10-3: Newsracks Prohibited
6-10-4: Permit Required
6-10-5: Application For Permit
6-10-6: Conditions For Permit
6-10-7: Hold Harmless
6-10-8: Newsrack Identification Required
6-10-9: Location, Placement And Number Of Newsracks
6-10-10: Standards For Maintenance And Installation
6-10-11: Violations
6-10-12: Appeals
6-10-13: Abandonment
6-10-14: Severability
6-10-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Findings:
      1.   The uncontrolled placement and maintenance of newsracks in public
rights of way presents an inconvenience and danger to the safety and welfare of
persons using such rights of way; including pedestrians, persons entering and
leaving vehicles and buildings, and persons performing essential utility,
traffic control and emergency services.
      2.   Newsracks so located as to cause an inconvenience or danger to
persons using public rights of way, and unsightly newsracks located therein,
constitute public nuisances.
      3.   These factors from time to time do, and in the future potentially
will, constitute an unreasonable interference with and obstruction of the use
of public rights of way, are injurious to health, offensive to the senses, and
constitute such an obstruction of the free use of property as to interfere in
the comfortable enjoyment of life and property by the entire community.
      4.   The council recognizes, however, that the use of such rights of way
is so historically associated with the sale and distribution of newspapers and
publications that access to those areas for such purposes should not be
absolutely denied. The council further finds that these strong and competing
interests require a reasonable accommodation which can only be satisfactorily
achieved through the means of this chapter which is designed to accommodate
such interests regulating the time, place and manner of using such newsracks.
   B.   Purpose: The provisions and prohibitions hereinafter contained and
enacted are in pursuance of and for the purpose of securing and promoting the
public health, and general welfare of persons in the city of West Wendover in
the use of public rights of way through the regulation of placement,
appearance, number, size, and servicing of newsracks on the public rights of
way so as to:
      1.   Provide for pedestrian and driving safety and convenience;
      2.   Ensure no unreasonable interference with the flow of pedestrian or
vehicular traffic, including ingress to, or egress from, any place of business
or from the street to the sidewalk;
      3.   Provide reasonable access for the use and maintenance of sidewalks,
poles, posts, traffic signs and signals, hydrants, mailboxes, and similar
appurtenances, and access to locations used for public transportation purposes;
      4.   Reduce visual blight on the public rights of way, protect the
aesthetics and value of surrounding properties, and protect the quiet of
residential areas;
      5.   Reduce exposure of the city to personal injury or property damage
claims and litigation; and
      6.   Protect the right to distribute information protected by the United
States and Nevada constitutions through use of newsracks.
   C.   Preservation Of Constitutional Rights: It is not the intent of this
chapter to in any way discriminate against, regulate, or interfere with the
publication, circulation, distribution, or dissemination of any printed
material that is constitutionally protected. (Ord. 04-03, 9-21-2004)
6-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise clearly indicates:
BLOCK: One side of a street between two (2) consecutive intersecting streets.
DISTRIBUTOR: The person responsible for placing and maintaining a newsrack in a
public right of way.
NEWSRACK: Any self-service or coin operated box, container, storage unit or
other dispenser installed, used, or maintained for the display and sale of
newspapers or other news periodicals.
PARKWAY: The area between the sidewalk and the curb of any street, and where
there is no sidewalk, the area between the edge of the roadway and the property
line adjacent thereto. Parkway shall also include any area within a roadway
that is not open to vehicular travel.
PERSON: Any person or persons, or entity including, but not limited to, a
corporation, partnership, limited liability company, unincorporated association
or joint venture.
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: Refers to the public works director or the designee of
the public works director.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
SIDEWALK: Any surface provided for the exclusive use of pedestrians.
STREET: All the area dedicated to public use for public street purposes and
shall include, but not be limited to, roadways, parkways, alleys and sidewalks.
(Ord. 04-03, 9-21-2004)
6-10-3: NEWSRACKS PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall install, use, or maintain any newsrack which projects
onto, into, or which rests, wholly or in part, upon the roadway of any public
street.
   B.   No person shall install, use or maintain any newsrack which in whole or
in part rests upon, in, or over any public sidewalk or parkway:
      1.   When such installation, use, or maintenance endangers the safety of
persons or property;
      2.   When such site or location is used for public utility purposes,
public transportation purposes, or other governmental use;
      3.   When such newsrack unreasonably interferes with or impedes the flow
of pedestrian or vehicular traffic, including parked or stopped vehicles; the
ingress in or egress from any residence or place of business; the use of poles,
posts, traffic signs or signals, hydrants, mailboxes, or other objects
permitted at or near said location;
      4.   When such newsrack interferes with the cleaning of any sidewalk by
the use of mechanical sidewalk cleaning machinery; or
      5.   In any other manner inconsistent with or in violation of the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 04-03, 9-21-2004)
6-10-4: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect, place,
maintain or operate, on any public street or sidewalk, or in any other public
way or place, in the city of West Wendover any newsrack without first having
obtained a permit from the public works director specifying the exact location
of such newsrack. One permit may be issued to include any number of newsracks,
and shall be signed by the applicant. (Ord. 04-03, 9-21-2004)
6-10-5: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Application for such permit shall be made, in writing, to the public
works director upon such form as shall be provided by him, and shall contain
the name and address of the applicant, the proposed specific location of said
newsrack, and shall be signed by the applicant.
   B.   From the above application information the public works director shall
approve or disapprove the locations. He shall be guided therein solely by the
standards and criteria set forth in this chapter. In any case where the public
works director disapproves of a particular location, such disapproval shall be
without prejudice to the applicant designating a different location or
locations. (Ord. 04-03, 9-21-2004)
6-10-6: CONDITIONS FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Permits may be issued for the installation of a newsrack or newsracks
without prior inspection of the location, but such newsrack or newsracks and
the installation, use or maintenance thereof shall be conditioned upon
observance of the provisions of this chapter. Permits must be issued within
twenty four (24) hours (excluding Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays) after
the application has been filed.
   B.   Such permits shall be valid for one year and shall be renewable
pursuant to the procedure for original applications referred to in section
6-10-5 of this chapter and upon payment of the annual permit fee established by
resolution of the city council from time to time. (Ord. 04-03, 9-21-2004)
6-10-7: HOLD HARMLESS:
Every owner and/or distributor of a newsrack who places or maintains a newsrack
on a public sidewalk or parkway in the city of West Wendover shall file a
written statement with the public works director in a form satisfactory to the
city attorney, whereby such owner and/or distributor agrees to indemnify and
hold harmless the city, its officers, and employees, from any loss, liability,
or damage, including expenses and costs, for bodily or personal injury, and for
property damage sustained by any person as a result of the installation, use
and/or maintenance of a newsrack within the city of West Wendover. (Ord. 04-03,
9-21-2004)
6-10-8: NEWSRACK IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED:
Every person who places or maintains a newsrack on the streets of the city of
West Wendover shall have his permit number, name, address, and telephone number
affixed to the newsrack in a place where such information may be easily seen.
Prior to the designation of location by the public works director in this
chapter, the applicant shall present evidence of compliance with this section.
(Ord. 04-03, 9-21-2004)
6-10-9: LOCATION, PLACEMENT AND NUMBER OF NEWSRACKS:
   A.   Any newsrack which rests in whole or in part upon, or any portion of a
public right of way or which projects onto, into, or over any part of a public
right of way shall be located in accordance with the following provisions of
this section:
      1.   No newsrack shall be used or maintained which projects onto, into,
or over any part of the roadway of any public street, or which rests, wholly or
in part upon, along, or over any portion of the roadway of any public street.
      2.   Except as provided hereafter, no newsrack shall be chained, bolted,
or otherwise attached to any fixture located in the public right of way, except
to other newsracks. A permittee may more permanently affix a newsrack in the
public right of way if the public works director determines that it would not
constitute a safety hazard and approves the method(s) to be employed.
      3.   Newsracks may be placed next to each other, provided that no group
of newsracks shall extend for a distance of more than eight feet (8') along a
curb, and a space of not less than three feet (3') shall separate each group of
newsracks.
      4.   No newsrack shall be placed, installed, used or maintained:
         a.   Within five feet (5') of any marked crosswalk.
         b.   Within fifteen feet (15') of the curb return of any unmarked
crosswalk.
         c.   Within five feet (5') of any fire hydrant, fire call box, police
call box or other emergency facility.
         d.   Within five feet (5') of any driveway.
         e.   Within three feet (3') ahead or twenty five feet (25') to the
rear of any sign marking a designated bus stop.
         f.   At any location whereby the clear space for the passageway of
pedestrians is reduced to less than six feet (6').
         g.   Within three feet (3') of or on any public area improved with
lawn, flowers, shrubs, trees or other landscaping, or within three feet (3') of
any display window of any building abutting the sidewalk or parkway or in such
a manner as to impede or interfere with the reasonable use of such window for
display purposes.
         h.   Within one hundred feet (100') of any other newsrack on the same
side of the street in the same block containing the same issue or edition of
the same publication.
         i.   On any access ramp for disabled persons.
      5.   No more than eight (8) newsracks shall be located on any public
right of way within a space of two hundred feet (200') in any direction within
the same block of the same street; provided, however, that no more than sixteen
(16) newsracks shall be allowed on any one block. In determining which
newsracks shall be permitted to be located or to remain if already in place,
the public works director shall be guided solely by the following criteria:
         a.   First priority shall be daily publications (published 5 or more
days per week).
         b.   Second priority shall be publications published two (2) to four
(4) days per week.
         c.   Third priority shall be publications published one day per week.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to placement of
newsracks entirely located on private property. (Ord. 04-03, 9-21-2004)
6-10-10: STANDARDS FOR MAINTENANCE AND INSTALLATION:
Any newsrack which in whole or in part rests upon, in or over any public
sidewalk or parkway, shall comply with the following standards:
   A.   Except as provided hereafter, no newsrack shall exceed five feet (5')
in height, thirty inches (30") in width, or two feet (2') in thickness. In the
event the placement of more than one newsrack is authorized for a permittee at
a particular location, one double wide newsrack may be employed as a substitute
for any two (2) authorized newsracks whenever feasible.
   B.   No newsrack shall be used for advertising signs or publicity purposes
other than that dealing with the display, sale or purchase of the newspaper or
news periodical sold therein.
   C.   Each newsrack shall have an affixed plate accurately setting forth the
prices to be paid and be equipped with a coin return mechanism to permit a
person using the machine to secure an immediate refund in the event the person
is unable to receive the paid for publication. The coin return mechanism shall
be maintained in good working order.
   D.   Each newsrack shall have affixed to it in a readily visible place so as
to be seen by anyone using the newsrack, a notice setting forth the name and
address of the distributor and the telephone number of a working telephone
service to call to report a malfunction, or to secure a refund in the event of
a malfunction of the coin return mechanism, or to give the notices provided for
in this chapter.
   E.   Each newsrack shall be maintained in a neat and clean condition and in
good repair at all times. Specifically, but without limiting the generality of
the foregoing, each newsrack shall be serviced and maintained so that:
      1.   It is reasonably free of dirt and grease;
      2.   It is reasonably free of chipped, faded, peeling and cracked paint
in the visible painted areas thereof;
      3.   It is reasonably free of rust and corrosion in the visible unpainted
metal areas thereon;
      4.   The clear plastic or glass parts thereof, if any, through which the
publications therein are viewed are unbroken and reasonably free of cracks,
dents, blemishes and discoloration;
      5.   The paper or cardboard parts or inserts thereof are reasonably free
of tears, peeling or fading; and
      6.   The structural parts thereof are not broken or unduly misshapen.
(Ord. 04-03, 9-21-2004)
6-10-11: VIOLATIONS:
Upon determination by the public works director that a newsrack has been
installed, used or maintained in violation of the provisions of this chapter,
an order to correct the offending condition shall be issued to the distributor
of the newsrack. Such order shall be telephoned to the distributor and
confirmed by mailing a copy of the order by certified mail, return receipt
requested. The order shall specifically describe the offending condition,
suggest actions necessary to correct the condition, and inform the newsrack
distributor of the right to appeal. Failure to properly correct the offending
condition within five (5) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays) after the mailing date of the order or to appeal the order within
three (3) days after its receipt shall result in the offending newsrack being
summarily removed and processed as unclaimed property. If the offending
newsrack is not properly identified as to owner under the provisions of section
6-10-8 of this chapter, it shall be removed immediately and processed as
unclaimed property. An impound fee, which shall be measured by the city's cost
and expense of impounding, shall be assessed against each newsrack summarily
removed. The public works director shall cause inspection to be made of the
corrected condition or of a newsrack reinstalled after removal under this
section. The distributor of said newsrack shall be charged a twenty five dollar
($25.00) inspection fee for each newsrack so inspected. This charge shall be in
addition to all other fees and charges required under this chapter. (Ord. 04-
03, 9-21-2004)
6-10-12: APPEALS:
Any person or entity aggrieved by a finding, determination, notice, order or
action taken under the provisions of this chapter may appeal to the city
council. Written notice of any action or decision under this chapter must be
provided to the subject party within seven (7) days after such action or
decision. An appeal must be made within three (3) days after receipt of notice
of any decision or action by filing with the office of the city manager a
letter of appeal briefly stating therein the basis for such appeal. Subject to
the required notice time, a hearing shall be held at the next regular city
council meeting. The appellant must be given at least five (5) days' notice of
the time and place of the hearing. The city council shall give the appellant,
and any other interested party, a reasonable opportunity to be heard in order
to show cause why the determination of the public works director should not be
upheld. At the conclusion of the hearing, the city council shall make a final
and conclusive decision. Such decision may be immediately appealable to a court
of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 04-03, 9-21-2004)
6-10-13: ABANDONMENT:
In the event that a newsrack remains empty for a period of thirty (30)
continuous days, the same shall be deemed abandoned, and may be treated in the
manner as provided in section
6-10-11 of this chapter for newsracks in violation of the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 04-03, 9-21-2004)
6-10-14: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter is for
any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court
of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this chapter. (Ord. 04-03, 9-21-2004)
CHAPTER 11
SALE, EXCHANGE OR LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY
SECTION:
6-11-1: Process For Sale, Exchange Or Lease Of City Property
6-11-2: Selection Of Appraisers
6-11-3: Additional Power Of The City
6-11-4: Powers Regarding Eminent Domain
6-11-5: Lease To Nonprofit Organization
6-11-1: PROCESS FOR SALE, EXCHANGE OR LEASE OF CITY PROPERTY:
To sell, exchange or lease city property, there must be compliance with the
mandatory applicable law in chapters 266 and 268 of Nevada Revised Statutes or
the sale will be void. In the event any requirements under the Nevada Revised
Statutes are discretionary or conflicting, the city will follow such procedures
that permit the city the greatest discretion to sell, lease or exchange city
property. (Ord. 2011-02, 3-15-2011)
6-11-2: SELECTION OF APPRAISERS:
   A.   The governing body shall create a list of appraisers qualified to
conduct appraisals, when required, of real property offered for sale or lease
by the governing body. The list must:
      1.   Contain the names of all persons qualified to act as a general
appraiser in the same county as the real property that may be appraised; and
      2.   Be organized at random and rotated from time to time.
   B.   An appraiser chosen pursuant to this section must provide a disclosure
statement which includes, without limitation, all sources of income of the
appraiser that may constitute a conflict of interest and any relationship of
the appraiser with the property owner or the owner of an adjoining property.
   C.   An appraiser shall not perform an appraisal on any real property
offered for sale or lease by the governing body if the appraiser or a person
related to the appraiser within the first degree of consanguinity or affinity
has an interest in the real property or an adjoining property.
   D.   The list of qualified appraisers shall be amended annually to delete
appraisers no longer qualified and to add new appraisers. (Ord. 2011-02, 3-15-
2011)
6-11-3: ADDITIONAL POWER OF THE CITY:
The city of West Wendover may:
   A.   Have and use a common seal, which it may alter at pleasure.
   B.   Purchase, receive, hold and use personal and real property wherever
situated.
   C.   Except as otherwise provided in section
6-11-1 of this chapter, sell, convey and dispose of such personal and real
property for the common benefit.
   D.   Determine what are public uses with respect to powers of eminent
domain.
   E.   Acquire, own and operate a public transit system both within and
without the city.
   F.   Receive bequests, devises, gifts and donations of all kinds of property
wherever situated in fee simple, in trust or otherwise, for charitable or other
purposes and do anything necessary to carry out the purposes of such bequests,
devises, gifts and donations with full power to manage, sell, lease or
otherwise dispose of such property in accordance with the terms of such
bequest, devise, gift or donation. (Ord. 2011-02, 3-15-2011)
6-11-4: POWERS REGARDING EMINENT DOMAIN:
   A.   The West Wendover city council may reconvey all the rights, title and
interest of the city in and to any land donated, dedicated, acquired in
accordance with chapter 37 of Nevada Revised Statutes, or purchased under the
threat of an eminent domain proceeding, for a public park, public square,
public landing, agricultural fairground, aviation field, automobile parking
ground or facility for the accommodation of the traveling public, or land held
in trust for the public for any other public use or uses, or any part thereof,
to the person:
      1.   By whom the land was donated or dedicated or to his heirs, assigns
or successors, upon such terms as may be prescribed by a resolution of the
governing body; or
      2.   From whom the land was acquired in accordance with chapter 37 of
Nevada Revised Statutes, or purchased under the threat of an eminent domain
proceeding, or to his heirs, assigns or successors, for an amount equal to the
amount paid for the land by the governing body.
   B.   If the governing body determines that maintenance of the property is
unnecessarily burdensome to the city or that reconveyance would be in the best
interest of the city and its residents, the governing body may formally adopt a
resolution stating that determination. Upon the adoption of the resolution, the
presiding officer of the governing body shall issue a written offer of
reconveyance to the person from whom the land was received or acquired or his
successor in interest.
   C.   If the person from whom the real property was received or acquired, or
his successor in interest:
      1.   Accepts the offer of reconveyance within forty five (45) days after
the date of the offer, the governing body shall execute a deed or reconveyance.
      2.   Refuses to accept the offer of reconveyance or states in writing
that he is unable to accept the reconveyance, the governing body may sell or
lease the real property in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-02, 3-15-2011)
6-11-5: LEASE TO NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION:
   A.   The governing body may lease real property to a nonprofit organization
that:
      1.   Is recognized as exempt under section 501(c)(3) of the internal
revenue code;
      2.   Is affiliated by contract or other written agreement with the city;
and
      3.   Provides to residents of the city or to other persons a service that
the city would otherwise be required to expend money to provide, under such
terms and for such consideration as the governing body determines reasonable
based upon the costs and benefits to the city and the recommendation of any
city officers who may be involved in approving the lease.
   B.   To lease real property pursuant to this section, the governing body
must approve the lease and establish the recommended amount of rent to be
received for the real property. The governing body shall render a decision on
an application to lease real property pursuant to this section within sixty
(60) days after it has received the application.
   C.   In determining the amount of rent for the lease of real property
pursuant to this section, consideration must be given to:
      1.   The amount the lessee is able to pay;
      2.   Whether the real property will be used by the lessee to perform a
service of value to members of the general public;
      3.   Whether the service to be performed on the real property will be of
assistance to any agency of the city; and
      4.   The expense, if any, that the city is likely to incur to lease real
property pursuant to this section in comparison to other potential uses of real
property.
The governing body may waive any fee for the consideration of an application
submitted pursuant to this section. (Ord. 2007-02, 8-21-2007; amd. Ord. 2011-
02, 3-15-2011)
TITLE 7
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
7-1-1: Adoption Of Codes
7-1-2: Amendments To Codes
7-1-3: Permit Requirements, Fees
7-1-4: Penalties
7-1-1: ADOPTION OF CODES:
   A.   Building Code: A certain document, one copy of which is on file in the
office of the city clerk and in the office of the director of community
development, being marked and designated as 2003 international building code
(IBC) as issued by the International Code Council is hereby adopted as the
building code of the city for regulating the erection, construction,
enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal, demolition, conversion,
occupancy, equipment, use, height, area and maintenance of all buildings and/or
structures in the city; providing for issuance of permits and collection of
fees therefor; providing penalties for violation of such code; declaring and
establishing fire zones. Each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of such international building code (IBC) on
file in the office of the city clerk are hereby referred to, adopted and made a
part hereof as if fully set out in this chapter.
   B.   Additional Codes: The provisions of the international building code
(IBC) concerning mechanical codes, plumbing codes, building codes (residential
and commercial), and electrical codes govern within the city. Any previous
uniform codes concerning mechanical, building, plumbing and electrical codes
are hereby repealed to the extent the provisions of the international building
code (IBC) governs such matters after the effective date hereof. Any references
within this code to uniform building code, uniform mechanical code, uniform
plumbing code and uniform electrical code shall hereafter refer solely to the
international building code (IBC). (Ord. 2005-07, 12-20-2005)
7-1-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODES:
   A.   The latest edition of the international building code (IBC), as issued
by the International Code Council, after formal approval by resolution by the
city council, shall govern with regard to the subject matter thereof, all
building, construction or improvements after the city council has approved the
latest edition of said codes.
   B.   The electrical, building, mechanical and plumbing standards,
regulations and codes shall be deemed in all respects to be controlled by the
international building code (IBC). (Ord. 2005-07, 12-20-2005)
7-1-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS, FEES:
   A.   Financial Ability And Plan Submission: Whenever construction is to be
undertaken which requires a building permit pursuant to the international
building code (IBC), fees shall be set as provided in the international
building code (IBC). In addition, prior to the issuance of two (2) or more
active building permits to a developer, or any agent of a developer, for
construction of single- or multiple-family residences or for construction of
any commercial development or building, said developer shall provide sufficient
indicia to the city council of financial ability and commitment to complete the
project for which any building permit is sought. In the event that the
construction of any private property project for which a building permit is
sought shall cause damage to any public improvements, the city council may
require the developer, prior to issuance of the building permit, to post a
performance bond or cash deposit in the same manner as required under title 8,
chapter 14 of this code to guarantee the repair and maintenance of such public
improvements. Developers, as well as all others required by the IBC, are
subject to building permit requirements. All building permits shall be
accompanied by submission of such plan/drawing documents as may be required by
the director of community development.
   B.   Definitions: As used in the foregoing:
    ACTIVE BUILDING PERMIT: Any building permit issued for which there has not
been a certificate of occupancy granted.
   DEVELOPER: Any person or entity, or agent thereof, building or constructing
a commercial development or building or a residence which is intended to be
sold to another person or entity, or agent thereof, at its completion. It does
not include owner-builders intending to occupy a residence upon its completion.
   SUFFICIENT INDICIA OF FINANCIAL ABILITY AND COMMITMENT TO COMPLETE: That
amount and type of evidence sufficient to cause a majority of the city council
present to find that the developer has the financial ability and commitment,
excluding some unforeseen circumstance, to complete the project for which a
building permit is being sought. The council shall consider the following
factors:
      1.   Performance history;
      2.   Rating with Dunn and Bradstreet, Standard and Poor, or a similar
institution;
      3.   Method of project funding;
      4.   Commitments for project funding;
      5.   Existing commitment of resources to the project;
      6.   Anticipated project costs; and
      7.   Any other evidence found to be relevant and reliable by the council.
(Ord. 2005-07, 12-20-2005)
7-1-4: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any provisions of the international building code
(IBC) and provisions hereby adopted or fail to comply therewith or who shall
violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder or who shall build in
violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and
approved thereof or any certificate or permits issued thereunder, and from
which no appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order
as affirmed or modified by the city or by a court of competent jurisdiction
within the time fixed therein, shall severally, for each and every such
violation and noncompliance, respectively, be deemed guilty of a city offense
and punishable as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code. The imposition
of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to
continue; and all such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such
violations or defects within a reasonable time. When not otherwise specified,
each ten (10) days that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a
separate offense. The application of the above penalty shall not be held to
prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions. The remedies provided
herein are cumulative and shall not limit any other remedies provided by the
international building code (IBC) or applicable law. (Ord. 2005-07, 12-20-2005)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
7-2-1: Codes And Standards Adopted
7-2-2: Bureau Of Fire Prevention
7-2-3: Definitions
7-2-4: Appeals
7-2-5: New Materials, Processes Or Occupancies
7-2-6: Penalties
7-2-7: Floor Level Exit Signs
7-2-1: CODES AND STANDARDS ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted, for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing
conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, that certain
code known as the international fire code (IFC) recommended by the
International Code Council being particularly the latest edition thereof and
the whole thereof, save and except any provisions as are hereinafter deleted,
modified or amended such to be effective one week after the final reading
before the city council. One copy of the latest edition being adopted shall be
approved by the city council and placed on file in the office of the city
clerk. The said code is hereby adopted as the rules and regulations for
governing conditions hazardous to life from fire or explosion. In the event
that any of the provisions of the latest edition of the international fire code
(IFC) conflict with any provision of this chapter, the provisions of this
chapter shall govern and be controlling. All supplements issued by the
International Code Council between editions and approved by resolution of the
city council, shall be filed in the office of the city clerk and shall become a
part of this international fire code (IFC) effective one week after public
notice of such filing is given by one publication in a newspaper in the city.
One copy of this international fire code (IFC), with all amendments and
supplements thereto hereafter adopted, shall be kept on file in the office of
the city clerk for use and examination by the public in the office of the
clerk. Certain sections of the international fire code and appendices may be
added or deleted by resolution. (Ord. 2005-08, 12-20-2005)
7-2-2: BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION:
   A.   Bureau Established: The international fire code (IFC) shall be enforced
by the bureau of fire prevention of the city which is hereby established and
which shall be operated under the supervision of the chief of the fire
department.
   B.   Appointment Of Chief: The chief in charge of the bureau of fire
prevention shall be appointed by the city council on the basis of examination
to determine his qualifications.
   C.   Inspectors; Examination: The chief of the fire department may detail
such members of the fire department as inspectors as shall from time to time be
necessary. The chief of the fire department shall recommend to the city council
the employment of technical inspectors who, when such authorization is made,
shall be selected through an examination to determine their fitness for the
position. The examination shall be open to members and nonmembers of the fire
department and appointments made after examination shall be for an indefinite
term with removal only for cause. (Ord. 2005-08, 12-20-2005)
7-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words and terms are used in the international fire code
(IFC), they shall have the following meanings:
CORPORATION COUNSEL: The attorney for the city of West Wendover.
JURISDICTION: The city of West Wendover. (Ord. 2005-08, 12-20-2005)
7-2-4: APPEALS:
Whenever the chief shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a permit
applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the international
fire code (IFC) do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the
international fire code (IFC) have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted,
the applicant may appeal from the decision of the chief to the city council
within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision appealed. (Ord. 2005-08,
12-20-2005)
7-2-5: NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES:
The city manager, director of community development, engineer and the chief
shall act as the committee to determine and specify, after giving affected
persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes or
occupancies, which shall require permits, in addition to those now enumerated
in said code. The chief shall post such lists in a conspicuous place in his
office and distribute copies thereof to interested persons. (Ord. 2005-08, 12-
20-2005)
7-2-6: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any provision of the international fire code (IFC)
and provisions hereby adopted or fail to comply therewith or who shall violate
or fail to comply with any order made thereunder or who shall build in
violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and
approved thereof or any certificate or permits issued thereunder, and from
which no appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order
as affirmed or modified by the city or by a court of competent jurisdiction
within the time fixed therein, shall severally, for each and every such
violation and noncompliance, respectively, be deemed guilty of a city offense
and punishable as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code. The imposition
of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to
continue; and all such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such
violations or defects within a reasonable time. When not otherwise specified,
each ten (10) days that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a
separate offense. The application of the above penalty shall not be held to
prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions. (Ord. 2005-08, 12-20-
2005)
7-2-7: FLOOR LEVEL EXIT SIGNS:
Where exit signs are required by the international building code and
international fire code, additional approved low level exit signs that are
internally or externally illuminated, photoluminescent or self-luminous, shall
be provided in all corridors serving guestrooms or hotels in group R, division
1 occupancies. The bottom of such sign shall be no less than six inches (6")
nor more than eight inches (8") above the floor level and shall indicate the
path of exit travel. For exit access doors, the sign shall be on the door or
adjacent to the door with the closest edge of the sign within four inches (4")
of the doorframe. (Ord. 2005-08, 12-20-2005)
CHAPTER 3
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
7-3-1: Short Title; Code Adopted
7-3-2: Administrative Provisions
7-3-3: Application Of Provisions
7-3-4: Permit Requirements
7-3-5: Plumbers' Certificates
7-3-6: Cleanouts Required
7-3-7: Dangerous And Unsanitary Construction
7-3-8: Inspections
7-3-9: Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit Or Certificate; Appeals
7-3-10: Nonliability Of City
7-3-11: Violations And Penalties
7-3-1: SHORT TITLE; CODE ADOPTED:
This chapter shall be known as the PLUMBING CODE OF THE CITY hereinafter
"code", including the adoption of the international building code and necessary
administrative provisions 1 . (Ord. 91-30, 8-6-1991; amd. Ord. 2005-07, 12-20-
2005)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 7-1-1B of this title.
7-3-2: ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS:
The following provisions are to be considered with the international building
code as adopted by this chapter: (Ord. 91-30, 8-6-1991; amd. Ord. 2005-07, 12-
20-2005)
   A.   Applicability Of Provisions: The provisions of this chapter shall apply
to all new construction, relocated buildings and to any alterations, repairs,
or reconstruction, except as provided for otherwise in this chapter.
   B.   Administrative Authority:
      1.   Definition: Whenever the term "administrative authority" is used in
this chapter it shall be construed to mean the city manager/engineer or his
authorized representative.
      2.   Office Part Of City Manager/Engineer Office: Unless otherwise
provided for by law, the office of the administrative authority shall be part
of the office of the city manager/engineer.
      3.   Office Hours; Duties: The administrative authority shall maintain
public office hours necessary to efficiently administer the provisions of this
code and amendments hereto and shall perform the following duties:
         a.   Require submission of, examine and check plans and
specifications, drawings, descriptions and/or diagrams necessary to show
clearly the character, kind and extent of plumbing work covered by applications
for a permit and upon approval thereof shall issue the permit applied for.
         b.   Collect all fees for permits issued as provided by this code,
issue receipts therefor in duplicate, the duplicate copy of which shall be
maintained as a record of his office.
         c.   Administer and enforce the provisions of this code in a manner
consistent with the intent thereof and inspect all plumbing and drainage work
authorized by any permit to assure compliance with provisions of this code or
amendments hereto, approving or condemning said work, in whole or in part, as
conditions require.
         d.   Issue, upon request, a certificate of approval for any work
approved by him.
         e.   Condemn and reject all work done or being done or materials used
or being used which do not in all respects comply with the provisions of this
code and amendments hereto.
         f.   Order changes in workmanship and/or materials essential to obtain
compliance with all provisions of this code.
         g.   Investigate any construction or work regulated by this code and
issue such notices and orders as provided for in this code.
         h.   Keep a complete record of all the essential transactions of his
office.
         i.   Transfer all fees collected by him to the proper authority
provided by law to receive such funds.
         j.   Maintain an official register of all persons lawfully entitled to
carry on or engage in the business of plumbing or to labor at the trade of
plumbing to whom a plumber's certificate of qualification has been issued in
accordance with provisions of section
7-3-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 91-30, 8-6-1991)
7-3-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Standards Applicable: The construction, installation, extension,
alteration, maintenance, repair and inspection of any plumbing, natural gas or
drainage system shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, except as otherwise provided, and shall conform to the requirements,
standards and provisions of the latest edition of the international building
code. In the event that any provisions of the latest edition of the
international building code is in conflict with the provisions of this chapter,
the provisions of the latest edition of the international building code shall
govern and be controlling.
   B.   Applicability To Natural Gas: The provisions of this chapter in general
and the international building code, as adopted, in particular, shall govern
the installation, contribution, repair, alteration and maintenance of any
natural gas facility insofar as said provisions deal with plumbing standards.
All administrative provisions such as licensing, permits, permit fees,
inspections, appliances, distributions and testing for natural gas installation
or facilities shall be those set forth in the West Wendover gas facilities and
appliance ordinance.
   C.   Nonapplicability To Liquefied Petroleum Gas: The provisions of this
chapter in general and the international building code, as adopted, in
particular, shall not govern the installation, construction, repair, alteration
and maintenance of any liquefied petroleum facility and any reference to
liquefied petroleum gas in this chapter or the latest edition of the
international building code shall be deleted and of no force and effect. The
provisions of the gas facilities and appliances ordinance shall govern and be
controlling of all liquefied petroleum construction and installations. (Ord.
91-30, 8-6-1991; amd. Ord. 2005-07, 12-20-2005)
7-3-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required; Exceptions:
      1.   No plumbing or drainage work shall be commenced in any building or
premises until a permit to do such work shall have been first obtained from the
administrative authority. A separate permit shall be obtained for each building
or structure.
      2.   No person shall allow any other person to do or cause to be done any
plumbing or drainage work under any permit secured by such person except
persons in his employ.
      3.   When a permit has been obtained to connect an existing building or
existing work to the public sewer the backfilling of private sewage disposal
facilities abandoned consequent to such connection is included in the building
sewer permit.
      4.   No permit shall be required in the case of any repair work as
follows: the stopping of leaks in drains, soil, waste or vent pipe; provided,
however, that should any trap, drainpipe, soil, waste or vent pipe be or become
defective and it becomes necessary to remove and replace the same with new
material in any part or parts, the same shall be considered as such new work
and a permit shall be procured and inspection made as herein provided. No
permit shall be required for the clearing of stoppages or the repairing of
leaks in pipes, valves or fixtures, when such repairs do not involve or require
the replacement or rearrangement of valves, pipes or fixtures.
When interceptor traps or house trailer site traps are installed at the same
time as a building sewer on any lot, no sewer permit shall be required for the
connection of any such trap to an appropriate inlet fitting provided in the
building sewer by the permittee constructing such sewer.
   B.   Application For Permit; Issuance: Any person legally entitled to apply
for and receive a permit shall make such application on forms provided for that
purpose. He shall give a description of the character of the work proposed to
be done and the location, ownership, occupancy and use of the premises in
connection therewith. The administrative authority may require plans,
specifications or drawings and such other information as he may deem necessary.
Every applicant for a permit to install, add to, alter, relocate or replace a
plumbing or drainage system or part thereof, shall state in writing on the
applicant form provided for that purpose, the character of work proposed to be
done and the amount and kind in connection therewith, together with such
information pertinent thereto as may be required.
If the administrative authority determines that the plans, specifications,
drawings, descriptions or information furnished by the applicant is in
compliance with this Code, he shall issue the permit applied for upon payment
of the required fee as hereinafter fixed.
   C.   Qualifications For Permit: Any permit required by this Code may be
issued to any of the following persons:
      1.   A person holding a valid, unexpired and unrevoked maintenance man's
plumbing certificate to do any plumbing or drainage work regulated by this Code
in or about the premises owned or operated by his employer; or
      2.   An owner to do any building or drainage work regulated by this Code
upon property of which he is the bona fide owner and which is not intended for
sale.
Provided, however, that such maintenance man and such owner shall personally
purchase all material and shall personally perform all labor in connection
therewith. Said maintenance man shall submit to the administrative authority
such proof of his employment, and such owner shall submit to the administrative
authority such proof of his ownership, as shall be requested.
   D.   Fees:
      1.   The applicant shall pay for each permit issued at the time of
issuance, a fee as established by resolution of the City Council.
      2.   Any person who shall commence any plumbing work for which a permit
is required by this Code without first having obtained a permit therefor shall,
if subsequently permitted to obtain a permit, pay double the permit fee fixed
by this subsection for such work; provided, however, that this provision shall
not apply to emergency work when it shall be approved to the satisfaction of
the administrative authority that such work was urgently necessary and that is
was not practical to obtain a permit therefor before the commencement of the
work. In all such cases a permit must be obtained as soon as it is practical to
do so and if there be an unreasonable delay in obtaining such permit, a double
fee as herein provided shall be charged.
      3.   For the purpose of this subsection a sanitary plumbing outlet on or
to which a plumbing fixture or appliance may be set or attached shall be
construed to be a fixture. Fees for reconnection and retest of existing
plumbing systems in relocated buildings shall be based on the number of
plumbing fixtures, gas systems, water heaters, etc., involved.
   E.   Expiration Of Permit: Every permit issued by the administrative
authority under the provisions of this Code shall expire by limitation and
become null and void, if the work authorized by such permit is not commenced
within sixty (60) days from the date of issuance of such permit or if the work
authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned at any time after the work
is commenced for a period of sixty (60) days. Before such work may be
recommenced a new permit shall be first obtained to do so. (Ord. 91-30, 8-6-
1991)
7-3-5: PLUMBERS' CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Certificate Required: No person, except persons holding an owner's
permit as in this Code provided, shall conduct, carry on or engage in the
business or plumbing, or labor at the trade of plumbing, or do any plumbing or
drainage work within the City unless such person has first procured and holds a
valid, unexpired and unrevoked plumber's certificate issued by the
administrative authority.
   B.   Application For Certificate; Category; Fee: Any persons required by
this Code to possess a plumber's certificate shall make application therefor to
the administrative authority, in writing, upon forms to be prescribed by the
administrative authority. At the time of application, the applicant shall
specify the category of plumber's certificate he is applying for and shall pay
the fees as set by resolution by the City Council.
   C.   Revocation Of Certificate; Display; Nontransferability: All plumber's
certificates so issued shall be subject to revocation as herein provided 1 ,
shall be displayed to the public and the administrative authority at any time
upon request and shall be nontransferable and the lending of any plumber's
certificate or the obtaining of permits thereunder for any other person shall
be deemed cause for revocation. (Ord. 91-30, 8-6-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  7-3-9 of this Chapter.
7-3-6: CLEAN-OUTS REQUIRED:
A clean-out shall be provided on every sewer connection serving all structures,
trailers or mobile homes, with said clean-out places so as to fall outside the
area covered by the structure, trailer or mobile home. (Ord. 91-30, 8-6-1991)
7-3-7: DANGEROUS AND UNSANITARY CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: Any portion of a plumbing system found by the
administrative authority to be unsanitary, as defined herein, is hereby
declared to be a nuisance.
   B.   Investigation Of Violations; Remedy:
      1.   Whenever brought to the attention of the department having
jurisdiction that any insanitary conditions exist or that any construction or
work regulated by this Code is dangerous, unsafe, insanitary, a nuisance or a
menace to life, health or property or otherwise in violation of this Code, the
said department may request an investigation by the administrative authority
who, upon determining such information to be fact, shall order any person using
or maintaining any such condition or responsible for the use or maintenance
thereof to discontinue the use or maintenance thereof or to repair, alter,
change, remove or demolish same as he may consider necessary for the proper
protection of life, health or property and in the case of any gas piping or gas
appliance may order any person supplying gas to such piping or appliance to
discontinue supplying gas thereto until such piping or appliance is made safe
to life, health or property.
      2.   Every such order shall be in writing, addressed to the owner, agent
or person responsible for the premises in which such conditions exists and
shall specify the date or time for compliance with such order.
   C.   Failure To Comply: Refusal, failure or neglect to comply with any such
notice or order shall be considered a violation of this Code.
   D.   Abatement: When any plumbing system is maintained in violation of this
Code and in violation of any notice issued pursuant to the provisions of this
Section or where a nuisance exists in any building or on a lot on which a
building is situated, the administrative authority shall institute any
appropriate action or proceeding in any court of competent jurisdiction to
prevent, restrain, correct or abate the violation or nuisance. (Ord. 91-30, 8-
6-1991)
7-3-8: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Right Of Entry: The administrative authority and assistants shall carry
proper credentials of their respective office, upon exhibition of which they
shall have the right of entry, during usual business hours, to inspect any and
all buildings and premises in the performance of their duties.
   B.   Notification For Inspection:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the person doing the work authorized by the
permit to notify the administrative authority orally or in writing, that said
work is ready for inspection. Such notification shall be given not less than
twenty four (24) hours before the work is to be inspected.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the person doing the work authorized by the
permit, to make sure that the work will stand the tests prescribed elsewhere in
this Code, before giving said notification. (Ord. 91-30, 8-6-1991)
7-3-9: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT OR CERTIFICATE; APPEALS:
   A.   The administrative authority may suspend or revoke any plumber's
certificate or any owner's permit issued by him to any person, if such person
later shows incompetency or lack of knowledge in matters relevant to such
certificate or permit or if such certificate or permit was obtained by fraud,
or if all business license fees and other fees herein provided have not been
paid in full at the time the issuance of such certificate or permit.
   B.   If the plumber's certificate or the owner's permit of any person be so
suspended or revoked, another such certificate or permit shall not be granted
to such person within twelve (12) months after the date of suspension or
revocation unless the City Council, on appeal, sets a shorter period of time.
   C.   An appeal from any order of the administrative authority suspending or
revoking a license or permit may be taken to the City Council within thirty
(30) days after service upon the licensee or permittee of the order of
suspension or revocation. Action by a majority vote of the City Council upon
such revocation or suspension shall be deemed final. Services of orders shall
be made by delivering a copy personally to the licensee or permittee or by
mailing a copy of the order to the licensee or permittee at his mailing address
set out in his application for such license or permit. (Ord. 91-30, 8-6-1991)
7-3-10: NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
This Chapter shall not be construed as imposing upon the City any liability or
responsibility for damages to any person who suffers injury, asphyxiation or
loss of life because of any defects in any gas appliance and/or house gas
piping or in the installation thereof, nor shall the City or any official or
employee thereof be held as assuming any such liability or responsibility by
reason of the inspection authorized hereunder or certificate of inspection
issued by the Plumbing Inspector, nor shall the City or any official or
employee thereof be held as assuming any liability or responsibility for
property damage, from any cause whatsoever, which may have been caused by gas
leakage, fire or explosion of any sort coming from or during the operation of
any gas appliance and/or house gas piping. (Ord. 91-30, 8-6-1991)
7-3-11: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Code shall,
therefore, be punished as provided in Title 1, Chapter 4 of this Code. Each
separate day or any portion thereof during which any violation of this Code
occurs or continues shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punishable as herein provided.
   B.   The issuance or granting of a permit or approval of plans and
specifications shall not prevent the administrative authority from thereafter
requiring the correction of errors in said plans and specifications or from
preventing construction operations being carried on thereunder when in
violation of this Code or of any other ordinance or from revoking any
certificate of approval when issued in error. (Ord. 91-30, 8-6-1991)
CHAPTER 4
SIGN CODE
SECTION:
7-4-1: Adoption Of Uniform Sign Code
7-4-2: Amendments
7-4-3: Purpose, Scope And Authority
7-4-4: Definitions Pertaining To On-Premises Signs
7-4-5: General Standards
7-4-6: Regulated On-Premises Signs
7-4-7: Prohibited On-Premises Signs
7-4-8: Exempted On-Premises Signs
7-4-9: Permits And Enforcement Regarding On-Premises Signs
7-4-10: Special Purpose On-Premises Signs
7-4-11: Abandoned On-Premises Signs
7-4-12: Definitions Pertaining To Off-Premises Signs
7-4-13: General Standards And Provisions Of Off-Premises Signs
7-4-14: Permits For Off-Premises Signs
7-4-15: Prohibited Off-Premises Signs
7-4-16: Permitted Locations, Height, Spacing, Size And Conditional Use Permit
Requirements For Off-Premises Signs
7-4-17: Temporary Off-Premises Directional Signs
7-4-18: Illumination Of Off-Premises Signs
7-4-19: Nonconforming Off-Premises Signs
7-4-1: ADOPTION OF UNIFORM SIGN CODE 1 :
   A.   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of prescribing regulations
governing signs, that certain code known as the Uniform Sign Code recommended
by the International Conference of Building Officials being particularly the
latest edition thereof and the whole thereof, save and except such portions as
are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended. Three (3) copies of the latest
edition being adopted shall be approved by the City Council and placed on file
in the office of the City Clerk. From the date on which such edition of said
code shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
limits of the City. Said code is hereby adopted as the rules and regulations
for the governing of signs. In the event any of the provisions of the latest
edition of the Uniform Sign Code conflict with any of the provisions of this
Chapter, the provisions of this Chapter shall govern and be controlling.
   B.   All supplements to the Uniform Sign Code issued by the International
Conference of Building Officials between editions and approved by the City
Council and filed in triplicate in the office of the City Clerk shall become
part of this Uniform Sign Code effective twenty (20) days after the City Clerk
has the supplements published by the title only, together with an adequate
summary, once in a newspaper published in the City, if any, otherwise in a
newspaper published in the County and having a general circulation in the City.
   C.   Three (3) copies of this Uniform Sign Code, with all amendments and
supplements thereto, hereinafter adopted shall be kept on file in the office of
the City Clerk for use and examination by the public. (Ord. 91-13, 6-4-1991)
   D.   The provisions of Sections
7-4-2 through
7-4-18 of this Chapter, inclusive, shall govern and be controlling in the event
of a conflict with the Uniform Sign Code. (Ord. 96-11, 12-17-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 7-1-1B3 of this Title.
7-4-2: AMENDMENTS:
The following amendments to the Uniform Sign Code are hereby made and adopted
to make the code applicable to conditions in the City:
Sec. 103 (c) entitled BOARD OF APPEALS, is hereby amended by adding the
following at the end of such section:
"Notwithstanding any of the provisions of the Uniform Sign Code, the City
Council shall have the power to review and may revise, amend or repeal any
final order of the Board of Appeals on its own motion. Such final order or the
City Council shall be considered a final administrative order."
Sec. 103 (d) entitled VIOLATIONS, is hereby amended to read as follows:
"It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect, construct,
enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish, equip, use
or maintain any sign or sign structure in this jurisdiction, or cause or permit
the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the provisions of
this Code."
Sec. 1302 (a) entitled INSTALLATION, is hereby amended by adding the following
sentence at the end thereof:
"Every sign shall have a main disconnect or switch located in the sign so as to
be readily accessible or on the structure or exterior of the building upon
which the sign is constructed or which it is attached."
(Ord. 91-13, 6-4-1991)
7-4-3: PURPOSE, SCOPE AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   The purpose of the remaining provisions of this Chapter are to promote
the public health, safety, general welfare and aesthetics by regulating and
controlling the size, number, height, location and maintenance of all on-
premises signs, off-premises directional signs, and other advertising displays
or advertising structures. This Chapter is designed to accomplish the
following:
      1.   To protect and enhance the character and property values of
residential neighborhoods by prohibiting obtrusive and incompatible signs;
      2.   To promote and maintain healthy commercial centers by providing for
effective communication of the nature of goods and services available, and
eliminating wasteful and unsightly competition in signs;
      3.   To encourage good sign design, integrated with and harmonious to the
building and sites occupied;
      4.   To add to the attractiveness of the City by minimizing sign clutter;
      5.   To attract and direct persons to various activities and enterprises,
thereby providing for the maximum public convenience;
      6.   To enhance the economic value of the community through sign
regulation;
      7.   To provide for a reasonable uniformity of signs and advertising
displays. (Ord. 96-11, 12-17-1996)
7-4-4: DEFINITIONS PERTAINING TO ON-PREMISES SIGNS:
For the purposes of this Chapter the following words or terms shall have the
following meanings:
ABANDONED SIGN: A sign which does not display a currently valid advertising
message or which has not been maintained in good repair. This definition shall
also include any sign structure which no longer supports the sign for which it
was designed.
ADVERTISING DISPLAY: The copy, symbols, logo type or graphics on a sign which
convey the advertising message.
ADVERTISING MESSAGE: Any copy, symbol, logo type or graphics which identify,
promote or advertise any product, service, business, institution or activity.
ALLOWABLE SIGN AREA: The total sign area permitted under this Chapter for any
site or business.
ANIMATED SIGN: A sign which uses lights or mechanical devices to simulate or
create the effect of motion in the advertising display.
ARCHITECTURAL GRAPHIC: A painted design, mural, relief, mosaic or similar
feature which is incorporated into the architectural design of a building and
conveys no advertising message.
AREA IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A permanent, decorative sign used to identify a
neighborhood, subdivision, commercial or office complex, industrial district or
similar distinct area of the community.
BUILDING FRONTAGE: The length of the face or wall of a completely enclosed
building which fronts directly on a public street or other public area.
BUSINESS FRONTAGE: The length of building frontage occupied by an individual
building occupant. An occupant may have more than one business frontage if it
occupies building frontage facing two (2) or more streets or public areas.
CANOPY: A structure of rigid material covered with fabric, metal or other
materials and supported by columns or posts imbedded in the ground. It may also
be partially supported by a building and may be illuminated.
CHANGEABLE LETTER PANEL: A sign or the area of a sign which may be lighted or
unlighted and which contains tracks or fasteners to hold letters or pictures
which may be changed at reasonable intervals. Changeable letter panel signs
shall not be considered animated or flashing.
CIVIC DISPLAY: A temporary display of banners, balloons, flags, lights or
similar decorations erected on a public street or other public property in
connection with a holiday, civic event or celebration.
COMMUNITY DIRECTORY SIGN: A sign, or a group of signs designed as a single
display, which gives information about local churches or civic organizations.
DIRECTIONAL SIGN: A permanent sign which directs the flow of traffic or
pedestrians on private property and which contains no advertising message
except for the name of the business.
DIRECTORY SIGN: A sign, or a group of signs designed as a single display, which
gives information about the location of businesses, buildings or addresses
within a residential, office, commercial or industrial complex.
ELECTRIC AWNING SIGN: An internally illuminated space frame structure with
translucent covering designed in awning form and with graphics or copy applied
to the visible surface of the awning.
ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTER: A sign panel which contains a grid of electrically
or electronically activated light panels which may be changed by means of
computer-driven electronic impulses. Electronic message signs shall not be
considered as flashing or animated.
FLASHING SIGN: A sign which uses blinking, flashing or intermittent
illumination, either direct, indirect or internal.
FREESTANDING SIGN: A sign exceeding six feet (6') in height which is supported
by its own structure apart from a building.
FRONTAGE: See definitions of Building Frontage, Business Frontage and Site
Frontage.
FUEL PRICE SIGN: A sign which displays prices of various types of gasoline or
diesel fuel available at a service station. A fuel price sign may include a
brand name if it does not occupy more than one-third (1/3) of the area of
advertising display.
GROUND-BASED YARD SIGN: A sign not exceeding four feet (4') in height from the
ground and which is permanent in nature. Such signs are generally constructed
of metal, wood or hard plastic and utilize either a single or double post to be
mounted on.
HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the topmost part of a sign to the grade of
the nearest point on a street or road other than an elevated roadway.
HOLIDAY DECORATION: Any display commonly associated with a local, State,
national or religious holiday, and which is not left in place for more than
forty five (45) days during any single observance.
INDIRECT ILLUMINATION: Illumination which is cast on a sign from a source
outside the sign with the source of the light shielded from direct view.
INFLATABLE SIGN: Any device which is supported by air pressure or inflated with
air or gas which is used to attract the attention of the public, whether or not
it displays any specific advertising message.
INTERNAL ILLUMINATION: Illumination produced by a light source contained within
a sign and not directly visible from outside.
KIOSK: A structure not exceeding six feet (6') in any horizontal dimension or
twelve feet (12') in vertical dimension which is used to provide surfaces for
the posting of notices.
MARQUEE: A permanent roof-like structure of rigid materials supported by and
attached to a building facade.
MERCHANDISING POSTER: A temporary sign or poster displayed inside a show window
of a building for a period not to exceed forty five (45) days to provide
information about a specific product, price or event.
MOBILE SIGN: Any sign attached to or supported by a vehicle, including a
trailer. This definition shall not include a sign on the body of a vehicle
which displays only the name, address, telephone number, emblem and slogan of a
business, or a sign attached to a mass-transit vehicle or taxicab which has a
valid business license with the City.
MOVING SIGN: Any sign which includes visible moving or rotating parts.
NAMEPLATE: A sign which is constructed of metal, wood or hard plastic and is
flush mounted to the building. A nameplate simply identifies the name of the
occupant or business located in the building and includes no advertising
message.
NEIGHBORHOOD BULLETIN BOARDS: Any surface outside a building provided if
specifically to allow the posting of notices.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: Any sign which was lawfully erected prior to the adoption
of the Ordinance codified in this Chapter, or amendments thereto, which would
not be permitted under the current provisions of this Chapter.
OFF-PREMISES DIRECTIONAL SIGN: Any sign which directs the public to a building,
business, institution or activity not located on the same site as the sign.
This definition does not include any sign which displays an advertising message
other than the name and address of the building, business, institution or
activity.
OFF-PREMISES SIGN: Any sign which identifies or advertises a business,
activity, product or service not located or offered on the same site as the
sign.
OFFICIAL SIGN: Any sign erected by or at the direction of a governmental
agency.
ON-PREMISES SIGN: Any sign which identifies or advertises a business, activity,
product or service located or offered on the same site as the sign.
PERMANENT SIGN: Any sign which is designed, constructed or affixed at the site
in such a manner that it cannot be conveniently moved from place to place.
POLITICAL SIGN: A sign which carries an advertising message supporting or
opposing a candidate or proposition appearing on the ballot of a primary,
general or special election.
PORTABLE SIGN: Any sign which is designed and constructed in such a manner that
it can conveniently be moved from place to place. This definition shall include
cardboard, paper, fabric, canvas and plastic banners and signs.
PROJECT SALES SIGN: A sign which is erected for the purpose of promoting the
sale or lease of property in a residential, commercial or industrial project on
the site where the sign is located, and which is under construction or has been
substantially complete for less than one year.
PROJECTING SIGN: A sign which is supported by a decorative bracket or hanger
and extends at right angles from the face of a building. This definition shall
also include any sign which, because of its shape or thickness, extends more
than twelve inches (12") from the face of the building, but shall not include a
marquee which is designed as an integral part of a building.
REAL ESTATE SIGN: A sign offering for sale, rent or lease the real property on
which it is located.
ROOF: A horizontal or sloping surface of a building which serves as cover for
the building or its entry, portico or other appurtenances. This definition
shall include any part of a building, which resembles a roof in form or
structure.
ROOF SIGN: A sign painted on, supported by or attached to the roof or roof
structure of a building. This definition shall not include a sign attached flat
against the wall of a penthouse, or other integral part of a building, which
projects above the main roof.
SIGN: A design or device displayed to the public for the purpose of
identifying, advertising or promoting the interests of any person, persons,
firm, corporation or other entity by conveying an advertising message or
attracting the attention of the public. This definition shall include all parts
of such a device, including its structure and supports and shall also include
balloons, pennants, streamers or other devices which are used to attract the
attention of the public, whether or not they convey a specific advertising
message.
SIGN STRUCTURE: Those parts of a sign designed to support it in place.
SITE: A lot or parcel, or contiguous lots or parcels of land on which a
building or complex of buildings is located.
SITE FRONTAGE: The linear dimension of a site abutting on a public or private
street right of way.
SUSPENDED SIGN: A sign supported from, and below, a building soffit or
permanent canopy.
TEMPORARY SIGN: A sign which is allowed by this chapter to remain in use for a
limited time only.
TIME AND TEMPERATURE SIGN: A sign which displays only the current time,
temperature, and/or news of current events and carries no advertising message.
A "time and temperature sign" shall not be considered a flashing or animated
sign.
WALL SIGN: A sign which is painted on, or supported by or attached to a wall or
other vertical surface of a building. (Ord. 96-11, 12-17-1996; amd. Ord. 99-14,
10-5-1999)
7-4-5: GENERAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Location Of Signs: Freestanding and projecting signs located on private
property shall not extend across property lines into adjacent property.
Freestanding signs shall not extend across property lines into a public right
of way without obtaining a conditional use permit. Projecting signs in the C-
2 or C-3 zones may extend across property lines into a public right of way in
accordance with the requirements of the international building code.
Freestanding or projecting signs may be located within, or project into,
setbacks except that no sign shall be located in a manner that would create a
hazard for traffic or pedestrians. (Ord. 96-11, 12-17-1996; amd. Ord. 2005-07,
12-20-2005)
   B.   Sign Height And Width: In areas zoned R-1, R-2, RMF, RMH, RC and P the
maximum allowable sign height is six feet (6'). In areas zoned C-1, M-1 and M-
2 the maximum allowable sign height is thirty five feet (35'). In areas zoned
C-2 and C-3 the maximum allowable sign height is one hundred feet (100'). In
areas zoned C-1, C-2, C-3, M-1 and M-2 the width of a pole sign may not be more
than sixty percent (60%) of the overall height and all pole signs shall
maintain an eight foot (8') minimum clearance from ground elevation. (Ord. 96-
11, 12-17-1996, amd. Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
   C.   Sign Area Computation; Wall Signs: Except for signs covered in sections
7-4-6 through
7-4-10 of this chapter, the allowable sign area shall be no more than fifty
percent (50%) of the building area for the elevation of that building wall
where the sign is to be located. The elevation of a building wall shall be
calculated by using the average height and width of said wall to calculate the
area. An exemption can be given when a conditional use permit is granted as in
section
7-4-10 of this chapter. If the display is enclosed in a cabinet or frame, or
has an integrated background, the entire area within the frame, cabinet or
background shall be included. Where a sign consists of individual letters,
numbers or symbols, painted on or attached directly to a building, which are
without an integrated background and are not enclosed in a frame or cabinet,
the area of the display shall be the average height of the display times the
average width.
   D.   Maintenance, Repair And Appearance: All signs shall be maintained in
good repair and shall be neat in appearance. Any sign which is determined by
the city building official to be unsafe or unsightly because of bent, broken or
missing parts or poor maintenance generally may be declared a public nuisance
and may be ordered to be abated by the city council or a court of competent
jurisdiction. (Ord. 96-11, 12-17-1996)
7-4-6: REGULATED ON PREMISES SIGNS:
All on premises signs erected or located in the city, which are not exempted by
section
7-4-8 of this chapter, are subject to the provisions of this chapter as to
their location, size, height, type and function. Engineering and construction
of signs are subject to the regulations of the uniform sign code and the city
building code. Common types of signs, such as wall signs and suspended signs,
which are not specifically mentioned elsewhere, are permitted subject to the
general regulations contained in this chapter. (Ord. 96-11, 12-17-1996)
7-4-7: PROHIBITED ON PREMISES SIGNS:
The following types of signs and displays are prohibited within the city:
   A.   Private signs on public property without a lease agreement or right of
way or signs attached to utility poles, streetlight standards, fences, barns,
sheds or similar accessory structures;
   B.   Signs which constitute a hazard to traffic or pedestrians;
   C.   Signs located within any drainage channel;
   D.   Mobile signs or portable signs except as provided in section
7-4-10 of this chapter;
   E.   Inflatable signs except as provided in section
7-4-10 of this chapter;
   F.   Signs which produce odor, smoke or flame;
   G.   Signs which imitate or simulate official signs, or which use lights
which resemble danger or warning signs except for those signs that are for
community service and are approved by the public works director;
   H.   Signs using strobe lights exceeding one hundred (100) watts;
   I.   Roof signs. (Ord. 96-11, 12-17-1996)
7-4-8: EXEMPTED ON PREMISES SIGNS:
The following types of signs and displays are not subject to the provisions of
this chapter:
   A.   Official traffic control or regulatory signs, signals or devices,
street name signs or other signs required by law;
   B.   Changes in copy or advertising display on an existing sign which do not
alter the structure, size or configuration of the sign;
   C.   Holiday decorations;
   D.   Safety or caution signs, legal notices, public utility signs;
   E.   Memorial tablets, plaques or markers of bronze, stone or concrete;
   F.   "Open", "Closed", "No Trespassing", "Warning" and similar signs not
exceeding four (4) square feet;
   G.   Address numbers or plates and residential nameplates;
   H.   Civic displays;
   I.   Flags, emblems or insignia of any nation, state or political
subdivision; provided that they are not used for commercial or advertising
purposes;
   J.   Merchandising posters;
   K.   Architectural graphics;
   L.   Signs which are located within private property boundaries and are not
visible from a public street, sidewalk or alley;
   M.   Directional signs;
   N.   Time and temperature signs. (Ord. 96-11, 12-17-1996)
7-4-9: PERMITS AND ENFORCEMENT REGARDING ON PREMISES SIGNS:
   A.   Permit Required: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it is
unlawful for any person to erect, enlarge, alter (except for normal
maintenance) or relocate within the city, any sign without first having
obtained a sign permit and paying the permit fees.
   B.   Application For Permit: Application for a sign permit shall be made on
forms provided by the city and shall include, or be accompanied by, the
following:
      1.   Name, address, telephone number and signature of property owner;
      2.   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant (owner of the
sign);
      3.   Name, address and telephone number of the contractor (if
applicable);
      4.   A plot plan showing the boundaries of the parcel on which the sign
(s) is to be located, as well as the location of the sign(s) and all structures
on the site. Parking, landscaping and other site features shall also be
indicated;
      5.   Drawings of the proposed sign(s) showing the design, dimensions,
mounting height, materials of construction and structural details;
      6.   Drawings of all existing signs on the site showing their sizes and
locations;
      7.   Any other information deemed necessary by the building official.
   C.   Issuance Of Permits: When all requirements of this chapter, the uniform
sign code and the city's building code have been satisfied and all fees paid, a
sign permit shall be issued by the building official, city clerk or their
representatives. (Ord. 96-11, 12-17-1996)
   D.   Fees: Fees for sign permits shall be based upon valuations of the signs
to be constructed and fees shall be set in accordance with the international
building code schedule or a minimum of fifty dollars ($50.00), whichever is
greater. (Ord. 96-11, 12-17-1996; amd. Ord. 2005-07, 12-20-2005)
   E.   Inspection: Any sign which is subject to this chapter shall be
inspected by city inspectors to ensure compliance with all rules and
regulations applicable.
   F.   Suspension And Revocation: Any permit issued in error, or in reliance
on a falsified application, may be revoked by the building inspector or city
clerk. Any sign erected or partially erected under a permit issued pursuant to
a falsified application may be ordered removed at the owner's expense.
   G.   Enforcement: Any sign which is erected, altered, enlarged or relocated
without a valid sign permit is a violation of this chapter and is subject to
removal at the owner's expense and penalties in the following amounts:
 
First offense                    $ 100.00
Second offense                   250.00
Third offense                    500.00
Each offense after third offense 1,000.00
 
(Ord. 96-11, 12-17-1996)
7-4-10: SPECIAL PURPOSE ON PREMISES SIGNS:
The following types of signs are allowed under specified conditions: (Ord. 96-
11, 12-17-1996)
   A.   Directory Signs And Directional Signs: Permit required. Directory signs
shall be permitted at major entrances to residential, commercial, industrial or
office complexes to identify occupants, addresses or building numbers for the
convenience of visitors and to facilitate emergency services. Directory signs
shall not exceed ten feet (10') in height in C-2 or C-3 zoned areas and shall
not exceed six feet (6') in all other zoning areas. No more than three (3)
square feet shall be devoted to any single occupant on signs located in areas
zoned C-1, R-1, R-2, RMF, RMH, RC, M-1, M-2 and P. Directional signs likewise
are permitted to facilitate the traffic flow and aid visitors. (Ord. 96-11, 12-
17-1996; amd. Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
   B.   Community Directory Signs: Permit required, but may be waived by City
Clerk. Community directory signs shall be permitted at major entrances to the
City and parts thereof.
   C.   Area Identification Signs: Permit required. Area identification signs
shall be permitted at major entrances to neighborhoods, subdivisions,
residential complexes, shopping centers, and office or industrial complexes.
Area identification signs shall not exceed six feet (6') in height, or one
hundred twenty (120) square feet in area. (Ord. 96-11, 12-17-1996)
   D.   Temporary Signs:
      1.   Political Signs: No permit required. Political signs, including
their supporting structures, shall be permitted in all zones for a period forty
(40) days prior to and ten (10) days following a general or special election,
provided that:
         a.   The candidate, committee or any other authorized person or group
posting political signs shall either fill out a signposting information sheet
with the City Clerk or include the name, address and telephone number on all
signs of the person posting the sign.
         b.   No sign shall be permitted on or to extend over any public
property, public easement, public parkway, public utility property or in the
public right of way. The City shall assess a charge against any person,
candidate, entity, party or group posting or placing signs in violation of this
subsection for the cost incurred in the removal.
Exception: Notwithstanding the prohibition on placement of political signs on
public property, the City Council shall designate, by resolution, public
properties upon which political signs may be placed. Each candidate or position
on a ballot measure shall be limited to one sign for each public property
location designated, and said sign shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet in
area. No sign shall be placed so as to impede the sightlines of a sign already
placed. No sign shall be placed on any tree or shrub by any nail, tack, spike
or other method which will cause physical harm to the tree or shrub.
         c.   Political signs shall not be posted on traffic or street signs or
devices nor shall they be placed in a manner which obstructs traffic or street
signs or devices.
         d.   The candidate, committee or any other authorized person or group
posting or displaying political signs on private property shall obtain the
property owner's permission before doing so. Failure to do so will be a
violation of this Chapter.
         e.   If the City Clerk finds that any political sign has been posted
or is being maintained in violation of the provisions of this subsection, the
person(s) responsible for the sign(s) shall be given notice to remove said sign
(s) within twenty four (24) hours from the time of said notice. The notice
shall include a brief statement of the reasons for requiring removal. If the
person so notified fails to correct the violation or remove the sign(s), the
City Clerk may cause said sign(s) to be removed without further notice. If the
owner of the sign cannot in good faith be located within a reasonable time, the
sign shall be deemed abandoned. Any political sign that remains posted for more
than fourteen (14) calendar days after the election to which it pertains shall
also be deemed abandoned. The City Clerk may cause such abandoned signs and any
signs which constitute an immediate peril to persons or property to be removed
summarily and without prior notice. The City shall assess a charge against any
person, candidate, entity, party or group posting or placing signs in violation
of this subsection for the cost incurred in the removal. (Ord. 99-15, 11-2-
1999)
      2.   Real Estate Signs: No permit required. Real estate signs shall be
allowed on all properties being offered for sale or rent, provided that they
are maintained in good condition. On residential property, one sign not to
exceed eight (8) square feet in size shall be allowed for each street frontage.
On commercial, industrial or office properties under one acre, one sign not to
exceed thirty two (32) square feet in size shall be allowed for each street
frontage. On commercial, industrial or office properties over one acre, one
sign not to exceed thirty two (32) square feet in size for every two hundred
feet (200') of street frontage for each street frontage.
      3.   Project Sales Signs: Permit required. Project sale signs shall be
allowed during the period when a developer or builder is actively engaged in
the sale of lots or houses, or the sale or lease of space in a commercial,
industrial or office development, provided they are maintained in good
condition. One sign allowed for each major public entrance to the project area.
Individual signs not to exceed one hundred twenty eight (128) square feet.
(Ord. 96-11, 12-17-1996)
      4.   Mobile, Portable And Inflatable Signs: Provisional sign permit
required. Temporary commercial signs, streamers, banners, balloons, pennants,
sandwich-board signs, inflatable signs and other similar temporary signs shall
be allowed only in connection with a special event such as a business grand
opening or major promotion. Such signs and displays without a permit shall be
allowed at a business location for not more than one period, not to exceed
fourteen (14) days in any thirty (30) day period. Such signs and displays to be
maintained beyond the fourteen (14) day period require the issuance of a
provisional sign permit by the City Clerk. There will be no fee for a
provisional sign permit. Such displays and signs cannot be maintained for
longer than sixty (60) days, and there must be at least a thirty (30) day break
before the same or a substantially similar display or sign may be used again.
(Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
   E.   Signs Which Exceed Allowable Sign Area: Conditional use permit
required. Signs which will exceed the allowable sign area may be permitted with
the granting of a conditional use permit by the City Council. Application for a
conditional use permit shall be governed by the provisions of Title 8, Chapter
10 of this Code. (Ord. 96-11, 12-17-1996)
   F.   Home Occupation Signs: Permit required. One nameplate with a maximum
measurement of two (2) square feet shall be allowed. The nameplate shall be
constructed of metal, wood, or hard plastic and shall not be illuminated either
internally or externally. The nameplate shall be flush mounted to the home's
exterior in a permanent fashion. (Ord. 99-14, 10-5-1999)
7-4-11: ABANDONED ON-PREMISES SIGNS:
   A.   Removal Of Abandoned Signs: Any sign or sign structure which has been
abandoned for a period of three (3) months shall be removed or restored to use
within thirty (30) days after a notice of abandonment is issued to the owner of
the sign. Notice shall be given by the City Clerk using certified mail. Cost of
removal will be charged to the owner of the property on which the sign is
placed. The City Clerk may allow an abandoned sign or sign structure to remain
in place; provided that the sign or sign structure is maintained in good
condition, and there is a reasonable possibility that the sign can be restored
to use within a one year period.
   B.   Criteria For Establishing Abandonment: A sign or sign structure shall
be considered abandoned when any of the following occurs:
      1.   Any copy thereon is out of date;
      2.   Any business advertised thereon is no longer located on the
premises;
      3.   Any product or service advertised thereon is no longer offered on
the premises;
      4.   The structure no longer supports a sign or the sign no longer
contains an advertising display;
      5.   A sign, structure or advertising display is visibly damaged or
partially missing. (Ord. 96-11, 12-17-1996)
7-4-12: DEFINITIONS PERTAINING TO OFF-PREMISES SIGNS:
ABANDONED SIGN: Any off-premises sign which has not supported an advertising
display for a period of ninety (90) days.
ADVERTISING STRUCTURE: Any structure designed to support an off-premises sign.
BACK-TO-BACK SIGN: Any structure with two (2) parallel and directly opposite
signs with their faces oriented in opposite directions. A back-to-back sign
shall constitute one off- premises sign.
GROUND SIGN: Any off-premises sign erected on a freestanding framework
supported and affixed by one or more uprights or braces in or upon the ground.
OFF-PREMISES SIGN: A sign, including the sign structure, which directs the
attention of the general public to a business service or activity not usually
conducted or a product not usually offered or sold upon the premises where such
a sign is located.
ROOF SIGN: An off-premises sign which is attached to the roof of a building.
STACKED SIGN: Any two (2) or more signs affixed to the same standards which are
not back to back signs and which vary in height from the ground.
TEMPORARY DIRECTIONAL SIGN: A temporary sign which provides direction to any
new residential land development project.
V-TYPE SIGN: Two (2) or three (3) signs in the shape of the letter "V" or of a
triangle, when viewed from above, and supported by integral structures with
their faces oriented in different directions. A V-type sign shall constitute
one outdoor advertising sign.
WALL SIGN: Any outdoor advertising sign attached to, affixed or painted to a
wall or building. (Ord. 96-11, 12-17-1996)
7-4-13: GENERAL STANDARDS AND PROVISIONS OF OFF PREMISES SIGNS:
   A.   No off premises sign shall be established closer to the street than the
building setback line, if such line exists. No portion of any outdoor
advertising sign may be placed on or extend over the right of way line of any
street or highway.
   B.   No off premises sign shall be constructed which resembles any official
sign or marker erected by the city, state or any governmental agency, or which,
by reason of position, shape, or color would conflict with the proper
functioning of any traffic sign or signal.
   C.   No off premises sign, or part thereof, shall be located on any property
without the consent of the owner, holder, lessee, agent or trustee.
   D.   All off premises signs, as well as supporting structures, shall be
maintained in the proper state of repair and preservation. Display surfaces
shall be neatly painted or posted. Premises immediately surrounding such
structures or displays shall be kept in clean condition, free and clear of
rubbish, weeds and debris. (Ord. 96-11, 12-17-1996)
7-4-14: PERMITS FOR OFF PREMISES SIGNS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, enlarge,
alter (except for normal maintenance or repair and copy change), or relocate
within the city any "off premises sign" as defined in this chapter without
first having obtained a permit from the city and paying the appropriate fees.
   B.   Application For Permit: Application for such permits shall be made upon
forms provided by the city and shall include the following:
      1.   Name, address, and telephone number of the owner of the property,
and a statement signed by the owner or authorized representative permitting the
off premises sign;
      2.   Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant (owner of the
off premises sign);
      3.   Name, address, telephone number, and license number of licensed
contractor, as such is required by ordinance;
      4.   Two (2) copies of a plan showing:
         a.   Position of off premises sign;
         b.   Design, size and type of materials to be used;
         c.   A statement or diagram indicating the size and dimensions of all
existing permanent off premises signs on the premises at the time of the
application. Current dated photographs may be utilized for this purpose, or may
be required by the city;
      5.   Such other information as the city shall reasonably require to
ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter or other ordinances of
the city. (Ord. 96-11, 12-17-1996)
   C.   Fees: A fee shall be paid to the city for each off premises sign permit
issued, based upon valuations of the sign to be constructed as shown in the
international building code. (Ord. 96-11, 12-17-1996; amd. Ord. 2005-07, 12-20-
2005)
   D.   Inspection: Every off premises sign erected in the city shall be
subject to inspection by the city to assure compliance with this chapter.
   E.   Responsibility: The owner, or authorized representative of the owner,
of the property upon which the off-premises sign exists and the party owning
the message or advertisement shall be responsible for its proper maintenance
and repair.
   F.   Suspension And Revocation: The City may, in writing, suspend or revoke
a permit issued under the provisions of this Chapter whenever the permit is
issued in error, or on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or in
violation of any ordinance or regulation, or any of the provisions of this
Chapter.
   G.   Interpretation: Questions of the reasonable interpretation of the
provisions of this Chapter shall be resolved by the City Council. (Ord. 96-11,
12-17-1996)
7-4-15: PROHIBITED OFF-PREMISES SIGNS:
The following types of signs shall be prohibited:
   A.   Roof signs;
   B.   Stacked signs;
   C.   Signs which constitute a hazard to traffic, or which have the
appearance of an official traffic-control device, an emergency vehicle or an
emergency warning, as determined by the Public Works Director;
   D.   Any other signs which would be prohibited under Section
7-4-7 of this Chapter. (Ord. 96-11, 12-17-1996)
7-4-16: PERMITTED LOCATIONS, HEIGHT, SPACING, SIZE AND CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
REQUIREMENTS FOR OFF-PREMISES SIGNS:
   A.   Off-premises signs shall be permitted only in the C-2 and C-3 Zoning
Districts as identified on the Zoning Map of the City.
   B.   The construction of off-premises signs not in existence on the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this Chapter shall be permitted
only after the issuance of a conditional use permit.
   C.   Prior to granting a conditional use permit for an off- premises sign
the Council shall make the following findings of fact:
      1.   That the off-premises sign will not block the air, light, and
ventilation of any adjoining property;
      2.   That the off-premises sign will not significantly block the public
view of any legally erected on-premises sign;
      3.   That the sign does not obstruct the free and clear vision of
motorists at any location by reason of its position, shape or color and that it
does not make use of a word, symbol, phrase, shape or color in such a manner as
to interfere with or mislead or confuse the motorist;
      4.   The proposed sign is no closer than five hundred feet (500') to any
existing off-premises sign;
      5.   The off-premises sign shall not exceed thirty feet (30') in height.
However, the height of the sign may be increased to a maximum of fifty feet
(50') when it is found that topographic or vegetative factors require an
increased height to make the sign visible to motorists;
      6.   The maximum area of the one face of the sign does not exceed six
hundred seventy two (672) square feet, inclusive of any border or trim, but
excluding the base or apron supports and other structural members;
      7.   That there exists no other consideration which when viewed within
the context of the City's master plan and aesthetic review code would have an
adverse or deleterious effect on the neighborhood's immediate surroundings or
long-term development objectives. (Ord. 96-11, 12-17-1996)
7-4-17: TEMPORARY OFF-PREMISES DIRECTIONAL SIGNS:
Temporary directional signs may be permitted in all zoning districts. Signs
shall be permitted only after the issuance of a conditional use permit. The
conditional use permit shall expire one year from date of issuance or sale or
lease of property of business, whichever occurs first. The following
restrictions shall apply:
   A.   A total maximum number of four (4) signs shall be permitted for each
development or business.
   B.   Signs shall be permitted adjacent to major arterial streets leading to
the development or business.
   C.   Signs shall be installed on private property only with written approval
of the property owner.
   D.   One sign only shall be permitted per major arterial intersection.
   E.   Signs shall be separated by a distance of at least one thousand feet
(1,000') from any other directional sign.
   F.   Maximum size of any sign shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet
in area nor exceed ten feet (10') in height including posts.
   G.   Sign copy shall contain the name of the developer or business,
directional information and "for sale" or similar language only. No price,
phone number or other information will be allowed on the sign.
   H.   No illumination shall be allowed. (Ord. 96-11, 12-17-1996)
7-4-18: ILLUMINATION OF OFF-PREMISES SIGNS:
Unless otherwise prohibited, off-premises signs may be illuminated subject to
the following conditions:
   A.   Signs which are not effectively shielded so as to prevent beams or rays
from being directed at any portion of the traveled ways and are of such
intensity or brilliance to cause glare or impair vision of the driver of any
motor vehicle, or which otherwise interfere with any driver's operation of a
motor vehicle, are prohibited.
   B.   No sign shall be so illuminated that it interferes with the
effectiveness or obscures an official traffic sign, device or signal, as
determined by the Public Works Director. (Ord. 96-11, 12-17-1996)
7-4-19: NONCONFORMING OFF-PREMISES SIGNS:
   A.   Off-premises signs which have not supported an advertising display or
the advertising display has been out of date for a period of ninety (90) days
shall be considered abandoned and shall be removed at the direction of the
City.
   B.   Appeals from the decisions of the City Building Inspector relative to
abandoned off-premises signs or structures may be made to the City Council. The
appeal must be made in writing thirty (30) days after the initial decision of
abandonment. The Council will hear the appeal at the next regularly scheduled
meeting.
   C.   Any off-premises sign in existence on the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this Chapter which does not comply with the provisions
for off-premises signs may continue in existence as a matter of right, except
that the enlargement, alteration (other than normal maintenance), or removal to
other premises of any such sign will make such sign subject to the new
provisions. In addition, the sign must conform to all other provisions codified
in this Chapter by one year from the effective date of this Ordinance. (Ord.
96-11, 12-17-1996)
CHAPTER 5
WATER CONSERVATION CODE
SECTION:
7-5-1: Short Title
7-5-2: Applicability
7-5-3: Definitions
7-5-4: Conservation Devices Required
7-5-5: Administrative Allowance
7-5-6: Sales And Installation Prohibited
7-5-7: Effluent Water System
7-5-8: Violations
7-5-1: SHORT TITLE:
The provisions of this chapter may be known and cited as THE WATER CONSERVATION
CODE OF THE CITY. (Ord. 92-6, 4-21-1992)
7-5-2: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall apply to all new residential, commercial and industrial
construction, which construction shall include any new renovation or additions
on existing structures. (Ord. 92-6, 4-21-1992)
7-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
All definitions of the international building code of the city shall apply to
this code, except that the following definitions shall supersede any similar
definitions wherever found:
COMMERCIAL CONSTRUCTION: All construction renovations or additions of any
nature in commercial, industrial or public establishments, including, but not
limited to, restaurants, bars, nightclubs, public buildings, comfort stations,
schools, gymnasiums, factories, offices, athletic clubs and all restrooms and
bathrooms associated with such construction, including, but not limited to,
restaurants, bars, nightclubs, public buildings, comfort stations, schools,
gymnasiums, factories, offices and athletic clubs.
EFFLUENT WATER SYSTEM: The service and facilities of the entire supply of
effluent water from the wastewater treatment plant in the city.
LARGE AGRICULTURAL WATER USERS: Any water user who irrigates more than two (2)
acres for purposes of growing any crop, other than crops intended for human
consumption, for personal or commercial uses.
LARGE PARK AND RECREATION WATER USERS: Any water user who irrigates more than
two (2) acres of land for park and recreation uses, open space uses or
landscaping uses.
RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION: All construction, renovation or addition to single-
family dwellings, apartments, condominiums, hotels, motels, townhouses and like
such structures. (Ord. 92-6, 4-21-1992; amd. Ord. 2003-05, 5-20-2003; Ord.
2005-07, 12-20-2005)
7-5-4: CONSERVATION DEVICES REQUIRED:
   A.   New Residential Construction: In all new residential construction or
additions and in all replacements or renovations of plumbing fixtures in
existing residential construction, the following conservation devices shall be
installed and maintained:
      1.   All mixing faucets must be designed to deliver a maximum of two and
one-half (2.5) gallons per minute or must be equipped with flow control devices
that deliver a maximum of two and one-half (2.5) gallons per minute.
      2.   All showerheads shall be of the type that deliver a maximum of two
and one-half (2.5) gallons per minute.
      3.   All water closets shall be designed to use a maximum of one and one-
half (1.5) gallons per flush.
      4.   All evaporative cooling devices, fountains, waterfalls and other
decorative, water using facilities shall be equipped with water recycling or
reuse systems approved by the director of the department of building for the
city.
   B.   New Commercial Construction: In all new commercial construction or
additions and in all replacements or renovations to plumbing fixtures in
existing commercial construction, the following conservation devices shall be
installed and maintained:
      1.   All showerheads shall be of a type that delivers a maximum of two
and one-half (2.5) gallons per minute.
      2.   All water closets shall be designed to use a maximum of one and one-
half (1.5) gallons per flush.
      3.   All urinals shall be designed to use a maximum of one gallon per
flush. No urinals shall be installed which use a time device to flush
periodically irrespective of demand. Continuous flow urinals are prohibited.
      4.   All lavatories must be equipped with either spring loaded faucets
that close when not in use or faucets that are equipped with metering valves
that close automatically after delivering a maximum of one-fourth (0.25)
gallons. Multiple faucets activated from a single point are prohibited.
      5.   Public restrooms or facilities may be equipped as allowed by the
director of the department of building with faucets or other devices designed
for the physically handicapped which, by necessity, must deliver more water
usage than is otherwise required in the water conservation code hereby
established.
      6.   All evaporative cooling systems, fountains, waterfalls and other
decorative water using facilities shall be equipped with water recycling or
reuse systems approved as in compliance with industry standards by the director
of the department of building. (Ord. 92-6, 4-21-1992)
7-5-5: ADMINISTRATIVE ALLOWANCE:
Upon a proper application by the potential water user, the director of the
department of building shall be responsible for enforcing the provisions of
this code and may allow the use of a standard fixture or a special design where
there is evidence of a health hazard, physical conflict or unavailability of
water saving fixtures. (Ord. 92-6, 4-21-1992)
7-5-6: SALES AND INSTALLATION PROHIBITED:
The sale and/or installation of plumbing fixtures incapable of meeting the
requirements of the water conservation requirements herein is prohibited. (Ord.
92-6, 4-21-1992)
7-5-7: EFFLUENT WATER SYSTEM:
Unless otherwise herein specifically provided, the practices, proceedings,
rules, regulations and ordinance provisions pertaining to the city of West
Wendover water regulations in title 6, chapter 2 of this code are hereby made
applicable, as nearly as practicable, to the effluent water system. The
effluent water system and users shall be subject to the following provisions:
   A.   The city council shall set by resolution any fees applicable to
effluent water line extensions, effluent water line connections and effluent
water services.
   B.   The public works director shall be charged with management and
administration of the effluent water system.
   C.   To the extent the same may be made applicable to the effluent water
system, the provisions in title 6, chapter 2 of this code concerning the
following subjects are hereby adopted by reference:
6-2-4C: Maintenance of water pressure and shutting down
6-2-4D: Tampering with city property
6-2-4F: Responsibility for equipment
6-2-4G: Rulings of public works director and city council
6-2-5B: Application for service
6-2-5E: Changes in customer's equipment
6-2-5F: Responsibility for connections and equipment
6-2-6:  Main extensions
6-2-8:  General use regulations
6-2-9:  Meters
6-2-10: Credit established for service
6-2-12: Bills for service
6-2-13: Discontinuance or refusal of service
6-2-14: Delinquent payments
 
   D.   The public works director shall determine the number, type, size and
location of extensions, connections and equipment necessary to service any
property with effluent water.
   E.   Each large agricultural water user or park and recreation user is
required to use effluent water for irrigation purposes whenever effluent water
is available for such use. (Ord. 2003-05, 5-20-2003)
7-5-8: VIOLATIONS:
Any structure upon which construction is started or any structure which is
altered, enlarged or repaired, which construction commenced after the effective
date of this chapter and which is in violation of any of the provisions hereof
may be declared a nuisance. Any court of competent jurisdiction may order such
nuisance abated and the owner or agent in charge of such structure shall be
adjudged guilty of maintaining a nuisance and, in addition to any abatement
ordered by the court, punished as provided for in title 1, chapter 4 of this
code. (Ord. 92-6, 4-21-1992; amd. Ord. 2003-05, 5-20-2003)
CHAPTER 6
MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
7-6-1: Title
7-6-2: Consent Required
7-6-3: Application For Permit; Procedures For Issuance
7-6-4: Bond Requirements
7-6-5: Designation Of Route And Time
7-6-6: Moving Procedures; Site Requirements
7-6-1: TITLE:
This Chapter may be cited as MOVEMENT OF BUILDINGS. (Ord. 91-12, 6-4-1991)
7-6-2: CONSENT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to move, or cause to be moved, any building
or structure of any kind or description to any lot, piece or parcel of land
within the City or within three (3) miles of any exterior boundary of the City
or over, along or across any highway, street or alley in the City unless the
consent of the City Council for such moving has been obtained prior to the
move, except as hereinafter provided in this Chapter. (Ord. 91-12, 6-4-1991)
7-6-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; PROCEDURES FOR ISSUANCE:
   A.   Contents Of Application: Except as provided in subsection B hereof, any
person who owns, has any interest in, possesses or controls any building or
structure of any kind or description and who desires or intends to move any
such building or structure in, upon, over, along, across or through any public
highway, street or alley within the City or within three (3) miles of any
exterior boundary of the City, shall first file a written application with the
Building Inspector requesting consent of the City Council to such move and the
issuance of a permit pursuant thereto. The application filed with the Building
Inspector shall set forth the following: (Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
      1.   A description of and the location of the building or structure
proposed to be moved, giving street number, if any, construction, materials,
dimensions and condition of exterior, interior, plumbing and wiring.
      2.   The proposed new location of such building or structure.
      3.   The route over which it is proposed to move the building or
structure and the proposed date of and the estimated time necessary to complete
the move.
      4.   The purpose for which the building or structure is to be used in its
new location.
      5.   A description of the alteration, repair, remodeling and other type
of work that is to be performed upon the building or structure with a
specification of the type of exterior finish that will be on the building or
structure upon completion.
      6.   An accurate estimate of the cost of moving such building or
structure and completion of the work on the building or structure and the
previous and new locations required by this Chapter. (Ord. 91-12, 6-4-1991)
   B.   Public Hearing On Application:
      1.   Said application shall be presented to the City Council at its next
regular meeting after the filing of the application and the City Council shall
set the matter for public hearing. The City Clerk shall give notice of the
time, place and purpose of such hearing by mailing a notice thereof not less
than ten (10) days prior to the date of such hearing to each property owner
owning property within three hundred feet (300') of the exterior limits of the
parcel of property onto which the building or structure is to be moved. For the
purposes of this Chapter, "property owner" shall mean the taxpayer shown upon
the latest assessment rolls of Elko County as being taxable for the property,
the address on the assessment roll to be the address used for mailing of
notice.
      2.   The City Council shall determine whether the application should be
granted as requested, granted subject to specific conditions, or denied. The
Council's determination shall be transmitted to the City Clerk and a copy
mailed to the applicant. (Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
   C.   Exceptions: If the building or structure to be moved is to be moved
more than three (3) miles beyond the City limits of the City; or if said
building or structure to be moved was constructed pursuant to a permit issued
by the Building Inspector's office of the City and in conformity with all
current building codes of the City 1  within a period of sixty (60) days prior
to the date specified for moving; or if said building or structure is a new
building constructed or prefabricated outside the City limits of the City which
has never been occupied or used for the purpose for which it is designed and
which satisfied all applicable requirements of the current building or
construction codes of the City 2 ; or if said building contains under four
hundred (400) square feet of floor space and has not or is not now used for
human habitation, then, in any of these events, the detailed application,
notices and the public hearing provided for in subsections A and B above shall
be dispensed with and an application for a moving permit shall be made directly
to the Building Inspector which shall set forth sufficient information to
establish that the applicant is entitled to a permit without a public hearing.
If, in the opinion of the Building Inspector, the applicant is entitled to a
permit without public hearing pursuant to this subsection, then, upon payment
of a filing fee as set by resolution of the City Council, all other costs
incurred by the City and the filing of the bond as required by Section
7-6-4 of this Chapter, the Building Inspector shall issue a moving permit to
the applicant, subject to the terms and provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 91-
12, 6-4-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 1 of this Title.
2 2. See Chapter 1 of this Title.
7-6-4: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
Prior to the issuance of any moving permit pursuant to this Chapter, the
applicant shall file with the City Clerk a bond, approved as to form by the
City Attorney, in the reasonable amount set by the City Council, at the time of
approval of the application in cases acted on by such Council or by the
Building Inspector in cases acted on by him pursuant to this Chapter, which
bond shall be conditioned:
   A.   That the moving of the building or structure; the necessary repairs,
remodeling and alteration of such building or structure as necessary to bring
it into compliance with all applicable building and construction codes 1 , fire
codes 2  and zoning ordinances 3  of the City; and the removal of all rubbish
and materials from both the old and new building locations and the filling of
all holes, trenches and excavations to grade at both the old and new locations
of the building; and all other work required of the permittee under this
Chapter; shall be completed within the time set by the City Council; and
   B.   That the permittee shall pay for all damages that may accrue to the
highway, streets or alleys, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, fire hydrants and water
or sewer pipes in the City or to any property of any person, in the moving of
said building or structure; and
   C.   That said permittee will pay all damages and costs and expenses
necessary for the removal of, or the changing of, any telephone, telegraph,
electric power, television or any other wires used for public convenience or
utilities in the City, and all damages for the removal of any poles from the
streets, sidewalks or alleys in the City; and
   D.   Said permittee shall pay all other damages, costs or expenses incurred
by the City or any person who, in any manner, is damaged during the process of
moving such building or structure.
Said bond may be sued upon and collected upon by the City or any person or
legal entity in any manner damaged by the moving of such building or structure.
(Ord. 91-12, 6-4-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 1 of this Title.
2 2. See Chapter 2 of this Title.
3 3. See Title 8 of this Code.
7-6-5: DESIGNATION OF ROUTE AND TIME:
If a permit is issued, the Building Inspector shall designate the streets over
which the building or structure may be moved so as to minimize congestion and
traffic hazards on public streets and shall set the time within which the same
shall be moved. (Ord. 91-12, 6-4-1991)
7-6-6: MOVING PROCEDURES; SITE REQUIREMENTS:
Every permittee under this Chapter shall:
   A.   Move the building or structure only over the streets designated by the
Building Inspector.
   B.   Comply with all building and construction codes 1 , fire codes 2  and
any zoning ordinance 3  and all other applicable ordinances and laws upon
relocating the building or structure in the City or within three (3) miles of
the exterior boundaries of the City.
   C.   Remove all rubbish and materials and fill all excavations to existing
grade at the original building site so that the premises are left in a safe and
sanitary condition, if the original site is within the City or within three (3)
miles of the City limits.
   D.   Remove all building material, rubbish and scraps from the new site and
fill in the site to existing grade so that the new site is in a safe, sanitary
and orderly condition.
   E.   Complete the moving of said building or structure, the repair,
remodeling and alteration of such building or structure as necessary to bring
it into compliance with the requirements of the West Wendover Subdivision
Ordinance 4 , and all other applicable codes and ordinances relating to
buildings and construction within the City 5 , and perform all of the duties of
the permittee under the terms of this Chapter within six (6) months from the
date of the issuance of the permit hereunder. Provided, the City Council may,
for good cause shown, extend this completion date. (Ord. 91-12, 6-4-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 1 of this Title.
2 2. See Chapter 2 of this Title.
3 3. See Title 8 of this Code.
4 4. See Title 9 of this Code.
5 5. See Chapter 1 of this Title.
CHAPTER 7
MOBILE HOME PARKS, AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS; MOBILE HOME AND MANUFACTURED
HOME SUBDIVISIONS
(Rep. by Ord. 97-05, 7-15-1997)
CHAPTER 8
AESTHETIC REVIEW
SECTION:
7-8-1: Applicability Of Provisions
7-8-2: Application For Review
7-8-3: Review And Decision
7-8-4: Approval Considerations; Conditions
7-8-5: Remodeling And Reconstruction
7-8-1: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
Aesthetic review shall be required prior to issuance of a building permit for
any building, structure, or other improvement except single-family homes and
residential accessory buildings. (Ord. 96-10, 8-6-1996)
7-8-2: APPLICATION FOR REVIEW:
In all requests for aesthetic review, the applicant shall file the following
data and specifications with the city council:
   A.   Plot plan (3 copies), drawn to scale, showing building locations,
setbacks, location of signs, parking, and any other existing and proposed use
of the property;
   B.   Landscaping plan (3 copies), showing irrigation system and type, size,
and number of plant material;
   C.   Elevation of buildings (3 copies), which shall specify the materials,
type of construction and colors of the proposed exterior of the building,
structure, or other improvement; and
   D.   Floor plans and square footage of the buildings when deemed necessary.
(Ord. 96-10, 8-6-1996)
7-8-3: REVIEW AND DECISION:
The city council shall review the application at the next regularly scheduled
city council meeting for which the matter may be placed on the agenda. At such
time the applicant may present such additional information as it deems
necessary. The council may consider any comments or information from the
public, and the council shall approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the
application by a majority vote of the council members present. A new
application and hearing shall be required for any applicant which desires the
council to reconsider its decision. No building permit shall be issued and no
construction shall begin before approval by the council where aesthetic review
as provided herein is required. (Ord. 96-10, 8-6-1996)
7-8-4: APPROVAL CONSIDERATIONS; CONDITIONS:
The data and specifications submitted shall be considered in terms of
appearance, provision for open space, landscaping, quality of workmanship and
materials, harmony of external design and materials with existing structures,
and any other factors deemed advisable in order to provide aesthetically
pleasing, orderly, and harmonious development of the city and to prohibit the
construction of buildings, structures, or other improvements that are
unsightly, undesirable or obnoxious in appearance. Conditions may be imposed on
any approval of development in order to accomplish the purposes of this
chapter. (Ord. 96-10, 8-6-1996)
7-8-5: REMODELING AND RECONSTRUCTION:
Any remodeling, reconstruction, repainting or resurfacing of the exterior of
any building, structure or improvement shall be subject to an aesthetic review
as described herein; provided, however, the data and specifications required
shall be limited to the changes sought to be made. (Ord. 2006-05, 11-21-2006)
CHAPTER 9
MOBILE HOME AND MOBILE HOME PARK STRUCTURE REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
7-9-1: Definitions
7-9-2: Applicability
7-9-3: Administration
7-9-4: Powers Of Administrator; Enforcement
7-9-5: Enforcement Of Subpoena
7-9-6: Conditions Which Render Mobile Home Substandard
7-9-7: Declaration Of Nuisance; Abatement; Restrictions On Use
7-9-8: Duties Of Agency
7-9-9: Procedure; Notice To Vacate
7-9-10: Prosecution Or Action For Failure To Obey Order
7-9-11: Notice To Vacate; Make Repairs Or Demolish; Extension For Compliance;
Interference Prohibited
7-9-12: Notice To Owner Or Lien Holder; Hearing; Final Order
7-9-13: Objection To Hearing Or Order
7-9-14: Liability For Cost Of Abating Nuisance
7-9-15: Notice Of Demolition, Dismantling Or Order For Repair, Vacation Or
Demolition
7-9-16: Issuance Of Permit
7-9-17: Utilities
7-9-18: Inspections
7-9-19: Identification Of Lots
7-9-20: Management Of Solid Waste
7-9-21: Certificate Of Occupancy
7-9-22: Fees
7-9-23: Service For Electricity, Gas And Water
7-9-24: Unlawful Acts
7-9-25: Criminal And Civil Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-5B-5 of this code.
7-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
AGENCY FOR ENFORCEMENT AND AGENCY: The city of West Wendover.
MOBILE HOME: A vehicular structure without independent motive power, built on a
chassis or frame, which is:
   A.   Designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation;
   B.   Capable of being drawn by a motor vehicle; and
   C.   Used for year-round occupancy as a residence, when connected to
utilities, by one person who maintains a household or by two (2) or more
persons who maintain a common household.
Except as provided in section
7-9-2 of this chapter, the term does not include recreational vehicle.
NUISANCE: Includes:
   A.   Any nuisance as defined in Nevada Revised Statutes 40.140.
   B.   As determined by the agency to have:
      1. Insufficient ventilation or illumination; or
      2. Inadequate or unsanitary sewage or plumbing facilities.
   C.   As determined by the county health officer to be:
      1. Unclean;
      2. Any situation which renders air, food or drink unwholesome or
detrimental to the health of human beings; or
      3. Any situation which is dangerous to human life or is detrimental to
the health of human beings. (Ord. 2000-06, 10-3-2000)
7-9-2: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter apply equally to movable structures without
motive power which are equipped for occupancy for industrial or commercial
purposes, recreational vehicles, factory built occupancy for industrial or
commercial purposes, recreational vehicles, factory built housing, modular
buildings and mobile home accessory buildings and structures when such
structures or vehicles are used as a dwelling for a period of thirty (30) days
or more at one location. (Ord. 2000-06, 10-3-2000)
7-9-3: ADMINISTRATION:
The provisions of this chapter shall be administered by the city officer so
designated by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 2000-06, 10-3-2000)
7-9-4: POWERS OF ADMINISTRATOR; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   In order to carry out the provisions of this chapter, the administrator
or a person designated by the agency for enforcement may:
      1.   Issue subpoena for the attendance of witnesses or the production of
books, papers and documents; and
      2.   Conduct hearings.
   B.   The administrator may make inspections of and approve or disapprove
plans and specifications for proposed mobile home parks and alteration of
mobile home parks. When it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of
the provisions of this chapter or when the administrator or his authorized
representative has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any mobile
home, mobile home lot or mobile home park any condition or violation which
makes it unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the administrator or his authorized
representative may enter it at any reasonable time to inspect it or to perform
any duty imposed on the administrator with respect to it. The administrator
shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having
charge or control of the mobile home or mobile home lot or park, and if that
person is located, shall present to him proper credentials and request entry.
If that person is not located or entry is refused, the administrator or his
authorized representative has recourse to every remedy provided by law to
secure entry.
   C.   A magistrate shall issue a warrant to permit an inspection if the
administrator has shown:
      1.   Evidence that a violation of a provision of this chapter or a
regulation adopted under it has been committed or is being committed; or
      2.   That the mobile home or mobile home lot or park has been chosen for
an inspection on the basis of a general administrative plan for the enforcement
of the provisions of this chapter and the regulations adopted under it.
   D.   The administrator may adopt regulations consistent with Nevada Revised
Statutes chapter 461A and NAC 461A to carry out the purposes of this chapter
and to govern the use and occupancy of mobile homes and premises. Further the
administrator may enforce regulations under NAC 461A.
   E.   The administrator may adopt regulations consistent with Nevada Revised
Statutes chapter 461A and NAC 461A to govern the construction and alteration of
mobile home parks and lots within the parks and the abatement of any
substandard, unsafe or unsanitary condition of a mobile home park and enforce
such regulations of NAC 461A.
   F.   When construction, rebuilding or other work is being performed or is
about to be performed in violation of the provisions of this chapter or a
regulation adopted or enforced pursuant to this chapter, the administrator may
order the work stopped by written notice served on any person performing the
work or causing the work to be done, and the person shall immediately stop the
work until authorized by the administrator to proceed. (Ord. 2000-06, 10-3-
2000)
7-9-5: ENFORCEMENT OF SUBPOENA:
   A.   The district court for the county in which any investigation or hearing
is being conducted by the agency for enforcement pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter may compel the attendance of witnesses, the giving of testimony
and the production of books and papers as required by a subpoena issued by the
agency.
   B.   If any witness refuses to attend or testify or produce any papers
required by a subpoena, the agency may report to the district court for the
county in which the investigation or hearing is pending by petition, setting
forth that:
      1.   Due notice has been given of the time and place of attendance of the
witness or the production of the books and papers;
      2.   The witness has been subpoenaed in the manner prescribed in this
chapter; and
      3.   The witness has failed or refused to attend or produce the papers
required by subpoena before the agency in the investigation or hearing named in
the investigation or hearing and asking for an order of the court compelling
the witness to attend and testify or produce the books or papers before the
agency.
   C.   Upon such petition, the court shall enter an order directing the
witness to appear before the court at a time and place to be fixed by the court
in its order, the time to be not more than ten (10) days from the date of the
order, and then and there show cause why he has not attended or testified or
produced the books or papers before the agency. A certified copy of the order
must be served upon the witness.
   D.   If it appears to the court that the subpoena was regularly issued by
the agency, the court shall enter an order that the witness appear before the
agency at the time and place fixed in the order and testify or produce the
required books or papers, and upon failure to obey the order the witness shall
be dealt with as for contempt of court. (Ord. 2000-06, 10-3-2000)
7-9-6: CONDITIONS WHICH RENDER MOBILE HOME SUBSTANDARD:
Any mobile home where there exists any of the following listed conditions which
endangers the life, health, property, safety or welfare of the public or the
occupants of the mobile home is hereby declared to be substandard:
   A.   Inadequate sanitation;
   B.   Structural hazards;
   C.   Nuisance;
   D.   Hazardous wiring;
   E.   Hazardous plumbing;
   F.   Hazardous mechanical equipment;
   G.   Faulty weather protection;
   H.   A condition as to cause a fire or explosion;
   I.   Faulty materials of construction; or
   J.   Hazardous or unsanitary premises. (Ord. 2000-06, 10-3-2000)
7-9-7: DECLARATION OF NUISANCE; ABATEMENT; RESTRICTIONS ON USE:
Any mobile home which is determined to be substandard by the agency is hereby
declared to be a nuisance and:
   A.   Must be abated by repair, demolition or removal; and
   B.   Must not be rented, leased or sold or offered for rent, lease or sale
until the nuisance is abated. (Ord. 2000-06, 10-3-2000)
7-9-8: DUTIES OF AGENCY:
   A.   When the agency has inspected or caused to be inspected any mobile home
and has determined that the mobile home is substandard, proceedings to cause
the mobile home to be repaired, vacated or demolished may be commenced.
   B.   The agency may issue an order directed to the owner and lien holder of
the mobile home and the owner of the land on which the mobile home is located.
A copy of such an order shall be mailed to the division as defined in Nevada
Revised Statutes chapter 461A. The order must contain:
      1.   The street address and legal description sufficient for
identification of the mobile home and premises upon which the mobile home is
located, and the serial number of the mobile home.
      2.   A statement that the agency has found the mobile home to be
substandard with a brief and concise description of the conditions found to
render the mobile home substandard under the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   A statement as follows of the action required to be taken as
determined by the agency:
         a.   If the agency has determined that the mobile home must be
repaired, the order must state that all required permits must be secured and
the work physically commenced within sixty (60) days from the date of the order
and completed within such time as the agency shall determine is reasonable
under all of the circumstances.
         b.   If the agency has determined that the mobile home must be
vacated, the order must state that the mobile home must be vacated within a
certain time after the date of the order as determined by the agency to be
reasonable.
         c.   If the agency has determined that the mobile home must be
demolished, the order must state that the mobile home must be vacated within
such time as the agency determines is reasonable, not to exceed sixty (60) days
after the date of the order, that all required permits must be secured within
sixty (60) days after the date of the order, and that the demolition must be
completed within such time as the agency determines is reasonable.
      4.   Statements advising that if any required repair or demolition work,
where the mobile home was not required to be vacated, is not commenced within
the time specified, the agency will order the mobile home vacated and posted to
prevent further occupancy until the work is completed, and may proceed to cause
the work to be done and charge the costs of repair as provided by this chapter.
      5.   Statements advising that any person having any title or legal
interest in the mobile home may appeal from the order or any action of the
agency and that the appeal must be made in writing and filed with the agency
within ten (10) days after the date of the service of the order and that
failure to appeal constitutes a waiver of all rights to an administrative
hearing and determination of the matter. (Ord. 2000-06, 10-3-2000)
7-9-9: PROCEDURE; NOTICE TO VACATE:
   A.   The following procedure must be followed by the agency in ordering that
a substandard mobile home be repaired, vacated or demolished:
      1.   If any mobile home is declared substandard under this chapter it
must either be repaired or it may be demolished at the option of the owner and
lien holder.
      2.   If the mobile home is in such condition as to make it immediately
dangerous to the life, property or safety of the public or of the occupants, it
must be ordered to be vacated.
   B.   Every notice to vacate must, in addition to being served, be posted in
a conspicuous place on the mobile home, and must be in substantially the
following form:
   DO NOT ENTER
   UNSAFE TO OCCUPY
It is a misdemeanor to occupy this structure or to remove or deface this
notice.
The notice must also briefly and concisely specify the conditions which
necessitate the posting.
   C.   A person shall not remain in or enter any mobile home to which a notice
pursuant to this section has been posted, except that entry may be made to
repair, demolish or remove the mobile home under a permit from the agency. A
person shall not remove or deface any such notice after it is posted until the
required repairs, demolition or removal has been completed and a certificate of
occupancy has been issued. (Ord. 2000-06, 10-3-2000)
7-9-10: PROSECUTION OR ACTION FOR FAILURE TO OBEY ORDER:
If, after any order of the agency has become final, the person to whom the
order is directed fails to obey the order, the agency may cause the person to
be prosecuted or institute any appropriate action to abate the substandard
mobile home. (Ord. 2000-06, 10-3-2000)
7-9-11: NOTICE TO VACATE; MAKE REPAIRS OR DEMOLISH; EXTENSION FOR COMPLIANCE;
INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED:
   A.   If structural modification is being made and the required repair or
demolition is not commenced within thirty (30) days after a final order issued
under this chapter becomes effective:
      1.   The agency may cause the mobile home described in the order to be
vacated by posting in a conspicuous place on the mobile home a notice reading:
   SUBSTANDARD STRUCTURE
   DO NOT OCCUPY
It is a misdemeanor to occupy this structure or to remove or deface this
notice.
      2.   A person shall not occupy any mobile home to which a notice pursuant
to this section has been posted. A person shall not remove or deface any notice
so posted until the repairs, demolition or removal ordered by the agency have
been completed and a certificate of occupancy has been issued.
      3.   The agency may, in addition to any other remedy provided in this
section:
         a.   Cause the mobile home to be repaired to the extent necessary to
correct the conditions which render the mobile home substandard as set forth in
the order; or
         b.   If the order required demolition, cause the mobile home to be
sold and demolished, or to be demolished and the materials, rubble and debris
removed and the lot cleaned. Any such repair or demolition work must be
accomplished and the cost paid and recovered in the manner provided in this
chapter. Any surplus realized from the sale of the mobile home or from its
demolition, above the cost of demolition and of cleaning the lot, must be paid
to the person lawfully entitled to the money.
   B.   Upon receipt of any application from the person required to conform to
the order and an agreement by the person that he will comply with the order if
allowed additional time, the agency may grant an extension, not to exceed an
additional one hundred twenty (120) days, within which to complete the repairs
or demolition, if the agency determines that an extension will not create or
perpetrate a situation imminently dangerous to life or property. The agency's
authority to extend time is limited to the physical repair or demolition of the
mobile home and must not extend the time to appeal the order.
   C.   A person shall not obstruct, impede or interfere with any officer,
employee, contractor or authorized representative of the agency or with any
person who owns or holds any interest in a mobile home which has been ordered
repaired, vacated or demolished under the provisions of this chapter, or with
any person to whom the mobile home has been lawfully sold pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, whenever the authorized person is engaged in the
work of repairing, vacating and repairing, or demolishing the mobile home
pursuant to the provision of this chapter, or in performing any necessary act
preliminary to or incidental to such work or authorized or directed pursuant to
this chapter.
   D.   The agency may require the plans for repair to be prepared by an
architect or engineer at the expense of the owner. (Ord. 2000-06, 10-3-2000)
7-9-12: NOTICE TO OWNER OR LIEN HOLDER; HEARING; FINAL ORDER:
   A.   Any person against whom an action is taken pursuant to this chapter is
entitled to notice in the form of an order and a hearing before the agency for
enforcement in accordance with regulations of the agency.
   B.   Upon request for such a hearing, the owner or lien holder of the mobile
home or the owner of the land on which the mobile home is located must be
granted a hearing on the matter before the administrator authorized to conduct
such hearings. This request must be made to the agency within ten (10) days
after personal service or acknowledgment of receipt by mail of the order. If
the owner of the land on which the mobile home is located submits a sworn
written statement denying responsibility for the presence of the mobile home on
his land within the prescribed period of time, this statement shall be deemed a
request for a hearing which does not require the presence of the owner who
submitted the request. If such a request is not received within ten (10) days
from the date of personal service or acknowledgment of receipt by mail of the
order, the agency may abate the substandard mobile home.
   C.   Upon receipt of a request for a hearing or a sworn written statement by
the owner of the land on which the mobile home is located, denying
responsibility for the presence of the mobile home on his land, the agency
shall set a time and place for a hearing and shall give the petitioner written
notice of it. Receipt of the request for a hearing or a statement by the owner
of the land on which the mobile home is located, operates to delay any action
by the agency until after the hearing.
   D.   Upon receipt of a request for a hearing the agency shall give a second
notice directing the owner and lien holder of the mobile home and the owner of
the land on which the mobile home is located to appear at a stated time and
place to show cause why the substandard mobile home should not be abated.
   E.   At the time and place fixed in the notice given pursuant to subsection
D of this section the authorized representative of the agency or other board,
commission or official authorized to conduct the hearing shall proceed to hear
the testimony of the officers or employees of the agency and the owner of the
mobile home or his representatives respecting the condition of the mobile home,
the estimated cost of its repair or removal and any other pertinent matters.
Upon the conclusion of the hearing, the person conducting the hearing shall
render a decision in the matter which must be reported to the agency. If the
mobile home is found to be a nuisance, the owner, lien holder or owner of the
land must be ordered to abate the nuisance within thirty (30) days after the
date of personal service or acknowledgment of receipt by mail of the order.
   F.   The agency shall post a copy of the order to abate the substandard
mobile home in a conspicuous place on the mobile home. A copy of the order must
also be mailed or delivered by personal service to the owner of the property on
which the mobile home is located, and to any lien holder of record of the
mobile home. (Ord. 2000-06, 10-3-2000)
7-9-13: OBJECTION TO HEARING OR ORDER:
Any owner or other interested person who has an objection to the hearing or the
agency ordering the abatement of a nuisance must bring an action in a court of
competent jurisdiction within thirty (30) days after the date of the posting of
the order on the mobile home or receipt of the order pursuant to section
7-9-12 of this chapter or the objection shall be deemed waived. (Ord. 2000-06,
10-3-2000)
7-9-14: LIABILITY FOR COST OF ABATING NUISANCE:
The owner or the lien holder of the mobile home is liable for the cost of
abating the nuisance. If the mobile home is in such condition that
identification numbers are not available to determine ownership or the agency
is unable to locate the owner or the lien holder of the mobile home, the owner
of the land on which the mobile home is located is liable for the costs. (Ord.
2000-06, 10-3-2000)
7-9-15: NOTICE OF DEMOLITION, DISMANTLING OR ORDER FOR REPAIR, VACATION OR
DEMOLITION:
A notice identifying each mobile home which has been demolished, dismantled or
the subject of an order issued pursuant to section
7-9-12 of this chapter, must be sent to the division as defined in Nevada
Revised Statutes chapter 461A within fifteen (15) days after the demolition,
dismantling or completion of all proceedings, including appeals, conducted in
connection with the order. The notice must contain all available evidence of
ownership or the certificate of title. (Ord. 2000-06, 10-3-2000)
7-9-16: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
The issuance of a permit based upon plans and specifications does not preclude
the agency for enforcement from thereafter:
   A.   Requiring the holder of the permit to correct any errors in the plans
and specifications; or
   B.   Preventing occupancy of the mobile home park if the agency finds that
the park has been constructed in violation of NAC 461A.010 to 461A.300,
inclusive. (Ord. 2000-06, 10-3-2000)
7-9-17: UTILITIES:
An applicant for a permit to construct a mobile home park must show in his
plans and specifications that the following utility services will be available
for the proposed park and each mobile home lot within the park:
   A.   A source and continuing supply of potable water. The applicant must
submit to the agency for enforcement evidence from the state engineer, from the
utility which supplies the water or from another appropriate authority that
such water is available.
   B.   An adequate system for the collection and disposal of all sewage.
   C.   A source or sources of energy adequate to meet:
      1.   The demands of the equipment installed in the mobile homes,
buildings and other structures in the park; and
      2.   The need for exterior lighting and any other need for external power
in the park. (Ord. 2000-06, 10-3-2000)
7-9-18: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   If the agency for enforcement does not provide the service of
inspecting projects of construction or repair, the holder of the permit must
engage a qualified inspector to perform inspections of the mobile home park
while it is under construction.
   B.   The inspector must be registered as a professional engineer or
architect in Nevada or be some other person who is approved by the agency for
enforcement. (Ord. 2000-06, 10-3-2000)
   C.   The inspector shall:
      1.   Inspect all phases of construction or repair of the park, including
the installing of underground facilities, the grading and paving, and the
concrete, plumbing, mechanical and electrical work. These inspections must be
performed pursuant to the provisions of the international building code, which
is hereby incorporated by reference. (Ord. 2000-06, 10-3-2000; amd. Ord. 2005-
07, 12-20-2005)
      2.   Submit to the agency for enforcement periodic written reports on the
progress of the construction.
      3.   After the construction is completed, certify in writing to the
agency for enforcement that the park conforms to the plans and specifications
approved by that agency. (Ord. 2000-06, 10-3-2000)
7-9-19: IDENTIFICATION OF LOTS:
   A.   Each mobile home lot must be numbered or designated by a street or lot
number or by another method that adequately identifies the lot. The designation
must be displayed on:
      1.   A location facing the roadway; or
      2.   The front of the mobile home.
   B.   The boundaries of each lot must be defined by corner markers or other
adequate means. The inside surface of any fence or windbreak erected parallel
to and delineating those boundaries or any perimeter wall or other enclosure of
the park erected inside the property line shall be deemed to be the boundary of
the lot. (Ord. 2000-06, 10-3-2000)
7-9-20: MANAGEMENT OF SOLID WASTE:
   A.   All garbage cans and other containers for refuse must be:
      1.   Structurally strong and impervious to rats, insects and water;
      2.   Easily filled, emptied and cleaned;
      3.   Furnished with side handles or a bail; and
      4.   Provided with tightly fitting covers.
Plastic bags may be used as liners for the containers but must not be used
without the container for storage of garbage or refuse in the mobile home park.
The use of fifty five (55) gallon drums as containers for refuse is prohibited.
   B.   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in a mobile home park
must be conducted in a way that does not result in a hazard to health, the
harborage of rodents, the breeding of insects, a risk of accident, fire or air
pollution. Containers for garbage must be stored on:
      1.   A slab of concrete or asphalt or other material with a hard surface;
      2.   A fixed platform which is at least twelve inches (12") above the
ground; or
      3.   A manufactured or movable platform.
   C.   Containers to be used for bulk storage of garbage and rubbish must be
placed on concrete slabs or platforms which are constructed so as to minimize
spillage onto adjacent areas and must be equipped with drains properly
connected to a system of sewers approved by the agency for enforcement. In the
immediate vicinity of any container for bulk storage there must be a water
faucet for use in cleaning the container or some other means for cleaning it
which is approved by the agency for enforcement. Each such container must be
equipped with a self-closing lid.
   D.   If commercial collection units are being used, all refuse must be
collected twice weekly. If a suitable service for collection is not available
from a municipal agency but a private service is available, the operator of the
mobile home park shall arrange to have the private service. All solid waste at
the mobile home park must be collected and transported in covered vehicles or
covered containers.
   E.   If neither a municipal nor a private service for the disposal is
available, the operator of the park shall have all the solid waste disposed of
in a manner and at a site approved by the agency for enforcement.
   F.   If the agency for enforcement approves the use of incinerators for
refuse, the incinerators must be constructed in accordance with plans and
specifications approved by that agency. (Ord. 2000-06, 10-3-2000)
7-9-21: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   No mobile home park or lot within a mobile home park covered by
sections
7-9-16 to
7-9-23 of this chapter, inclusive, shall be used or occupied unless or until
the division or agency for enforcement has issued a certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. 2000-06, 10-3-2000)
   B.   Upon final inspection, when it is determined that the mobile home park
complies with the provisions of sections
7-9-16 to
7-9-23 of this chapter, inclusive, and compliance with the applicable minimum
landscaping standards as set forth by a council resolution concerning minimum
standards and specifications for landscaping and aesthetics, a certificate of
occupancy shall be issued to the holder of the permit by the division or
designated agency for enforcement. (Ord. 04-04, 12-7-2004)
   C.   If the division of the agency for enforcement finds that no substantial
hazard will result from occupancy of a mobile home park or portion thereof
before the same is completed in full, it may, upon request, issue a temporary
certificate of occupancy for a specified period of time or until the park is
completed. (Ord. 2000-06, 10-3-2000)
7-9-22: FEES:
A fund for manufactured housing. Expenses of enforcement of this chapter must
be paid from this fund. (Ord. 2000-06, 10-3-2000)
7-9-23: SERVICE FOR ELECTRICITY, GAS AND WATER:
   A.   Each mobile home park constructed after July 1, 1981, but before
October 1, 1989, must provide direct electrical and gas service from the
utility to each lot if those services are available.
   B.   Each mobile home park constructed after October 1, 1989, must provide
direct:
      1.   Electrical and gas service from a public utility or a city, county
or other governmental entity which provides electrical or gas service, to each
lot if those services are available.
      2.   Water service from a public utility or a city, county or other
governmental entity which provides water service to the park if that service is
available. (Ord. 2000-06, 10-3-2000)
7-9-24: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for the person ordered to abate a nuisance under this
chapter to fail or refuse to remove or abate the nuisance within sixty (60)
days after the date of personal service or acknowledgment of receipt by mail of
the order. After the expiration of the sixty (60) days, the agency may abate
the nuisance.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to use, cause to be used or permit to be
used for occupancy:
      1.   Any mobile home which does not comply with the safety standards for
the installation, support and tie down of mobile homes required by Nevada
Revised Statutes 489.251.
      2.   Any mobile home that is not fit for the use for which it was
intended or could cause an unreasonable risk or make it immediately dangerous
to the life, health, property, safety or welfare of the public or of the
occupants.
      3.   Any mobile home in an unsanitary condition.
      4.   Any mobile home which is structurally unsound or does not protect
its occupants against the elements.
      5.   Any mobile home which has been declared by the agency to be
substandard. (Ord. 2000-06, 10-3-2000)
7-9-25: CRIMINAL AND CIVIL PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who knowingly or wilfully violates any of the provisions of
this chapter or any order issued by the agency for enforcement is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   B.   Any person who knowingly or wilfully violates any provision of this
chapter or any regulation issued pursuant to it is liable for a civil penalty
of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation or for each
day of a continuing violation. The agency for enforcement may institute an
action in the appropriate court to collect any civil penalties arising under
this section.
   C.   All money collected as civil penalties pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter must be deposited in the general fund of the city. (Ord. 2000-06,
10-3-2000)
TITLE 8
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ZONING TITLE AND INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
8-1-1: Title
8-1-2: Interpretation And Application Of Provisions
8-1-1: TITLE:
This Title shall be known and cited as the WEST WENDOVER ZONING ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-1-2: INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
In its interpretation and application, the provisions of this Title shall be
held to be minimum requirements, shall be liberally construed in favor of the
City and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any other power granted
by the Nevada Revised Statutes. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Rules Of Word Construction
8-2-2: Definitions
8-2-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
The language set forth in this Title shall be interpreted in accordance with
the following rules of construction:
   A.   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
   B.   Words in the singular include the plural and vice versa.
   C.   The word "shall" is always mandatory, and the word "may" is permissive.
   D.   The word "persons" includes an association, firm, partnership or
corporation as well as an individual.
   E.   The word "occupied" and the word "used" shall be considered as meaning
the same as the words "intended", "arranged" or "designed to be used or
occupied".
   F.   The word "dwelling" includes the word "residence".
   G.   The word "lot" includes the words "plot" or "parcel". (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-
1991)
8-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms, whenever used in this Title, shall have the meanings
indicated:
ABUTTING: The condition of two (2) adjoining properties having a common
property line or boundary, including cases where two (2) or more lots adjoin
only at a corner or corners but not including cases where adjoining lots are
separated by a street or alley.
ADJOINING, ADJACENT: The condition of being near to or close to but not
necessarily having a common dividing line; e.g., two (2) properties which are
separated only by a street or alley shall be considered as adjoining one
another.
ADULT BOOKSTORE: An establishment which merchandise is printed material or
movies which are intended to appeal to the prurient interests of the reader.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A motion picture theater whose program, during
the time of its operation, contains one or more motion pictures which are rated
"X" by the Code Rating Administration of the Motion Picture Association of
America or are not rated, and whose program is intended to appeal to the
prurient interests of the viewer.
AGRICULTURE: The practice of cultivating the soil, producing crops and raising
livestock.
ALLEY: A. A street or highway within a City block set apart for public use,
vehicular traffic and local convenience; or
   B.   A street or highway which primarily furnishes access to the rear
entrances of abutting property.
ARTERIAL STREET: As indicated in the officially adopted City of West Wendover
Master Plan.
BLOCK: A piece or parcel of land or group of lots entirely surrounded by public
rights of way, streams, railroads or parks or a combination thereof.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and used
for the support, shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, personal property or
chattels of any kind.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A subordinate building on the same lot with a principal
building or use, the use of which is customarily accessory and incidental to
the main use of the principal building or use. When attached to the principal
building, such accessory building shall be considered a part of the principal
building for purposes of setback and yard regulations.
BUILDING, HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from grade to the highest
point of the building.
BUILDING INSPECTOR: The office of the city manager of the city of West
Wendover.
BUILDING LINE: A line between which and the street right of way line no
building or structure or portion thereof shall be erected, constructed or
otherwise established.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building or where the context so indicates, a group of
buildings, within which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which the
building is situated.
CARPORT: An accessory building, attached or detached, having one or more open
sides, used by occupants of the principal building for automobile shelter or
storage.
CHILDCARE CENTER: Except as provided hereafter, a public or private
establishment providing care on a temporary or permanent basis to children for
compensation received for the care of any of those children. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, a conditional use permit pursuant to section
8-5A-3 of this title shall not be required for providing childcare to fewer
than five (5) children, regardless of age, in a residence in a residential
zone. Further, children within the third degree of consanguinity or affinity to
the owner or occupant of the home shall not be considered in determining the
number of children being cared for, and a home in which a person provides care
for the children of a friend or neighbor for not more than four (4) weeks,
regardless of the number of children, shall not be required to obtain a
conditional use permit if the person who provides the care does not regularly
engage in that activity.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of West Wendover.
CLINIC: A building or part thereof in which ambulatory patients are provided
diagnostic, therapeutic or preventative medical, surgical, dental or optical
treatment by a doctor or a group of doctors acting jointly, but not providing
for overnight residence of patients.
COLLECTOR, STREET: As indicated in the officially adopted city of West Wendover
master plan.
COMMON OPEN SPACE: A parcel or parcels of land or an area of water or a
combination of land and water within the site designated for planned unit
residential development which is designed and intended for the use or enjoyment
of the residents of the development. Common open space may contain such
complementary structures and improvements as are necessary and appropriate for
the benefit and enjoyment of such residents.
CONDITIONAL APPROVAL: An affirmative action by the commission or city council
indicating the approval of preliminary plat will be forthcoming upon compliance
with certain specified stipulations.
CONDITIONAL USE: A use permitted in zoning district regulations subject to a
finding by the city council that all special conditions and requirements
imposed shall be met.
CONDOMINIUM: An estate in real property consisting of an undivided parcel of
real property together with:
   A.   A separate interest in space in a residential, industrial or commercial
building on such real property, such as, but not restricted to, an apartment,
office or store; or
   B.   A separate interest in space only, without any building or structure,
to be used for a mobile home.
A "condominium" may include, in addition, a separate interest in other portions
of such real property. Such estate may, with respect to the duration of its
enjoyment, be either an estate of an inheritance or perpetual estate, an estate
for life or an estate for years.
CONSTRUCTION YARD: An area on, abutting or adjacent to a major construction or
demolition site used on a temporary basis for the parking and storage of
equipment used in the project and the storage and preparation of materials and
other items used in the project, including construction offices and shops.
CONVALESCENT HOME: See definition of Nursing Or Convalescent Home.
DEVELOPMENT MASTER PLAN: A preliminary map showing the tentative layout of
streets and arrangements of land uses, including the location of schools,
recreation areas and other community facilities for the entirety of a large
landholding of which a portion is to be submitted as a preliminary plat; a map
meeting the requirements of this code.
DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT: A business enterprise, activity or use of land
consisting of sales or services rendered to patrons who normally receive the
products or utilize the services while in motor vehicles upon the premises,
including, but not limited to, gas service stations, drive-in restaurants,
drive-in laundry and dry cleaning pick up and drive-in banks.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building or portion thereof containing two (2) or
more dwelling units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A detached building containing only one dwelling unit
either which is constructed under the international building code, or which
includes manufactured homes developed to specific standards in accordance with
Nevada Revised Statutes provisions and a residential facility for groups in
which ten (10) or fewer unrelated persons with disabilities reside, and halfway
houses for recovering alcohol and drug abusers, as defined by Nevada Revised
Statutes.
DWELLING UNIT (DU): A building or portion thereof designed as a unit for
occupancy by one family for cooking, living and sleeping purposes.
EASEMENT: A grant by the owner of the use of a strip of land by the public, a
corporation or persons for specific and designated uses and purposes.
ENGINEERING PLANS: Plans, profiles, cross sections and other required details
for the construction of public improvements, prepared in conjunction with the
plat and in compliance with standards of design and construction approved by
the city council.
ERECTED: Built, constructed, altered, reconstructed or moved upon; any physical
operations on a premises which are required for construction, excavation, fill,
drainage and the like shall be considered a part of erection.
ESSENTIAL SERVICE: The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by a
public utility of underground, surface or overhead gas, electrical, steam,
water transmission or distribution systems, communication, supply or disposal
systems, poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, cables, fire alarm boxes,
police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants and other similar equipment and
accessories in connection therewith reasonably necessary for the furnishing of
adequate service by such public utilities for the public health, safety or
general welfare, not including buildings, electric substations and transmission
towers.
EXCAVATION: Any breaking of ground, except common gardening and grounds care
and general agriculture.
EXCEPTIONS: Any parcel of land located within the perimeter of the subdivision
but which is not included in the plat.
FAMILY: An individual living alone or one or more persons living together who
are related by blood, marriage or other bond and their dependents, living as a
single household in a dwelling unit. A "family" includes its domestic
employees.
FINAL APPROVAL: Unconditional approval of the final plat by the city council as
evidenced by certification on the plat by the Mayor of the City. Final approval
constitutes authorization to record the plat.
GAS SERVICE STATION: An establishment retailing motor fuels and lubricants
directly to the public on the premises, including incidental sale of minor auto
accessories and services.
GENERAL PLAN: The adopted plan or parts thereof providing for the future growth
and improvement of the City and for the general location and coordination of
streets and highways, schools and recreation areas, public building sites and
other physical development which shall have been duly adopted by the City
Council.
GRADE: The average elevation of the finished ground surface adjacent to the
exterior walls of a building or base of a structure.
HOME OCCUPATION: A use customarily carried on by the dwelling occupant and
incidental to the primary residential purpose, providing the residential
character of the property is not changed.
HOSPITAL: A building or group of buildings in which sick or injured persons are
given medical or surgical treatment, examination or care, including overnight
residence, together with related facilities, e.g., laboratories, training
facilities, staff residences, outpatient department and similar facilities
which are an integral part of the principal use.
HOTEL, MOTEL: A building or group of buildings used primarily for accommodation
of transient guests in rooms or suites.
JUNKYARD: An open area where waste, used or secondhand materials are bought and
sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or handled, including, but
not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber tires and
bottles. A "junkyard" includes automobile wrecking yards and any area of more
than one hundred twenty (120) square feet for storage, keeping or abandonment
of junk, but does not include uses confined entirely within enclosed buildings.
LANDOWNER: The legal or beneficial owner or owners of all the land proposed to
be included in the planned unit development. The holder of an option or
contract of purchase or any other person having an enforceable proprietary
interest in such land is a landowner for the purposes of this Title.
LOADING SPACE: An off-street space provided for the temporary parking of a
vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials, situated on the
same lot with a building and entirely outside the right of way of any public
street or alley.
LOT: A piece or parcel of land separated from every other piece or parcel by
description, as in a subdivision or on a parcel map, or by metes and bounds,
for purposes of sale, lease or separate use.
Corner Lot: A lot abutting on two (2) or more intersecting streets.
Double-Frontage Lot: A lot abutting two (2) parallel or approximately parallel
streets.
Interior Lot: A lot having but one side abutting on a street.
Key Lot: An interior lot, one side of which is contiguous to the rear line of a
corner lot.
LOT AREA: The total area of a lot within the lot lines as measured on a
horizontal plane.
LOT COVERAGE: That part or percentage of a lot occupied by principal and/or
accessory buildings.
LOT DEPTH: The shortest distance, measured on a line parallel to the axis of
the lot, between points on the front and rear lot lines.
LOT LINE, FRONT: For interior lots, the lot line abutting on a street; for
corner lots, the shorter lot line abutting on a street. When a corner lot or
double frontage lot has nearly equal frontage on two (2) streets, designation
of the front lot line shall be at the discretion of the lot owner.
LOT LINE, REAR: The lot line opposite and farthest from the front lot line. For
a pointed or irregular lot, the rear lot line shall be an imaginary line,
parallel to and farthest from the front lot line, parallel to and farthest and
wholly within the lot.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line; in the case
of a corner lot, the lot line abutting the side street is termed an "exterior
side lot line"; all other side lot lines are termed "interior side lot lines".
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is part of a subdivision plat recorded in the Elko
County Recorder's office prior to the effective date hereof, or a lot or parcel
described by metes and bounds and having its description recorded in the Elko
County Recorder's office prior to the effective date hereof.
LOT WIDTH: A. In case of a rectangular lot or a lot abutting on the outside of
a street curve; the distance between side lot lines measured parallel to the
street or to the street chord and measured on the street chord.
   B.   In the case of a lot abutting on the inside of a street curve; the
distance between the side lot lines measured parallel to the street or the
street chord at the real line of the dwelling or, where there is no dwelling,
thirty feet (30') behind the minimum front setback line.
MAJOR ELECTRICAL TRANSMISSION LINE: Any electrical line carrying an electrical
load of 66 kV and above.
METALLURGY: The reduction or extraction of metals from their ores by
mechanical, physical or chemical methods, including their refinement and
preparation for use as raw materials.
MINING: The extraction from the earth of gravel, stone, sand and metallic or
nonmetallic ore and the crushing, washing, grading, storage and loading for
transportation thereof.
MOBILE HOME: As defined in Section
8-5B-2 of this Title, except when used in reference to qualifying single-family
dwellings in Chapter 5, Article A of this Title.
MOBILE HOME LOT: As defined in Section
8-5B-2 of this Title.
MOBILE HOME PARK: As defined in Section
8-5B-2 of this Title.
NEIGHBORHOOD PLAN: A plan prepared by the City to guide the platting of
remaining undeveloped parcels in a partially built-up neighborhood so as to
make reasonable use of all land, correlate street patterns and achieve the best
possible land use relationships.
NONCONFORMING USE: Uses existing at the effective date hereof, but not in
accordance with the provisions and requirements contained herein.
NURSING OR CONVALESCENT HOME: An establishment providing bed care or chronic or
convalescent care for one or more persons, exclusive of relatives, who, by
reason of illness or physical infirmity, are unable to properly care for
themselves; excluding, however, institutions for the care of alcoholics, drug
addicts and persons with mental or communicable diseases.
OFF-STREET: Land which is not within the right of way of any street or alley.
OFFICIAL STREET AND HIGHWAY PLAN: A plan as adopted or amended by the City
Council which provides for development of a system of major streets and
highways.
OWNER: The person or persons holding title by deed to land or holding title as
vendees under land contract or holding any other title or record.
PARCEL MAP: As defined in the Nevada Revised Statutes.
PARKING LOT: An area other than for single-family dwellings used for the off-
street parking of more than two (2) motor vehicles, including parking spaces,
access and maneuvering aisles.
PARKING SPACE: A fully accessible space adequate for the temporary parking of
permitted vehicles, situated entirely outside the right of way of any public
street or alley and in such size as is specified under subsection 8-9-4D of
this Title.
PARTIES IN INTEREST: A term identifying the owners of property within three
hundred feet (300') of specific property.
PEDESTRIANWAY: A public or private walk through a block from street to street
or from a street to a school, park, recreation area or other public facility.
PLANNED SHOPPING CENTER: A business development not divided by a street and
characterized by an organized and concentrated grouping of retail and service
outlets served by a common circulation and parking system.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: An area of land controlled by a landowner which is to
be developed as a single entity for a number of dwelling units, the plans for
which do not correspond in lot size, bulk or type of dwelling, density, lot
coverage and required open space to the regulations established in any one
residential district created, from time to time, under the provisions of this
Title.
PLAT: A map of a subdivision; the same as "map" as defined in the Nevada
Revised Statutes.
Final Plat: A plat of all or part of a subdivision essentially conforming to an
approved preliminary plat, prepared in accordance with provisions of subsection
8-13-8B1 of this Title.
Preliminary Plat: A preliminary tentative map, including supporting data,
indicating a proposed subdivision development, prepared in accordance with
subsection 8-13-7C1 of this Title.
Recorded Plat: A final plat bearing all of the certificates of approval
required by this Title and duly recorded in the Elko County Recorder's office.
PRELIMINARY APPROVAL: Approval of a preliminary plat by the City Council.
Preliminary approval constitutes authorization to proceed with preparation of
engineering plans and final plat.
PRIVATE GARAGE: An enclosed accessory building, attached or detached, used for
storage of motor vehicles used by occupants of the principal building and
providing no public shop or services in connection therewith.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Any person, firm, corporation, municipality or municipal board
duly authorized under State or municipal regulations to furnish to the public
electricity, gas, steam, communications, water, drainage, flood control,
irrigation, garbage or trash disposal, or sewage disposal.
RAILROAD USE: The occupation and use of land, buildings and structures for
purposes directly connected with rail transportation of articles, goods and
passengers, including such facilities as tracks, sidings, signal devices and
structures, shops and yards for maintenance and storage of rail machinery,
loading platforms, passenger and freight terminals, but excluding warehouses,
stockyards, grain elevators, truck freight terminals and yards and similar
facilities, which are maintained and operated by the owning railroad company or
by a lessee for purposes auxiliary to rail transportation.
RECREATIONAL AND SOCIAL CLUBS: Buildings and grounds used for and operated by
membership of fraternal organizations primarily not for profit, including golf
clubs, tennis clubs, riding clubs, American Legion halls, Elks Club and similar
facilities.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle self-propelled or otherwise, designed to
temporarily shelter persons en route on a recreational or vacation trip.
"Recreational vehicle" includes truck mounted campers and self-propelled travel
vans.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: A lot, parcel or tract of land having as its
principal use the rental of space of temporary short term, transient occupancy
by two (2) or more recreational vehicles, including any accessory building,
structures and uses customarily incidental thereto.
RENEWABLE ENERGY USE: Uses involving the production and distribution of sources
of energy derived from or captured from solar radiation and/or wind. All other
sources of energy are specifically excluded from this definition. Further, this
definition shall not limit uses otherwise permissible as provided in chapter 6,
article E of this title regarding M-1 light industrial districts.
REPAIR GARAGE: An establishment where these services may be allowed: normal
activities of a gas service station, general repair, engine rebuilding,
rebuilding or reconditioning of motor vehicles; collision services, such as
body, frame or fender straightening and repair; general painting and
undercoating of automobiles; high speed washing; auto, boat or trailer rental;
and general sales of auto parts or accessories.
RETAIL USE: A commercial establishment selling goods at retail; however, a home
occupation shall not be considered as a retail use.
ROOMING HOUSE: A building other than a hotel or motel where, for compensation
and by prearrangement for definite periods of time, lodging is provided for
individuals who are not members of a resident family.
SCHOOL: A public or private building or group of buildings used for purposes of
primary or secondary education, meeting all requirements of the compulsory
education laws of the state.
SCREEN WALL: A masonry wall or opaque fence so constructed as to prevent the
view of enclosed activities or uses from without.
SERVANT QUARTERS: An attached or detached building or part thereof housing
persons employed on the premises.
SERVICE CLUBS: Buildings and grounds used for and operated by nonprofit
organizations whose membership is open to any resident of the community,
including YMCA, YWCA, Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, Boys Club and any similar
organizations having as its primary objective the improvement of the district,
neighborhood or community and its social welfare.
SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between a lot line and the nearest
point of a building, structure or use, as the context indicates, located on a
lot. "Setback" shall not include eaves of the building.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the next floor above, or if there is no floor above, the space
between the topmost floor and the roof having a usable floor area at least one-
half (1/2) that of the floor area of the floor immediately below. A basement
shall be considered a story when fifty percent (50%) or more of its cubic
content is above grade.
STREET: A dedicated public way which affords the principal means of vehicular
access to abutting property.
STREET LINE: A right of way line of a street which abuts a lot line.
STREET, LOCAL: A street serving the primary function of providing principal
access to abutting property.
STRUCTURE: Any constructed or erected material or combination of materials, the
use of which requires location on the ground or attachment to something located
on the ground, including buildings, stadiums, radio towers, sheds, storage
bins, fences and signs.
SUBDIVIDER: The person, firm, corporation, partnership, association, syndicate,
trust or other legal entity that files an application and initiates proceedings
for the subdivision of land in accordance with the provisions of this title;
provided, that an individual serving as agent for such legal entity shall not
be deemed the subdivider.
SUBDIVISION: As defined in the Nevada Revised Statutes.
SWIMMING POOL: Any constructed pool used for swimming, bathing or wading,
whether above or below the ground surface and regardless of depth or water
surface area.
TEMPORARY USE OR BUILDING: A use or structure permitted under the terms of this
title to exist for a limited period of time.
TOWNHOUSE OR ROW HOUSE: A single dwelling unit arranged side by side with other
such units in a multi-family dwelling, completely independent of all other such
units in the building by reason of separation therefrom by unpierced party
walls.
USABLE FLOOR AREA: A term used in computing parking requirements, meaning the
aggregate area of a building measured to the interior area, similarly measured,
or each additional story which is connected to the first story by a fixed
stairway, escalator, ramp or elevator and the floor area of all accessory
buildings, measured similarly, but excluding that part of any floor area which
is occupied by heating, ventilating or other permanently installed equipment
required for operation of the building and by unenclosed porches, light shafts,
public corridors and public toilets. For uses not enclosed within a building,
the area for sales, display or service shall be measured to determine
equivalent usable floor area.
USE: The purpose for which land or a building is arranged, designed or intended
or for which land or a building is or may be occupied. The principal use is the
main use to which the premises are devoted and the main purpose for which the
premises exist. An accessory use is a use subordinate to the principal use on a
lot and used for purposes clearly incidental to those of the principal use.
VARIANCE: A modification of the literal provisions of this title. The applicant
for variance shall present adequate evidence showing that:
   A.   There are special circumstances or conditions applying to the property
under consideration which makes compliance with the provisions of this title a
cause of hardship to and abridgement of a property right of said owner of said
property.
   B.   Such circumstances or conditions do not apply generally to other
properties in the same land use district.
   C.   The granting of the variance is necessary to substantiate justice to
the applicant or owner of the property.
   D.   The granting of the variance will not result in material damage or
prejudice to other properties in the vicinity nor be detrimental to the public
health, safety and general welfare.
   E.   The variance is not for the purpose of allowing a particular land use
which is prohibited in the district.
   F.   The variance is not for the purpose of increasing the density to the
extent that a more intensive zoning category is attained.
YARD: An open space located between any portion of a building and the nearest
lot line or the nearest adjacent building or group of buildings, as the context
indicates, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward, except as
otherwise provided in this title.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of the lot and having a
depth equal to the horizontal distance between the nearest point of the
principal building and the front lot line, measured at right angles to the
front lot line.
YARD, NONREQUIRED: Any yard with dimensions exceeding those required herein.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the full width of a lot and having a depth
equal to the horizontal distance between the nearest point of the principal
building and the rear lot line, measured at right angles to the rear lot line.
YARD, REQUIRED: A yard having the minimum dimensions required herein.
YARD, SIDE: A yard extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line
between a side lot line and the principal building and having a width equal to
the horizontal distance between the nearest point of the principal building and
the side lot line, measured at right angles to the side lot line. (Ord. 98-09,
10-6-1998; amd. Ord. 99-17, 12-21-1999, eff. 1-1-2000; Ord. 01-02, 2-20-2001;
Ord. 01-21, 11-20-2001; Ord. 2005-07, 12-20-2005; Ord. 2009-05, 7-7-2009)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Street And Utility Requirements
8-3-2: Use Restrictions
8-3-3: Site Unsuitability
8-3-4: Reduction In Use Or Joint Use
8-3-5: Building Height
8-3-6: Projections Into Required Yards, Residential Districts
8-3-7: Fences, Walls And Hedges
8-3-8: Trash Enclosures
8-3-9: Swimming Pools
8-3-10: Signs
8-3-11: Exterior Lighting
8-3-12: Essential Services Permitted
8-3-13: Building And Electrical Codes
8-3-14: Mobile Homes
8-3-15: Park Land Dedications
8-3-16: Sales Prior To Plat Recordation Prohibited
8-3-17: Modification Of Standards
8-3-1: STREET AND UTILITY REQUIREMENTS:
The following restrictions shall apply:
   A.   Generally, all lots shall abut a public street connecting with the
public street system. A condominium project shall be considered one lot for
purposes of this specific requirement.
   B.   Building permits may be issued for lots which abut an undedicated
portion of a partly dedicated public street. A building permit shall not be
issued for any lot for which City public sewerage and water supply is not
available. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
   C.   All utilities shall be placed under ground except for lots of record or
in special circumstances where the City Council determines that the public
purpose and general welfare are better served by allowing aboveground utilities
and benefits thereof outweigh any adverse effects to adjoining landowners.
(Ord. 95-5, 10-3-1995)
8-3-2: USE RESTRICTIONS:
The following use restrictions shall apply:
   A.   Principal Uses: Only those uses and groups of uses specifically
designated as "principal uses permitted" in zoning district regulations shall
be permitted as principal uses; all other uses shall be prohibited as principal
uses. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
   B.   Conditional Uses: Certain specified uses designated as "conditional
uses permitted" may be permitted as principal uses subject to special
conditions of location, design, construction, operation and maintenance
hereinafter specified in this Title as imposed by the City Council.
Notwithstanding anything herein contained to the contrary, subject to the
procedures and practice established hereinafter in Chapter 10 of this Title for
conditional use permits, the City Council may provide for the keeping, raising
or breeding of animals or livestock within any of the established zoning
districts within the City, and the City Council may provide for a single-family
residence upon the church grounds for the pastor or minister having charge of
the church if a church is permitted by the applicable zoning regulations.
Irrespective of the applicable zoning regulations, any such residence on church
grounds must be similar to the church in structure and appearance, and may be a
mobile home, provided that the church is a mobile home and all conditions
required by the City Council in the conditional use permit are met. (Ord. 96-
05, 5-21-1996)
   C.   Accessory Uses: Uses normally accessory and incidental to permitted
principal or conditional uses may be permitted as hereinafter specified. (Ord.
91-9, 6-4-1991)
   D.   Unspecified Uses: The listing of groups of permitted uses is intended
to establish the character of uses to be permitted, but not to include each and
every use which may be permitted. Unspecified uses may be imposed by the City
Council upon evidence and determination that such uses are closely similar in
character to and not typically more objectionable than other uses actually
listed as permitted.
   E.   Temporary Uses: Certain temporary uses may be permitted by temporary
use permit, subject to such special conditions as may be imposed by the City
Council. (Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
8-3-3: SITE UNSUITABILITY:
No land may be used or structure erected where the land is found by the City
Council to be unsuitable for such use or structure by reason of flooding,
concentrated runoff, inadequate drainage, adverse soil or rock formation,
extreme topography, low bearing strength, erosion susceptibility or any other
features likely to be harmful to the health, safety and general welfare of the
community. The City Council, in applying the provisions of this Section, shall
state, in writing, the particular facts upon which its conclusions are based.
The applicant shall have the right to present evidence contesting such
determination. (Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
8-3-4: REDUCTION IN USE OR JOINT USE:
No lot, yard, parking or loading area, building area or other space, nor any
part thereof, hereinafter required about or in connection with any building
shall be included as part of a yard, area or space required for any other
building nor shall any yard or lot existing on the effective date hereof be
reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements hereinafter set
forth. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-3-5: BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   No building shall exceed the heights allowed in the current City
Airport Master Plan. (Ord. 91-1, 6-4-1991; amd. 1993 Code)
8-3-6: PROJECTIONS INTO REQUIRED YARDS, RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Awnings, open fire balconies, fire escape stairs, window-type
refrigeration units not exceeding one and one-half (11/2) tons or one and one-
half (11/2) horsepower rating, suspended or roof evaporative coolers and forced
air furnaces may project not more than five feet (5') over any required yard;
provided, that they shall be no closer than five feet (5') to any lot line.
   B.   Cornices and eaves may project over any required yard; provided, that
they shall be no closer than five feet (5') to any lot line.
   C.   Sills, belt courses and similar ornamental features may project not
more than six inches (6") over or into any required yard.
   D.   Unroofed terraces, patios, steps or similar features may project into
any required yard; provided, that projections into required front yards shall
not exceed ten feet (10').
   E.   Fireplaces may be allowed to encroach into required yards no closer
than five feet (5') to any lot line. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-3-7: FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES:
   A.   Restrictions:
      1.   No fence, wall, tree, shrub or hedge may be allowed which would
obstruct vision at street intersections in any residential district 1 .
      2.   No fence or wall shall contain barbed wire, electrical current or
charge of electricity, broken glass or similar hazardous materials or devices;
provided, however, that fences enclosing storage areas in industrial or
commercial districts may use barbed wire extension arms on chainlink fences six
feet (6') or higher.
      3.   No nonbuilding wall or fence in any residential district shall
exceed six feet (6') in height without a building permit nor shall such wall or
fence exceed four feet (4') within the front yard setback line. (Ord. 91-9, 6-
4-1991)
   B.   Required Screen Walls: Under certain conditions, the City Council may
require screen walls to separate incompatible uses, e.g., separation of
abutting commercial or industrial uses and residential uses. Such wall shall be
constructed by the developer and approved by the City Manager or City Council.
(Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 8-9-3A of this Title.
8-3-8: TRASH ENCLOSURES:
A permanent enclosure for temporary storage of garbage, refuse and other waste
materials shall be provided for every use other than single-family dwellings in
every zoning district, except where an approved mechanically-loaded steel bin
is used for the purpose or where a property is entirely surrounded by screen
walls or buildings. Trash enclosures shall be constructed so that contents are
not visible from a height of five feet (5') above grade on any abutting street
or property. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-3-9: SWIMMING POOLS:
Swimming pools, whether private, public or commercial, shall comply with the
laws, rules and regulations of the City 1  and State. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 7, Chapter 1 of this Code.
8-3-10: SIGNS:
The provisions of the Uniform Sign Code, as adopted by ordinance of the City
shall apply 1 . (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
 
Notes
1 2. See Section
  7-4-1 of this Code.
8-3-11: EXTERIOR LIGHTING:
All lighting for advertising off-street parking or loading areas or for the
external illumination of buildings shall be directed away from and shielded
from any adjacent residential district and shall not detract from driver
visibility on adjacent streets or highways, interfere with or cause driver
confusion regarding traffic and control devices, interfere with driver vision
or create other traffic hazards. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-3-12: ESSENTIAL SERVICES PERMITTED:
Nothing in this Title shall prevent the location, erection, construction,
alteration or maintenance by a public utility of any essential services as
herein defined. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-3-13: BUILDING AND ELECTRICAL CODES:
In all construction hereafter made within the City, the same shall be in
accordance with Building Code Ordinance 1 , the National Electrical Code
Ordinance 2 , and all other applicable City ordinances. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991;
amd. 1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsections 7-1-1A and B of this Code.
2 2. See subsections 7-1-1A and B of this Code.
8-3-14: MOBILE HOMES:
Mobile homes, manufactured homes and factory-built homes are hereby expressly
prohibited for living purposes outside the RMH District except as stated in
Chapter 5, Article A of this Title. All requirements of the City Mobile Home
Parks Ordinance 1  and all other applicable provisions of the City ordinances
shall be adhered to with respect to standards for the RMH District. (Ord. 91-9,
6-4-1991; amd. Ord. 99-17, 12-21-1999, eff. 1-1-2000)
 
Notes
1 3. See Chapter 5, Article B of this Title.
8-3-15: PARK LAND DEDICATIONS:
In accordance with Nevada statutes, to provide for the acquisition and
development of park, playground and recreational facilities as are reasonably
necessary to serve the residents of new subdivisions and development within the
jurisdiction of the City, the City Council may require the dedication of land,
payment in lieu of dedication or residential tax in accordance with the
recreation and open space element of the duly adopted General Plan of the City.
(Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
8-3-16: SALES PRIOR TO PLAT RECORDATION PROHIBITED:
No person shall hereafter sell or offer for sale any lot, piece or parcel of
land which is within a "subdivision", as defined in Section
8-2-2 of this Title. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
8-3-17: MODIFICATION OF STANDARDS:
In modifying the standards or requirements of this Title, as outlined hereto,
the City Council may make such additional requirements as are necessary, in its
judgment, to secure substantially the objectives of the standards or
requirements so modified. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
8-4-1: Districts Established
8-4-2: Required Conformity To District Regulations
8-4-3: Official Zoning District Map
8-4-4: District Boundaries
8-4-5: Classification Of Annexed Areas
8-4-6: Classification Of Vacated Streets
8-4-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
The entire city is hereby divided into zoning districts, within which zoning
districts all property use shall hereafter conform to the requirements
specified herein, and which zoning districts are hereby classified as follows:
Residential Districts:
R-1, R-2, RMF single-family, two-family and multiple-family
    residential district
RMH mobile home parks and recreational vehicle parks; mobile
    home and manufactured home subdivisions district
Nonresidential Districts:
P public, quasi-public district
C-1 convenience commercial district
C-2, C-3 general commercial district
RC restricted commercial district
M-1 light industrial district
M-2 general industrial district
Special Districts:
AG general agriculture district
FP flood plain overlay district
Special Development Districts:
   P-C planned community district
   R-PD residential planned development district
   P-D planned development district
Airport Area Districts:
See chapter 16 of this title.
(Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991; amd. Ord. 97-05, 7-15-1997; Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998; Ord.
99-03, 8-17-1999; Ord. 01-01, 2-20-2001)
8-4-2: REQUIRED CONFORMITY TO DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
The regulations set forth in this title for each zoning district shall be
minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of
structure or land, except as hereinafter provided:
   A.   No building, structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied, and
no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, moved or structurally altered unless in conformity with all
regulations hereinafter specified for the district in which it is located.
   B.   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered:
      1.   To accommodate or house a greater number of families than as
permitted herein;
      2.   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area; or
      3.   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards or
other open spaces than hereinafter required or in any other manner contrary to
the provisions of this title.
   C.   No part of a required yard or other open space or off- street parking
or loading space provided in connection with any building or use shall be
included as part of a yard, open space or off-street parking or loading space
similarly required for any other building.
   D.   No yard or lot existing on the effective date hereof shall be reduced
in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein. (Ord. 91-
9, 6-4-1991)
8-4-3: OFFICIAL ZONING DISTRICT MAP:
   A.   Map Established: The areas and boundaries of zoning districts are
hereby established as shown on the official West Wendover zoning map which,
together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference
and declared to be a part of this title. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
   B.   Identification: The official West Wendover zoning map shall be entitled
"West Wendover Zoning Map" and identified by the signature of the mayor,
attested by the city clerk, bear the notations that it was adopted on the date
this title was passed and bears the seal of the city. Regardless of the
existence of purported copies of the official West Wendover zoning map which
may, from time to time, be made or published, the official West Wendover zoning
map, which shall be located in the office of the city manager, shall be the
final authority as to the current zoning status of land areas, buildings, and
other structures in the city. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991; amd. Ord. 94-3, 1-18-1994)
   C.   Changes 1 , Replacement:
      1.   Changes: If, in accordance with the provisions of this title,
changes are made in district boundaries or in other matters portrayed on the
West Wendover zoning map, such changes shall be made on said map promptly after
the amendment has been approved by the city council together with an entry
signed by the city clerk certifying to the accuracy and date. No amendment to
this title which involves matter portrayed on the West Wendover zoning map
shall become effective until after such change and entry have been made on said
map. No changes of any nature shall be made in the West Wendover zoning map or
matter shown thereon except in conformity with the provisions of this title.
Any unauthorized change of whatever kind by any person or persons shall be
considered a violation of this title and punishable as hereinafter provided.
      2.   Replacement: In the event that the West Wendover zoning map becomes
damaged, destroyed, lost or difficult to interpret due to the nature or number
of changes and additions, the city council may, by resolution, adopt a new West
Wendover zoning map which shall supersede the former map. The new West Wendover
zoning map may correct drafting or other errors or omissions in the former map,
but no such correction shall have the effect of amending the original zoning
ordinance or any subsequent amendment thereto. The new West Wendover zoning map
shall be identified by the signature of the mayor, attested by the city clerk,
and bear the seal of the city under the words:
This is to certify that this West Wendover Zoning Map adopted the (date)
supersedes and replaces the West Wendover Zoning Map adopted (date of adoption
of map being replaced) as part of the Zoning Ordinance of the City of West
Wendover, Nevada.
   (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-11-6 of this title.
8-4-4: DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
Where, due to scale, lack of detail or illegibility of the West Wendover zoning
map, there is an uncertainty, contradiction or conflict as to the intended
location of any district boundary shown thereon, the exact location of such
boundary shall be determined by the city council who, in reaching its
determination, shall apply the following standards:
   A.   Zoning district boundary lines are intended to follow lot lines or be
parallel or perpendicular thereto and center lines of streets, alleys and
rights of way, unless otherwise fixed by dimensions shown on the West Wendover
zoning map.
   B.   In subdivided property or where a zoning district boundary divides a
lot, the exact location of such boundary shall be indicated by dimensions shown
on the West Wendover zoning map.
   C.   If, after application of the foregoing rules, uncertainty still exists
as to the exact location of a zoning district boundary, the city council shall
determine and fix the location of such boundary in accordance with the purpose
and intent of this title. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-4-5: CLASSIFICATION OF ANNEXED AREAS:
All territory which is annexed to the city after the effective date hereof
shall be zoned, upon annexation, AG general agriculture unless the city council
shall otherwise designate the zoning district after holding duly advertised
public hearings in accordance with section
8-11-6 of this title. (Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
8-4-6: CLASSIFICATION OF VACATED STREETS:
Whenever a public street or alley is vacated by official action of the city
council, the zoning districts adjoining each side of such street or alley shall
automatically be extended to the center line thereof, and all land area thus
vacated shall then and henceforth be subject to all regulations of the extended
districts. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
CHAPTER 5
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. R-1, R-2, RMF SINGLE-FAMILY, TWO-FAMILY AND MULTIPLE-FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-5A-1: Intent
8-5A-2: Principal Uses Permitted
8-5A-3: Conditional Uses Permitted
8-5A-4: Accessory Uses Permitted
8-5A-5: Property Development Standards
8-5A-6: Exceptions
8-5A-1: INTENT:
This District comprises both single family, two-family and multi-family
residential areas where such development is desirable. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-5A-2: PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED:
One single-family residence per lot or one single-family residence on more than
one lot, provided area and setback requirements are met.
Multiple-family residential units, including a duplex, triplex or a fourplex
located on a single lot or parcel, provided area and setback requirements are
met.
Electric power substations, sewer lift stations and water pump stations wherein
service to District residents requires location within the District.
Publicly-owned and operated parks and recreation areas and centers. (Ord. 91-9,
6-4-1991)
8-5A-3: CONDITIONAL USES PERMITTED:
Any of the following uses may be permitted as principal uses upon approval of a
conditional use permit in accordance with provisions of this Article and those
set forth in Chapter 10 of this Title:
Multiple-family residential developments which contain five (5) or more units
located on a single lot or parcel; townhouse or rowhouse developments.
Childcare centers.
Churches and church facility complexes.
Healing arts, health care facilities, but not including animal hospitals.
Public buildings providing cultural, educational, administrative and fire and
police service to residents of the district.
Recreation, social and service clubs.
Teaching of creative arts.
When any residential development abuts a commercial or industrial zone, the
City Council may require a conditional use permit for consideration of required
screen wall as indicated in subsection
8-3-7B of this Title. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991; amd. Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
8-5A-4: ACCESSORY USES PERMITTED:
Accessory buildings, structures and uses customarily incidental to a permitted
use, except as otherwise provided in this Title.
Garden house, tool house, ramada; outdoor swimming pool and similar home
recreational facilities; provided, that such facilities are used solely by
occupants of the premises and their guests.
Guest house or servants' quarters.
Where the keeping of horses and other livestock is otherwise lawful, structures
customarily accessory to such use.
Private garage or carport.
Rooms in the principal building for roomers not exceeding two (2) such persons
per dwelling unit; provided, that adequate off street parking space shall be
provided.
Storage parking of boat, utility trailer and similar equipment owned by the
occupant; provided, that such equipment is located in a garage, carport or
rear, side or front yards.
Storage parking for recreational vehicles owned by the occupant; provided, that
it is located in a garage, carport or rear, side or front yard, is not provided
water or sewer and is not used for living purposes. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-5A-5: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Residential Use:
Residential Minimum Lot   Minimum Setbacks
Type        Size Per      For Principal
            Dwelling Unit Bldgs. (In Ft.)
Residential  Minimum Lot   Minimum Setbacks
Type         Size Per      For Principal
             Dwelling Unit Bldgs. (In Ft.)
(a)          Area          Front Interior Exterior Rear
(b)          (Sq. Ft.)           Side     Side
                                                   All buildings shall be set
Single                                             back 10 ft., or if rear of
R-1          6,000         20    5        12       lot abuts a public alley,
                                                   garage may be constructed to
                                                   property line
The maximum density for R-1 is 7 units per acre.         
Minimum lot depth for single-family: 75 ft.              
Residential  Minimum Lot Area            Minimum Setbacks
             Per Dwelling Unit            For Principal Bldgs. (Ft.)
            Net Area  Front Least        Total    Rear Exterio r
             (Sq. Ft.) Side  Sides                 Side
R-2: Duplex, 4,000 per
triplex,     unit      20    71/2         15       20   12
fourplex
The maximum density for R-2 is 11 units per acre.
RMI: Multi-  2,200 per 20    10           20       20   12
family       unit
The maximum density for multi-family is 20 units per acre.
 
(Ord. 2010-03, 5-4-2010)
   B.   Additional Standards For Multiple-Family Residential Developments:
      1.   Minimum Distance Between Buildings On The Same Lot: The minimum
distance between the opposing exterior walls of detached buildings or parts of
attached or semiattached buildings on the same lot shall be:
 
a. If both walls are front walls or contain main entrances or living   30 feet
   room windows
   If one wall is a front wall or contains a main entrance or living
b. room windows, and one wall is a side or rear wall containing no     24 feet
   doors or windows
c. If both walls are side or rear walls containing windows or          24 feet
   secondary entrances
d. If one wall is a side or rear wall containing windows or secondary  18 feet
   entrances, and one wall contains no doors or windows
e. If neither wall contains windows or doors                           10 feet
 
      2.   Additional Placement Regulations: If the front of a building or part
thereof faces on an interior side or rear lot line, the building or that part
thereof shall be set back from such lot line not less than twenty feet (20').
      3.   Separation Of Semidetached Dwellings Or Rowhouses: When, for
purposes of sale or separate ownership, a two-family or multi-family dwelling
and the land in and upon which such dwellings are situated is to be subdivided
into separate lots having one dwelling unit per lot, such lots shall be exempt
from all interior side yard requirements. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
   C.   Conditional Uses Other Than Multiple-Family Developments: In reviewing
conditional use permit applications for churches, childcare centers, recreation
and social service clubs, the city council shall ensure that adequate light and
air, ingress and egress and compatibility with other uses in the neighborhood
are maintained. (Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
   D.   Accessory Buildings:
      1.   Maximum height shall be in accordance with requirements of the
current City Airport Master Plan.
      2.   Accessory buildings, whether attached or detached, shall be erected
to conform with the front, side and rear yard setback requirements applicable
to the principal building, except as otherwise provided in this Title.
      3.   Any accessory building used for sleeping or living purposes shall be
set back from interior side lot lines and rear lot lines a distance not less
than the width of the least required side yard applicable to the principal
building.
      4.   On a corner lot adjoining a key lot, any detached accessory building
shall be set back from the rear lot line a distance not less than the width of
the least required side yard applicable to the principal buildings. (Ord. 91-9,
6-4-1991)
   E.   Design Standards And Zoning For Mobile Homes, Manufactured Homes, And
Factory-Built Homes As Single-Family Residences: Each such single-family
dwelling shall meet the following minimum standards:
      1.   Manufactured homes, mobile homes, and factory-built homes which
comply with the standards established in this subsection E are permitted in
those zoning districts which otherwise permit single-family dwellings.
Manufactured homes, mobile homes or factory-built houses which do not comply
with the standards established herein are only permitted in districts which
expressly otherwise allow such homes.
      2.   All single-family dwellings must be constructed or manufactured
within five (5) years of the year on which it is affixed to the residential
lot.
      3.   All single-family dwellings must have a minimum of one thousand two
hundred (1,200) square feet of habitable area. An administrative deviation may
be requested for a reduction of up to ten percent (10%) of the habitable area
if the lot is a legal nonconforming lot of record which is less than seven
thousand (7,000) square feet.
      4.   All single-family dwellings must consist of more than one section as
it is transported.
      5.   All single-family dwellings must be permanently affixed to the
residential lot and be converted to real property. The home shall not be
subsequently unconverted without removing it from the lot.
      6.   All single-family dwellings must mask the foundation or anchoring
system with the same exterior siding as on the home or with masonry building
materials with decorative finish. Masking shall be required to within six
inches (6") of grade.
      7.   All single-family dwellings must have exterior siding consisting of
or giving the appearance of the following building materials and decorative
style:
         a.   Stucco, masonry or horizontal lap siding in the form of wood or
metal;
         b.   Any exterior siding which is horizontal lap shall include
decorative features.
      8.   All single-family dwellings shall meet the following roofing
requirements:
         a.   Pitched Roof:
            (1)   Minimum pitch of three to twelve (3:12). When roof consists
of multiple pitches, a lesser pitch may be permitted providing no pitch is less
than two to twelve (2:12) and the majority of the roof has a minimum pitch of
three to twelve (3:12).
            (2)   Must consist of or give appearance of tile or asphalt
shingle. Building materials may be used to give the appearance of wood shake;
however, wood may not be used for any roofing.
            (3)   The roof shall be constructed or manufactured of a different
material than the exterior siding of the home, or give the appearance of a
different building material to create a contrast between the roof and siding.
         b.   Flat Roof:
            (1)   Roof must be screened by parapet walls.
            (2)   Wood is not a permitted roof covering.
            (3)   Must meet minimum pitch for drainage purposes and/or snow
loads.
      9.   All single-family dwellings must have at least five (5) faces to the
home. This does not include architectural intrusions.
      10.   Standards illustrated in figures
8-5A-1 through
8-5A-5 of this section shall be required for all single-family dwellings. (Ord.
99-17, 12-21-1999, eff. 1-1-2000)
      11.   Except as provided for nonconforming uses and structures, any
single-family dwelling which is demolished or removed may be reconstructed or
replaced. The dwelling shall have at least a substantially similar appearance
as the demolished dwelling or be compatible with the architectural style and
building materials of the dwellings in the vicinity, must be permanently
affixed to the residential lot and be converted to real property. The home
shall not subsequently be unconverted without removing it from the lot. An
administrative design review shall be approved prior to the issuance of any
building permits. (Ord. 2009-04, 2-17-2009)
(Ord. 99-17, 12-21-1999, eff. 1-1-2000)
8-5A-6: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Lots Of Record: On each existing lot of record, the side yards shall
have a width of not less than ten feet (10') and a front yard of not less than
twenty feet (20') for single- family dwelling units.
   B.   Detached Guesthouse Or Servants' Quarters: Detached guesthouses and
servants' quarters are permitted in any district; provided, however, that they
shall conform to all yard requirements applicable to the principal building.
   C.   Temporary Structures: A provisional building permit for a temporary
structure may be permitted if the structure meets the qualifications set forth
hereafter. The community development department will evaluate all applications
to determine whether the structure proposed qualifies for a provisional
building permit.
Figure 8-5A-1 Front View
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6c7e63b1381f699c53f4938406898734504f5b67/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1962.gif]
 
Figure 8-5A-2 Side View
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6c7e63b1381f699c53f4938406898734504f5b67/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1964.gif]
 
 
Figure 8-5A-3 Side View Flat Roof
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6c7e63b1381f699c53f4938406898734504f5b67/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1966.gif]
 
Figure 8-5A-4 Roof Pitch
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6c7e63b1381f699c53f4938406898734504f5b67/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1968.gif]
 
Figure 8-5A-5 Building Faces
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6c7e63b1381f699c53f4938406898734504f5b67/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1970.gif]
      1.   Definition Of A Temporary Structure: A temporary structure is an
unoccupied structure (not used for living purposes), self-standing (except
removable awnings as provided hereafter), of not more than two hundred (200)
square feet, which is not required to be permanently affixed or anchored to the
ground in order to retain structural integrity. Temporary structures include,
but are not limited to, detached carports, canopies and attached but removable
awnings which require only spot anchoring to the ground or spot footings eight
inches (8") diameter or less. No slab on grade concrete, concrete or asphalt
pads or conventional footings are allowed for any structure under this
definition.
      2.   Application Requirements: To be considered for a provisional
building permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must submit to the
community development department, prior to any construction activity, the
following:
         a.   A completed permit application, site plan drawings, structure
design/specifications, engineered design drawings and calculations necessary
for any anchoring or spot footing system.
         b.   Site plans shall be drawn to a scale of no less than one-eighth
inch equals one foot (1/8" = 1') and shall show all sizes, locations of lot
lines, existing primary and accessory structures, sidewalks, driveways,
retaining walls, fences or other site features in addition to the size and
location of the proposed structure.
         c.   Structure design documents should include installation and
erection instructions and cut sheets if the structure is prefabricated or
detailed construction drawings if the structure is to be constructed on site.
Engineering designs and calculations for anchoring systems and/or spot footings
shall be stamped and signed by a Nevada licensed structural engineer or as
otherwise required by the community development department.
      3.   No Permanent Structures: Structures under this provision are
considered temporary. A provisional building permit may be revoked at any time
by the city. Therefore, permanent surface treatments related to the structure
such as concrete pads, asphalt paving, affixed decking are not permitted in the
related setbacks and easements.
      4.   Public Utility Easement: A provisional building permit may or may
not allow the placement of a temporary structure over an active or inactive
public utility easement, as determined by the community development department.
      5.   Prohibited Areas: No provisional building permit is permitted on
front or exterior side setbacks. (Ord. 2010-03, 5-4-2010)
ARTICLE B. RMH MOBILE HOME PARKS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS; MOBILE HOME
AND MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISIONS DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-5B-1: Intent
8-5B-2: Definitions
8-5B-3: Districts Established
8-5B-4: Uses Permitted
8-5B-5: Site And Structure Requirements
8-5B-6: Park Plan Posted; Compliance
8-5B-7: Park Management
8-5B-8: Location Of Homes Outside Designated Areas
8-5B-9: Application To Existing Areas
8-5B-1: INTENT:
Within selected geographical areas that are designated for mobile homes on the
City of West Wendover master plan map, adopted by the City Council, or zoned
RMH on the West Wendover Zoning Map 1 , the City Council, through conditional
use permits, may regulate by districting the proposed mobile home residential
use, manufactured home residential use and recreational vehicle parks. When
such districts are designated, the provisions of this Article shall prevail
over any requirements underlying by virtue of the zoning previously adopted.
Within the commercial zoning districts 2 , the appropriate provisions of this
Article shall apply to recreational vehicle (RV) parks approved by the City
Council through conditional use permits. (Ord. 97-05, 7-15-1997)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  8-4-3 of this Title.
2 2. See Chapter 6, Articles B and C of this Title.
8-5B-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this Article, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
ACCESSORY BUILDINGS: Include the following: garage, carport and awning. See
definition of Service Building.
CABANA: Any portable, demountable or permanent cabin, room, enclosure or other
building erected, constructed or placed on any mobile home or manufactured home
lot, mobile home space, on the same lot or space as a mobile home or
manufactured home and adjacent to the mobile home or manufactured home.
CAMPING TRAILER: A vehicular portable unit mounted on wheels and constructed
with collapsible partial side walls that fold for towing by another vehicle and
unfold at the campsite to provide temporary living quarters.
EXPANSION: Any increase in or addition to commercial uses on the property,
excluding any uses requiring a conditional use permit.
GROSS TRAILER AREA: The total plan area of a recreational vehicle measured to
the maximum horizontal projection of exterior walls when in the setup mode.
LOT: A distinct parcel of land divided with the intent to transfer ownership or
for the placement of mobile homes or manufactured homes.
   A.   Front Line: Narrowest lot dimension fronting a street.
   B.   Frontage Width: Distance between the side lot lines measured at the
front line.
   C.   Depth: Distance between the front and rear lot lines measured in the
mean direction of the side lot lines.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure which is:
   A.   Built on a permanent chassis;
   B.   Designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation as a
dwelling when connected to utilities;
   C.   Transportable in one or more sections; and
   D.   Eight feet (8') or more in body width or forty feet (40') or more in
body length when transported, or, when erected on-site, contains three hundred
twenty (320) square feet or more.
   E.   The term includes:
1. The plumbing, heating, air-conditioning and electrical systems of the
structure.
2. Any structure:
a. Which meets the requirements of subsections A through E1 of this definition,
and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification
required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and complies with
the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction
and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (42 USC section 5401 et seq.); or
b. Built in compliance with the requirements of chapter 461 of Nevada Revised
Statutes.
MOBILE HOME: A structure which is:
   A.   Built on a permanent chassis;
   B.   Designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation as a
dwelling when connected to utilities; and
   C.   Transportable in one or more sections.
The term includes the design of the body and frame and the plumbing, heating,
air- conditioning and electrical systems of the mobile home. "Mobile home" does
not include recreational vehicles, commercial coach, manufactured home or any
structure built in compliance with the requirements of chapter 461 of Nevada
Revised Statutes.
MOBILE HOME OR MANUFACTURED HOME LOT: A portion of land within a mobile home or
manufactured subdivision used or intended to be used for the parking of one
mobile or one manufactured home, including required yards and parking area,
attached or detached accessory building and open space.
MOBILE HOME OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision of land platted in
conformance with the Nevada Revised Statutes and applicable West Wendover
ordinances or this Code for purposes of providing mobile home or manufactured
home lots.
MOBILE HOME PARK: A parcel or tract of land having, as its principal use, the
rental, leasing or occupancy of space by mobile homes on a permanent or
semipermanent basis, including accessory building or uses customarily
incidental thereto.
MOBILE HOME, RV OR MANUFACTURED HOME SETBACK: Distance between the property
line and the nearest portion of a mobile home, RV or manufactured home on the
property.
   A.   Front: Setback from front line to nearest part of the mobile home, RV
or manufactured home.
   B.   Side: Setback from side line to nearest part of the mobile home, RV or
manufactured home.
   C.   Rear: Setback from rear line to nearest part of the mobile home, RV or
manufactured home.
MOBILE HOME SPACE: A portion of land within a mobile home park used or intended
to be used for the parking of one mobile home, including required yards and
parking area, attached or detached accessory buildings and open space.
   A.   Front Line: Narrowest dimension fronting on a street.
   B.   Frontage Width: Distance between the side space lines measured at the
front line.
   C.   Depth: Distance between the front and rear space lines measured in the
mean direction of the side space line.
   D.   Side Line: Space line or lot line which runs perpendicular to or
approximately perpendicular to the front line.
   E.   Rear Line: Space line or lot line farthest away from the front line and
which runs parallel or approximately parallel to the front line.
MOTOR HOME: A vehicular unit designed to provide temporary living quarters for
recreational or travel use built on or permanently attached to a self-propelled
motor vehicle chassis or on a chassis cab or van which is an integral part of
the completed vehicle.
OCCUPIED AREA: The total lot area covered by a mobile home, RV or manufactured
home and accessory buildings and structures on a mobile home, RV or
manufactured home lot or space.
RECONSTRUCTED: The rebuilding, constructing against or restoration of any part
of any existing mobile home or RV park which has been destroyed or
deteriorated.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV): A vehicular-type unit primarily designed as
temporary living quarters for recreational or travel use which either has its
own motive power or is mounted on or towed by another vehicle. The basic
entities are: travel trailer, camping trailer, truck camper and motor home of
such size or weight as not to require special highway movement permits when
towed by a motorized vehicle and containing not more than three hundred twenty
(320) square feet of living area.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) PARK: A plot of land upon which recreational vehicle
sites are located to provide for occupancy by recreational vehicles owned or
operated by the general public as temporary living quarters for recreational or
vacation purposes.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) SITE: A plot of ground within a recreational vehicle
park set aside for the accommodation of a recreational vehicle on a temporary
basis.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) STAND: That area of a recreational vehicle site
intended for the placement of a recreational vehicle.
SERVICE BUILDING: A structure or portion thereof that is used to house sanitary
facilities, such as water closets or lavatories. It may include other
facilities for the convenience of the owner or the occupants of the mobile home
or recreational vehicle park. See definition of Accessory Buildings.
SHALL: Indicates a mandatory requirement.
SHOULD: Indicates a recommendation of that which is advised but not required.
(Ord. 97-05, 7-15-1997)
8-5B-3: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
Four (4) separate districts for residential mobile homes, manufactured home and
RV parks are contemplated by this Article.
RMH-1: Areas suitable for development, placement and occupancy of mobile homes
or manufactured homes for residential purposes on rented or leased sites in
mobile home parks 1 .
RMH-2: Areas suitable for development, placement and occupancy of mobile homes
or manufactured homes for residential purposes on individually owned lots in
mobile home subdivisions.
RMH-3: Areas suitable for development, placement or occupancy of mobile homes
or manufactured homes for residential purposes on rented or leased sites in
mobile home parks 2 .
RMH-4: Areas in commercial zones approved by a conditional use permit for
development of recreational vehicle parks. (Ord. 97-05, 7-15-1997)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  8-5B-5 of this Article.
2 2. See section
  8-5B-5 of this article.
8-5B-4: USES PERMITTED:
Accessory buildings.
Community recreation buildings and facilities, laundry, car wash, boat or
storage facilities serving the mobile home or RV park; provided, however, that
the architectural design of all nonmobile home structures shall be subject to
approval by the city council prior to issuance of any conditional use permit
and all applicable state and city requirements.
Management offices (RMH-1, RMH-3 and RMH-4 only). One or more single-family
dwellings or mobile homes used exclusively for office and living quarters by
the operator or manager of the mobile home or RV park. The architectural design
of a nonmobile home office shall be subject to approval by the city council
prior to the issuance of any conditional use permit.
One mobile home, manufactured home or RV per space, including doublewide or
expandable mobile home units.
Residential uses.
Upon evidence of economic need in the city and to promote the general welfare,
owners of mobile home parks in RMH-1 or RMH-3 districts may be permitted to
rent the park spaces to recreational vehicles if the owner of any such mobile
home park obtains a conditional use permit for such recreational vehicle
rentals pursuant to the procedure set forth in chapter 10 of this title for a
period not to exceed one year; provided, however, in addition to any other
limitations or conditions proscribed during the conditional use process, no
more than one such conditional use for any mobile home park may be permitted in
any five (5) year period and no more than fifty percent (50%) of mobile homes
spaces in any mobile home park may be used for recreational vehicles. (Ord.
2010-02, 4-6-2010)
8-5B-5: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS 1 :
   A.   Location In Floodplain 2 : No mobile home or manufactured home
subdivision, mobile home or RV park which is proposed to be constructed below
the 100-year floodplain elevation and other drainage as defined by the U.S.
army corps of engineers, shall be approved by the city council.
   B.   Minimum Standards For Development:
      1.   Minimum Overall Area:
 
RMH-1 2 acres
RMH-2 1 acre
RMH-3 2 acres
RMH-4 2 acres
 
      2.   Maximum Building Height: The height of any building shall, in no
manner, be such as to create a nuisance or safety hazard for air traffic into
and about the city.
      3.   Minimum Net Space: Minimum net space area for each mobile home, RV
or manufactured home:
 
RMH-1 4,000 square feet
RMH-2 6,000 square feet
RMH-3 6,000 square feet
RMH-4 1,265 square feet
 
      4.   Minimum Frontage Width: Minimum mobile home, RV or manufactured home
space frontage width:
 
RMH-1 40 feet
RMH-2 60 feet
RMH-3 60 feet
RMH-4 23 feet
 
      5.   Minimum Setbacks:
         a.   Minimum setback of any building, mobile home, RV or manufactured
home from a bordering public street line: Fifteen feet (15').
         b.   Minimum setback from internal street in mobile home parks: Twelve
feet (12').
         c.   Minimum side and rear setbacks or separation for each mobile
home, RV or manufactured home lot, where such side and rear does not border on
public or internal streets:
RMH-1   5 feet from space side line
RMH-2   71/2 feet from property line
RMH-3   71/2 feet from property line
RMH-4   10 feet separation between units or structures
         d.   Expandable sections of a mobile home, manufactured home or RV
shall be considered a part of the mobile home, RV or manufactured home proper
for setback or separation requirements.
      6.   Utilities: All utilities shall be placed under ground.
      7.   Compliance With Provisions: Where applicable, all site preparation,
construction, mobile home, RV and manufactured home installation, utility
connections and occupancy shall be in accordance with the requirements of the
Nevada statutes and regulations of the City Code provisions and ordinances.
   C.   Transportation Systems:
      1.   Vehicular Access:
         a.   Access From Public Or Private Streets: All mobile home, RV or
manufactured home spaces shall be provided with safe and convenient vehicular
access from public or private streets. Alignment and grading of streets shall
be properly adapted to topography.
         b.   Emergency Access: In all districts, adequate provisions for
emergency vehicular access during inclement weather shall be provided on
internal streets.
         c.   Snow Removal And Storage: Adequate provisions for snow removal
and snow storage areas shall be provided.
      2.   Street Surfacing; Curbs, Gutters:
         a.   All streets shall conform to guidelines set in the City codes and
ordinances 3 . The following street types shall be used in the following RMH
zones:
      RMH-1   Lane
      RMH-2   Residential
      RMH-3   Residential
      RMH-4   Alley
      3.   Street Signs; Lighting Systems: All streets shall be properly signed
and lighted; lighting systems to be approved by the City Manager.
      4.   Parking Spaces And Driveways:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) off-street parking spaces per mobile home or
manufactured home space shall be required. One per RV site shall be required on
streets twenty feet (20') in width.
         b.   All vehicle parking spaces and driveways shall be paved with a
hard surface material.
      5.   Storm Drainage: Adequate storm drainage shall be provided and shall
be reviewed by the City Manager for his approval.
   D.   Recreational Areas Or Usable Open Spaces: The City Council shall
require mobile home and RV parks to have at least one recreation area or usable
open space accessible from all spaces, the cumulative size of which recreation
area shall not be less than:
      1.   A minimum of two hundred (200) square feet of outdoor recreation
area per mobile home space or fifty (50) square feet per RV site shall be
provided, exclusive of required yards or setback area. The minimum size for any
single outdoor recreation area shall be two thousand four hundred (2,400)
square feet in mobile home parks and one thousand two hundred (1,200) square
feet in RV parks, with a minimum width of twenty four feet (24').
      2.   Parks catering to family use shall provide larger recreation areas
and adequate playgrounds. A minimum of three hundred (300) square feet of
outdoor recreation area per mobile home space or seventy five (75) square feet
per RV site shall be provided, exclusive of required yards or setback areas.
All recreation areas and landscaping plans shall be approved prior to issuance
of a conditional use permit by the City Council.
   E.   Pedestrianways: When included as additions to required sidewalks,
pedestrianways shall have a minimum width of four feet (4') and shall be
surfaced in concrete or a hard surface material.
   F.   Utilities:
      1.   Water Supply: An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply of
water for domestic purposes shall be provided to each mobile home or
manufactured home space or lot and RV site and proof of same shall be provided
to the City Council before approval of any conditional use permit. Such supply
of water shall be in conformance with any applicable Nevada statutes and
regulations and this Code and City ordinances 4 , and furnished through a pipe-
distribution system directly connected to the City water service.
      2.   Sewerage Facilities: An adequate and safe sewer system shall be
provided to each mobile home, manufactured home or RV space, lot or site. Such
sewer system shall be in conformance with any applicable Nevada statutes and
regulations and this Code and City ordinances 5 , and directly connected
through a pipe-collection system to the City sewer facilities.
      3.   Refuse And Garbage Disposal:
         a.   Storage, collection and disposal of garbage and refuse shall be
in conformance with any applicable Nevada statutes and regulations and this
Code and City ordinances 6 . In mobile home parks (RMH-1, RMH-2, and RMH-3)
each space shall have at least one garbage container compatible with the City's
automated garbage collection system. In RV parks, one metal dumpster with lid
per twenty five (25) spaces located no more than one hundred fifty feet (150')
from mobile home lots and RV sites shall be required.
         b.   Permitted dump stations in RV parks shall meet all applicable
Nevada statutes and regulations and City requirements.
      4.   Electricity: All mobile home parks shall comply with the National
Electrical Code, article 550, part B 7 . All recreational vehicle parks shall
comply with the National Electrical Code, article 551, part B 8 .
      5.   Public Telephone: At least one public telephone is required for an
RV park.
   G.   Fire Prevention And Protection:
      1.   Fuel Supply And Storage: Installation of liquid petroleum gas or
fuel oil containers within a mobile home or manufactured home subdivision or
mobile home or RV park shall be in conformance with any applicable Nevada
statutes and this Code 9 .
      2.   Fuel Cylinders: No extra or empty fuel cylinders are allowed to be
stored on RV sites. Fuel cylinders being used shall comply with the latest
edition of NFPA 58 (standard for the storage and handling of liquified
petroleum gases).
      3.   Application Of Fire Code Standards: Where this Code does not address
a particular problem, the use of the latest edition of NFPA 501A (Manufactured
Home Installations, Sites and Communities), 501D (Recreational Vehicle Parks
and Campgrounds) and 501C (Fire Safety Criteria for Recreational Vehicles) will
be used. Wherever 501A, 501D and 501C and this Code differ, the requirements
which are more stringent shall apply.
      4.   Fire Hydrants: In every mobile home or RV park, mobile home
subdivision or manufactured home subdivision, fire hydrants shall be installed
as may be required by the West Wendover Fire Department.
   H.   Tie-Downs And Skirting:
      1.   Tie-downs for all mobile homes or manufactured homes shall be
provided in accordance with the State Fire Marshal's regulations and applicable
Nevada statutes and regulations. Tie-downs shall not be required on RV sites.
      2.   Skirting shall be of durable materials suitable for exterior
exposures and be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's installation
instructions. It shall be secured, as necessary, to assure stability, to
minimize vibrations, to minimize susceptibility to wind damage and to
compensate for possible frost heave.
   I.   Fences: Mobile home and RV parks shall be fenced with a solid view-
screening decorative fence not more than six feet (6') nor less than three feet
(3') in height around the entire boundary of the park. However, no such fence
over three feet (3') in height shall be allowed within thirty feet (30') of the
intersection of any two (2) streets. The design and construction materials of
said fence shall be subject to approval by the City Council prior to the
issuance of any conditional use permit.
   J.   Numbering Of Spaces: All spaces shall be numbered, and such number
shall be posted in a place clearly visible and conspicuous from the internal
street.
   K.   Signs 10 : All signs shall conform to regulations set out in this Code
and City ordinances.
   L.   Grading; Erosion Control; Protection Of Utility Lines: Whenever it may
be necessary for the developer of a mobile home, manufactured home,
manufactured home subdivision, mobile home or RV park to cut and fill, or to
alter the contours of the land in any way, he shall comply with the provisions
of the City building code 11 .
   M.   Landscaping: Exposed ground surfaces in the park shall be covered with
stone, screening or other materials or protected with a vegetative growth in a
well-kept manner, either of which is capable of preventing soil erosion and
eliminating objectionable dust. (RMH-1, RMH-3 and RMH-4 Districts only.) (Ord.
97-05, 7-15-1997)
 
Notes
1  1. See also title 7, chapter 9 of this code.
2  2. See title 10 of this code.
3  1. See Title 6, Chapter 1 of this Code.
4  1. See Title 6, Chapter 2 of this Code.
5  2. See Title 6, Chapter 3 of this Code.
6  3. See Title 4, Chapters 3 and 6 of this Code.
7  4. See subsection 7-1-1B1 of this Code.
8  5. See subsection 7-1-1B1 of this Code.
9  1. See Title 7, Chapter 2 of this Code.
10 1. See Title 7, Chapter 4 of this Code for Sign Code.
11 2. See Title 7, Chapter 1 of this Code.
8-5B-6: PARK PLAN POSTED; COMPLIANCE:
A copy of the final approved plan for the mobile home or RV park shall be
conspicuously posted on the site near the office or as designated by the Fire
Department, and the license holder shall be responsible for maintenance of the
park as per the final approved plan thereafter. (RMH-1 and RMH-4 Districts
only.) (Ord. 97-05, 7-15-1997)
8-5B-7: PARK MANAGEMENT:
The holder of a valid City business license for the operation of a mobile home
or RV park shall be responsible for compliance with this Article and other
applicable provisions of this Code, City ordinances or Nevada statutes and
regulations. He shall maintain the mobile home or RV park in a neat, orderly
and sanitary condition at all times. (RMH-1 and RMH-4 Districts only.) (Ord.
97-05, 7-15-1997)
8-5B-8: LOCATION OF HOMES OUTSIDE DESIGNATED AREAS:
Except as provided for single-family dwellings in Article A of this Chapter,
the placing of any manufactured home, mobile home, factory-built home or RV
outside of a mobile home park, RV or mobile home or manufactured home
subdivision shall be unlawful, except as follows: (Ord. 99-17, 12-21-1997, eff.
1-1-2000)
   A.   A mobile home, RV or manufactured home may be placed on any lot or
tract of land where designated for residential mobile home, RV or manufactured
home use according to this Article.
   B.   The parking of one unoccupied mobile home or RV on any private lot or
tract of land in any district or zone is permitted to the owner of the
premises; provided, said mobile home or RV is not used as a dwelling or for
business purposes and is not hooked to any utilities.
   C.   Trailer, manufactured home, RV and mobile home sales lots may have one
and only one mobile home, RV or manufactured home used for dwelling purposes
and an additional mobile home, RV or manufactured home used for office quarters
properly connected to utilities. (Ord. 97-05, 7-15-1997)
8-5B-9: APPLICATION TO EXISTING AREAS:
   A.   Provisions of this Article shall apply to the expanded or reconstructed
area of those mobile home, RV or manufactured home subdivisions and mobile home
and RV parks whose existing area is reconstructed or expanded after the
effective date hereof.
   B.   This Article does not apply to existing mobile home subdivisions or
mobile home and RV parks, except where an existing area is expanded or
reconstructed; then, that portion of the subdivision or park being expanded or
reconstructed shall be made to conform to the provisions of this Article.
   C.   Mobile homes not established on any lot or tract of land not permitted
by any provision of this Code or City ordinances are not governed by this
Article. Only an existing mobile home used for dwelling purposes by the owner
of the premises may be removed or replaced without having to conform to the
provisions of this Article. (Ord. 97-05, 7-15-1997)
CHAPTER 6
NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. P PUBLIC, QUASI-PUBLIC DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-6A-1: Intent
8-6A-2: Principal Uses Permitted
8-6A-3: Conditional Uses Permitted
8-6A-4: Accessory Uses Permitted
8-6A-5: Property Development Standards
8-6A-6: General Regulations
8-6A-1: INTENT:
This district is intended to accommodate public or quasi- public institutional
uses. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-6A-2: PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED:
Cemeteries.
Hospitals, sanitariums or similar health care facilities; provided, that:
   A.   The site shall contain a net land area in accordance with state law
and/or occupancy tables specified in the international building code, latest
edition.
   B.   All loading facilities shall be screened from adjoining properties and,
insofar as practicable, from the view of patients from the interior of the
building.
Museums, convention centers and civic auditoriums.
Public administrative offices.
Public airport and associated private land uses of a light industrial nature
(hangars, flight school, flight service, etc.).
Public parks; provided, however, that existing parks shall not be encroached
upon for other public or quasi-public building purposes (i.e., no school
buildings, firehouses, etc., may be allowed in parks).
Public schools, colleges or universities. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991; amd. Ord. 2005-
07, 12-20-2005)
8-6A-3: CONDITIONAL USES PERMITTED:
Any use, other than the principal and/or accessory uses permitted, shall be
governed by the conditional use permit procedure, as set forth in chapter 10 of
this title. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-6A-4: ACCESSORY USES PERMITTED:
Accessory buildings, structures and uses customarily incidental to a permitted
use, except as otherwise provided herein. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-6A-5: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Permitted principal uses:
      1.   Minimum setbacks:
         a.   From street line: Not less than one and one-half (11/2) times the
height of the principal building.
         b.   From interior side and rear lot lines: Not less than the height
of the principal building plus one additional foot for each five feet (5') or
part thereof that such building exceeds thirty five feet (35') in the aggregate
horizontal dimension of the wall generally parallel to such side or rear lot
line.
      2.   Maximum lot coverage: The total ground floor area of all buildings
shall not exceed forty percent (40%) of the net site area. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-
1998)
   B.   Accessory buildings:
      1.   Maximum height: Regulations applicable to the principal building
shall apply. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
      2.   Location: Accessory buildings, whether attached or detached, shall
be located in accordance with location on the lot as approved by the City
Council. (Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
8-6A-6: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
Outdoor Storage: The outdoor storage of goods or materials shall be prohibited,
except when enclosed by a screen wall in a location approved by the Building
Inspector. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
ARTICLE B. C-1 CONVENIENCE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-6B-1: Intent
8-6B-2: Principal Uses Permitted
8-6B-3: Conditional Uses Permitted
8-6B-4: Accessory Uses Permitted
8-6B-5: Property Development Standards For Permitted Principal Uses
8-6B-6: General Regulations
8-6B-1: INTENT:
This District is intended to accommodate small-scale convenience centers which
are under one roof and served by an adequate off-street parking area and which
are designed to meet the incidental daily convenience needs of immediately
adjacent residential areas. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-6B-2: PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED:
Barber and beauty shops.
Craft and hobby shops.
Daycare services.
Flower shops.
Professional offices.
Retail clothing stores.
Retail establishments selling a line of convenience goods similar to that of
supermarkets but more limited in scale.
Retail food services.
Self-service car washes.
Self-service laundry and self-service dry-cleaning establishments; laundry or
dry-cleaning pick-up outlets.
Similar commercial-retail activities. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
8-6B-3: CONDITIONAL USES PERMITTED:
All developments in C-1 Zoning Districts shall be subject to the conditional
use permit procedure as set forth in Chapter 10 of this Title. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-
1991)
8-6B-4: ACCESSORY USES PERMITTED:
Except as may be elsewhere provided herein, no accessory buildings, structures
or uses shall be permitted except off- street parking and loading, trash
enclosures and accessory signs. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991; amd. 1993 Code)
8-6B-5: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES:
Area, height, bulk and placement requirements are as follows:
 
            Lot Area  Minimum    Minimum Setbacks       Maximum   Maximum
District C-1 (Sq. Ft.) Lot        For Principal          Building  Of Lot
                       Dimensions Buildings              Height    Coverage
                                                                
            Minimum   Maximum    Street, Rear And Int.            
                               W  D   Line Side Yards           
Convenience  8,000     30,000     80 100 40   25   15    25' or    40%
Commercial                                               2 stories
 
(Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
8-6B-6: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Storage:
      1.   Outdoor: The outdoor storage of goods or materials shall be
provided.
      2.   Indoor: Warehousing or the indoor storage of goods or material
beyond that normally incidental to permitted uses shall be prohibited. (Ord.
91-9, 6-4-1991)
   B.   Landscaping: The City Council may require landscaping to promote
compatibility with the neighborhood.
   C.   Gaming: The City Council may permit gaming as an accessory use in
conjunction with the principal uses permitted herein. (Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
ARTICLE C. C-2, C-3 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-6C-1: Principal Uses Permitted
8-6C-2: Use Regulations And Restrictions
8-6C-1: PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED:
All commercial uses customarily found in a commercial area, including, but not
limited to, retail and service activities, office buildings, public and quasi-
public land uses and limited residential uses. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-6C-2: USE REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   C-2 Zoning District: Within the C-2 zoning district, but outside
locations for planned shopping centers, recreational vehicle parks and the C-
3 zoning district, commercial land uses customarily found along highways may be
permitted. Such uses may include, but not be limited to, gas service stations,
motels and restaurants. Renewable energy uses may be permitted in C-2 zoning
districts by conditional use permits pursuant to the process set forth in
chapter 10 of this title, and requires a consideration of the public benefit of
such use and the likelihood of danger or annoyance to nearby property owners or
residents. (Ord. 2009-05, 7-7-2009)
All gas stations shall be subject to the conditional use permit procedure as
set forth in chapter 10 of this title.
All structures intended to be located within one hundred fifty feet (150') of
any residential zoning district shall be subject to the conditional use permit
procedure as set forth in chapter 10 of this title.
   B.   Planned Commercial Shopping Centers: Within the C-2, C-3 zoning
district, planned shopping centers are permitted. The following standards and
policy shall apply to planned shopping centers:
      1.   Street Access Requirements: Such projects shall be permitted only on
a site which abuts an arterial street or highway. Curb cut requirements shall
be as follows:
         a.   State Highways: In accordance with Nevada highway department
rules and regulations.
         b.   City Streets: Seventy five feet (75') minimum between curb cuts.
      2.   Required Yards: All buildings and structures, including, but not
limited to, service areas and access drives, shall be set back not less than
thirty feet (30') from side and rear property lines and not less than forty
feet (40') from the future or existing street right of way line of an abutting
street.
      3.   Screening For Residential Property; Approval: In addition to other
buffer requirements, when the back of the development is across the street from
property in a residential district, then a solid fence or hedge not less than
six feet (6') in height shall be installed and maintained by the developer to
screen the back of the project from the residential property. Such screening
shall be approved by the city council.
      4.   Internal Traffic Circulation: All parking spaces within planned
commercial district parking lots shall be provided with chocks to prevent
nondesired traffic movements and to facilitate the channelization of vehicular
circulation.
      5.   Pedestrian Walkways: A system of pedestrian walkways shall be
provided so as to separate vehicle and pedestrian movements.
      6.   Conditional Use Permit: It shall be the policy of the city to
require a conditional use permit for all planned commercial shopping centers.
   C.   Recreational Vehicle Parks (RVPs): Within the C-2 zoning district,
recreational vehicle parks (RVPs) are permitted. For the purpose of reviewing
such proposed developments, the following shall apply:
      1.   A conditional use permit shall be required.
      2.   Such RVPs shall meet all applicable state and city requirements as
part of the conditional use permit review.
   D.   C-3 Zoning District: Within the C-3 zoning district, the central
business district (CBD) area of the city contains and will contain the
community's most intensive commercial land uses. This zone is primarily
intended for hotel/casino type establishments.
      1.   Within this area, all commercial activities will be permitted.
      2.   Within the C-3 zoning district, all structures intended to be
located within one hundred fifty feet (150') of any residential zoning district
shall be subject to the conditional use permit procedure as set forth in
chapter 10 of this title.
      3.   Within the C-3 zoning district, light manufacturing activities, such
as printing and newspaper production, saddle manufacture and similar uses may
be permitted in accordance with the conditional use permit procedure as set
forth in chapter 10 of this title. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
      4.   Building setbacks are defined by the international building code and
minimum lot dimension is ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
Minimum lot dimension: Ten thousand (10,000) square feet, building setback
defined by the international building code. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998; amd. Ord.
2005-07, 12-20-2005)
      5.   Renewable energy uses may be permitted in C-3 zoning districts by
conditional use permits pursuant to the process set forth in chapter 10 of this
title, and requires a consideration of the public benefit of such use and the
likelihood of danger or annoyance to nearby property owners or residents. (Ord.
2009-05, 7-7-2009)
   E.   Limited Residential Uses: Provided that there is full compliance with
all yard requirements of the applicable R-1 zoning district, limited
residential uses may be permitted for any residential buildings which are
separate from any light industrial for caretakers, groundkeepers, managers or
security personnel of light industrial or other uses principally permitted in
C-2 and C-3 zoning. Based upon the foregoing, limited residential purposes may
be allowed. (Ord. 94-8, 9-20-1994)
   F.   Public And Quasi-Public Uses: Within the C-2, C-3 zoning district,
public and quasi-public uses may be permitted.
   G.   Mobile Homes: In the C-2, C-3 general commercial district, mobile homes
shall be permitted as residences in accordance with the conditional use permit
procedures. Mobile homes shall not be permitted as offices or commercial
structures, with the exception that trailer, manufactured home or mobile home
sales lots may have one mobile home or manufactured home used for office
quarters in accordance with chapter 5, article B of this title. A mobile home,
when used for a residence, must, for purposes of this subsection, qualify and
constitute real property, as established by Nevada Revised Statutes chapter
361.
   H.   Commercial Zone Abutting Residential Zone: When a commercial zone abuts
a residential zone, then a solid fence not less than six feet (6') in height
shall be installed and maintained by the developer to screen the commercial
project from the residential property. Such screening must be approved by the
city council. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
ARTICLE D. RC RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-6D-1: Principal Uses Permitted
8-6D-1: PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED:
   A.   Principal Uses Permitted: Sexually oriented business uses as defined in
Section
8-12-2 of this Title shall be permitted in Restricted Commercial zoned areas.
   B.   Other Uses Permitted: General Commercial, Light Industrial and General
Industrial uses may be permitted in the RC Zone provided there has been
adherence to all requirements of this Article.
   C.   General Regulations:
      1.   The City Council may require landscaping sufficient to promote the
compatibility with the neighborhood.
      2.   The outdoor storage of goods or materials shall be prohibited.
   D.   Conditional Use Permitted: All development and use in the RC Zoning
District shall be subject to the conditional use permit procedure as set forth
in Chapter 10 of this Title. (Ord. 96-04, 4-2-1996)
ARTICLE E. M-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-6E-1: Area Comprising District
8-6E-2: Site And Structure Requirements
8-6E-3: Primary Permitted Uses
8-6E-4: Accessory Permitted Uses
8-6E-5: Limited Residential Uses
8-6E-6: Planned Light Industrial District
8-6E-1: AREA COMPRISING DISTRICT:
The light industrial district shall consist of all lands within the city
designated on the official zoning map. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-6E-2: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Area: In an M-1 district, there is a required minimum lot area
of eight thousand (8,000) square feet.
   B.   Minimum Lot Width: In an M-1 district, there is no required minimum lot
width. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
   C.   Minimum Front And Rear Yard Setback: Required minimum front and rear
yard setbacks in the (M-1) light industrial district shall be ten feet (10')
when abutting R zoned property. Otherwise setbacks will be as defined by the
international building code.
   D.   Minimum Side Yard Setback: Required minimum side yard setback in the
light industrial district shall be ten feet (10') when abutting R zoned
property. Otherwise setbacks will be as defined by the international building
code. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998; amd. Ord. 2005-07, 12-20-2005)
   E.   Off Street Parking And Loading: All requirements set forth in chapter 9
of this title must be adhered to. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
   F.   Screen Walls: A screen wall, as set forth in subsection 8-3-7B of this
title, is required for all M-1 uses within one hundred fifty feet (150') of an
R district. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991; amd. Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
8-6E-3: PRIMARY PERMITTED USES:
This district permits warehouses, moving and storage terminals, manufacturing
and processing plants as follows:
Air express office or depot.
Ambulance service.
Animal boarding, breeding, kennel.
Appliance repair.
Assembly of products and materials.
Automobile repairs.
Automobile storage (no dismantling).
Bottling plant.
Building materials storage yard or sales.
Cabinet shop.
Construction equipment and supplies.
Contractor's equipment, supplies and services.
Crating and hauling depot, crate storage.
Electric light and power company yard.
Electrician shop.
Equipment rental, storage, servicing and repair.
Funeral homes and mortuary.
Laboratories (medical, dental, optical, chemist, veterinarian).
Laundry, steam or wet wash (processing plant).
Lumberyard.
Manufacturing of products and materials.
Metallurgical lab.
Packaging.
Paint storage, shop.
Pest control business.
Plumbing shop.
Recycling center.
Sheet metal shop.
Storage units.
Utility companies.
Warehousing, motor freight, dry goods, liquor, tobacco, mover, mail order and
the like.
All other commercial and industrial uses which complement light industrial uses
as determined by the city council. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
8-6E-4: ACCESSORY PERMITTED USES:
The accessory permitted uses in the light industrial district are:
Auto parking.
Uses incidental to utility companies. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-6E-5: LIMITED RESIDENTIAL USES:
Provided that there is full compliance with all yard requirements of the
applicable R-1 zoning district, limited residential uses may be permitted for
any residential buildings which are separate from any light industrial for
caretakers, groundkeepers, managers or security personnel of light industrial
or other uses principally permitted in M-1 zoning. Based upon the foregoing,
limited residential purposes may be allowed through the conditional use permit
procedures. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
8-6E-6: PLANNED LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
Within the M-1 district, a planned light industrial district (PML district) may
be established in accordance with the following:
   A.   Principal Permitted Uses: Uses permitted on a lot or parcel having the
required area, width and yards:
Advertising distribution; bottling plant; blueprinting; dairy products
distribution; electronics manufacturing and assembly; freeport storage
facilities; furniture warehouse and repair; laboratories; photo finishing
(wholesale); printer or publisher; manufacture and assembly of medical and
dental equipment; drafting; optical and musical instruments; watches; clocks;
toys and games; fire stations; municipal buildings and other light industrial
uses.
Light manufacturing, processing, assembly, fabricating, or storage of certain
specified products or materials.
Offices related to the industry itself, corporate and professional offices.
All other commercial and industrial uses which complement the light industrial
uses listed above, based upon a determination of the city council. (Ord. 91-9,
6-4-1991; amd. Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995; Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
   B.   Conditions:
      1.   Conditional Use Permit: Issuance of a conditional use permit
following review by the city council and in accordance with this article is
required for all PML uses.
      2.   Outside Storage: Any outside storage shall be suitably screened from
the view of public rights of way by walls, planting or other barrier to the
satisfaction of the city council.
      3.   Landscaping: Provisions for landscaping shall be included in the
development plan to be submitted for conditional use permit approval. These
shall include, but are not limited to, screen planting, lawn areas, trees,
shrubs, fences and walls. It shall be the responsibility of the owner or
developer to carry out this program and to provide such maintenance and care as
is required to obtain the effect intended by the original plan. All landscaping
shall be planned and maintained to the satisfaction of the city council. A
screen wall as set forth in subsection 8-3-7B of this title, is required for
all PML uses within one hundred fifty feet (150') of an R-1, R-2, RMF district.
(Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
   C.   Parking: Appropriately surfaced facilities, subject to review as a part
of the conditional use permit and to include consideration of the following:
      1.   Number of employees at major shift.
      2.   Customer requirements.
      3.   Special equipment and vehicle requirements.
      4.   Reserve for plant expansion.
      5.   Access and maneuvering space.
      6.   Ingress and egress points.
      7.   Avoidance of routing traffic through established residential
neighborhoods. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991; amd. Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
   D.   Required Area And Width: Five (5) acre minimum development area with
ten thousand (10,000) square feet minimum lot area within the development, one
hundred fifty feet (150') average width, unless otherwise permitted by the city
council. (Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995; amd. Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
   E.   Yards: Shall be as defined in the international building code. (Ord.
98-09, 10-6-1998; amd. Ord. 2005-07, 12-20-2005)
ARTICLE F. M-2 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-6F-1: Principal Permitted Uses
8-6F-2: Use Regulations And Restrictions
8-6F-3: Yards
8-6F-1: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
All uses in this Zone will be required to obtain a conditional use permit as
set forth in Chapter 10 of this Title. All uses permitted in C-2 and C-3 Zones,
plus all light industrial and planned light industrial uses, in addition to the
following general industrial uses and those of a similar nature, are intended
to be permitted:
Ammunition manufacturing.
Asphalt manufacturing.
Assembly plant.
Bulk fuel station.
Cement or direct product sales.
Chemical manufacturing.
Cold storage plants.
Concrete batch plants.
Die casting.
Distillation of liquor.
Drilling company equipment yard.
Dye manufacturing.
Electronics manufacturing.
Electroplating.
Extrusion of metals.
Farm products storage.
Foundry.
Hide and tallow processing, leather tanning.
Junk dealers yard.
Machine shop.
Metal working plant.
Mining and/or raw materials processing.
Mobile home, camper manufacturer. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
8-6F-2: USE REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Limited Residential Uses: Provided that there is full compliance with
all yard requirements of the applicable R-1 zoning district, limited
residential uses may be permitted for any residential buildings which are
separate from any general industrial for caretakers, groundkeepers, managers or
security personnel of general industrial or other uses principally permitted in
M zoning. Based upon the foregoing, limited residential purposes may be allowed
through the conditional use permit procedures 1 .
   B.   Storage Yards: All outside storage areas which are visible from the
public right of way shall be suitably screened from the surrounding area by
walls, planting or other barrier to the satisfaction of the City Council.
   C.   Industrial Zone Abutting Residential Zone: When an industrial zone
abuts a residential zone, then a solid fence not less than six feet (6') in
height shall be installed and maintained by the developer to screen the
industrial project from the residential property. Such screening shall be
approved by the city council. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 10 of this Title.
8-6F-3: YARDS:
All setbacks shall be as defined by the international building code except when
abutting residential property, whereupon setbacks for yards abutting
residential property shall not be less than twenty five feet (25'). (Ord. 98-
09, 10-6-1998; amd. Ord. 2005-07, 12-20-2005)
CHAPTER 7
SPECIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. AG GENERAL AGRICULTURE DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-7A-1: Intent
8-7A-2: Principal Uses Permitted
8-7A-3: Conditional Uses Permitted
8-7A-4: Accessory Uses Permitted
8-7A-5: Property Development Standards
8-7A-6: Stock Fences; Cattle Guards
8-7A-1: INTENT:
This District is intended to comprise lands devoted to agriculture, related
activities and other open uses. This District is further intended to constitute
a hold district to retain land in less intensive use until the time is
appropriate for more intensive development so as to prevent scattered
development and the premature and costly extension of utility mains and
services related thereto and to regulate development of the City so that it
occurs in stages according to market needs and progresses contiguously outward
from the developed urban area. Regulations are designed to limit uses to those
which are compatible with agriculture, to prevent encroachment by more
intensive uses and to preserve the open space characteristics of the District.
(Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-7A-2: PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED:
   A.   Agricultural Uses:
General agriculture on parcels not less than five (5) contiguous acres in area.
Commercial breeding, raising, training, and feeding principally by grazing, of
horses, cattle, sheep, goats and hogs; provided that pens, buildings, corrals
and yards other than open pastures are not closer than five hundred feet (500')
to any residence, except the residence of the property owner.
Dairies; poultry and egg farms; fur farms; public stable; provided that pens,
buildings and enclosures other than open pastures are not closer than five
hundred feet (500') to any residence, except the residence of the property
owner.
Oil wells.
Soil crops.
   B.   General Uses:
Guest ranches on parcels having an area not less than ten (10) acres; provided,
that pens, buildings and yards other than open pastures used for keeping of
livestock are not closer than five hundred feet (500') to any street, highway
or residential district.
Veterinary clinics or animal hospitals. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-7A-3: CONDITIONAL USES PERMITTED:
Churches and church facility complexes.
Public recreational uses, including public or quasi-public golf courses and
similar activities.
Schools.
Water pumping plants and storage tanks. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-7A-4: ACCESSORY USES PERMITTED:
Accessory buildings, structures and uses customarily incidental to permitted
principal or conditional uses.
Employee housing, servants' quarters, guest houses.
Home occupations.
Storage of petroleum products required for use on the premises; provided, that
such storage shall not exceed one thousand (1,000) gallons and shall be subject
to all applicable health and safety laws. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-7A-5: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Principal Permitted Uses:
Minimum lot or site area   5 acres
Minimum lot or site width   400 feet
Minimum setback from all street lines   100 feet
Minimum side yards   100 feet
Minimum rear yard   100 feet
   B.   Accessory Buildings:
Minimum space between a building used for
sleeping or living purposes and any other
detached building   20 feet
Minimum side and rear setbacks of buildings
not used for keeping poultry or animals   20 feet
Accessory buildings, whether attached or detached, shall be erected in any
required front or side yard, except as otherwise provided in this Title. (Ord.
91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-7A-6: STOCK FENCES; CATTLE GUARDS:
All livestock and poultry kept shall be kept confined to the premises by
erection and maintenance of a stock fence and necessary cattle guards. (Ord.
91-9, 6-4-1991)
ARTICLE B. FP FLOOD PLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-7B-1: Intent
8-7B-1: INTENT:
This overlay comprises areas subject to inundation by flood waters according to
limits established by the Department of Housing and Urban Development. It is
the intent of this overlay to establish such regulations as are necessary to
protect the public from the hazards and cost which may be incurred when
unsuitable development occurs in such areas 1 . (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Title 10 of this Code.
ARTICLE C. SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS
SECTION:
8-7C-1: General Matters And Approval Process
8-7C-2: P-C Planned Community District
8-7C-3: R-PD Residential Planned Development District
8-7C-4: PD Planned Development District
8-7C-1: GENERAL MATTERS AND APPROVAL PROCESS:
   A.   Applicability: This section shall apply to all developments approved
under this article.
   B.   Definitions: The following terms shall have the meanings herein
ascribed to them whenever used in this article, unless the context makes such
meaning repugnant hereto:
    CONCEPTUAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN: A plan for a planned community (P-C) district
which shows the proposed development of the property including land use
designations, transportation, open space, community facilities and such other
matters as required by the community development director and which shall
accompany any application for a P-C district.
   DENSITY: The number of families, individuals, dwelling units, households, or
housing structures per unit of land.
   DEVELOPER/OWNER: The legal or beneficial owner or owners of all the land
proposed to be included in a development authorized by this article. The holder
of an option or contract of purchase, a lessee having a remaining term of not
less than thirty (30) years, or another person having an enforceable
proprietary interest in the land is also considered an owner under this
article.
   DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: An agreement between the city and the developer/owner
containing the terms, conditions, standards, procedures and other requirements
by which the development shall proceed. Such an agreement must be entered
within thirty (30) days of final approval of the development plan and shall
contain all matters required by the final plan and any additional matters
required by the community development director or the city attorney.
   DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS: Documentation that identifies the requirements and
standards for commercial, industrial, public and residential development,
including, but not limited to, densities, building height, bulk and setback
requirements by land use type, signage, landscaping, parking and open space.
   FINAL APPROVAL: An approval by the city council of a development authorized
by this article following the tentative approval. Final approval authorizes the
codification and recordation of the appropriate development plan and documents
and authorizes development to occur in accordance with the plan.
   JUDICIAL REVIEW: A review by a court of competent jurisdiction upon the
proper pleadings of a final decision granting or denying any tentative or final
approval of a plan of development under this article. Judicial relief must be
sought within twenty five (25) days of filing with the city clerk a notice of
the action taken by the council.
   OPEN SPACE: In general, any parcel or area of land essentially unimproved
and set aside, which is to be improved, dedicated, designated or reserved for
public use or enjoyment or for the private use and enjoyment of owners and
occupants of land adjoining or neighboring such open space. Open space may
contain such complimentary structures and improvements as are necessary and
appropriate for the benefit and enjoyment of the residents or owners of the
adjoining or neighboring land. Each type of special district may contain
additional provisions regarding open space which shall be controlling
concerning such district.
   PLANNED COMMUNITY DISTRICT (P-C DISTRICT): A zoning district established to
permit the large scale development of a comprehensively planned community with
a minimum of three thousand (3,000) acres of land under one ownership or
control.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT (PD DISTRICT): A zoning district established to
provide for comprehensively planned developments of residential, commercial,
industrial or public use of land under one ownership or control in a minimum
site area of twenty (20) acres.
   PRESUBMISSION CONFERENCE: A required meeting between the property developer/
owner or an authorized representative and the community development director
before an application for a PD district or an R-PD district is filed for the
purpose of ensuring the proposed development is suited to the applicable
requirements and outlining the approval requirements and process.
   RESIDENTIAL PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT (R-PD DISTRICT): A zoning district
established to provide for flexibility and innovation in residential
development of land under one ownership or control with a minimum site area of
ten (10) acres to be developed as a single entity for a number of dwelling
units.
   TENTATIVE PLAN: Provisions setting forth all matters pertaining to a
development authorized by this article, including a plat of subdivision where
applicable, all covenants relating to use, location and bulk of buildings and
other structures, intensity of use or density, private streets, ways and
parking facilities, common open space and public facilities, tentative map, and
other documents which are submitted for approval in the application for a
special district authorized by this article.
   C.   Elements Of Development Agreement: A development agreement for any
special district authorized by this article shall address at least the
following matters:
      1.   City intent;
      2.   Owner/developer intent;
      3.   Public utilities;
      4.   Public improvements;
      5.   Permitted uses, density, height and size of structures;
      6.   Time for construction and completion;
      7.   Modification and amendment;
      8.   Water conservation;
      9.   Open space requirements;
      10.   Ownership and maintenance of open space;
      11.   Public facilities and benefits;
      12.   Transportation;
      13.   Flood control;
      14.   Default, breach and termination;
      15.   Applicable law;
      16.   Venue and jurisdiction in the appropriate court of Elko County,
state of Nevada;
      17.   Duration;
      18.   Bonding requirements; and
      19.   Any other matters required by the city attorney or the community
development director.
   D.   Effect Upon Previous Zoning Classification: Unless otherwise expressly
provided in this article, the existing zoning of the property prior to the
approval of a special development district shall have no further effect upon
the final approval of a special development district. Nonetheless, such
existing zoning shall be resurrected upon an abandonment or termination of the
special development district prior to its completion and acceptance by the
city.
   E.   Approval Process:
      1.   Proceedings For Tentative Approval:
         a.   Filing: Application to be filed by developer/owner. An
application for tentative approval of the plan for a development authorized by
this article must be filed by or on behalf of the landowner.
         b.   Application: Form; filing fees; place of filing; tentative map.
            (1)   The community development department shall designate the form
of the application for tentative approval and the city council shall set the
fee for filing the application by resolution.
            (2)   The application for tentative approval shall include a
tentative map. Tentative approval may not be granted pursuant to Nevada Revised
Statutes 278A.490 until the tentative map has been submitted for review and
comment by the following state agencies where applicable:
               (A)   Division of water resources;
               (B)   Division of environmental protection; and
               (C)   Health division.
         c.   Application; Contents: The application shall show a comprehensive
development plan and require such information as is reasonably necessary to
disclose to the city:
            (1)   The location and size of the site and the nature of the
ownership interests in the land proposed to be developed.
            (2)   The density of land use to be allocated to parts of the site
to be developed.
            (3)   The location and size of any common open space and the form
of organization proposed to own and maintain any common open space.
            (4)   The use and the approximate height, bulk and location of
buildings and other structures.
            (5)   The ratio of residential to nonresidential use.
            (6)   The feasibility of proposals for disposition of sanitary
waste and storm water.
            (7)   The substance of covenants, grants or easements or other
restrictions proposed to be imposed upon the use of the land, buildings and
structures, including proposed easements or grants for public utilities.
            (8)   The provisions for parking of vehicles and the location and
width of proposed streets and public ways. Required modifications to existing
street and public way plans of the city must also be specifically addressed.
            (9)   The required modifications in the otherwise applicable
existing municipal land use regulations to the subject property and proposed
uses.
            (10)   In the case of plans which call for development over a
period of years, stages or phases, a schedule showing the proposed times within
which applications for final approval of all sections of the development are
intended to be filed.
         d.   Public Hearing: Notice; time limited for concluding hearing;
extension of time.
            (1)   After the filing of an application, a public hearing on the
application shall be held by the city council, public notice of which shall be
given in the manner prescribed by law for hearings on amendments to a zoning
ordinance.
            (2)   The city council may continue the hearing from time to time
and may refer the matter to the planning staff and/or community development
department for a further report, but the public hearing or hearings shall be
concluded within sixty (60) days after the date of the first public hearing
unless the developer/owner consents in writing to an extension of the time
within which the hearings shall be concluded.
         e.   Grant, Denial Or Conditioning Of Tentative Approval By Minute
Order; Specifications For Final Approval: The city council shall, following the
conclusion of the public hearing, by minute action:
            (1)   Grant tentative approval of the development plan as
submitted; or
            (2)   Grant tentative approval subject to specified conditions not
included in the development plan as submitted; or
            (3)   If tentative approval is granted, with regard to the
development plan as submitted or with regard to the development plan with
conditions, the city council shall, as part of its action, specify the
drawings, specifications and form of performance or other bond that shall
accompany an application for final approval; or
            (4)   Deny tentative approval to the development plan.
         f.   Minute Order; Findings Of Fact Required: The grant or denial of
tentative approval by minute action must set forth the reasons for the grant,
with or without conditions, or for the denial, and the minutes must set forth
with particularity in what respects the plan would or would not be in the
public interest, including, but not limited to, findings on the following:
            (1)   In what respects the plan is or is not consistent with the
statement of objectives of a particular special development district.
            (2)   The extent to which the plan departs from zoning and
subdivision regulations otherwise applicable to the property, including, but
not limited to, density, bulk and use, and the reasons why these departures are
or are not deemed to be in the public interest.
            (3)   The ratio of residential to nonresidential use in the special
development.
            (4)   The purpose, location and amount of the common open space in
the special development, the reliability of the proposals for maintenance and
conservation of the common open space, and the adequacy or inadequacy of the
amount and purpose of the common open space as related to the proposed density
and type of development.
            (5)   The physical design of the plan and the manner in which the
design does or does not make adequate provision for public services, provide
adequate control over vehicular traffic, and further the amenities of light and
air, recreation and visual enjoyment.
            (6)   The relationship, beneficial or adverse, of the proposed
development to the neighborhood in which it is proposed to be established.
            (7)   In the case of a plan which proposed development over a
period of years, the sufficiency of the terms and conditions intended to
protect the interests of the public, residents and owners of the development in
the integrity of the plan.
         g.   Minute Order: Specification of time for fling application for
final approval. Unless the time is specified in an agreement entered into
pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 278.0201, if a plan is granted tentative
approval, with or without conditions, the city shall set forth, in the minute
action, the time within which an application for final approval of the plan
must be filed or, in the case of a plan which provides for development over a
period of years, the periods within which application for final approval of
each part thereof must be filed.
         h.   Status Of Plan After Tentative Approval; Revocation Of Tentative
Approval:
            (1)   A copy of the minutes must be mailed to the developer/owner.
            (2)   Tentative approval of a plan does not qualify a plat of the
development for recording or authorize development or the issuance of any
building permits. A plan which has been given tentative approval as submitted,
or which has been given tentative approval with conditions which have been
accepted by the developer/owner, may not be modified, revoked or otherwise
impaired by action of the city pending an application for final approval,
without the consent of the developer/owner. However, impairment by action of
the city is not stayed if an application for final approval has not been filed,
or in the case of development over a period of years applications for final
approval of the several parts have not been filed, within the time specified in
the minutes granting tentative approval.
            (3)   The tentative approval must be revoked and the portion of the
area included in the plan for which final approval has not been given is
subject to local ordinances if:
               (A)   The developer/owner elects to abandon the plan or any part
thereof, and so notifies the city in writing; or
               (B)   The developer/owner fails to file application for the
final approval within the required time.
      2.   Proceedings For Final Approval:
         a.   Application for final approval; public hearing not required if
substantial compliance with plan tentatively approved.
            (1)   An application for final approval may be for all the land
included in a plan or to the extent set forth in the tentative approval for a
section thereof. The application must be made to the city within the time
specified by the minutes granting tentative approval.
            (2)   The application must include such maps, drawings,
specifications, covenants, easements, conditions and form of performance bond,
payment bonds or other sureties as were set forth in the minutes at the time of
the tentative approval and a final map if required by the provisions of Nevada
Revised Statutes 278.010 to 278.630, inclusive.
            (3)   A public hearing on an application for final approval of the
plan, or any part thereof, is not required if the plan, or any part thereof,
submitted for final approval is in substantial compliance with the plan which
has been given tentative approval.
         b.   What constitutes substantial compliance with plan tentatively
approved. The plan submitted for final approval is in substantial compliance
with the plan previously given tentative approval if any modification by the
developer/owner of the plan as tentatively approved does not:
            (1)   Vary the proposed gross residential density or intensity of
use;
            (2)   Vary the proposed ratio of residential to nonresidential use;
            (3)   Involve a reduction of the area set aside for common open
space or the substantial relocation of such area;
            (4)   Substantially increase the floor area proposed for
nonresidential use; or
            (5)   Substantially increase the total ground areas covered by
buildings or involve a substantial change in the height of buildings. A public
hearing need not be held to consider modifications in the location and design
of streets or facilities for water and for disposal of storm water and sanitary
sewage.
         c.   Plan not in substantial compliance; alternative procedures;
public hearing; final action.
            (1)   If the plan, as submitted for final approval, is not in
substantial compliance with the plan as given tentative approval, the city
shall, within thirty (30) days of the date of the filing of the application for
final approval, notify the developer/owner in writing, setting forth the
particular ways in which the plan is not in substantial compliance.
            (2)   The developer/owner may:
               (A)   Treat such notification as a denial of final approval;
               (B)   Refile his plan in a form which is in substantial
compliance with the plan as tentatively approved; or
               (C)   File a written request with the city that it hold a public
hearing on his application for final approval.
               (D)   If the developer/owner elects the alternatives set out in
subsection E2c(2)(B) or E2c(2)(C) of this section, he may refile his plan or
file a request for a public hearing, as the case may be, on or before the last
day of the time within which he was authorized by the minutes granting
tentative approval to file for final approval, or thirty (30) days from the
date he received notice of such refusal, whichever is the later.
            (3)   Any such public hearing shall be held within thirty (30) days
after request for the hearing is made by the developer/owner, and notice
thereof shall be given and hearings shall be conducted in the manner prescribed
in Nevada Revised Statutes 278A.480.
            (4)   Within twenty (20) days after the conclusion of the hearing,
the city shall, by minute action, either grant final approval to the plan or
deny final approval to the plan. The grant or denial of final approval of the
plan shall, in cases arising under this section, contain the matters required
with respect to an application for tentative approval by Nevada Revised
Statutes 278A.500.
         d.   Action brought upon failure of city to grant or deny final
approval. If the city fails to act either by grant or denial of final approval
of the plan within the time prescribed, the developer/owner may, after thirty
(30) days' written notice to the city, file a complaint in the district court
in and for the appropriate county.
         e.   Certification and recordation of plan; effect of recordation;
modification of approved plan; fees of county recorder.
            (1)   A plan which has been given final approval by the city, must
be certified without delay by the city and filed of record in the office of the
appropriate county recorder before any development occurs in accordance with
that plan. A county recorder shall not file for record any final plan unless it
includes:
               (A)   A final map of the entire final plan or an identifiable
phase of the final plan if required by the provisions of Nevada Revised
Statutes 278.010 to 278.630, inclusive;
               (B)   The certifications required pursuant to Nevada Revised
Statutes 116.2109; and
               (C)   The same certificates of approval as are required under
Nevada Revised Statutes 278.377 or evidence that:
                  (i) The approvals were requested more than thirty (30) days
before the date on which the request for filing is made; and
                  (ii) The agency has not refused its approval.
            (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, after the
plan is recorded, the zoning and subdivision regulations otherwise applicable
to the land included in the plan cease to apply. If the development is
completed in identifiable phases, then each phase can be recorded. The zoning
and subdivision regulations cease to apply after the recordation of each phase
to the extent necessary to allow development of that phase.
            (3)   Pending completion of the planned unit development, or of the
part that has been finally approved, no modification of the provisions of the
plan, or any part finally approved, may be made, nor may it be impaired by any
act of the city except with the consent of the developer/owner.
         f.   Rezoning and resubdivision required for further development upon
abandonment of or failure to carry out approved plan. No further development
may take place on the property included in the plan until the property is
resubdivided and is reclassified by an enactment of an amendment to the zoning
ordinance if:
            (1)   The plan, or a section thereof, is given approval and,
thereafter, the developer/owner abandons the plan or the section thereof as
finally approved and gives written notification thereof to the city; or
            (2)   The developer/owner fails to carry out the development within
the specified period of time after the final approval has been granted or the
provisions set forth in the development agreement.
      3.   Judicial Review:
         a.   Decisions subject to review; limitation on time for commencement
of action or proceeding.
            (1)   Any decision of the city granting or denying tentative or
final approval of the plan or authorizing or refusing to authorize a
modification in a plan is a final administrative decision and is subject to
judicial review in properly presented cases.
            (2)   No action or proceeding may be commenced for the purpose of
seeking judicial relief or review from or with respect to any final action,
decision or order of any city unless the action or proceeding is commenced
within twenty five (25) days after the date of filing of notice of the final
action, decision or order with the clerk of the city. (Ord. 01-01, 2-20-2001)
8-7C-2: P-C PLANNED COMMUNITY DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent And Objectives:
      1.   The P-C district is established to permit and encourage the
development of comprehensively planned communities, with a minimum of three
thousand (3,000) contiguous acres of land under one ownership or control, which
can flourish as unique communities as a result of the comprehensive planning
required for this large scale of development. The rezoning of property to the
P-C district is appropriate only if the tentative plan, with respect to such
property, will accomplish the objectives set forth in subsection A2 of this
section.
      2.   In order for property to qualify for P-C district zoning, the
developer/owner must demonstrate the potential for achievement of the following
specific objectives throughout the planning, design and development stages:
         a.   Providing for an orderly and creative arrangement of land uses
with respect to each other, to the entire planned community and to all adjacent
land;
         b.   Providing for a variety of housing types, employment
opportunities and commercial services to achieve a balanced community for
families of a wide variety of ages, sizes and levels of income;
         c.   Providing for a planned and integrated comprehensive
transportation system for pedestrian and vehicular traffic, which may include
provisions for mass transportation and roadways, bicycle or equestrian paths,
pedestrian walkways and other similar transportation facilities;
         d.   Providing for cultural, educational, medical, religious and
recreational facilities;
         e.   Locating and siting structures to take maximum advantage of the
natural and manmade environment and to provide view corridors; and
         f.   Providing for adequate, well-located and well-designed open space
and community facilities.
   B.   Permitted Land Uses And Development Standards: Development in the P-
C district may consist of any use or combination of uses that are specifically
approved for the property during the proceedings under subsection 8-7C-1E of
this article. The developer shall include in the application a listing of the
uses proposed and the general arrangement for each land use category within the
proposed P-C district. The listing and general arrangement of the approved land
uses shall be shown in the tentative plan approval records adopted as part of
the P-C district approval.
   C.   Density: The approved application and tentative plan approval process
shall establish the maximum number of dwelling units per gross acre for each
residential category, as well as for the entire property. The number of
dwelling units permitted per gross acre on any parcel in the P-C district shall
be determined during the tentative plan approval process.
   D.   Minimum Site Area For Rezoning: The minimum site area that is eligible
for rezoning to the P-C district is three thousand (3,000) acres. Any
additional tract which contains less than the minimum site area and which is
contiguous to property previously zoned P-C may also be zoned P-C by the city
council if it otherwise qualifies for the P-C zoning designation and, at the
time of such rezoning, is owned by or is under the control of the same
developer/owner (including its successors and assigns) that applied for and
obtained P-C zoning on the original property so zoned. The rezoning of any such
additional property shall be subject to the tentative plan approval process
provided in subsection 8-7C-1E of this article.
   E.   Special Application Requirements: In addition to any requirements of
subsection 8-7C-4D of this article, plans and documentation which must
accompany a rezoning application for a P-C district are as follows:
      1.   A conceptual development plan for the property, including general
land use designations, transportation plans and plans for open space and
community facilities. A general phasing plan shall be included to indicate the
intended timing of development;
      2.   Development standards that set forth: densities; building height,
bulk and setback requirements; requirements for signage, landscaping, parking
and open space; and procedures for tentative plan approval review and for
modifying and deviating from the tentative plan. The community development
director, in considering the application to determine the appropriate
standards, may consider the standards contained in this title which would
otherwise be applicable to the particular types of uses of the proposed
development and the developer/owner must establish why the imposition of such
standards to the proposed development are not reasonable in the event such
standards are required by the community development director;
      3.   Storm drainage information, which shall consist of a preliminary
drainage study completed by a registered professional engineer on a map with a
minimum contour interval of five feet (5');
      4.   Conceptual utility layout that includes tentative sewer and water
main corridors; and
      5.   Proposed conditions, covenants and restrictions, including design
guidelines.
   F.   Open Space And Landscape Area Requirements: A minimum of twenty percent
(20%) of the gross property area in the P-C district shall consist of open
space, recreation facilities, multi-purpose trails, pedestrian and bikeway
facilities, other common community facilities and landscaped areas in public
rights of way. Any private recreation facility which serves more than one
individual lot may be counted as a part of the minimum requirement. Specific
open space and landscaped area requirements shall be set forth in the approved
tentative plan.
   G.   Street And Subdivision Design Requirements: All development shall
conform to the standard street and subdivision design requirements set forth in
this code and city standards and specification for public works construction,
except as otherwise specifically provided for in an approved tentative plan.
   H.   Nonapplicability Of Other Provisions; Analogous Applications:
      1.   The development standards of the tentative plan shall contain
provisions for the processing and review of minor exceptions, deviations, plot
plan reviews, tentative plan modifications and other land use control
procedures. If such procedures are so provided, they supersede the
corresponding procedures set forth in this title.
      2.   With regard to any issue of land use regulation that may arise in
connection with the P-C district and that is not addressed or provided for
specifically in this article or in an approved tentative plan, the community
development director may apply by analogy the general definitions, principles
and procedures set forth in this title, taking into consideration the intent of
the approved P-C district.
   I.   Development Agreement: Upon final approval of a P-C district, the
developer/owner and the city shall be required to enter a development
agreement. (Ord. 01-01, 2-20-2001)
8-7C-3: R-PD RESIDENTIAL PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent Of R-PD District And Minimum Site Area: The R-PD district is
intended to provide for flexibility and innovation in residential development,
with emphasis on enhanced residential amenities, efficient utilization of open
space, the separation of pedestrian and vehicular traffic, and homogeneity of
land use patterns. The R-PD district represents an exercise of the city
council's general zoning power as set forth in Nevada Revised Statutes chapter
278.
The minimum site area that is eligible for rezoning to the R-PD zoning district
is ten (10) acres. Any additional tract which contains less than the minimum
site area, but which is contiguous to property previously zoned R-PD, may also
be zoned R-PD by the city council if it otherwise qualifies for the R-PD zoning
designation and is approved through the procedures required by subsection 8-7C-
1E of this article. Both such properties must be owned by or be under the
control of the same property owner.
   B.   Presubmission Conference: Prior to the acceptance of a rezoning
application to an R-PD district, a presubmission conference is required between
the developer/owner and the community development director.
   C.   Development Review: In addition to the requirements of subsection 8-7C-
1E of this article, an applicant shall provide the following information:
      1.   Special application reports:
         a.   The proposed uses for the property and the dimensions and
locations of all proposed lots, setbacks, heights, open space and common areas,
private drives, public streets and the exterior boundaries shall be set forth
in the application. In addition, the layout and design of all perimeter walls,
landscaping, access-control gates, and guard stations shall be provided. If the
development is to be constructed in phases, each phase shall be delineated on
the tentative plan. Each set of plans for each phase shall also include floor
plans and elevations of the buildings.
         b.   Drainage and grading information which shall consist of either a
contour map or sufficient information indicating the general flow pattern or
percentage of slope shall be required.
      2.   The conditions, covenants and restrictions proposed for the
development shall also be submitted.
   D.   Development Standards: Except as specifically required herein, the
development standards for a project, including minimum front, side and rear
yard setbacks, grade changes, densities, maximum building heights, maximum
fence heights and fence design, parking standards, standards for any
guesthouses/casitas and other design and development criteria, shall be
established by the tentative plan approval process. The community development
director in determining the appropriate standards, may consider the standards
contained in this title which would be applicable to the particular types of
uses of the proposed development and the developer/owner must establish why the
imposition of such standards to the proposed development are not reasonable in
the event such standards are required by the community development director. An
R-PD district must contain five (5) or more dwelling units, and all lots within
the development must meet at least the following minimum requirements: (Ord.
01-01, 2-20-2001)
      1.   Minimum Lot Size: The minimum lot size for single-family detached
residence lots which are located entirely within that section of the R-PD
district that was previously located in an R zoning district may be no less
than four thousand five hundred (4,500) square feet. The foregoing
notwithstanding, the owner/developer must show special considerations which
justify to the council, at the council's discretion, any such lots with a
minimum lot size of less than six thousand (6,000) square feet. (Ord. 01-06, 4-
17-2001)
      2.   Maximum Lot Coverage: Maximum lot coverage shall be fifty percent
(50%) for all lots within the R-PD district.
      3.   Minimum Setbacks: There shall be a minimum setback of ten feet (10')
between any buildings which are forty feet (40') or less in height and all
public or private access right of way designed for limited vehicular traffic,
such as minor residential streets, cul-de-sacs, or dead end type streets. A
minimum setback of twenty feet (20') shall apply to dwelling units located on
collector streets and a minimum setback of thirty feet (30') shall apply to
dwelling units located on arterial streets. The setback shall be increased two
feet (2') for each additional story above forty feet (40') of height. (Ord. 01-
01, 2-20-2001)
      4.   Minimum Distance Between Buildings On The Same Lot: There shall be a
minimum distance between detached buildings as follows: Twenty feet (20') for
the first forty feet (40') of height; two feet (2') additional for each
additional story above forty feet (40') of height. (Ord. 01-06, 4-17-2001)
      5.   Access To Roadways: All lots shall have access to either private or
public roads within the R-PD district. Private roads are to be allowed within
the R-PD district if they meet the minimum city construction standards. Private
roads shall not be permitted along the perimeter of the R-PD district unless
approved by the city council. All roads must be designated to tie in
effectively with the city's street plans. The city shall be allowed access on
private roads and privately owned common open space to ensure the police and
fire protection of the area to meet emergency needs and to conduct city
service.
      6.   Buffers, Screening: Compatible and complementary buffer areas and/or
screening shall be provided between primary residential uses and secondary
nonresidential uses within the R-PD district development and between
conflicting uses located on the periphery of the development and surrounding
developments or zoning districts. Sizes of buffer zones shall be determined
during the process of tentative plan approval.
      7.   Fire Resistant Common Walls: Within the buildings, whenever common
walls are proposed they shall be two (2) hour fire resistant.
      8.   Fire Hydrants; Fire Lanes: Fire hydrants and fire lanes shall be
provided and installed as required by the city.
      9.   Exterior Lighting: Exterior lighting within the development shall be
provided on private common drives, private vehicular streets and on public
streets. The lighting on all public streets shall conform to the standards
approved for regular use elsewhere in the city.
   E.   Permitted Land Uses:
      1.   Single-family and multi-family residential and supporting uses are
permitted in the R-PD district to the extent they are determined by the
community development director to be consistent with the density approved for
the district and are compatible with surrounding uses. In addition, the
following uses are permitted as indicated:
         a.   Home occupations for which proper approvals have been secured.
         b.   Childcare family home and childcare group home, to the extent the
community development director determines that such uses would be permitted in
the equivalent standard residential district.
      2.   For any use which, pursuant to this section, is deemed to be
permitted within the R-PD district, the community development director may
apply the development standards and procedures which would apply to that use if
it were located in the equivalent standard residential district except as may
be modified by an approved tentative plan.
      3.   For purposes of this section, the "equivalent standard residential
district" means a residential district listed in the zoning code of the city
which, in the director's judgment, represents the district which is most
comparable to the R-PD district in question, in terms of density and
development type.
   F.   Plans Approval, Conditions, Conformance: The city council may attach to
the tentative plan whatever conditions they deem necessary to ensure the proper
amenities and to assure that the proposed development will be compatible with
surrounding existing and proposed land uses.
   G.   Allocation Of Open Space And Common Recreational Facilities:
      1.   Each R-PD district containing twelve (12) or more dwelling units
shall allocate and provide open space and common recreational facilities which,
at a minimum, comply with the following formula:
DENSITY (UNITS PER ACRE, TO THE NEAREST TENTH) X 1.65 = PERCENTAGE OF GROSS
LAND REQUIRED FOR OPEN SPACE/RECREATIONAL AREA
      2.   All common open space as well as public and recreational facilities
shall be specifically included in the development schedule and be constructed
and fully improved by the developer/owner at an equivalent or greater rate than
the construction of residential structures.
      3.   Except as otherwise permitted under subsection G4 of this section,
the following do not qualify as required open space or common recreational
facilities in an R-PD district:
         a.   Rights of way;
         b.   Required setback areas;
         c.   Drainage easements;
         d.   Vehicle parking areas;
         e.   Landscaped entry features;
         f.   Landscape planters located along major thoroughfares or a
collector street; or
         g.   Any area which is not platted as a separate lot, unless it is
made available for public use by means of an appropriate access and use
easement.
      4.   Any area allocated for public multi-use trails may be counted toward
the requirement for open space and common recreational facilities unless is it
not intended for open space or common recreational facilities as indicated on
the list of exclusions for the trail area.
      5.   Any area allocated for streetscape within a subdivision may be
counted toward the requirement for open space and common recreational
facilities if:
         a.   The streetscape conforms to the following:
            (1)   A minimum of one 24-inch tree shall be provided for every
thirty feet (30') of gross frontage, with a maximum distance of thirty feet
(30') on-center between any such tree and the tree nearest to it, whether on
the same or different lot;
            (2)   A minimum of four (4) shrubs, each with a minimum size of
five (5) gallons, shall be provided for every tree;
            (3)   Bare soil is not permitted. Any streetscape area not covered
by vegetation must contain a minimum of two inches (2") of rock mulch
decomposed granite, or other acceptable cover;
         b.   Where practical, such streetscape is provided on both sides of
the street on all internal streets within the subdivision;
         c.   The area allocated for streetscape is not less than five feet
(5') in width, and is directly adjacent to the sidewalk or curb; and
         d.   The area allocated for streetscape is dedicated as a common lot
and maintained by an owners' association.
      6.   Open space and common recreational facilities shall be configured so
as to permit optimal utilization and shall be more or less centrally located so
as to be reasonable and readily accessible from all residences built or
proposed for the development. A sidewalk system shall be provided to connect
all residential areas to required open space and common recreational
facilities. Easy and safe shortcut access to such facilities (or to any
adjacent trail system, public park or public recreational facility) should be
provided by means of alleyways or pathways that:
         a.   Are cleared and provide for the safe passage of pedestrians or
bicycle traffic only, or both;
         b.   Are improved, either with or without paving;
         c.   Have minimum widths as follows:
            (1)   When lined on at least one side with a solid wall of a height
not greater than forty two inches (42"), a minimum width of five feet (5');
            (2)   In any other case in which the alleyway or pathway does not
exceed one hundred sixty feet (160') in length, a minimum width of ten feet
(10'); or
            (3)   In the case of an alleyway or pathway that exceeds one
hundred sixty feet (160') in length, a minimum width of ten feet (10'), plus
one additional foot in width for each additional eight feet (8') in length
beyond one hundred sixty feet (160').
      7.   If the developer/owner elects to administer common open space
through an association or nonprofit corporation, said organization shall
conform to the following requirements:
         a.   The developer/owner must establish the association or nonprofit
corporation prior to the sale of any lots.
         b.   Membership in the association or nonprofit corporation shall be
mandatory for all residential property owners within the R-PD district, and
said association or corporation shall not discriminate in its members or
shareholders.
         c.   The association or nonprofit corporation shall manage all common
open space and recreational and cultural facilities that are not dedicated to
the public, shall provide for the maintenance, administration and operation of
said land and any other land within the R-PD district not publicly or privately
owned and shall secure adequate liability insurance on the land.
         d.   If the developer/owner elects an association or nonprofit
corporation as a method of administering common open space, the title to all
residential property owners shall include an undivided fee simple estate in all
common open space.
         e.   Said association or nonprofit corporation shall not be dissolved
nor shall dispose of any common open space, by sale or otherwise, without first
offering to dedicate such common open space to the city, which offer shall be
accepted or rejected within one hundred twenty (120) days.
         f.   Said association or nonprofit corporation may make reasonable
assessments to meet its necessary expenditures for maintaining the common open
space in reasonable order and condition in accordance with the R-PD district
plan. The assessment shall be made ratable against the properties within the
planned R-PD district development that have a right of enjoyment of the common
open space.
         g.   Said association or nonprofit corporation established for
ownership and maintenance of common open space and receiving payments from
owners of the property within the R-PD district shall:
            (1)   Immediately deposit such payments in a separate trust account
maintained by it with some bank or recognized depository in this state.
            (2)   Keep records of all payments deposited therein and all
disbursement therefrom.
   H.   Assessment: The city, association, nonprofit corporation and developer/
owner who retains ownership, control and maintenance of a common open space
shall have all rights of assessment, enforcement of assessment lien and other
procedures available to said individual, corporation association or other
business entity as set forth in Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 278A.
   I.   Development Agreement: Upon final approval of an R-PD district, the
developer and the city shall be required to enter a development agreement.
(Ord. 01-01, 2-20-2001)
8-7C-4: PD PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent Of District: The intent of the planned development district (PD)
is to permit and encourage comprehensively planned developments whose purpose
is redevelopment, economic development, cultural enrichment or to provide a
single-purpose or multi-use planned development. The rezoning of property to
the PD district may be deemed appropriate if the development proposed for the
district can accomplish one or more of the following goals:
      1.   Providing for an orderly and creative arrangement of land uses that
are harmonious and beneficial to the community.
      2.   Providing for a variety of housing types, employment opportunities
or commercial or industrial services, or any combination thereof, to achieve
variety and integration of economic and redevelopment opportunities.
      3.   Providing for flexibility in the distribution of land uses, in the
density of development, and in other matters typically regulated in zoning
districts.
      4.   Providing for cultural, civic, educational, medical, religious or
recreational facilities, or any combination thereof, in a planned or a unique
setting and design.
      5.   Providing for the redevelopment of areas where depreciation of any
type has occurred.
      6.   Providing for the revitalization of designated areas.
      7.   Promoting or allowing development to occur in accordance with a
uniform set of standards which reflect the specific circumstances of the site.
      8.   Avoiding premature or inappropriate development that would result in
incompatible uses or would create traffic and public service demands that
exceed the capacity of existing or planned facilities.
      9.   Encouraging area-sensitive site planning and design.
      10.   Contributing to the health, safety and general welfare of the
community and providing development which is compatible with the city's goals
and objectives.
   B.   Rezoning And Minimum Site Area: Property may be rezoned to the planned
development district by the city council in accordance with the requirements of
subsection 8-7C-1E of this article. The minimum site area for a planned
development district is twenty (20) acres, except that the city council may
waive this requirement when proper planning justification is shown.
   C.   Presubmission Conference:
      1.   In the case of property that is sought to be reclassified to the
planned development district by the property owner, the developer/owner must
meet with the community development director, or the director's designee,
before the city has any obligation to accept the rezoning application as
complete.
      2.   In addition to the submittals required by subsection 8-7C-1E of this
article, the following must accompany an application for rezoning submitted to
planned development district by a developer/owner:
         a.   A metes and bounds description of the proposed planned
development district.
         b.   A proposed tentative plan for the entire site.
         c.   Development standards that are proposed to be applied to the
development. The community development director may apply the development
standards and procedures which would apply to a particular use if it were
located in the equivalent standard zoning district except as may be modified by
an approved tentative plan.
         d.   Any proposed conditions, covenants and restrictions for the
development, including easements and grants for public utility purposes.
         e.   The location of primary and secondary thoroughfares proposed for
the development, including right-of-way widths and the location of access
points to abutting streets.
         f.   Identification of all rights of way, easements, open spaces or
other areas to be dedicated, deeded or otherwise transferred to the city.
         g.   A plan for the extension of any necessary public services and
facilities, including sewer facilities and facilities for flood control and
drainage.
         h.   Guidelines for the physical development of the property,
including illustrations of proposed architectural, urban design, landscape,
open space and signage concepts.
         i.   The location and description of all buffering that is proposed
between the development site and adjacent properties.
         j.   Additional information and detail as may be required in order to
respond to the unique characteristics of the site and its location.
   D.   Permitted Uses And Standards: Any combination of residential,
commercial, industrial or public uses may be permitted within a specific
planned development district to the extent they are consistent with the
tentative plan for that district. The uses to be permitted within the district
must be specified in the tentative plan. Because of the nature and purpose of
the planned development district, and notwithstanding any other provision of
this article:
      1.   An application to rezone property to the planned development
district may be denied by the city council, at its complete discretion, if it
finds that the proposed development is incompatible or out of harmony with
surrounding uses or the pattern of development within the area.
      2.   No use, type of development or development standard is presumptively
permitted within the planned development district unless it already has been
included in the adopted tentative plan for the district.
      3.   An application to allow within the planned development district a
particular use, type of development or development standard which has not
already been included in the tentative adopted plan for the district may be
denied if it is incompatible or out of harmony with the surrounding uses or the
pattern of development within the area.
      4.   The community development director or city council may, at its
complete discretion, require open space and management/ownership of open space
in a PD district analogous to that required in R-PD districts.
   E.   Issue Resolution; Analogous Standards: With regard to any issue of land
use regulation that may arise in connection with a planned development district
and that is not addressed or provided for specifically in this article or in
the approved tentative plan, the community development director may apply by
analogy the general definitions, principles, standards and procedures set forth
in equivalent zoning of that use in this title, taking into consideration the
intent of the approved tentative plan.
   F.   Development Agreement: Upon final approval of a PD district, the
developer/owner and the city shall be required to enter a development
agreement. (Ord. 01-01, 2-20-2001)
CHAPTER 8
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES
SECTION:
8-8-1: Nonconforming Uses Established; Continuance
8-8-2: Nuisance Nonconforming Uses; Abatement
8-8-3: Damaged Buildings
8-8-4: Discontinuance Or Abandonment Of Nonconforming Use
8-8-1: NONCONFORMING USES ESTABLISHED; CONTINUANCE:
Uses existing at the effective date hereof, but not in accordance with the
provisions and requirements contained herein, shall be known as nonconforming
uses and may be allowed to continue; provided, however, that such nonconforming
uses may not be extended or enlarged and may not be changed to other
nonconforming uses, except by conditional use permit. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-8-2: NUISANCE NONCONFORMING USES; ABATEMENT:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to continue a nonconforming use of
any kind in any zoning district established by this Title more than one year
after the effective date hereof when such nonconforming use has been declared
to constitute a nuisance or to be detrimental to public health, safety or
welfare by a majority vote of the City Council.
   B.   The Council shall have written notice served on the person last known
to be the owner of the property on which such nonconforming use exists or which
constitutes a nonconforming use. The written notice shall order the
nonconforming use to be discontinued within one year thereafter. If the owner
does not reside in the City at the time, the notice may be mailed to the person
by registered mail at the last known address.
   C.   This Chapter shall not be construed as limiting the right of the City
or any person to abate a nuisance under any existing laws or ordinances. (Ord.
91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-8-3: DAMAGED BUILDINGS:
Nonconforming buildings which have been damaged or destroyed by natural
calamity may be repaired or reconstructed within one year from the date of
damage; provided, the repaired building is appropriate to the previous use.
(Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-8-4: DISCONTINUANCE OR ABANDONMENT OF NONCONFORMING USE:
A nonconforming use of a building or land which is operationally abandoned or
discontinued for a period of twelve (12) consecutive months or more shall be
considered abandoned and shall not be resumed. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
CHAPTER 9
TRAFFIC, ACCESS, OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
8-9-1: Intent And Purpose
8-9-2: Property Owner's Responsibility
8-9-3: Standards Pertaining To Traffic
8-9-4: Off-Street Parking Regulations
8-9-5: Schedule Of Required Off-Street Parking
8-9-6: Plans Required For Off-Street Parking And Loading Spaces
8-9-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   It is the intent of this Title to secure optimum coordination and
interaction between land use and transportation facilities. Preservation and
improvement of the traffic function of abutting streets and of the major street
system, as a whole, are essential considerations in the project planning stage
of land development.
   B.   It is the purpose of this Chapter to establish the regulations
necessary to assure that every land use will be so located and planned as to
minimize traffic congestion, hazards and vehicular pedestrian conflicts. It is
the further purpose to place upon the property owner the primary responsibility
for relieving public streets of the burden of on-street parking and to provide
the regulations and minimum standards essential to the planning and development
of adequate off-street parking. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-9-2: PROPERTY OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be the duty and responsibility of the property owner to plan and
develop his property in such a way that:
   A.   On-street space will never be required to satisfy parking or loading
space needs;
   B.   Points of access from the public street will be minimized; and
   C.   Driveway openings will be so located and dimensioned as to minimize the
disruption of passing traffic and the creation of traffic hazards. (Ord. 91-9,
6-4-1991)
8-9-3: STANDARDS PERTAINING TO TRAFFIC:
Every use shall conform to the following general standards in addition to the
special standards for certain specific uses as set forth in this Title:
   A.   Traffic Visibility: No obstructions to visibility at any street
intersection, including but not limited to structures, parked vehicles or
vegetation, shall be allowed or permitted to remain in any zoning district
between the heights of two and one-half feet (21/2') and eight feet (8') above
the ground and within fifteen feet (15') of the intersection of the street
right-of-way lines. In the case of an arterial street intersecting another
arterial street or a railroad at grade, the vision clearance space shall be
increased to twenty five feet (25').
   B.   Driveways: All driveways installed, altered, changed, replaced or
extended after the effective date hereof shall comply with the following
requirements:
      1.   Driveway openings shall not exceed twenty four feet (24') in width,
measured at the street line, or thirty feet (30') in width, measured at the
curb line, except as otherwise provided herein.
      2.   For commercial and industrial uses, driveway openings shall not
exceed thirty four feet (34') in width measured at the street line, or forty
feet (40') in width, measured at the curb line.
      3.   Vehicular entrances and exits to drive-in theaters, stadiums,
racetracks, funeral homes and similar uses generating very heavy, periodic
traffic conflicts shall be located not closer than two hundred feet (200') to
any pedestrian entrance or exit to a school, college, university, church,
hospital, public emergency shelter or other place of public assembly.
   C.   Access:
      1.   No direct private access shall be permitted to the existing or
proposed right of way of any freeway, interstate highway, expressway or
controlled access arterial street without the express permission of the highway
agency having access control jurisdiction.
      2.   No direct public or private access shall be permitted to the
existing or proposed rights of way of:
         a.   Freeways or interstate highways nor to their interchanges or
turning lanes nor to their intersecting or interchanging streets within one
thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of the most remote end of the taper of the
turning lanes.
         b.   Arterial streets intersecting another arterial street, within
forty feet (40') of the intersection of right-of-way lines.
         c.   Local or collector streets intersecting an arterial street,
within twenty five feet (25') of the intersection of right-of-way lines.
      3.   The driveway of every interior lot fronting on an arterial street
shall have a paved turning area allowing vehicles to turn around and head into
the arterial street. Under no circumstances shall any parking lot be so
arranged as to necessitate backing a vehicle into an arterial street. (Ord. 91-
9, 6-4-1991)
8-9-4: OFF-STREET PARKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   General Regulations:
      1.   Spaces Required: In all zoning districts, off-street parking
facilities shall be provided in an amount not less than hereinafter specified
for the parking of self-propelled motor vehicles used by occupants, employees,
patrons, members and clients of establishments or uses erected or established
after the effective date hereof, and of existing establishments or uses which
are thereafter extended, enlarged or changed.
      2.   Existing Uses: Land or structures existing and in use or operation
on the effective date hereof shall be provided such off-street parking space as
was required for such land or structures by any previous ordinance to the
extent that such requirements do not exceed the requirements of this Title;
provided, however, that whenever such land or structures are enlarged or
extended, additional off-street parking for the increased floor area shall be
provided in the minimum amount specified for that kind of use. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-
1991)
      3.   Parking Lot Changes: The owner or occupant of any building or use
subject to off-street parking requirements under this Title shall not
discontinue nor reduce any existing required parking lot without first having
established other parking space in replacement thereof and having submitted
satisfactory evidence to the City Council that such replacement space meets all
requirements of this Title. (Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
      4.   Use Of Spaces For Certain Activities Prohibited: Off-street parking
space required under this Title shall not be used for the storage of
merchandise nor for the sale, rent, repair, dismantling, storage or servicing
of vehicles or equipment.
   B.   Location Of Off-Street Parking:
      1.   Residential Uses: Required off-street parking shall be located on
the same lot or parcel as the use it is intended to serve; provided, however,
that:
         a.   Parking for cooperative or condominium-type multi-family
dwellings, fraternities, sororities and rooming houses may be provided in a
parking lot not further than two hundred feet (200') from the entrance to the
dwelling unit it is intended to serve.
         b.   Required parking for any multi-family dwellings, to the extent
that the minimum requirement exceeds one space per dwelling unit, may be
located on a separate lot or parcel in a parking lot not more than three
hundred feet (300') from the dwelling units it is intended to serve.
      2.   Nonresidential Uses: Required off-street parking shall be located
within three hundred feet (300') of the building or use it is intended to
serve, the distance being measured along the sidewalk from the nearest point of
the building or use to the nearest point of the parking lot; provided, however,
that parking facilities for a stadium, auditorium, outdoor sports arena or
similar use may be located not further than one thousand three hundred feet
(1,300') from the nearest point of such building or use.
      3.   Use Of Separate Lots Or Parcels For Required Parking: Whenever the
use of a separate lot or parcel is proposed for fulfillment of minimum parking
requirements, the owner shall submit, as a part of his application for a zoning
compliance certificate, satisfactory assurance that the separate lot or parcel
is permanently committed to parking use by deed restriction or other
enforceable legal measure.
   C.   Methods Of Providing Required Off-Street Parking: Required off-street
parking may be provided by any one or combination of the following methods:
      1.   By providing the required parking space on the same lot as the
building or use being served. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
      2.   By the collective provision of required parking for two (2) or more
buildings or uses, whereupon the total of such parking shall be not less than
the sum of the requirements for the several buildings or uses computed
separately; provided, however, that if two (2) or more such buildings or uses
have operating hours which do not overlap, the City Council may grant a
reduction of the collective requirement based upon the special circumstances
involved. A written agreement for joint use of such facilities shall be
executed between the parties concerned and a copy shall be filed with the
Building Inspector. (Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
      3.   By securing the consent to use off-street parking facilities under
another's ownership which are not otherwise used during the principal operating
hours of the building or use in question; however, that such consent shall be
in written form, and a copy shall be filed with the Building Inspector.
      4.   In any zoning district, the City Council may waive all or any
portion of an off-street parking requirement based on the public welfare.
   D.   Parking Lot Design Standards:
      1.   Minimum Design Dimensions: The layout of every off-street parking
lot shall conform to the following minimum standards:
 
Angle of Access Parking Total Width
Parking  Lane           Space Space  One Tier +  Two Tiers +
         Width          Width Length Access Lane Access Lane
75-90o   20'            9'    20'    40'         60'
54-74o   15'            81/2' 20'    361/2'      58'
30-53o   12'            81/2' 20'    32'         52'
Parallel 12'            8'    23'    20'         28'
 
      2.   Measurement Of Unmarked Lots: In measuring unmarked parking lots,
each parking space shall be considered to require a minimum of three hundred
(300) square feet, inclusive of access lanes. For single-family, duplex,
triplex and fourplex residential land uses, the square footage of each required
parking space shall be not less than one hundred eighty (180) square feet (9' x
20').
   E.   Parking Lot Replacement Regulations:
      1.   General: Every part of every parking lot shall be set back from
every lot line a sufficient distance to assure that no part of any parked
vehicle will project over the lot line.
      2.   Residential Parking: In any multi-family residential district, no
off-street parking space shall be located in a required front yard or interior
side yard, except as otherwise provided herein.
      3.   Nonresidential Parking:
         a.   Every nonresidential parking lot abutting a residential district
on the same side of the street in the same block shall be set back a distance
not less than the minimum required setback for principal residential buildings
in the same block.
         b.   Every nonresidential parking lot across a street or streets from
a residential district shall not exceed beyond the property line of said
parking lot.
   F.   Parking Lot Access:
      1.   Access From An Alley: An alley may be used for principal access to
any parking lot and for direct access to parking spaces; provided, however,
that every such alley shall be dedicated full-width to the public, fully
improved with an all-weather, dust-free surface and properly drained to prevent
impoundment of surface water.
      2.   Access From A Street: No entrance or exit to a parking lot shall be
located closer than fifteen feet (15') to any abutting residential district.
      3.   Surfacing, Curb And Drainage: Every parking lot shall be:
         a.   Properly graded to prevent impoundment of surface water.
         b.   Surfaced with asphaltic concrete at least two inches (2") thick.
         c.   Parking spaces shall be clearly striped.
         d.   Continuous six inch (6") concrete curbs shall be installed as
protection for planted areas, islands and walls. Within the parking lot proper,
pre-cast concrete curbs six feet (6') long, six inches (6") high and eight
inches (8") wide at the base pinned to surface with eighteen inch (18") steel
rods one-half inch (1/2") in diameter, may be substituted for continuous curb
as wheelstops.
      4.   Required Screen Walls: Where the interior side lot line or rear lot
line of a nonresidential parking lot abuts a residential district and is not
separated therefrom by an alley, a solid, unpierced masonry screen wall not
less than five feet (5') nor more than six feet (6') in height above grade
shall be installed and maintained abutting the residential district line;
provided, however, that such wall shall extend no closer to the street line
than the minimum required setback for residential properties in the same block.
(Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
   G.   Exceptions: In the case of a multi-family dwelling proposed to be
restricted to occupancy by elderly persons and which is owned and operated by a
nonprofit corporation, the City Council may grant a reduction in the required
off-street parking to not less than one space per two (2) tenants. (Ord. 94-14,
1-3-1995)
8-9-5: SCHEDULE OF REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING:
The minimum number of off-street parking spaces required for specific uses
shall be determined according to the following schedule. Requirements for a
specific use not listed shall be the same as those for the most similar use
listed or as required by the City Council: (Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
 
     Spaces Required               
 
A.   Residential Uses:
 
One-family residence               2 per dwelling unit
Multiple dwellings                 1 1/2 per dwelling unit
Rooming houses, fraternities,      1 per sleeping room or 1 per bed,
sororities, resident clubs, lodges whichever is greater
Mobile home parks and subdivisions See mobile home ordinance of the City
                                   (See Title 7, Chapter 7 of this Code)
 
B.   Hotels, Motels:
 
Overnight guests                     1 per guestroom, or suite plus 1 per 2
                                     employees
Auxiliary commercial uses, including 1 per 50 square feet of usable floor area
gaming                               of dining room, bar, and dancing space,
                                     plus 1 per 2 employees
Commercial accessory uses            1 per 400 square feet of usable floor area
Places of public assembly            1 per 6 fixed seats or 1 per 24 square
                                     feet of unfixed seating space
 
C.   Institutional Uses:
 
Hospitals                            1 per 2 beds plus 1 per resident
                                     employee plus 1 per nonresident employee
Sanitariums, childrens' homes, homes 1 per 5 beds = 1 per resident employee,
for aged, asylums, nursing and       plus 1 per 2 nonresident employees
convalescent homes
 
D.   Offices:
 
Offices, banks, savings and loan agencies 1 per 300 square feet of usable floor
                                          area
                                          1 per 100 square feet of waiting room
Medical and dental offices and clinics    plus 1 per examination room or dental
                                          chair, plus 1 per 2 employees
 
E.   Places Of Public Assembly:
 
Auditoriums, exhibition halls,         1 per 6 fixed seats or 1 per 40 square
theaters, convention facilities,       feet of unfixed seating space plus 1 per
meeting rooms                          2 employees
                                       1 per 6 fixed seats or 1 per 40 square
Churches, for primary seating only     feet of unfixed seating space plus 1 per
                                       2 employees
Stadium, outdoor sports arenas         1 per 4 seats plus 1 per 2 employees
Social clubs such as Elks, Moose, VFW, 1 per 200 square feet of usable floor
etc.                                   area
 
F.   Commercial Recreation:
 
Skating rinks, dance halls, dance   1 per 3 persons of maximum capacity
studios                             permitted by fire regulations
Bowling alleys                      4 per bowling lane plus 1 per 2 employees
Billiard parlors                    1 per 2 billiard tables plus 1 per 2
                                    employees
Gymnasiums, health studios          1 per 400 square feet of usable floor
                                    area plus 1 per 2 employees
Private golf clubs, swimming clubs, 1 per 2 member families or individuals
tennis clubs, and similar uses
 
G.   Commercial Sales And Service:
Restaurants, bars, cocktail lounges     1 per 100 square feet of usable floor
                                        area plus 1 per 2 employees
Drive-in food or drink lounges          1 per 150 square feet of usable floor
                                        area plus 1 per 2 employees
                                        1 per 3 fixed chapel seats, or 1 per 50
                                        square feet of assembly room area,
Mortuaries, funeral homes               whichever is greater plus 1 per
                                        employee plus 1 per commercial funeral
                                        vehicle
Self-service laundries and dry cleaners 1 per 4 machines
                                        1 per 500 square feet of sales area for
Open-air business                       first 2,000 square feet plus 1 per
                                        additional 2,000 square feet
                                        1 per each 1,000 square feet of sales
Used car lots                           area for first 4,000 square feet plus 1
                                        per additional 2,000 square feet
Gas service stations                    1 per 2 gasoline pumps plus 2 per
                                        service bay
Carwash                                 1 per employee plus reservoir spaces
                                        equal to 5 times the wash line capacity
Motor vehicle and machinery sales, auto 1 per 800 square feet of gross area
repair shops
Planned shopping centers under unified  Requirements for all uses elsewhere
control                                 specified herein plus 1 per 150 square
                                        feet of remaining usable floor area
Barber shops, beauty shops              2 per service chair
Furniture and appliance stores,         1 per 800 square feet of usable floor
household equipment and apparel repair  area
services
Supermarkets, drugstores                1 per 300 square feet of usable floor
                                        area
Retail establishments not elsewhere     1 per 350 square feet of usable floor
listed or as required by the City       area
Council
                                        1 per 150 square feet of waiting room
Bus depots                              space plus requirements for auxiliary
                                        commercial uses as elsewhere listed
 
H.   Manufacturing And Industrial Uses:    1 per 500 square feet of gross floor
area or 1 per employee, whichever is greater
I.   Public And Quasi-Public Uses:
 
Elementary and intermediate schools 1 per employee
High schools                        1 per 8 students plus 1 per employee
Junior colleges, colleges and       1 per 3 enrolled full time day students
universities                        plus 1 per employee
Trade schools, business colleges    1 per 150 square feet of gross floor area
Golf courses open to public         5 per hole plus 1 per employee
 
J.   Wholesaling And Warehousing Uses:    1 per 1700 square feet of usable
floor area or 1 per employee, whichever is greater, plus 1 per company-owned
motor vehicle
K.   All uses requiring 50 or more parking spaces    1 handicapped parking
space per 50 other parking spaces
(Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-9-6: PLANS REQUIRED FOR OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING SPACES:
Site plans are required for off-street parking and loading and shall show how
the required parking and loading spaces are to be located and arranged on the
site. In addition, such plans shall show how drives and parking lots are to be
graded and drained, as well as the location and design of all screen walls,
landscaping and lighting. Such plans must be approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
CHAPTER 10
CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
8-10-1: Intent
8-10-2: General Use Permit Regulations
8-10-3: Application For Permit
8-10-4: Review And Investigation Of Applicant; Findings And Actions
8-10-5: Public Hearing
8-10-6: Home Occupation Permits
8-10-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of this Title to provide for the issuance of conditional use
permits to allow for the specialized use within zoning districts of certain
normal and complementary uses to that of the principal use of the zoning
district. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-10-2: GENERAL USE PERMIT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Uses Requiring Conditional Use Permit: Certain uses of land within
designated zoning districts shall be permitted as principal uses only upon
issuance of a conditional use permit. Subject to the requirements of this
Title, other applicable ordinances and, where applicable to additional
standards established by the City Council, a conditional use permit for such
uses may be issued. (Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
   B.   Nonconforming Uses: Any building, structure or use existing on the
effective date hereof for the zoning district in which it is located shall be
considered as meeting the conditions which would otherwise be imposed upon such
use by the zoning district, and its continuance shall not be subject to
issuance of a conditional use permit; however, to the extent that such use
fails to conform to the requirements of the zoning district, it shall be
considered nonconforming and its continuance shall be governed by all
nonconforming use regulations applicable thereto.
   C.   Transferability Of Permit; Responsibility Of Owners:
      1.   Conditional use permits for development or for the extension,
enlargement or change of a nonconforming use or which are otherwise required
under the terms of this Title shall be transferable and shall run with the land
upon the issuance of an occupancy permit signifying that all zoning and site
development requirements imposed in connection with the permit have been
satisfied. The maintenance of special conditions imposed by the permits, as
well as compliance with other provisions of the zoning district, shall be the
responsibility of the property owner. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
      2.   Every conditional use permit issued shall be personal to the
permittee and applicable only to the specific use and to the specific property
for which it is issued. However, the City Council may approve the transfer of
the conditional use permit to another owner. Upon issuance of an occupancy
permit for the conditional use, signifying that all zoning and site development
requirements imposed in connection with the permit have been satisfied, the
conditional use permit shall thereafter be transferable and shall run with the
land, whereupon the maintenance or special conditions imposed by the permit, as
well as compliance with other provisions of the zoning district, shall be the
responsibility of the property owner. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991; amd. Ord. 94-14, 1-
3-1995)
   D.   Term Of Permit: Every conditional use permit issued, including a permit
for a mobile home park shall automatically lapse and be of no effect one year
from the date of its issue unless the permit holder is actively engaged in
developing the specific property to the use for which the permit was issued.
(Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
   E.   Review Of Permit; Revocation: Conditional use permits shall be
reviewed, from time to time, by City personnel. All conditional use permits
will be formally reviewed annually by the City Council. In the event that any
or all of the conditions of the permit or this Title are not adhered to, the
conditional use permit will be subject to revocation. (Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
8-10-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Filing Of Application; Fee: Application for a conditional use permit
shall be filed with the City Clerk by the owner or lessee of the proposed
building, structure or use on forms furnished for the purpose; provided,
however, that the owner must approve a lessee's application. A filing fee shall
be paid by the applicant to defray the costs for reviewing and reporting of the
facts, in accordance with a fee schedule maintained by the City. (Ord. 91-9, 6-
4-1991)
   B.   Contents: The application shall be full and complete and shall be
accompanied by a detailed site plan showing all information necessary to
demonstrate that the proposed use will comply with special conditions as well
as other regulations and requirements of this Title. The applicant shall
furnish the City Council any additional information it may consider relevant to
its investigation of the case. (Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
8-10-4: REVIEW AND INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; FINDINGS AND ACTIONS:
   A.   City Council Review And Investigation: The City Council shall review
the application and supporting data and make such site inspections and other
investigations as it deems necessary.
   B.   Issuance Or Denial Of Permit: It is the express intent of this Title
that any use for which a conditional use permit is required shall be permitted
as a principal use in the particular zoning district; provided, that all
special conditions and requirements of this Title are met. The City Council may
consider not only the nature of the use and the special conditions influencing
its location in the particular district, but also the proposed location of the
buildings, parking and other facilities within the site, the amount of traffic
likely to be generated and how it will be accommodated and the influence that
such factors are likely to exert on adjoining properties. The City Council may
make such suggestions it considers desirable and may provide guidance to the
applicant in his preparation of application, plans, and data in such a manner
as to satisfy the intent of this Chapter. The City Council shall make the final
determination on the conditional use permits.
      1.   If the City Council approves the application, it shall issue a
conditional use permit setting forth all conditions and requirements governing
such use, and shall make the approved site plan a part of the record of the
case. Failure of the applicant to comply with the conditions and safeguards
which are a part of the terms under which a conditional use permit is granted
shall be deemed a violation of this Title and grounds for revocation of the
conditional use permit.
      2.   If the City Council finds that the application and supporting data
does not indicate that all applicable conditions and requirements for a
conditional use permit will be met, it shall deny the permit. Notice of denial,
including reasons therefor, shall be mailed to the applicant at the address
shown in the application.
      3.   At any time following receipt of notice of denial of application for
conditional use permit, the applicant shall have the privilege of reactivating
the case by making such modifications of proposal or plans or submitting such
additional information, as the City Council may have determined was required
for approval. In addition, if the applicant believes that the conditional use
permit was denied or conditioned upon an error of law and/or fact, the
applicant may petition the Council for reconsideration. Said petition must be
filed within ten (10) days of the Council's actions and shall set forth with
particularity the alleged error of law and/or fact. The matter shall be placed
on the agenda for a special or regular Council meeting within twenty (20) days
of the date of filing. At such meeting, the City Council may reconsider the
matter in such fashion as it deems appropriate or may deny such
reconsideration; however, no new evidence may be introduced. It shall take the
concurrence of at least four (4) members of the City Council to reverse or
modify its previous action. (Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
8-10-5: PUBLIC HEARING:
The City Council shall first hold a public hearing prior to approval or denial
of a conditional use permit other than a home occupation permit. Upon the
filing of an application for a conditional use permit other than a home
occupation, the City staff shall set the matter for hearing not later than
thirty five (35) days thereafter. After the time and place have been
established by the City staff, notice of the hearing shall be sent by mail at
least ten (10) days before the hearing to the owners of the property within
three hundred feet (300') of the exterior limits of the property involved as
shown by the latest assessment roles of the City. Notice by mail to the last
known address of the real property owners as shown by the Assessor's records
shall be sufficient. Applications must be filed at least twenty (20) days
before the City Council hearing. Legal notice shall be placed in a newspaper of
general circulation within the City at least ten (10) days prior to the date of
the public hearing. (Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
8-10-6: HOME OCCUPATION PERMITS:
   A.   Types:
      1.   Type "A" Home Occupation Permits are for those proposed uses which
are based on limited business activities in which the residence and related
address is used primarily for the provisions of physical addressing for
licensing purposes at the Local and State level and/or for performing minimal
office type activities related to the business.
         a.   Type A permits would include the following uses or those which
are similar in nature that primarily involve freelance activities using the
internet and apps to provide services and have negligible to no effect on the
surrounding neighborhood:
            i.   Ride share services such as Uber or Lyft
            ii.   Freelance consulting, accounting, computer programming,
graphic design, writing and/or marketing all with a limited number of clientele
and tasks
            iii.   Delivery drivers such as those associated with Amazon Flex,
Uber Eats, GrubHub or DoorDash
            iv.   Cybersecurity testing services
            v.   Limited telemarketing services such as Fiverr
      2.   Type "B" Home Occupation Permits are for those proposed uses that
fall into a more traditional home occupation that may involve potential impacts
to the surrounding neighborhood that require additional review as well as input
from the surrounding property owners.
         a.   Type B permits would include the following uses or those which
are similar in nature which may involve more substantial use of the applicants
property resulting in impacts to neighboring properties such as the need for
some outdoor storage of materials and/or equipment in addition to increases in
vehicular traffic, addition of signage, etc., which promotes or results in
disturbances to the neighborhood and surrounding properties:
            i.   Handyman repair services
            ii.   Office activities related to physical off-premises business
(i.e. off premise storage/rental units)
            iii.   Lawn care services
            iv.   Newspaper publishing via online/office activities (printing
of paper media or the like prohibited).
            v.   Limited auto services such as window tinting and auto
detailing (mechanic services prohibited).
            vi.   Limited party rental services for inflatable play houses,
slides, tables, chairs, linens, etc.
   B.   Application For Type A Home Occupation Permit:
      1.   Filing And Notice:
         a.   Type A: All applications for Type A home occupations shall be
filed with the city clerk on the appropriate city approved form and reviewed by
either the city manager or the city clerk for an administrative decision
regarding suitability of meeting the Type A approved uses. Type A applications
can be made by the applicant using their owned residence or a rental property
such as an apartment unit, a rented home, etc., as the applicant's residence
with approval of the owner/manager.
      2.   Approval Or Denial; Appeal:
            a.   Either the city manager or the city clerk shall review the
application and related materials and shall make a determination and an
administrative decision based on the application no earlier than ten (10) days
after the recorded receipt of the application by the city.
            b.   The decision of the city manager or the city clerk granting or
denying a Type A home occupation permit may be appealed, in writing, within ten
(10) days of the date of the ruling to the city council for final ruling. Any
denial of an application by the city manager or the city clerk shall include,
in writing, the reasons for such denial.
      3.   Council Decision: The city council, at the next regular city council
meeting which can be properly noticed, shall hear and consider evidence and
facts from any persons and shall consider written communications from any
persons relative of the Type A home occupation request. The city council shall
make a decision granting or denying the appeal after hearing all evidence and
facts presented. Such decision is final.
   C.   Application For Type B Home Occupation Permit:
      1.   Filing And Notice:
         a.   Type B: All applications for Type B home occupations shall be
filed with the city clerk on the appropriate city approved form and reviewed by
either the city manager or the city clerk for an administrative decision
regarding suitability of meeting the Type B approved uses.
         b.   After a review and an administrative decision is made for Type B
suitability, a notice of each application shall be sent by mail at least ten
(10) days prior to the city manager or the city clerk making a decision to
approve or deny the application. The notice shall be sent to the owners of the
property within three hundred feet (300') of the exterior limits of the
property involved as shown by the latest assessment role of the city. The
notice shall state that anyone wishing to oppose the application must file a
written protest within seven (7) days from the date appearing on the notice
with the city clerk setting forth the reason for the opposition. Notice by mail
to the last known address of the real property owners as shown by the
assessor's records shall be sufficient.
      2.   Approval Or Denial; Appeal:
         a.   Either the city manager or the city clerk shall make a
determination on the application no earlier than ten (10) days after
notification to the property owners, as provided above, has been given.
         b.   The decision of the city manager or the city clerk granting or
denying a Type B home occupation permit may be appealed, in writing, within ten
(10) days of the date of the ruling to the city council for a final ruling. Any
denial of an application by the city manager or the city clerk shall include,
in writing, the reasons for such denial.
      3.   Council Decision: The city council, at the next regular city council
meeting which can be properly noticed, shall hear and consider evidence and
facts from any persons and shall consider written communications from any
persons relative of the Type B home occupation request. The city council shall
make a decision granting or denying the appeal after hearing all evidence and
facts presented. Such decision is final.
   D.   Applicability; No Transferability: Every home occupation permit issued
shall be personal to the permittee and applicable only to the specific use and
to the specific property for which it is issued. Permits for home occupations
are not transferable and do not run with the land. A home occupation permit
shall not be required for providing childcare to fewer than five (5) children
in a residence in a residential zone. Further, children within the third degree
of consanguinity or affinity to the owner or occupant of the home shall not be
considered in determining the number of children being cared for, and a home in
which a person provides care for the children of a friend or neighbor for not
more than four (4) weeks, regardless of the number of children, shall not be
required to obtain a conditional use permit if the person who provides the care
does not regularly engage in that activity.
   E.   Conditions Of Permit: Permits issued for home occupation shall adhere
to the following criteria:
      1.   Not more than one (1) occupation in any single dwelling unit.
      2.   Such use shall be confined to the occupants of the dwelling. No
employee shall be permitted to report to work at such dwelling.
      3.   The sale of goods, samples, materials or other objects shall be
confined to those produced on the premises, and in no case shall finished
products be brought in from the outside for sale on lot or parcel.
      4.   There shall be no use of any yard space or activity conducted
outside the main building.
      5.   No more than one (1) room of the dwelling may be used for home
occupation.
      6.   One (1) sign will be allowed and such sign must comply with the
provisions set forth in section
7-4-9 and subsection
7-4-10F of this code.
      7.   No addition, alteration or remodeling that would change the
residential character of the unit shall be permitted in allowing a home
occupation.
      8.   The home occupation shall not generate vehicular traffic measurably
in excess of that normally associated with single-family residential use.
      9.   No home occupation which would produce noise, odor, dust, smoke or
electrical disturbance or in any way interfere with the peace, contentment and
general welfare of the area shall be permitted. (Ord. 2020-01, 10-21-2020)
CHAPTER 11
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
8-11-1: Enforcement Of Provisions
8-11-2: Zoning Compliance Certificate
8-11-3: Occupancy Permit
8-11-4: Appeals (Rep. by Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
8-11-5: Variances
8-11-6: Amendments
8-11-7: Violations And Penalties
8-11-8: Minimum Distance Between Residential Establishments
8-11-1: ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this title shall be enforced by the building inspector as the
city council so directs. The building inspector shall:
   A.   Receive and examine applications for and issue zoning compliance
certificates and occupancy permits;
   B.   Make such inspections of buildings, structures and premises as are
necessary to enforce the provisions of this title;
   C.   Revoke any zoning compliance certificate or occupancy permit wherein he
may have erroneously authorized a use not permitted in the district or a
structure which does not meet the regulations of this title, whereupon such
permit shall be void; and
   D.   Carry out the orders of the city council issued in accordance with the
provisions of this title.
Under no circumstances shall the building inspector grant exceptions to the
actual meaning of any clause, order or regulation contained in this title; or
make changes in or vary the terms of this title. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991; amd.
Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
8-11-2: ZONING COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE:
   A.   Certificate Required: It shall be unlawful to commence any excavation
for or erection, alteration, enlargement, extension or moving of any building
or structure or part thereof or to change or extend the use of any lot or to
change the use or type of occupancy of any building or structure, except as may
be provided elsewhere in this title, until a zoning compliance certificate for
such action has been issued by the building inspector. It shall also be
unlawful to change the type of use on any lot on which there is a nonconforming
use until the building inspector has issued a zoning compliance certificate for
such intended use. Accessory buildings or structures, when proposed for
erection at the same time as the principal building and included on the
application therefor shall not require a separate certificate. No zoning
compliance certificate shall be issued except in conformity to the provisions
of this title and by written order of the city council.
   B.   Application For Certificate; Procedures:
      1.   Applications for zoning compliance certificates shall be filed with
the building inspector on forms provided for the purpose.
In cases where a building permit is also required by title 7, chapter 1 of this
code, application for a zoning compliance certificate shall be made
coincidentally with application for building permit. In all other cases, it
shall be made prior to the date when a new or enlarged use of a building or
premises, or part thereof, is intended to begin. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
      2.   When the building inspector receives an application for a zoning
compliance certificate for a use which requires a permit from the city council,
such application, together with all supporting data, shall be transmitted by
the building inspector to the city council.
      3.   When the building inspector receives an application for a zoning
compliance certificate for a use which required a conditional use permit, or
for which site plan approval by the city council is required, such application
shall be transmitted to the city council and a zoning compliance certificate
shall not be issued by the building inspector until the city council has
approved the site plans. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991; amd. Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
   C.   Site Plans:
      1.   Plans Required; Contents: Application for zoning compliance
certificates shall be accompanied by site plans which shall be filed in the
Building Inspector's office, showing the following and any such additional
information as may be required to assure conformity of the proposed building,
structure or use to the provisions of this Title.
         a.   Legal description of the property by township, range and section
coordinates and by metes and bounds or, if the property is a part of a recorded
plat, by name, book and page number of plat and lot number or parcel
designation;
         b.   Name, address and telephone number of the property owner of the
person who prepared the site plan;
         c.   Dimensions of all lot and property lines showing the relationship
of the property to abutting properties, boundaries of all lots or parcels under
separate ownership contained therein or abutting thereon;
         d.   Precise location, dimensions, height and use of all buildings and
structures existing on the property;
         e.   Location, alignment and right-of-way width of all streets, alleys
and utility easements existing in or abutting the property;
         f.   Location and dimensions and number of spaces contained in all
existing and proposed off-street parking lots and loading areas;
         g.   Location, right-of-way width and alignment of all proposed public
streets, alleys and utility easements in or abutting the site and location and
width of all access drives to the property from public streets;
         h.   Precise location, size and height of all buildings and structures
proposed to be erected or altered;
         i.   Proposed uses of buildings, structures and land, including the
number of dwelling units, amount of usable floor area, etc.; and
         j.   Any additional information required to show how all special
regulations pertaining to the proposed use are to be met.
      2.   Completion At A Later Date: In the case of an application for a
zoning compliance certificate for any part of a building complex or use of
land, which complex or use is proposed to be completed at a later date, a
preliminary site plan, drawn to scale for the entire complex or use, shall be
submitted for approval in addition to and at the same time as the submission of
detailed site plans required above. Such preliminary site plans shall show how
the part for which a zoning compliance certificate is sought will be related to
the part to be constructed at a later date. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
      3.   Review And Approval: All site plans, except those submitted as part
of an application for a conditional use permit, a special use permit, a
temporary use permit or indicated as requiring City Council approval, shall
require review and approval by the Building Inspector prior to issuance of a
zoning compliance certificate. If site plans are found to be deficient or
require modification in any respect to meet the requirements of this Title, the
Building Inspector shall call in the applicant and/or the person preparing the
plan for clarification of site plan requirements and regulations pertaining to
the particular use. (Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
      4.   Revisions: From time to time before or during the course of
construction, the person holding a zoning compliance certificate may request
and the Building Inspector may approve minor revisions of an approved site
plan; provided, however, that such revisions shall not propose any change in
standards nor reduce the degree of compliance with any requirements of this
Title. All such revisions shall be approved, in writing, by the Building
Inspector, and a complete record of such action shall be filed in his office.
   D.   Issuance Or Denial Of Certificate:
      1.   If review of the application and site plan indicates that the
proposed use will meet all requirements and comply with all regulations
pertaining thereto, the Building Inspector shall, within ten (10) days after
receipt of the application, issue a zoning compliance certificate to the
applicant.
      2.   If, in the opinion of the Building Inspector, the proposed use will
not meet all requirements and comply with all regulations pertaining thereto,
he shall, within ten (10) days after receipt of the application, refuse to
issue a zoning compliance certificate. When a certificate is refused, the
Building Inspector shall so inform the applicant, in writing, stating his
reasons for refusal and shall retain a copy of the action in his files.
      3.   The building inspector shall return one copy of the submitted site
plans to the applicant marked either "APPROVED" or "DISAPPROVED" and attested
by his signature. The second copy of plans, similarly marked and signed, shall
be retained in the files of the building inspector.
   E.   Effect Of Certificate; Time Limit Of Construction: A zoning compliance
certificate shall remain in force until the building, structure or use has been
completed, and an occupancy permit has been issued therefor. All buildings must
be completed within two (2) years from the date of issuance of the occupancy
permit. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-11-3: OCCUPANCY PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to use or occupy, or permit the
use or occupancy of, any building or structure or any change or extension of a
use of land unless and until an occupancy permit has been issued by the
building inspector. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
   B.   Issuance Of Permits: Within five (5) regular work days after receipt of
notice that the building, structure or premises or part thereof has been
completed and is ready for use or occupancy, the building inspector shall make
a final inspection thereof to determine whether construction has been completed
in conformity with provisions of this title. If he finds construction in
conformity and compliance with the applicable minimum landscaping/aesthetic
standards as set forth by a council resolution concerning minimum standards and
specifications for landscaping and aesthetics, he shall issue an occupancy
permit to the owner of the building, structure or premises. (Ord. 04-04, 12-7-
2004)
   C.   Temporary Occupancy Permits: The building inspector may issue a
temporary occupancy permit for a part of a building, structure or use prior to
completion of the entire building, structure or use; provided, that such part
has been completed in conformity with all provisions of this title and is
considered safe and suitable for use or occupancy. Such temporary occupancy
permit shall then remain in force until the entire building, structure or use
has been completed and inspected, and an occupancy permit has been issued
therefor. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-11-4: APPEALS:
(Rep. by Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
8-11-5: VARIANCES:
   A.   Authority: The city council shall hear and decide variances from
regulations and requirements and all matters referred to it or properly of
concern in the administration of this title.
   B.   Findings By Building Inspector: The building inspector shall submit to
the city council a written report of his findings on each application for
variance.
   C.   Procedure For Appeals From Building Inspector Or For Requesting A
Variance: Any person appealing the decision of the building inspector or
requesting a variance by the city council shall include:
      1.   The provision or regulations of this title from which the property
or building is sought to be expected.
      2.   A legal description of the property involved.
      3.   Plot plans showing the location of all existing and proposed
buildings.
      4.   Elevations of all proposed buildings or alterations in sufficient
detail to meet the requirements of the city council, plus elevations of
buildings within one hundred feet (100') of the subject lot.
      5.   Evidence of the ability and intent of the applicant to proceed with
actual construction in accordance with submitted plans within six (6) months of
the filing date.
      6.   Filing fees which shall be deposited in accordance with procedures
adopted by the city. (Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
   D.   Application Requirements: Each such application shall be signed by the
owner of the land and/or buildings affected or by his acknowledged agent. The
applicant shall present adequate evidence showing:
      1.   That there are special circumstances or conditions applying to the
property under consideration which makes compliance with the provisions of this
title a cause of hardship to and abridgement of a property right of said owner
of said property.
      2.   That such circumstances or conditions do not apply, generally, to
other properties in the same zoning district.
      3.   That the granting of the variance is necessary to create substantial
justice to the applicant or owner of the property.
      4.   That the granting of the variance will not result in material damage
or prejudice to other properties in the vicinity nor be detrimental to the
public health, safety and general welfare. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991; amd. 1993
Code)
   E.   Hearing:
      1.   Notice: Upon the filing of an application, the City staff shall set
the matter, not later than thirty five (35) days thereafter, for a public
hearing. After the time and place have been established by the City staff, the
City shall send, by mail, notice of such time and place and purpose of hearing,
at least ten (10) days before the hearing to the owners of property within
three hundred feet (300') of the exterior limits of the property involved, as
shown by the latest assessment rolls of the City. Notice, by mail, to the last
known address of the real property owners, as shown by the Assessor's records,
shall be sufficient. Applications must be filed at least twenty (20) days
before the City Council hearing on the variance. Legal notice shall be placed
in a newspaper of general circulation within the City at least ten (10) days
prior to the date of the public hearing. The Commission shall comply with NRS
chapter 241 "Notice Requirements" in calling the meeting.
      2.   The City Council shall hear and consider evidence and facts from any
person at the public hearing or shall consider written communications from any
person relative to the variance. The right to present such evidence shall not
be denied because of nonrequirements of notification as herein stipulated.
   F.   Findings: The City Council shall, within thirty (30) days from the date
of the hearing, return a decision. Failure to render such a decision shall be
deemed approval of the application. In addition, if the applicant believes that
the variance was denied or conditioned upon an error of law and/or fact, the
applicant may petition the Council for reconsideration. Said petition must be
filed within ten (10) days of the Council's actions and shall set forth with
particularity the alleged error of law and/or fact. The matter shall be placed
on the agenda for a special or regular Council meeting within twenty (20) days
of the date of filing. At such meeting the City Council may reconsider the
matter in such fashion as it deems appropriate or may deny such
reconsideration; however, no new evidence may be introduced. It shall take the
concurrence of at least four (4) members of the City Council to reverse or
modify its previous action.
   G.   Conditions Of Variances: The City Council, in approving any variance,
may require conditions under which the lot or parcel may be used or the
buildings constructed which, in the Council's opinion, will prevent material
damage or prejudice to adjacent properties. Any such conditions as required
must be complied with, and violation of the same shall result in revocation of
the permission granted by variance. Further use shall constitute a violation of
this Title and shall be punishable as herein provided. All variances shall
carry the following conditions:
      1.   Commencement within six (6) months and completion within one year.
      2.   Conformance to plans approved as a part of the variance.
      3.   Subject to review in two (2) years if determined necessary by the
City Council. (Ord. 94-14, 1-3-1995)
8-11-6: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Authority; Initiation Of Amendment: The City Council may, from time to
time as the public necessity, convenience, general welfare or good zoning
practice requires, change the district boundaries or amend, change, repeal or
supplement the regulations herein established. Such change or amendment may be
initiated by the City Council on its own motion or by application of one or
more owners of real property within the area proposed to be changed. (Ord. 94-
14, 1-3-1995)
   B.   Application; Filing Fee:
      1.   Applications for change of district boundaries or amendment of
regulations shall be filed with the City Clerk by an owner of real property
within the area proposed to be changed. Such application shall be filed on a
form provided for the purpose and shall be complete. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
      2.   A filing fee shall be paid in an amount established by a schedule
adopted by resolution of the City Council and filed in the office of the City
Clerk. No part of the filing fee shall be returnable. Payment of filing fee
shall be waived when the change or amendment is initiated by the city council
or when the petitioner is the city, county, state or federal government.
   C.   City Council Public Hearing:
      1.   Notice Of Hearing:
         a.   The city council shall set a date for public hearing of the
petition by the council or property owner. Such public hearing shall be held
only after a public notice of the time, date and place of such hearing has been
published at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, at
least ten (10) days prior to such hearing date, and the requirements of Nevada
Revised Statutes chapter 241 have been complied with. In addition, the notice
must be mailed at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing to each tenant of a
mobile home park if that park is located within three hundred feet (300') of
the property in question. Such notice shall include a legal description of the
property proposed to be rezoned, statement of existing and proposed zoning of
the property and a general description of any regulations proposed to be
amended.
         b.   In addition to the above and to the extent this notice does not
duplicate the aforementioned notice, if the proposed amendment involves a
change in the boundary of a zoning district, notice shall be mailed to all
property owners within three hundred feet (300') of the exterior boundary of
the portion of the boundary being changed at least ten (10) days prior to the
public hearing.
      2.   Hearing Held: The city council shall hold its public hearing on the
application at which it shall review all proposed changes and amendments and
shall hear all evidence offered by the petitioner and parties in interest. Such
hearing shall be held within sixty five (65) days from date of application
filing if the change was not initiated by the city council.
      3.   Council Action: Within forty (40) days after the public hearing, the
city council shall approve or deny the change, with or without conditions, and
such change, if any, shall be adopted by ordinance as provided by law.
      4.   Reconsideration: If an applicant believes that the zoning change was
denied because of an error in fact and/or law, the applicant may petition the
council for reconsideration. Said petition must be filed within ten (10) days
of the council's action and shall set forth with particularity the alleged
error of fact and/or law. The matter shall be placed on the agenda for a
special or regular council meeting within twenty (20) days of the date of
filing. At such meeting, the city council may reconsider the matter in such
fashion as it deems appropriate or may deny such reconsideration; however, no
new evidence may be introduced. It shall take concurrence of at least four (4)
members of the council to reverse or modify its previous action. (Ord. 94-14,
1-3-1995)
8-11-7: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations; Nuisance Declared: Any structure upon which construction is
started or any structure which is altered, enlarged or repaired, or any use of
land which is begun or changed after the effective date hereof, and which is in
violation of any of its provisions may be declared a nuisance. Any court of
competent jurisdiction may order such nuisance abated, and the owner or agent
in charge of such building or premises shall be adjudged guilty of maintaining
a nuisance. Any person who violates any provision of this title, the owner of
any structure or land or part thereof and any person, architect, builder,
contractor, plumber or agent employed in connection therewith who has assisted,
knowingly, in the commission of any such violation shall be guilty of a
separate offense and, upon conviction thereof, be liable to the penalties
herein provided.
   B.   Penalties: Any person violating any provisions of this title shall,
upon conviction, be punished as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code.
Each day that a violation is wilfully permitted to exist shall constitute a
separate offense. The imposition of any sentence shall not exempt the offender
from compliance with the requirements of this title. (Ord. 91-9, 6-4-1991)
8-11-8: MINIMUM DISTANCE BETWEEN RESIDENTIAL ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Distance: A minimum distance of at least one thousand three
hundred twenty feet (1,320') shall be required between residential
establishments.
   B.   Definitions:
    HALFWAY HOUSE FOR RECOVERING ALCOHOL AND DRUG ABUSERS: Is defined in Nevada
Revised Statutes 458.010 as: A residence that provides housing and a living
environment for alcohol and drug abusers and is operated to facilitate their
reintegration into the community, but does not provide treatment for alcohol or
drug abuse. The term does not include a facility for the treatment of abuse of
alcohol or drugs as defined in Nevada Revised Statutes 449.00455.
   INDIVIDUAL RESIDENTIAL CARE: Is not applicable as the population of Elko
County is less than one hundred thousand (100,000).
   RESIDENTIAL ESTABLISHMENT: A residential establishment is defined in Nevada
Revised Statutes 278.021(7)(d) as:
      1.   A home for individual residential care in a community whose
population is one hundred thousand (100,000) or more,
      2.   A halfway house for recovering alcohol and drug abusers, or
      3.   A residential facility for groups.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR GROUPS: Is defined in Nevada Revised Statutes
449.017 as: Except as otherwise provided in the definition of "Halfway House
For Recovering Alcohol And Drug Abusers" of this subsection, "residential
facility for groups" means an establishment that furnishes food, shelter
assistance and limited supervision to an aged, infirm, mentally retarded or
handicapped person. The term does include:
      1.   An establishment which provides care only during the day;
      2.   A natural person who provides care for no more than two (2) persons
in his own home;
      3.   A natural person who provides care for one or more persons related
to him within the third degree of consanguinity or affinity;
      4.   A halfway house for alcohol and drug abusers; or
      5.   A facility funded by a division or program of the department of
human resources. (Ord. 01-21, 11-20-2001)
CHAPTER 12
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS ZONING ORDINANCE
SECTION:
8-12-1: Title
8-12-2: Definitions
8-12-3: Zoning Of Sexually Oriented Business Uses
8-12-4: Injunction
8-12-5: Exemption From Location Restrictions
8-12-1: TITLE:
This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the WEST WENDOVER SEXUALLY
ORIENTED BUSINESS ZONING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 96-04, 4-2-1996)
8-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this Section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
ACCESSORY SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE: A. The offering of retail goods for sale which
are classified as sexually oriented business uses on a limited scale and which
are incidental to the primary activity and goods and/or services offered by the
establishment. Examples of such items include the sale of adult magazines, the
sale and/or rental of adult motion pictures, the sale of adult novelties, and
the like.
   B.   Dancing or live entertainment characterized by an emphasis on the
presentation of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas",
if such live entertainment is only presented as an occasional activity of the
business operation.
   C.   Occasional activity as used in connection with an accessory sexually
oriented use means: dancing or live entertainment characterized by an emphasis
on presentation of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas" if such live entertainment is only presented as an occasional activity
of the business operation as herein regulated.
PERSON: An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association or
other legal entity.
PRINCIPAL SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE: The offering of goods and/or services which
are classified as sexually oriented business uses as a primary or sole activity
of a business or establishment and include, but are not limited to, the
following:
Sexually Oriented Adult Video And/Or Adult Bookstore: A building or portion of
a building used for the barter, rental or sale of items consisting of printed
matter, pictures, slides, records, audio tape, videotape or motion picture film
if a substantial or significant portion of such items are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Barber Shop: Any barber shop which is licensed to cut hair,
but features sexual exhibits or displays:
   A.   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nude; or
   B.   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
   C.   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which depict or describe "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Beauty Salon: Any beauty salon which is licensed to cut hair,
hairstyling, manicuring, but features sexual exhibits or displays:
   A.   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nude; or
   B.   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
   C.   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which depict or describe "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Body Painting Studio: An establishment or business which
provides the service of applying paint or other substance, whether transparent
or nontransparent, to or on the body of a patron when such body is wholly or
partially nude in terms of "specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Cabaret: A building or portion of a building used for
providing dancing or other live entertainment if such dancing or other live
entertainment is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
presentation, display, depiction or description of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Companionship Establishment: A companionship establishment
which provides the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or
discussion between an employee of the establishment and a customer, if such
service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Conversation/Rap Parlor: A conversation/rap parlor which
provides the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or
discussion, if such service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Health/Sport Club: A health/sport club which is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Hotel Or Motel: A hotel or motel wherein material is
presented which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Massage Parlor, Health Club Or Studio: A massage parlor or
health club which provides the services of massage, if such service is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Mini-Motion Picture Theater: A building or portion of a
building with a capacity for less than fifty (50) persons used for presenting
material if such building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice
contains such material that is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" for observation
by patrons therein.
Sexually Oriented Modeling Studio: An establishment whose major business is the
provision, to customers, of figure models who are so provided with the intent
of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to such customers and
who engage in "specified sexual activities" or display "specified anatomical
areas" while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn,
sculptured, photographed or otherwise depicted by such customers.
Sexually Oriented Motion Picture Arcade: Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture
machines, projectors or other image-reproducing devices are maintained to show
images to five (5) or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the
images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas".
Sexually Oriented Motion Picture Theater: A building or portion of a building
with a capacity of fifty (50) or more persons used for presenting material if
such building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice contains such
material that is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" for observation by patrons
therein.
Sexually Oriented Novelty Business: A business which has a principal activity
for the sale of devices which stimulate human genitals or devices which are
designed for sexual stimulation.
Sexually Oriented Sauna: A sauna facility which provides a steam bath or heat
bathing room used for the purpose of bathing, relaxation or reducing, utilizing
steam or hot air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent, if the service
provided by the sauna is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Soda Pop Or Nonalcoholic Beverage Clubs: A night club, bar,
restaurant or other commercial establishment that does not serve alcoholic
beverages but features sexual exhibits or displays:
   A.   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nude; or
   B.   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
   C.   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which depict or describe "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas".
Sexually Oriented Steam Room/Bathhouse Facility: A building or portion of a
building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the
purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam or hot
air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent if the service provided by the
steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Sexually oriented business uses include adult
bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult mini-motion picture theaters,
adult massage parlors, adult steam room/bathhouse/sauna facilities, adult
companionship establishments, adult rap/conversation parlors, adult health/
sport clubs, adult cabarets, adult novelty businesses, adult motion picture
arcades, adult modeling studios, adult hotels/motels, adult body painting
studios, "soda pop" or nonalcoholic beverage club, adult barber shops, adult
beauty salons, and other premises, enterprises, establishments, businesses or
places open to some or all members of the public, at or in which there is an
emphasis on the presentation, display, depiction or description of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" which are capable of being
seen by members of the public. Activities classified as obscene as defined by
Nevada Revised Statutes 201.235 et seq. are not included. (See definitions of
Specified Anatomical Areas and Specified Sexual Activities.)
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: A. Less than completely and opaquely covered human
genitals, pubic region, anus or female breast(s) from the beginning of the
areola or nipple to the end thereof; and
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: A. Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral
copulation, anal intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical
stimulation of unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a
sexual relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a
sexual relationship, and any of the following: sexually oriented acts or
conduct; anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, sapphism; or
   B.   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal or tumescence; or
   C.   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus, or
masturbation; or
   D.   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks or
female breast; or
   E.   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude, clad in
undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged in
activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other
physical restraint of any such persons; or
   F.   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually oriented contact
with an animal by a human being; or
   G.   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal irrigation.
(Ord. 96-04, 4-2-1996)
8-12-3: ZONING OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS USES:
   A.   General: Sexually oriented business uses as defined in this Chapter
shall be subject to the following general provisions:
      1.   Activities classified as obscene as defined in Nevada Revised
Statutes 201.235 et seq. are not permitted and are prohibited.
      2.   Sexually oriented business uses, either principal or accessory,
shall be prohibited from locating in any building which is also utilized for
residential purposes.
      3.   Principal sexually oriented business uses, except sexually oriented
cabarets which provide live entertainment or dancing with performers whose
genitals, pubic region and anus are completely and opaquely covered (topless
dancing cabarets) shall be prohibited from locating in any building which is
also used to store, dispense or consume alcoholic beverages.
      4.   A sexually oriented business use which does not qualify as an
accessory use shall be classified as principal sexually oriented use.
   B.   Principal Sexually Oriented Uses:
      1.   A person commits an offense if that person operates or causes to be
operated a principal sexually oriented business in any zoning district other
than the areas zoned Light Industrial, General Industrial or Restricted
Commercial as defined and described in the West Wendover Zoning Code.
      2.   A person commits an offense if the person operates or causes to be
operated a principal sexually oriented business in a Light or General
Industrial zoned district within one thousand feet (1,000') of:
         a.   A church; or
         b.   A public or private elementary or secondary school; or
         c.   A public or private day care center, preschool, nursery,
kindergarten, or similar use; or
         d.   A public park.
This distance restriction does not apply to the location of a sexually oriented
business in a Restricted Commercial zoned district.
      3.   A person commits an offense if the person operates or causes to be
operated a principal sexually oriented business in a Light or General
Industrial zoned district within five hundred feet (500') of any existing
single- or multiple-family dwelling structure. This distance restriction does
not apply to the location of a sexually oriented business in a restricted
commercial zoned district.
      4.   A person commits an offense if the person operates or causes to be
operated a principal sexually oriented business in a light or general
industrial zoned district within five hundred feet (500') of any existing
principal sexually oriented business. This distance restriction does not apply
to the location of a sexually oriented business in a restricted commercial
zoned district.
      5.   For the purposes of subsections B2, B3 and B4 of this section,
measurement shall be made in a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures or objects, from the nearest portion of the building or structure
used as a part of the premises where a sexually oriented business is conducted,
to the nearest property line of the premises of a church, a public or private
elementary or secondary school, a public or private day care center, preschool,
nursery, kindergarten or school bus stop or similar use or to the nearest
boundary of an affected public park, residential district or residential lot.
The presence of city, county or other political boundaries shall be irrelevant
for purposes of calculating and applying the distance requirements of this
chapter.
      6.   Any principal sexually oriented business that fails to comply with
subsections B1, B2, B3 and B4 of this section on the date of the adoption
hereof but which was lawfully operating before this chapter took effect shall
not be deemed to be in violation of this chapter when this chapter takes effect
and shall be deemed a nonconforming use. Any such nonconforming use may be
allowed to continue; provided, however, that such a nonconforming use may not
be extended, enlarged or altered and may not be changed to any other
nonconforming principal sexually oriented business use.
      7.   A principal sexually oriented business lawfully operating is not
rendered in violation of this chapter by the location, subsequent to the grant
or renewal of the sexually oriented business license, of a church, public or
private elementary or secondary school, public park, residential district or
residential lot within one thousand feet (1,000') or five hundred feet (500'),
whichever is applicable, of the principal sexually oriented business. This
provision applies only to the renewal of a valid license, and does not apply
when an application for a license is submitted after a license has been revoked
or not renewed.
      8.   Principal sexually oriented business uses shall, in addition to
other sign requirements established by this code, also adhere to the following
sign regulations:
         a.   Sign messages shall be generic in nature and shall only identify
the type of business which is being conducted.
         b.   Shall not contain material classified as advertising as to
building content or activities.
         c.   Shall comply with the requirements of size and number for the
district in which they are located. (Ord. 96-04, 4-2-1996)
   C.   Accessory Sexually Oriented Business Uses And Location Thereof:
      1.   Accessory sexually oriented business uses shall:
         a.   Comprise no more than ten percent (10%) of the floor area of the
establishment in which it is located; and
         b.   Not involve or include any activity except the sale or rental of
merchandise; or
         c.   Not involve any dancing or live entertainment characterized by an
emphasis on the presentation of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas", unless such live entertainment is only presented as an
occasional activity of the business operation. To qualify as an accessory
sexually oriented business use, said activity or event shall be limited to no
more than twenty one (21) consecutive days taking place at minimum thirty (30)
day intervals following a similar activity or event and such activities or
events occurring no more than four (4) times within a calendar year.
      2.   Accessory sexually oriented business uses shall be restricted from
and prohibit access to minors by the physical separation of such items from
areas of general public access:
         a.   Movie Rentals: Display areas shall be restricted from general
view and shall be located within a separate room, the access of which is in
clear view and under the control of the persons responsible for the operation
or shall be in catalogs under the direct control and distribution of the
operation.
         b.   Magazines: Publications classified or qualifying as sexually
oriented business uses shall not be physically accessible to minors and shall
be covered with a wrapper or other means to prevent display of any material
other than the publication title.
         c.   Other Use: Accessory sexually oriented business uses not
specifically cited shall comply with the intent of this section subject to the
approval of the chief of police.
      3.   Accessory sexually oriented business uses shall be prohibited from
both internal and external advertising and signage of sexually oriented
materials and products, except for sign messages that are generic in nature and
only identify the type of business which is being conducted; provided, however,
accessory sexually oriented live entertainment may also use internal and
external advertising and signage for up to one week prior to and during such
entertainment.
      4.   Accessory sexually oriented business uses activities shall be
prohibited at any public show, movie, caravan, circus, carnival, theatrical or
other performance or exhibition presented to the general public where minors
are admitted.
      5.   A person commits an offense if the person operates or causes to be
operated an accessory sexually oriented business within five hundred feet
(500') of:
         a.   A church; or
         b.   A public or private elementary or secondary school; or
         c.   A public or private daycare center, preschool, nursery,
kindergarten, or similar use; or
         d.   A public park.
This distance restriction does not apply to the location of an accessory
sexually oriented business in a restricted commercial (RC) district. Further,
this distance restriction is in addition to that restriction provided in
section
3-4-24 of this code.
      6.   For the purposes of subsection C5 of this section, measurement shall
be made in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or
objects, from the nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part
of the premises where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest
property line of the premises of a church, a public or private elementary or
secondary school, a public or private daycare center, preschool, nursery,
kindergarten or school bus stop or similar use or to the nearest boundary of an
affected public park. The presence of city, county or other political
boundaries shall be irrelevant for purposes of calculating and applying the
distance requirements of this chapter.
      7.   Any accessory sexually oriented business that fails to comply with
the location restrictions of this section on the date of the adoption hereof
but which was lawfully operating before this subsection C took effect shall not
be deemed to be in violation of this chapter when this subsection C takes
effect and shall be deemed a nonconforming use. Any such nonconforming use may
be allowed to continue; provided, however, that such a nonconforming use may
not be extended, enlarged or altered and may not be changed to any other
nonconforming principal sexually oriented business use.
      8.   An accessory sexually oriented business lawfully operating is not
rendered in violation of this chapter by the location, subsequent to the grant
or renewal of its business license, of a church, public or private elementary
or secondary school, public park, residential district or residential lot
within five hundred feet (500') of the accessory sexually oriented business.
This provision applies only to the renewal of a valid license in good standing,
and does not apply when an application for a license is submitted after a
license has been revoked or not renewed. (Ord. 2001-04, 4-3-2001)
8-12-4: INJUNCTION:
A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business use
without having a valid permit due to locational restrictions is subject to a
suit for injunction as well as prosecution for the criminal violation. Such
violation shall be punishable by a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
and/or thirty (30) days imprisonment, and if an injunction must be sought,
attorney fees and costs will be assessed at the discretion of the court against
the sexually oriented business use. (Ord. 96-04, 4-2-1996)
8-12-5: EXEMPTION FROM LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   If the city denies the issuance of a license to an applicant or does
not allow an accessory sexually oriented business use because the location of a
principal or accessory sexually oriented business use is in violation of
section
8-12-3 of this chapter, then the applicant or aggrieved business may, not later
than ten (10) days after receiving notice of the denial, file with the city
clerk a written request for an exemption from the locational restrictions of
section
8-12-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 2001-04, 4-3-2001)
   B.   If the written request is filed with the city clerk within the ten (10)
day limit, the city council shall hear and consider the request. The city
council shall set a date for the hearing within sixty (60) days from the date
the written request is received.
   C.   The city council shall hear and consider evidence offered by any
interested person. The formal rules of evidence do not apply.
   D.   The city council may, in its discretion, grant an exemption from the
locational restrictions of section
8-12-3 of this chapter if it makes the following findings:
      1.   That the location of the proposed sexually oriented business use
will not have a detrimental effect on nearby properties or be contrary to the
public safety or welfare; and
      2.   That the location of the proposed sexually oriented business use
will not downgrade the property values or quality of life in the adjacent areas
or encourage the development of blight; and
      3.   That the location of a sexually oriented business use in the area
will not be contrary to any program of neighborhood conservation nor will it
interfere with any efforts of neighborhood renewal or restoration; and
      4.   That all other applicable provisions of this chapter and this code
will be observed.
   E.   If the city council grants the exemption, the exemption is valid for
two (2) years from the date of the city council's action. Upon the expiration
of an exemption, the sexually oriented business use is in violation of the
locational restrictions of section
8-12-3 of this chapter until the applicant applies for and receives another
exemption.
   F.   If the city council denies the exemption, the applicant may not reapply
for an exemption until at least twelve (12) months have elapsed since the date
or the city council's action. (Ord. 96-04, 4-2-1996)
CHAPTER 13
PARCEL MAPS AND SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
8-13-1: Filing Of Parcel Map Required; Survey
8-13-2: Requirements For Parcel Map; Contents
8-13-3: Approval Or Disapproval Of Parcel Map; Appeal
8-13-4: Exceptions
8-13-5: Outline Of Subdivision Procedures
8-13-6: Subdivision Preapplication (Conference) Stage (Stage I)
8-13-7: Subdivision Preliminary Plat Stage (Stage II)
8-13-8: Subdivision Final Plat Stage (Stage III)
8-13-9: Subdivision Block Design
8-13-10: Subdivision Lot Planning
8-13-11: Subdivision Easement Planning
8-13-1: FILING OF PARCEL MAP REQUIRED; SURVEY:
   A.   A person who proposes to divide any land into four (4) or fewer lots
shall file a parcel map in the office of the Elko County Recorder, unless this
requirement is waived. No survey may be required if the requirement of a parcel
map is waived.
   B.   If a survey is not required for the preparation of a parcel map, the
map must be prepared by a registered land surveyor, but his certificate upon
the map may include substantially the following:
This map was prepared from existing information (identifying it and stating
where filed or recorded), and the undersigned assumes no responsibility for the
existence of monuments or corrections of other information shown on or copies
from any such prior document.
(Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
8-13-2: REQUIREMENTS FOR PARCEL MAP; CONTENTS:
   A.   Requirements: For parcel maps, the governing body may require such
street grading and drainage provisions as are reasonably necessary for lot
access and drainage needs. It may also require such lot design as is reasonably
necessary and such off-site access, street alignment, surfacing and width,
water quality, water supply and sewerage provisions as reasonably necessary and
consistent with the existing use of any land zoned for similar use which is
within six hundred sixty feet (660') of the proposed parcel. If the proposed
parcels are less than one acre, the governing body may require additional
improvements which are reasonably necessary and consistent with the use of the
land if it is developed as proposed. For a second or subsequent parcel map with
respect to a single or contiguous tract of land under the same ownership, any
reasonable improvement may be required by the governing body, but not more than
would be required if the parcel were a subdivision.
   B.   Contents And Additional Requirements: The parcel map should contain the
following information and meet the following requirements:
      1.   The parcel map shall be legibly drawn in black, waterproof India ink
on tracing cloth or produced by the use of other materials of a permanent
nature generally used for such purpose in the engineering profession. The size
of each sheet shall be twenty four inches by thirty two inches (24" x 32"). A
marginal line shall be completely drawn around each sheet leaving an entirely
blank margin of one inch (1") at the top, bottom and right edges, and of two
inches (2") at the left edge along the twenty four inch (24") dimension.
      2.   A parcel map shall indicate the owner of any adjoining land or right
of way if owned by the person dividing the land.
      3.   If a survey is required, the parcel map shall also show:
         a.   All monuments found, set, reset, replaced or removed, describing
the claim, size and location and other data related thereto;
         b.   Bearing or witness monuments, basis of bearings, bearing and
length of line and scale of map;
         c.   Name and legal description of tract or grant in which the survey
is located and ties to adjoined tracts;
         d.   Memorandum of oaths;
         e.   Signature of surveyor;
         f.   Date of survey;
         g.   Signature of the owner or owners of the land to be divided;
         h.   Any easements granted or dedications made;
         i.   Provision and date for installation of all required improvements;
and
         j.   Any other data necessary for the intelligent interpretation of
various items in the location of the points, lines and areas shown.
      4.   The following certificates shall appear on a parcel map before it
can be recorded:
         a.   A certificate for execution by the Clerk of each approving
governing body stating that the body approved the map.
         b.   A certificate by the surveyor responsible for the parcel map
giving the date of the survey on which the map is based and stating that the
survey was made by him or under his direction and setting forth the name of the
owner who authorized him to make the survey and that the parcel map is true and
complete as shown. The certificate shall also state that the monuments are of
the character and occupy the positions indicated or that they will be set in
such positions at such time as agreed upon under the provisions of Nevada
Revised Statutes chapter 278. The certificate shall also state that monuments
are or will be sufficient to enable the survey to be retraced.
         c.   A certificate signed and acknowledged by all parties having any
record title in the land subdivided, evidencing their grant of permanent
easements for utilities installations and access, as designated on the map.
         d.   A statement approving such easements, signed by each public
utility company or agency in whose favor the easements are created or whose
utility services are to be required for the platted parcel.
         e.   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to obtain
approval of serving utility companies as to the location of any utility
easements which are to be shown on the parcel map.
      5.   The following data shall accompany a parcel map at the time it is
submitted:
         a.   Name, address and telephone number of the persons requesting
approval of the parcel map and the owner or owners of the land.
         b.   Name, address and telephone number of the person who prepared the
map.
         c.   Legal description of the original parcel. It shall be sufficient
to give recorders book and page of deed and assessor's parcel number.
         d.   Proposed use of each parcel.
         e.   Source of water supply and proposed method of sewage disposal for
each parcel.
         f.   A copy of all survey computations shall accompany the parcel map.
         g.   A vicinity map.
      6.   The subdivider shall file six (6) copies of the parcel map with the
City at the time of filing. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
8-13-3: APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF PARCEL MAP; APPEAL:
The City Council shall give the City's planning personnel the authority to
approve a parcel map or waive the requirement of a parcel map or survey for a
parcel map, without further action by the City Council. The planning personnel
shall review the parcel map, if required, and within forty five (45) days after
filing, shall approve, conditionally approve or disapprove such map.
If the applicant disagrees with any decision of the planning personnel
concerning the parcel map, or if the parcel map is disapproved, the applicant
has thirty (30) days in which to file an appeal with the City Council. The City
Council shall make a determination within forty five (45) days from the date
the appeal was filed. The applicant may petition the Council for
reconsideration based upon an error of law and/or fact by the Council. Said
petition must be filed within ten (10) days of the Council's action and shall
set forth, with particularity, the alleged error of law and/or fact. The
petition shall be placed on the agenda for a special or regular Council meeting
within twenty (20) days of the date of filing. At such meeting the Council may
reconsider its actions in such manner as it sees fit or may deny
reconsideration; however, no new evidence may be introduced. The concurrence of
at least four (4) members of the Council shall be required to reverse its
previous actions. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
8-13-4: EXCEPTIONS:
A parcel map is not required when the land division is for the express purpose
of:
   A.   Creation or realignment of a public right of way by a public agency.
   B.   Creation or realignment of an easement.
   C.   Adjustment of the boundary line or the transfer of land between two (2)
adjacent property owners which does not result in the creation of any
additional parcels.
   D.   Purchase, transfer or development of space within an apartment building
or an industrial or commercial building.
   E.   An order of any court dividing land as a result of an operation of law.
   F.   Creation of a lien, mortgage, deed, trust or any other security
instrument.
   G.   Creation of a security or unit of interest in any investment trust
regulated under the laws of this State or any other interest in an investment
entity.
   H.   Convey an interest in oil, gas, minerals or building materials which
are severed from surface ownership of real property.
   I.   Filing a certificate of amendment for the correction of an error or
omission on a plat, survey or map, or if the correction does not change the
location of a survey monument or properly line. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
8-13-5: OUTLINE OF SUBDIVISION PROCEDURES:
The preparation, submission, review and official action concerning all
subdivision plats located within the City shall proceed through the following
progressive stages:
Stage I   Preapplication (Conference) Stage
Stage II   Preliminary Plat Stage
Stage III   Final Plat Stage
(Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
8-13-6: SUBDIVISION PREAPPLICATION (CONFERENCE) STAGE (STAGE I):
The preapplication stage of subdivision planning comprises an investigatory
period preceding actual preparation of the preliminary plat by the subdivider.
During this stage, the subdivider shall make known his intentions to the
Council and be advised of specific public objectives related to the subject
tract and other details regarding platting procedures and requirements. During
this stage, it shall be determined whether a change in zoning will be required
for the subject tract or any part thereof and if such change is required, the
subdivider shall initiate the necessary application for zoning amendment in
conjunction with submission of the preliminary plat. In carrying out the
purposes of the preapplication stage, the subdivider and the Council shall be
responsible for the following actions:
   A.   Actions By The Subdivider: The subdivider shall meet with the Council
and present a general outline of his proposal, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Sketch plans and ideas regarding land use, street and lot
arrangement and tentative lot sizes.
      2.   Tentative proposals regarding water supply, sewage disposal, storm
drainage and street improvements and any additional information required by the
Council.
   B.   Actions By The Council: The Council may advise the subdivider of
procedural steps, design and improvement standards and general plat
requirements. The Council may then proceed with the following investigations
and report its recommendations to the subdivider:
      1.   Check existing zoning of the tract and of abutting properties and
determine whether a zoning amendment is necessary or desirable.
      2.   Determine the adequacy of existing and proposed schools, parks and
other public facilities.
      3.   Determine the relationship of the site to major streets, utility
systems and adjacent land uses and determine whether there are any potential
problems related to topography, utilities, drainage or flooding.
      4.   Determine whether a development master plan shall be prepared and
approved prior to preparation and consideration of a preliminary plat.
   C.   Development Master Plan: Whenever, in the opinion of the Council, the
proposed subdivision is sufficiently large to comprise a major part of a future
neighborhood, or the tract initially proposed for platting is only a part of a
larger land area, the development of which is complicated by unusual
topographic, utility, land use, land ownership problems or other conditions,
the subdivider shall be required to prepare a development master plan for the
larger area.
      1.   Preparation: The plan shall be prepared on a sheet twenty four
inches by thirty two inches (24" x 32"), shall be accurate commensurate with
its purpose and shall include:
         a.   General street pattern, with particular attention to the location
and general alignment of collector streets and to convenient circulation
throughout the neighborhood.
         b.   General location and size of school, park and other public
facility sites.
         c.   Location of shopping center, multi-family residential and other
proposed land uses.
         d.   Methods proposed for sewage disposal, water supply and storm
drainage.
      2.   Approval: When the plan has been approved by the Council, it shall
constitute the general design approach to be followed in the preparation of all
preliminary plats within its limits. If development is proposed to take place
in several stages, the plan shall be submitted as supporting data for each
preliminary plat. The plan shall be kept up to date by the subdivider as
modifications occur or become necessary. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
8-13-7: SUBDIVISION PRELIMINARY PLAT STAGE (STAGE II):
The preliminary plat stage includes preparation, submission, review and Council
action on the preliminary plat.
   A.   Zoning Amendments: The preliminary plat shall be designed to meet the
specific requirements of the zoning district in which it is located; however,
in the event that an amendment 1  of zoning is necessary, an application for
such amendment shall be submitted and processed in conjunction with the
preliminary plat. The Council shall not proceed with processing of the plat
unless and until said application is submitted. The application for zoning
amendment should be heard by the Council at the same meeting as the preliminary
plat but shall be acted upon separately. When a preliminary plat constitutes
only one unit of a larger development intended for progressive platting, zoning
amendment shall usually be limited to the area contained in and abutting the
initial plat. In any event, any required zoning amendment shall have been
approved by the Council prior to the preliminary plat approval. Zoning
amendments must conform with the General Plan as adopted or amended by the City
Council.
   B.   Water And Sewer; Garbage Disposal: As a prerequisite of preliminary
plat review by the Council, the subdivider shall have informed the Council,
Health Department and the City Manager of his tentative plans and shall provide
adequate information to determine the general requirements for sewage disposal,
water supply, storm drainage and garbage as applied to the subject tract.
   C.   Submission Of Preliminary Plat:
      1.   Information Required:
         a.   Form And Scale: Preliminary plat information hereinafter required
shall be shown graphically on one or more plan sheets with written data either
entered directly thereon or attached thereto. All mapped data for the same plat
shall be drawn at the same standard engineering scale, such scale having not
more than one hundred feet (100') to the inch. Whenever practicable, the plan
scale shall be selected to produce an overall sheet measuring twenty four
inches by thirty two inches (24" x 32").
         b.   Identification Data:
            (1)   Proposed subdivision name, location and section, township and
range, reference by dimension and bearing to a section corner or quarter-
section corner.
            (2)   Name, address and phone number of subdivider.
            (3)   Name, address and phone number of engineer or surveyor
preparing plat, together with the registration number issued to such engineer
or surveyor by Nevada Registering Board.
            (4)   Scale, north point and date of preparation including dates of
any subsequent revisions.
            (5)   A small-scale location map showing the relationship of the
tract to existing community facilities which serve or influence it, including
arterial streets, railroads, shopping centers, parks and playgrounds and
churches.
            (6)   Legal description defining the boundaries of the subdivision.
         c.   Existing Conditions Data:
            (1)   Topographs by two foot (2') contour intervals related to USGS
survey datum shown on the same map as the proposed subdivision layout.
Topographic data shall be adequate to show the character and drainage of the
land.
            (2)   Location of water wells, streams, private ditches, washes and
other water features, including direction of flow; location and extent of areas
subject to frequent periodic or occasional inundation.
            (3)   Within or adjacent to the tract, the location, widths and
names of all platted streets, railroads, utility rights of way of public
record, public areas, permanent structures to remain and Municipal corporation
lines.
            (4)   Name, book and page numbers of all recorded plats abutting
the tract or across a boundary street from the tract.
            (5)   Existing zoning classification of the tract and adjacent
properties.
            (6)   Dimensions of all tract boundaries; gross and net acreage of
tract.
         d.   Proposed Conditions Data:
            (1)   Street layout, including location and width of streets,
alleys, pedestrianways and easements, including connections to adjoining
platted subdivisions and through unsubdivided tracts, proposed names of all
streets and approximate grade of all rights of way.
            (2)   Lot layout, including dimensions of typical lots and the
dimensions of all corner lots and lots on street curves; each lot numbered
consecutively; total number of lots.
            (3)   Location, width and proposed use of easement.
            (4)   Location, extent and proposed use of all land to be dedicated
or reserved for public use, including school sites or parks.
            (5)   Location and boundary of all proposed zoning districts.
            (6)   Draft of proposed deed restrictions.
         e.   Proposed Utility Methods:
            (1)   Sewage Disposal: It shall be the responsibility of the
subdivider to furnish information as to design for sewage disposal connecting
to the City's system.
            (2)   Water Supply: Evidence of adequate volume and quality
satisfactory to the City Manager from the City's system.
            (3)   Storm Drainage: Preliminary drainage calculations and layout
of proposed storm drainage system, including locations of outlets, shall be
submitted.
            (4)   Telephone, Power, Gas, Television: Design and location shall
be shown.
      2.   Filing Copies Of Plat: Six (6) copies of the preliminary plat and
any required supporting data, prepared in accordance with requirements of this
Title, shall be filed with the Council at least fourteen (14) days prior to the
Council meeting at which the subdivider desires to be heard. Scheduling of the
case for Council hearing shall be dependent upon submission of adequate data
and completion of processing. If additional copies of the submittal are needed
for proper review of the proposal, they shall be furnished by the subdivider.
      3.   Acceptance Or Rejection: The submittal shall be checked by the
Council for completeness and, if it meets with all requirements of subsection
C1 of this Section, it shall be assigned a file number; if incomplete, it shall
be rejected and the subdivider notified as to its deficiencies.
      4.   Filing Fee: The subdivider shall, at the time of filing, pay to the
City Clerk a filing fee based upon the number of lots in the plat. The filing
fee shall also cover filing of any amended or revised preliminary plat which
may be processed as the same case. If preliminary approval subsequently expired
prior to application for final approval, the plat shall be resubmitted for
preliminary approval as a new case, and the subdivider shall pay the required
fee in accordance with the adopted schedule. The fee shall be twenty five
dollars ($25.00) plus two dollars ($2.00) per lot.
   D.   Preliminary Plat Review:
      1.   Distribution Of Copies: The subdivider shall distribute copies of
the preliminary plat to:
         a.   The City Manager;
         b.   School District Superintendent, Board of Trustees, Elko County;
         c.   Utility companies;
         d.   Division of Water Resources, Department of Conservation and
Natural Resources;
         e.   Division of Environmental Protection, Department of Conservation
and Natural Resources; and
         f.   Health Department, Department of Human Resources.
      2.   Review By Council: The Council shall review the preliminary plat
submitted for compliance with the provisions of this Title and the zoning
requirements and shall consult with and seek the advice of appropriate City
departments and agencies on any matters of design or improvement. It shall be
the responsibility of the subdivider to provide any necessary data.
      3.   Modifications: In the event the Council requires modifications of
the plat as submitted, the Council shall inform the subdivider and may provide
him advice in overcoming deficiencies prior to Council hearing. A
recommendation for modification or change may be sufficiently important to
warrant postponement of Council hearing until the matter has been resolved with
the subdivider.
   E.   Approval Or Disapproval Of Plat:
      1.   The Council shall consider and approve or disapprove the preliminary
plat within forty five (45) days after the plat has been filed. Before
approving a tentative plat, the Council shall take such action and make such
findings as are not inconsistent with Nevada Revised Statutes 278.330 to
278.349. Any disapproval or conditional approval must contain a statement of
the reason for that action.
      2.   If satisfied that the preliminary plat meets all requirements of
this Title, the City Council may grant preliminary approval, whereupon the
secretary shall note such approval on three (3) copies of the plat, return one
copy to the subdivider, retain one copy in the permanent file and give one copy
to the City Manager.
      3.   If the plat is generally acceptable but requires minor revision, the
City Council may find conditional approval, and the required conditions and
revisions shall be noted in the meeting minutes. Thereafter, at the discretion
of the Council, the plat may be given preliminary approval when it has been
satisfactorily revised in accordance with the Council's stated conditions.
      4.   If the plat is disapproved by the Council, any new filing of a plat
for the same tract or any part thereof shall follow the aforesaid procedure and
be subject to payment of a new filing fee. The subdivider may petition the
Council for reconsideration based upon an error of law and/or fact by the
Council. Said petition must be filed within ten (10) days of the Council's
action and shall set forth, with particularly, the alleged error of law and/or
fact. The petition shall be placed on the agenda for a special or regular
Council meeting within twenty (20) days of the date of filing. At such meeting
the Council may reconsider its actions in such manner as it sees fit or may
deny reconsideration; however, no new evidence may be introduced. The
concurrence of at least four (4) members of the Council shall be required to
reverse or modify its previous action.
      5.   Upon preliminary approval, the subdivider shall deliver one copy of
the plat to the utility companies.
      6.   Whenever any subdivider proposes to subdivide any land within one
mile of the exterior boundary of the City, the County Planning Commission or
governing body shall file a copy of the subdivider's tentative plat with the
City Council. The City Council shall not exceed thirty (30) days' time for
action on the plat and report to the governing body of the county in which the
subdivision is situated. The Planning Commission or the governing body of the
county shall take into consideration the report of the City Council before
approving the tentative plat of any subdivision within the one mile limit.
   F.   Significance Of Preliminary Approval: Preliminary approval constitutes
authorization for the subdivider to proceed with preparation of the final plat
and engineering plans. Preliminary approval is based upon the following terms:
      1.   Basic conditions under which preliminary approval is granted shall
not be changed prior to expiration date.
      2.   Unless the time is extended, the subdivider shall present to the
Council a final map, prepared in accordance with the tentative map, for the
entire area for which a tentative map has been approved, or one of a series of
final maps, each covering a portion of the approved tentative map within one
year or within successive one year periods after the date of approval of the
tentative map by the City Council.
      3.   If the subdivider fails to record a final map for any portion of the
tentative map within one year after the date of approval of the tentative map
by the City Council or within one year after the date of approval by the City
Council of the most recently recorded final map, all proceedings concerning the
subdivision are terminated.
      4.   The City Council may grant an extension of not more than one year
for the presentation of any final map after the one year period for presenting
the entire final map or next successive final map has expired.
      5.   Preliminary approval does not constitute an authorization to proceed
with site improvements prior to approval by the City Manager of engineering
plans.
   G.   Expiration Of Preliminary Approval: If preliminary approval expires
prior to filing of a request for an extension of the time given if an extension
expires, the preliminary plat, if resubmitted, shall be processed as a new case
and a new fee paid. If Council review of a resubmitted plat reveals no
significant change from the previously approved preliminary plat, and
conditions under which previous approval was granted have not changed, the
filing fee shall be as set by the City Council and the resubmitted plat
scheduled for hearing by the Council at its first regular scheduled meeting
thereafter. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  8-11-6 of this Title.
8-13-8: SUBDIVISION FINAL PLAT STAGE (STAGE III):
The final plat stage includes the final design and engineering of the
subdivision and the preparation, submission, review and action on the final
plat and engineering plans.
   A.   Presubmission Requirements:
      1.   Compliance With Zoning Provisions: The final plat shall meet all
requirements of the zoning district in which located, and any necessary zoning
amendment shall have been adopted by the City Council prior to filing of the
final plat.
      2.   Preparation Of Final Plat: The final plat shall conform closely to
the approved preliminary plat and be prepared in accordance with the provisions
of this Title.
      3.   Easements: The final plat submittal shall include a letter
signifying approval of utility easements by all public utilities involved and
shall be so indicated by an affidavit on the map.
   B.   Submission Of Final Plat:
      1.   Information Required:
         a.   Form And Content: The final map shall be clearly and legibly
drawn with black, waterproof India ink, upon good tracing cloth or Mylar,
including affidavits, certificates and acknowledgments. Each sheet shall be
twenty four inches by thirty two inches (24" x 32") in size. A marginal line
shall be drawn completely around each sheet showing an entirely black margin of
one inch (1") at bottom, top and right edge and two inches (2") on the left
edge on the twenty four inch (24") dimension. The scale of the map shall be not
less than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'). The particular number
of the sheet and the total number of sheets comprising the map shall be so
stated on each of the sheets, and the number in relation to each adjoining
sheet shall be clearly shown. The title sheet shall contain the location of the
property being divided with reference to the plat of the United States Survey.
Copies of the final plat shall be reproduced in the form of blueline or
blackline prints on the white background.
         b.   Identification Data:
            (1)   Name of subdivision and location by section, township, range
and county.
            (2)   Name, address and registration number of the registered land
surveyor preparing the plat.
            (3)   Scale, north point and date of plat preparation.
         c.   Survey Data:
            (1)   Boundaries of the tract fully balanced and closed, showing
all bearings and distances, determined by an accurate survey in the field; all
dimensions expressed in feet and decimals thereof.
            (2)   Any exceptions within the plat boundaries located by bearings
and distances expressed in feet and decimals thereof.
            (3)   Location and description of cardinal points to which all
dimensions, angles, bearings and similar data on the plat shall be referenced;
the subdivision traverse shall be tied by course and distance to a section
corner or quarter-section corners.
            (4)   Location and description of all physical encroachments upon
the boundaries of the tract.
         d.   Descriptive Data:
            (1)   Name, right-of-way lines, courses, lengths and widths of all
streets, alleys, pedestrianways and utility easements; radii, points of
tangency and central angles of all curvilinear streets and alleys; radii of all
rounded street line intersections.
            (2)   All drainageways, designated as such.
            (3)   All utility and public service easements, including
designation whether for public access or utilities.
            (4)   Location and dimensions of all lots, parcels and exceptions.
            (5)   All residential lots shall be numbered consecutively through
blocks.
            (6)   Location, dimensions, bearings, radii, arcs and central
angles of boundaries of all sites to be dedicated to the public, including
designation of proposed use.
            (7)   Location of all adjoining subdivisions with name, date, book
and page number of recordation noted, or if unrecorded, so noted, along with
names of adjoining land owners of unsubdivided property.
            (8)   Any private deed restrictions to be imposed upon the plat or
any part thereof written on or attached to the plat and each copy thereof.
         e.   Dedication And Acknowledgment:
            (1)   Statement of dedication of all streets, alleys,
pedestrianways and easements for public purposes by the person holding title of
record, by persons holding title as vendees under land contract and by wives of
such persons. If lands to be dedicated are mortgaged, the mortgagee shall also
sign the plat. Dedication shall include a written description by section,
township and range of the tract. If the plat contains private streets, public
utilities shall be reserved the right to install and maintain utilities in such
street rights of way.
            (2)   Execution of dedication acknowledged and certified by a
notary public.
         f.   Additional Information:
            (1)   Where the center line has been established for any street,
highway, alley or public way within an adjoining subdivision, all monuments
along said street, highway, alley or public way within the proposed subdivision
shall be located with reference to that center line which shall be shown on the
map.
            (2)   The center line of each highway, street, alley or way within
the proposed subdivision and width on each side of the center line and showing
the width to be dedicated, and there shall be designated on all center lines
the bearing thereof and length of each radius, central angle and length of each
curve within the proposed subdivision.
            (3)   The location of monuments or other evidence formed upon the
ground and used in determining the boundaries of the subdivision. If other
subdivisions adjoin, the map shall show sufficient corners of such adjoining
subdivisions, sufficiently identified to locate precisely the limits of the
proposed subdivision.
            (4)   The length and bearing of each block line, lot line and
boundary line; the length, radius and central angle of each curve and that
portion of the central angle lying within each lot. Such data shall be shown in
a manner satisfactory to the City Manager.
            (5)   Each City boundary line crossing or adjoining the subdivision
with adequate ties to monuments set or found within the subdivision.
         g.   Check Of Requirements Of Final Map; Additional Information:
            (1)   The City Manager shall check the final map as to accuracy of
dimensions, the placing of monuments, the establishment of survey records shown
on said map and the conformance of said map with the preliminary map. The final
map shall be accompanied by:
               (A)   A worksheet showing the closure of the exterior boundaries
of the proposed subdivision and of the closure of lots and blocks therein;
               (B)   A complete set of construction plans as required by the
City Manager showing typical street sections, center line and curb grades,
sanitary sewer and storm drain locations and invert grades and elevations;
               (C)   Construction plans for manholes, catch basins and other
appurtenant structures; and
               (D)   An estimate of quantities required to complete the
improvements.
            (2)   The minimum allowable error of closure shall be one ten-
thousandth. Temperature and tension correction shall be applied to all measured
distances in conformance with the standards adopted by the Federal Board of
Surveys and Maps in May 1925.
         h.   Required Certifications: The following certifications shall
appear on the final map:
            (1)   A certificate signed and acknowledged by all parties having
any record title interest in the land subdivided, consenting to the preparation
and recordation of the map. A lien for State, County, Municipal or local taxes
and for special assessments or beneficial interest under trust deeds or trust
interests under bond indentures shall not be deemed to be an interest in land
for the purpose of this subsection. Any map including territory originally
patented by the United States or the State, under patent reserving interest to
either or both of the entities, may be recorded under the provisions of Nevada
Revised Statutes 278.010 to 278.730, inclusive, without the consent of the
United States or the State thereto, or to dedications made thereon. Signatures
required by this subsection of parties owning rights of way, easements or
reversions which, by reason of changed conditions, long disuse or laches,
appear to be no longer of practical use or value and which signatures it is
impossible or impracticable to obtain may be omitted if the names of such
parties and the nature of their interest is endorsed on the map, together with
a reasonable statement of the circumstances preventing the procurement of such
signatures.
            (2)   A certificate, signed and acknowledged as above, offering for
dedication for certain specified public uses (subject to such reservations as
may be contained in any such offer of dedication) those certain parcels of land
which the parties desire so to dedicate. The certificate may state that any
certain parcel or parcels are not offered for dedication, but a local ordinance
may require, as a condition precedent to the approval of any final map, that
any or all of the parcels of land shown thereon and intended for any public
user shall be offered for dedication for public use except those parcels, other
than streets, intended for the exclusive use of the lot owners in such
subdivision, their licensees, visitors, tenants and servants.
            (3)   A certificate for execution by the Clerk of each approving
governing body stating that the body approved the map and accepted or rejected,
on behalf of the public, any parcels of land offered for dedication for public
use in conformity with the terms of the offer of dedication.
            (4)   A certificate signed and acknowledged by all parties having
any record title in the land subdivided, evidencing their grant of permanent
easements for utility installations and access, as designated on the map,
together with a statement approving such easements, signed by each public
utility company or agency in whose favor the easements are created or whose
utility services are to be required for the platted parcels.
            (5)   A certificate by the engineer or surveyor responsible for the
survey and final map, which certificate must be in the following form:
SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
I,  (Name of Surveyor) , a registered land surveyor in the State of Nevada,
certify that:
1. This is a true and accurate representation of the lands surveyed under my
supervision at the instance of  (Owner, Trustee, etc.) .
2. The lands surveyed lie within  (Section, Township, Range, Meridian and, if
required by the governing body, a description by metes and bounds for any
subdivision which is divided into lots containing 5 acres in area or less)  and
the survey was completed on  (Date) .
3. This plat complies with the applicable State statutes and any local
ordinance.
4. The monuments are of the character shown and occupy the positions indicated
by  (a day certain)  and that an appropriate performance bond has been or will
be posted with the Governing Body to assure their installation.
(Date)                                               
Name of Surveyor,
   Registration Number and Seal
            (6)   A certificate by the City Manager or City Surveyor stating
that he has examined the final map, that the subdivision as shown thereon is
substantially the same as it appeared on the tentative map and any approved
alterations hereof, that all provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes 270.010 to
278.630, inclusive, and of any local ordinances applicable at the time of
approval of the tentative map have been complied with, and that he is satisfied
that the map is technically correct, and that the monuments as shown are of the
character and occupy the positions indicated or that the monuments have not
been set, and that a proper performance bond has been deposited guaranteeing
their setting on or before a day certain. The certificate shall be dated and
signed and certified by a registered land surveyor or a registered civil
engineer.
            (7)   A certificate by the State Health Division reading:
This final map is approved by the Health Division of the Department of Human
Resources concerning sewage disposal, water pollution, water quality and water
supply facilities in accordance with the Nevada Revised Statutes. This approval
predicates (community, individual) water supply and (community, individual)
sewage disposal.
            (8)   A copy of the review by the State Engineer required by
subsection B1h(7) above shall be furnished to the subdivider who, in turn,
shall provide a copy of such review to each purchaser of land prior to the time
the sale is completed. No statement of approval or review, as required in
subsection B1h(7) above, is a warranty or representation in favor of any person
as to the safety or quantity of such water.
            (9)   The final subdivision map shall contain the following
certificate:
Division of Water Resource Certificate: This final map is approved by the
Division of Water Resources of the Department of Conservation and Natural
Resources concerning water quantity subject to the review of approval on file
in this office.
            (10)   The City Council shall not approve any final map for a
subdivision served by the City water system unless the subdivider has submitted
plans which provide for the installation of water meters or other devices which
will measure water delivered to each water user in the subdivision.
      2.   Filing Copies Of Plat: The subdivider shall file with the City Clerk
the final plat and four (4) true copies thereof, together with the recordation
fee, at least ten (10) days prior to the City Council meeting at which the
subdivider desires to be heard.
   C.   Final Plat Review:
      1.   Upon receipt of the final plat submittal, the City Clerk shall
record receipt and date of filing and transmit all copies of the final plat to
the City Manager for checking the submittal for completeness. If incomplete,
the filing date shall be voided and the subdivider so notified. If complete,
and if the final plat substantially conforms to the approved preliminary plat,
the City Manager shall transmit copies of the submittal to the following
offices, who shall make known their recommendations, in writing, addressed to
the City Manager. Where applicable, the Nevada Highway Department.
      2.   The City Manager or Planning Department shall assemble the
recommendations of the various reviewing offices and submit the same to the
City Council.
   D.   Approval And Recordation:
      1.   Upon notification from the City Manager that the plat is in order,
the City Clerk shall place the case on the agenda of the next regular meeting,
at which time, the City Council shall approve or deny the plat.
      2.   If the City Council denies approval of the plat for any reason
whatever, such reasons shall be recorded in the minutes and the subdivider so
notified. If the City Council gives final approval of the plat, the City Clerk
shall transcribe upon the plat a certificate of approval signed by the Mayor
and the City Clerk, first making sure that all other required certifications
have been duly signed and that engineering plans have been approved by the City
Manager.
      3.   The subdivider shall then cause signed prints of the plat to be
provided to the City Manager, the County Recorder and the County Assessor, all
at the expense of the subdivider.
      4.   The subdivider shall then record the plat in the Elko County
Recorder's office and pay the recordation fee. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
8-13-9: SUBDIVISION BLOCK DESIGN:
   A.   Maximum Length Of Blocks: Within the following maximums, blocks shall
be as long as reasonably possible in order to achieve all possible street
economy and to reduce the expense and safety hazards arising from excessive
street intersections. Maximum block length, measured along the center line of
the street and between intersecting street center lines, shall not exceed:
      1.   In subdivisions with lot areas averaging under one-half (1/2) acre,
six hundred eighty feet (680'), exclusive of streets.
      2.   In subdivisions with lot areas averaging one-half (1/2) acre or more
or where extreme topographic conditions warrant, one thousand sixty feet
(1,060'), exclusive of streets.
   B.   Pedestrianways: Pedestrianways with a right-of-way width of eight feet
(8') may be required where, in the opinion of the Council, they are essential
for pedestrian circulation within the subdivision or access to schools,
playgrounds or other community facilities. Pedestrianways may be used for
utility purposes. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
8-13-10: SUBDIVISION LOT PLANNING:
   A.   Lot Width, Depth And Area: Lot width, depth and area shall comply with
requirements of the zoning requirements appropriate for the location and
character of development proposed and for the type and extent of urban street
and utility improvements being installed. "Urban improvements" is interpreted
to mean paved and curb streets, sidewalks, local storm drainage system, public
water supply and public sanitary sewage. However, where steep topography,
unusual soil conditions or drainage problems exist or prevail, the Council may
require increased lot width, depth and/or area exceeding the minimum
requirements of the particular zoning district.
Generally, lot depths shall be at least one hundred feet (100') and widths at
least sixty feet (60'); provided, however, that the Council may allow narrower
widths on cul-de-sacs.
   B.   Building Setback: Minimum front and exterior side building setbacks
shall conform to the applicable provisions of this Code or ordinances of the
City.
   C.   Side Lot Lines: Side lot lines shall be substantially in right angles
or radial to street lines, except where, in the opinion of the Council, other
alignment may be justified.
   D.   Abut Public Street: Every lot shall abut a public street.
   E.   Double Frontage Lots: Double frontage lots intended for single-family
residences shall be prohibited; provided, that subject to the approval of the
Council, such lots may be platted abutting an arterial street so long as
dwellings front on local or collector streets, and all access from the arterial
street is prohibited. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
8-13-11: SUBDIVISION EASEMENT PLANNING:
   A.   Utilities shall be placed under ground unless a modification is
approved to permit overhead utilities by the City Council and only where
overhead utilities are determined acceptable by the Council.
      1.   Where alleys are platted, utility easements four feet (4') wide on
each side of alleys for aerial overhang shall be provided by dedication. Where
alleys are not platted, utility easements six feet (6') wide on each side of
rear lot lines shall be provided and delineated on the plat. In addition, guy
and anchor easements shall be provided one foot (1') wide on each side of a
side lot line and thirty five feet (35') in length, measured from the rear lot
line, in locations selected by the Utility Committee if such has been created,
otherwise by the City Council or as required by the utility company.
      2.   Along side lot lines where required for distribution facilities,
utility easements five feet (5') wide on each side of side lot lines; where
service to street lighting is required, one foot (1') on each side of such lot
lines or as required by the utility company.
      3.   Where all utilities are under ground:
         a.   Rear Lot Lines: Where alleys are platted, easements as required
by serving utilities.
         b.   Side Lot Lines: All utility service lines, including gas,
electric, telephone and street lighting, shall be channeled in easements four
feet (4') wide on each side of the lot line separating pairs of lots, as
required by the utilities for service.
   B.   For lots facing on curvilinear streets, alleys and easements for
overhead utilities shall usually consist of a series of straight lines with
points of deflection not less than one hundred twenty feet (120') apart, such
points of deflection always occurring at the junction of side and rear lot
lines on the side of the exterior angle; however, curvilinear easements or
alleys may be employed; providing, that the minimum radii of center lines shall
be not less than eight hundred feet (800'). (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
CHAPTER 14
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
8-14-1: Responsibilities
8-14-2: Agreement To Install
8-14-3: Performance Guarantee
8-14-4: Engineering Plans
8-14-5: Construction And Inspection
8-14-6: Improvements Required
8-14-1: RESPONSIBILITIES:
The design, construction and financing of all required sidewalks, curbs,
gutters, pavements, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, water mains, fire hydrants,
drainage structures and monuments shall be the responsibility of the subdivider
and shall conform to public improvement standards established by the City
Manager and approved by the City Council; provided, however, that the
subdivider may meet such requirements by participation in an improvement
district approved by the City. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
8-14-2: AGREEMENT TO INSTALL:
   A.   Prior to certification of final plat approval by the Mayor, the
subdivider shall have executed and filed an agreement between himself and the
City providing that:
      1.   All required subdivision improvements will be completed within a
specified period of time to the satisfaction of the City.
      2.   In the event that such improvements are not completed within the
specified period, the City may, at its option, complete or cause to be
completed such work and recover from the subdivider full cost and expenses
therefor.
      3.   Engineering plans and all required improvements shall be inspected
by the City.
   B.   The aforesaid agreement may also provide for:
      1.   Construction of improvements in predetermined stages.
      2.   An extension of construction period under certain specified
conditions.
      3.   Progress payments to the subdivider from any deposit which the
subdivider may have made or reduction in bonds not exceeding ninety percent
(90%) of the value of improvements completed and approved, as determined by the
City Manager. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
8-14-3: PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE:
   A.   Financial Guarantee: Prior to certification of final plat approval by
the Mayor, the subdivider shall have provided the City a financial guarantee of
performance in completion of required improvements, in one or a combination of
the following forms as determined by the City:
      1.   Performance Or Surety Bond: Performance or surety bond in an amount
deemed sufficient by the City Manager to cover, but not to exceed, the full
cost of required improvements, engineering inspections, incidental expenses and
replacement and repair of any existing streets and utilities or other
improvements which may be damaged during construction of required improvements.
Such bond shall be executed by a surety company authorized to do business in
the State, must be approved by the City Attorney as to form and have a length
of term not exceeding twenty four (24) months from the date of final plat
recordation.
      2.   Retainer: Deposit of cash, certified check or negotiable bonds, made
payable to the City Finance Director or to a responsible escrow agent or trust
company approved by the City Attorney, in the same amount and for the same
purpose as heretofore provided for performance bond.
      3.   Improvement District Financing: In cases where all properties
abutting a public street within any given block are not under the control of
the subdivider, and the street abutting such properties is not fully improved
in accordance with the requirements of this Title, the subdivider may petition
the City to construct the required improvements and to assess the cost thereof
against abutting properties in accordance with local practice pertaining to
special assessments; provided, however, that the subdivider shall be
responsible for any differences between the cost of such improvements and the
amount which can be legally assessed by the City against the property to be
subdivided and shall furnish any necessary waivers to permit assessment of the
entire cost of such improvements. Any such agreement shall be in a form
approved by the City Attorney.
   B.   One Year Maintenance: The subdivider shall guarantee the adequacy of
street and utility improvements for a period of one year.
   C.   Penalty In Case Of Default: In the event that the subdivider fails to
complete all required subdivision improvements in accordance with terms of his
agreement with the City, the City may have such work completed and, in order to
reimburse itself for the cost and expense hereof, may appropriate the deposit
of cash or negotiable bonds or take such steps as may be necessary to secure
performance under the bond.
   D.   Payments From Or Release Of Bonds: No job progress payments from cash
or negotiable bond deposits nor any release of performance bonds shall be made
by the City except upon certification by the City Manager and approval by the
City Council. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
8-14-4: ENGINEERING PLANS:
It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to have prepared by an
engineer registered in the State, a complete set of engineering plans,
satisfactory to the City Manager, for construction of all required street and
utility improvements. Such plans shall be based on and be prepared in
conjunction with the final plat. Engineering plans shall have been approved by
the City Manager prior to recordation of the final plat. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-
1998)
8-14-5: CONSTRUCTION AND INSPECTION:
   A.   All improvements in the public right of way shall be constructed under
the inspection and approval of the City Manager. Construction shall not be
commenced until a permit has been issued for such construction and if work has
been discontinued for any reason, it shall not be resumed until after
notifying, in advance, the department having jurisdiction.
   B.   All underground utilities to be installed in streets shall be
constructed prior to the surfacing of such streets. Service stubs to platted
lots within the subdivision for underground utilities shall be placed to such
length as to avoid disturbance of street improvements when service connections
are made. (Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
8-14-6: IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED:
   A.   Streets And Alleys: All streets and alleys within the subdivision shall
be graded, drained and surfaced to cross- sections, grades and standards and
profile as provided in the West Wendover Construction Standards and
Specifications Manual and Title 6, Chapter 1 of this Code. Where there are
existing streets adjacent to proposed streets, the proposed streets shall be
fully improved to the intercepting paving line of such existing streets.
   B.   Curbs: Curbs and gutters shall conform to the West Wendover
Construction and Specifications Manual and Title 6, Chapter 1 of this Code.
   C.   Sidewalks: Sidewalks shall conform to the West Wendover Construction
and Specifications Manual and Title 6, Chapter 1 of this Code.
   D.   Street Name Signs: Street name signs shall have been installed at all
street intersections by the time the street pavement is ready for use. Design,
construction, location and installation shall conform to approved City
standards.
   E.   Storm Drainage: The design and construction of public streets and
alleys and the grading of private properties shall provide for adequate
disposal of storm waters. Existing major drainage courses shall be maintained
and dedicated as public drainageways. The type, extent, location and capacity
of drainage facilities shall be planned by subdivider's engineer and approved
by the City Engineer. Drainage facilities shall be installed to the grade and
in the locations and to the depth and of the materials shown on plans and
specifications approved by the City Engineer, storm and surface water drain
pipes and mains, together with catch basins, and shall be installed to provide
discharge from the same in a manner and at a place to be approved by the City
Engineer. All lots other than a single-family residence shall be required to
have on- site drainage or a direct connection into the master storm drainage
system. All systems shall be built to conform with the West Wendover
Construction Standards and Specifications Manual.
   F.   Sanitary Sewers:
      1.   Public sanitary sewers shall be installed in all subdivisions which
are accessible to an existing or planned and programmed public sewer system, as
determined by the City Engineer.
Sewers shall be constructed to plans, profiles, and specifications to conform
with the West Wendover Construction Standards and Specifications Manual.
The subdivider shall install, to the grade and in the locations and to the
depth and of the material shown on the plans and specifications approved by the
City Engineer, sanitary sewer mains with connections therefrom to each lot in
said subdivision, said mains to be connected to the sewer system of the City at
a point to be specified by the City Engineer.
      2.   All necessary manholes shall be installed in connection with the
installation of sanitary sewer mains, said manholes to be installed at the
points and in the manner and according to the specifications found in the West
Wendover Construction Standards and Specifications Manual.
   G.   Water Supply:
      1.   Requirements: Each lot shall be supplied with safe, pure and potable
water in sufficient volume and pressure for domestic use and fire protection,
in accordance with approved City standards. The subdivider shall install to
grade all water mains and lines so that they conform with the West Wendover
Construction Standards and Specifications Manual. All proposed water systems
shall connect to the City system.
      2.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be installed in all subdivisions
in accordance with approved City standards as set by the Fire Department.
   H.   Power, Communications And Gas Utilities: All electric distribution
facilities shall be installed under ground, except in unusual situations
involving short extensions of overhead facilities existing on abutting
subdivisions wherein such extensions may be approved by the City Council. All
such underground electric distribution lines and telephone lines shall be
installed in accordance with General Order No. 9 as issued by the Public
Service Commission of the State.
   I.   Monuments And Markers:
      1.   Permanent monuments shall be installed in accordance with approved
City standards at all corners, angle points, points or curve and at all street
intersections. After all improvements have been installed, the subdivider shall
have a registered land surveyor check the location of monuments and certify
their accuracy. Monuments shall be at or near boundary corners. Monuments shall
be set at intermediate points of approximately one thousand feet (1,000') or at
such lesser distances as may be necessary, by reason of topography or culture,
to ensure accuracy in the reestablishment of any point or line without
unreasonable difficulty. All monuments shall be permanently and visibly marked
with the registration or license number of the registered land surveyor under
whose supervision the survey was made, and a description of such monument shall
be shown on the final map.
The subdivider shall set monuments at street intersections and at the beginning
and ending of each curve unless the intersection of tangents of said center
line falls within the street right of way, in which event the City Engineer may
permit the subdivider to establish a monument at such intersection in lieu of
monuments at said beginning and end of curve.
      2.   Five-eighths inch (5/8") reinforcing steel shall be set at all
corners, angle points and points of curve for each subdivision lot prior to
recordation of the plat.
   J.   Street Lighting: Street lighting shall be required on all streets
within the subdivision and shall be placed at locations designated by the City
Engineer and to the specifications with respect to materials, design and
construction as set forth by the West Wendover Construction Standards and
Specifications Manual. The subdivider will bear all costs relating to the
purchase and placement of the streetlights; provided, however, if the City and
the power company can reach an agreement whereby the City is reimbursed for
costs, the City may participate in the installation of the lights. (Ord. 98-09,
10-6-1998)
CHAPTER 15
PARKS AND RECREATION DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
8-15-1: Title
8-15-2: Purpose, Scope, Authority And General Provisions
8-15-3: Definitions
8-15-4: Dedication Of Land For Parks And Recreation
8-15-5: Standards Concerning Dedicated Land
8-15-6: Creation Of Recreation Plan And Neighborhood Park And Park Facilities
Districts
8-15-7: Planned Unit Residential Development Applicability
8-15-8: Excess Dedication
8-15-9: Development Plan
8-15-10: Transfer Of Title
8-15-11: Donations
8-15-1: TITLE:
Ordinance 98-12, Title 8, Chapter 15 of the West Wendover City Code is hereby
entitled and may be cited as PARKS AND RECREATION DEVELOPMENT CODE. (Ord. 98-
12, 12-15-1998)
8-15-2: PURPOSE, SCOPE, AUTHORITY AND GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   This Chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority of Nevada Revised
Statutes 278.497 et seq., to provide for the acquisition, improvement and
expansion of public park, playground and recreational facilities.
   B.   The public interest, convenience, health, welfare and safety require
that certain amounts of land in the City be devoted to park, playground and
recreational areas, which include neighborhood, district and regional
facilities serving various recreational needs of the residents of the City and
the neighborhoods located therein. The geographical areas of the City are, by
this Chapter, divided into various park districts, taking into account in such
division the uneven population distribution throughout the geographical areas
of the City. It is the intent of the City Council that park districts created
herein shall periodically be revised, both in number and location, to properly
take into account future population distribution within the different
geographical areas of the City. (Ord. 98-12, 12-15-1998)
8-15-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this Chapter, shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them:
APARTMENT HOUSE: A structure arranged in several suites of connecting rooms,
each suite designed for independent housekeeping, but with certain typical
mechanical conveniences, such as air conditioning, heat, lights, or elevator
services shared in common by all families occupying the building.
COMMON OPEN SPACE: A parcel or parcels of land or an area of water or a
combination of land and water within the site designated for a planned unit
residential development which is designed and intended for use or enjoyment of
the residents of the development. Common open space may contain such
complementary structures and improvements as are necessary and appropriate for
the benefit and enjoyment of such residents.
FACILITIES: Turf, trees, irrigation, playground apparatus, playing fields, play
areas, picnic areas, horseshoe pits and other recreational equipment or
appurtenances designed to serve the natural persons, families and small groups
from the neighborhood from which the tax was collected.
MOBILE HOME: A vehicular structure, built on a chassis or frame, which is
designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation and is capable of
being drawn by a motor vehicle, and which may be used as a dwelling when
connected to utilities.
MOBILE HOME LOT: Any area or tract of land designated, designed or used for the
occupancy of a mobile home and includes each space within a mobile home park or
mobile home subdivision.
NEIGHBORHOOD PARK: A site not exceeding twenty five (25) acres designed to
serve the recreational and outdoor needs of natural persons, families and small
groups.
PLANNED UNIT RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT: An area of land controlled by a
landowner, which is to be developed as a single entity for a number of dwelling
units, the plan for which does not correspond in lot size, bulk or type of
dwelling, density, lot coverage and required open space to the regulations
established in any one residential district created, from time to time, under
the provisions of any zoning ordinance enacted pursuant to law.
RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT: A structure or a portion of a structure planned,
designed or used as a residence for one family only, living independently of
other families or persons, and having its own bathroom and housekeeping
facilities included in the unit.
RESIDENTIAL USE: The capability of permanent occupation of a building or mobile
home by one or more persons for sleeping or eating purposes. (Ord. 98-12, 12-
15-1998)
8-15-4: DEDICATION OF LAND FOR PARKS AND RECREATION:
   A.   Subdividers:
      1.   All subdividers of land must dedicate such land areas, sites and
locations for parks and playground purposes as are reasonably necessary to
serve the proposed subdivision and its future residents. Said subdividers must
dedicate to the city one thousand nine hundred sixty (1,960) square feet of
real property for each one acre of the proposed subdivision.
      2.   All lands dedicated pursuant to this section shall be free from
liens and encumbrances at the time title passes to the city.
      3.   All provisions to the contrary notwithstanding, the amount of land
required to be dedicated may not exceed the fair market value, determined by an
independent appraisal, of the amount of any residential construction tax which
would otherwise have been collected under a residential construction tax levied
pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 278.4983. (Ord. 98-12, 12-15-1998)
   B.   Developers: All developers of land for mobile home lots or apartment
houses must dedicate such land sites, areas and locations for park and
playground purposes as are reasonably necessary to serve the proposed
development and its residents. Said developers must dedicate real property to
the city in an amount which shall be equal to one percent (1%) to the nearest
dollar value or valuation or one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per apartment
house suite or mobile home lot, whichever is less, of the eventual building
permits to be issued for apartment house suites or mobile home lots or any
combination thereof. The value or valuation of the building permits shall
reflect actual costs of residential construction in the area as determined by
the building department in accordance with the international building code and
Marshall-Swift formulas utilized by the West Wendover building department.
(Ord. 98-12, 12-15-1998; amd. Ord. 2005-07, 12-20-2005)
8-15-5: STANDARDS CONCERNING DEDICATED LAND:
The following standards shall apply in determining the land to be dedicated:
   A.   Amount: The amount of land required to be dedicated shall be as set
forth in section
8-15-4 of this chapter. All provisions of this chapter to the contrary
notwithstanding, the amount of land required to be dedicated may not exceed the
fair market value, determined by an independent appraisal, of the amount of any
residential construction tax which would have been otherwise collected pursuant
to a tax levied under Nevada Revised Statutes 278.4983.
   B.   Quality And Location: The characteristics of the land to be dedicated
shall be consistent with the proposed parks and recreation use and shall be
such that development of the parks and recreational uses and facilities shall
be economically feasible under the existing conditions. The city council may
consider the costs of development of any land proposed to be dedicated in
determining whether to accept such offer. In addition, such land must be
situated, insofar as is practical, in a location central to the residential
users to enable equal opportunities for the residents of the subdivision or
development to use said land.
   C.   Encumbrances: All lands dedicated pursuant to this Chapter shall be
free from liens and encumbrances at the time title passes to the City. (Ord.
98-12, 12-15-1998)
8-15-6: CREATION OF RECREATION PLAN AND NEIGHBORHOOD PARK AND PARK FACILITIES
DISTRICTS:
   A.   The City shall have those parks, recreation areas and park facilities
districts as established by resolution of the City Council. The City hereby
adopts a Recreation Plan to consist of the attached maps, diagrams, charts,
descriptive matter or reports. The Recreation Plan shall provide for a
comprehensive system of recreation areas, including natural reservations,
parks, parkways, beaches, playgrounds, and other recreation areas. The plan
shall also outline the proposed method of carrying out the acquisition,
development, operation and maintenance of the recreation areas and facilities
for which it provides.
The City Council may amend the plan by resolution from time to time as
necessary.
   B.   The West Wendover Recreation District in conjunction with the City will
conduct a continuing study of population trends and concentrations as well as
of neighborhood development throughout the City and shall, at least once every
three (3) years, submit recommendations to the City Council, based on such
study, suggesting any changes, either in number or boundary locations of the
districts.
   C.   If a park or playground has not been developed or park facilities
installed or improvements made to existing parks or facilities on the land
dedicated for that purpose within three (3) years after the date on which
seventy five percent (75%) of the residential dwelling units within an approved
subdivision or development are first occupied, title to the land dedicated by
the subdivider or developer shall revert to the owners of the lots in the
subdivision or development at the time of the reversion on a pro rata basis.
(Ord. 98-12, 12-15-1998)
8-15-7: PLANNED UNIT RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT APPLICABILITY:
Any developer of a planned unit residential development shall dedicate to the
City real property in accordance with Section
8-15-4 of this Chapter; provided, however, where a landowner provides for and
establishes an organization for the ownership and maintenance of common open
space in a proposed planned unit residential development and such space is to
be privately owned and maintained for park, playground and recreational use by
the future residents of the planned unit residential development, credit may be
given against the requirement of dedication if the City Council, on
recommendation from the West Wendover Recreation District determines it to be
in the public interest to do so and that such determination shall be based on,
but not limited to, the following standards:
   A.   That yards, court areas, setbacks and other open areas required to be
maintained by the zoning and building ordinances and regulations shall not be
included in the computation of such private open space;
   B.   That the private ownership and maintenance of the open space is
adequately provided for by the recorded written agreement, conveyance or
restrictions;
   C.   That the use of the private open space is restricted for park and
recreational purposes by recorded covenant, which runs with the land in favor
of the future owners of the property and which cannot be defeated or eliminated
without the consent of the City;
   D.   That the proposed private open space is reasonably adaptable for use
for park and recreational purposes, taking into consideration such factors as
size, shape, topography, geology, access and location;
   E.   That the open space for which credit is given is a minimum of three (3)
acres and provides all, or a minimum of five (5), of the local park basic
elements listed below or a combination of such other recreational improvements
that will meet the specific recreation and park needs of the future residents
of the area;
 
                                      Acres
Children's play apparatus area      0.50 to 0.75
Family picnic area                  0.25 to 0.75
Game court area                     0.25 to 0.50
Landscape park-like and quiet areas 0.50 to 1.00
Turf playfield                      1.00 to 3.00
 
   F.   The common open space is sufficient to accommodate the park, playground
and recreational needs of the projected population of the planned unit
residential development. (Ord. 98-12, 12-15-1998)
8-15-8: EXCESS DEDICATION:
Any land dedicated and accepted, at the request of the City, in excess of that
land required by Section
8-15-4 of this Chapter, shall be purchased by the City at its fair market value
or returned to the appropriate party at the sole discretion of the City. (Ord.
98-12, 12-15-1998)
8-15-9: DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
When twenty five percent (25%) of the property is developed within the
subdivision or development from which the land was dedicated, public hearings
shall be scheduled to be held jointly by the City and the West Wendover
Recreation District to address a proposed park and recreational facilities site
development plan, schedule for development, and financing plan, the latter to
include operational and maintenance costs. The primary responsibility for park
development is with the West Wendover Recreation District. The cost of
developing parks and recreational facilities, specifically the earthwork,
irrigation lines, landscaping, sidewalks, bike paths, basketball courts, tennis
courts, parking and necessary structures or associated work shall be the
responsibility of the West Wendover Recreation District. The cost of apparatus
or equipment for the new parks and recreation facilities, specifically any
playground apparatus, basketball standards, tennis nets, backstops, barbecue
grills, benches, tables or other associated equipment shall be the
responsibility of the City. Nothing in this Section precludes one entity or the
other from assuming costs and responsibilities of the other entity. (Ord. 98-
12, 12-15-1998)
8-15-10: TRANSFER OF TITLE:
Title to land dedicated pursuant to this Section shall be transferred to the
City on or before the issuance of the first building permit and construction of
the first unit for the subdivision or development from which the land was
dedicated. (Ord. 98-12, 12-15-1998)
8-15-11: DONATIONS:
Nothing in this Chapter prohibits a subdivider or developer from donating land
for neighborhood park purposes in excess of that land designated to be
dedicated. (Ord. 98-12, 12-15-1998)
CHAPTER 16
AIRPORT AREA DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. AIRPORT COMMERCIAL DISTRICT 1
SECTION:
8-16A-1: AC-1 District
8-16A-2: Aeronautical Restrictions
8-16A-3: Principal Uses Permitted
8-16A-4: Conditional Uses Permitted
8-16A-5: Accessory Uses Permitted
8-16A-6: Property Development Standards For Permitted Principal Uses
8-16A-7: General Regulations
8-16A-1: AC-1 DISTRICT:
The Airport Commercial Zoning District 1 (AC-1) is hereby created. (Ord. 99-03,
8-17-1999)
8-16A-2: AERONAUTICAL RESTRICTIONS:
This District is intended to accommodate small-scale convenience centers, which
are under one roof, and served by an adequate off- street parking area and
which are designed to meet the incidental daily convenience needs of
immediately adjacent residential areas. This District is governed by the
following aeronautical restrictions, which pertain to the District residing
within an airport influence area, a transitional surface area and/or a runway
approach surface area:
   A.   No noise sensitive development (i.e., residential, schools or
hospitals).
   B.   Development must comply with FAR part 77 Height and Obstruction
Criteria.
   C.   Building height restricted to the maximum of:
      1.   AC-1 Zoning to a maximum of twenty five feet (25').
      2.   Below the approach zone or a maximum of twenty five feet (25') if
within an approach zone, whichever is least. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
8-16A-3: PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED:
Barber and beauty shops.
Craft and hobby shops.
Daycare services.
Flower shops.
Professional offices.
Retail clothing stores.
Retail establishments selling a line of convenience goods similar to that of
supermarkets but more limited in scale.
Retail food services.
Self-service car washes.
Self-servicing laundry and self-service dry-cleaning establishments; laundry or
dry-cleaning pick-up outlets.
Similar commercial-retail activities. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
8-16A-4: CONDITIONAL USES PERMITTED:
All developments in AC-1 Zoning Districts shall be subject to the conditional
use permit procedure as set forth in Chapter 10 of this Title. (Ord. 99-03, 8-
17-1999)
8-16A-5: ACCESSORY USES PERMITTED:
Except as may be elsewhere provided herein, no accessory buildings, structures
or uses shall be permitted except off- street parking and loading, trash
enclosures and accessory signs. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
8-16A-6: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES:
Area, height, bulk and placement requirements are as follows:
 
                      Minimum   Minimum Setbacks       Maximum      Maximum
             Lot Area  Lot       For Principal          Building     Of Lot
District AC-1 (Sq. Ft.) Dimension Buildings              Height       Coverage
                                                                   
             Minimum   Maximum   Street, Rear And Int.               
                               W  D   Line Side Yards              
                                                            25'
                                                         Or as
                                                         established
Convenience   8,000     30,000    80 100 40   25   15    by           40%
Commercial                                               aeronautical
                                                         restrictions
                                                         as set forth
                                                         herein
 
(Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
8-16A-7: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Storage:
      1.   Outdoor: The outdoor storage of goods or materials shall be
provided.
      2.   Indoor: Warehousing or the indoor storage of goods or material
beyond that normally incidental to permitted uses shall be prohibited.
   B.   Landscaping: The City Council may require landscaping to promote
compatibility with the neighborhood.
   C.   Gaming: The City Council may permit gaming as an accessory use in
conjunction with the principal uses permitted herein. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
ARTICLE B. AIRPORT COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS 2, 3
SECTION:
8-16B-1: AC-2, AC-3 Districts
8-16B-2: Aeronautical Restrictions
8-16B-3: Use Regulations And Restrictions
8-16B-1: AC-2, AC-3 DISTRICTS:
Airport Commercial Districts 2 (AC-2) and 3 (AC-3) are hereby created. (Ord.
99-03, 8-17-1999)
8-16B-2: AERONAUTICAL RESTRICTIONS:
These Districts are intended to accommodate all commercial uses customarily
found in a commercial area, including, but not limited to, retail and service
activities, office buildings, public and quasi-public land uses. These
Districts are governed by the following aeronautical restrictions, which
pertain to the District residing within an airport influence area, a
transitional surface area and/or a runway approach surface area:
   A.   No noise sensitive development (i.e., residential, schools or
hospitals).
   B.   Development must comply with FAR part 77 Height and Obstruction
Criteria.
   C.   Building height restricted to the maximum of C-2, C-3 Zoning or:
      1.   One hundred feet (100') if within an airport influence area.
      2.   Fifty feet (50') if within a transitional surface area.
      3.   Below the approach zone or a maximum of one hundred feet (100') if
within an approach zone, whichever is least. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
8-16B-3: USE REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   AC-2 Zoning District: Within the AC-2 Zoning District, but outside
locations for planned shopping centers, recreational vehicle parks and the AC-
3 Zoning District, commercial land uses customarily found along highways may be
permitted. Such uses may include, but not be limited to, gas service stations,
motels and restaurants.
      1.   All gas stations shall be subject to the conditional use permit
procedures as set forth in Chapter 10 of this Title.
      2.   All structures intended to be located within one hundred fifty feet
(150') of any residential zoning district shall be subject to the conditional
use permit procedure as set forth in Chapter 10 of this Title.
   B.   Planned Commercial Shopping Centers: Within the AC-2, AC-3 Zoning
Districts, planned shopping centers are permitted. The following standards and
policy shall apply to planned shopping centers:
      1.   Street Access Requirements: Such projects shall be permitted only on
a site which abuts an arterial street or highway. Curb cut requirements shall
be as follows:
         a.   State Highways: In accordance with Nevada Highway Department
Rules and Regulations.
         b.   City Streets: Seventy five feet (75') minimum between curb cuts.
      2.   Required Yards: All buildings and structures, including, but not
limited to, service areas and access drives, shall be set back not less than
thirty feet (30') from side and rear property lines and not less than forty
feet (40') from the future or existing street right-of-way line of an abutting
street.
      3.   Screening For Residential Property; Approval: In addition to other
buffer requirements, when the back of the development is across the street from
property in a residential district, then a solid fence or hedge not less than
six feet (6') in height shall be installed and maintained by the developer to
screen the back of the project from the residential property. Such screening
shall be approved by the city council.
      4.   Internal Traffic Circulation: All parking spaces within planned
commercial district parking lots shall be provided with chocks to prevent
nondesired traffic movements and to facilitate the channelization of vehicular
circulation.
      5.   Pedestrian Walkways: A system of pedestrian walkways shall be
provided so as to separate vehicle and pedestrian movements.
      6.   Conditional Use Permit: It shall be the policy of the city to
require a conditional use permit for all planned commercial shopping centers.
   C.   Recreational Vehicle Parks (RVPs): Within the AC-2 zoning district,
recreational vehicle parks (RVPs) are permitted. For the purpose of reviewing
such proposed developments, the following shall apply:
      1.   A conditional use permit shall be required.
      2.   Such RVPs shall meet all applicable state and city requirements as
part of the conditional use permit review.
   D.   AC-3 Zoning District: The AC-3 zoning district will contain the
community's most intensive commercial land uses. This zone is primarily
intended for hotel/casino type establishments.
      1.   Commercial Activities: Within this area, all commercial activities
will be permitted.
      2.   Structures: Within the AC-3 zoning district, all structures intended
to be located within one hundred fifty feet (150') of any residential zoning
district shall be subject to the conditional use permit procedure as set forth
in chapter 10 of this title.
      3.   Light Manufacturing: Within the AC-3 zoning district, light
manufacturing activities, such as printing and newspaper production, saddle
manufacture and similar uses may be permitted in accordance with the
conditional use permit procedure as set forth in chapter 10 of this title.
(Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
      4.   Building Setbacks: Building setbacks are defined by the
international building code. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999; amd. Ord. 2005-07, 12-20-
2005)
      5.   Minimum Lot Dimension: Ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
   E.   Public And Quasi-Public Uses: Within the AC-2, AC-3 zoning districts,
public and quasi-public uses may be permitted.
   F.   Commercial Zone Abutting Residential Zone: When a commercial zone abuts
a residential zone, then a solid fence not less than six feet (6') in height
shall be installed and maintained by the developer to screen the commercial
project from the residential property. Such screening must be approved by the
city council. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
ARTICLE C. AIRPORT RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-16C-1: ARC District
8-16C-2: Principal Uses Permitted
8-16C-3: Aeronautical Restrictions
8-16C-1: ARC DISTRICT:
The Airport Restricted Commercial District (ARC) is hereby created. (Ord. 99-
03, 8-17-1999)
8-16C-2: PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED:
   A.   Sexually Oriented Businesses: This District is intended to accommodate
sexually oriented business uses as defined in Section
8-12-2 of this Title which shall be permitted in Airport Restricted Commercial
zoned areas.
   B.   Other Uses Permitted: General Commercial, Light Industrial and General
Industrial uses may be permitted in the ARC Zone provided there has been
adherence to all requirements of this Article.
   C.   General Regulations:
      1.   The City Council may require landscaping sufficient to promote the
compatibility with the neighborhood.
      2.   The outdoor storage of goods or materials shall be prohibited.
   D.   Conditional Use Permitted: All development and use in the ARC Zoning
District shall be subject to the conditional use permit procedure as set forth
in Chapter 10 of this Title. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
8-16C-3: AERONAUTICAL RESTRICTIONS:
This District is governed by the following aeronautical restrictions, which
pertain to the District residing within an airport influence area, a
transitional surface area and a runway approach surface area:
   A.   No noise sensitive development (i.e., residential, schools or
hospitals).
   B.   Development must comply with FAR part 77 Height and Obstruction
Criteria.
   C.   Building height restricted to the maximum of C-2 Zoning or:
      1.   One hundred feet (100') if within an airport influence area.
      2.   Fifty feet (50') if within a transitional surface area.
      3.   Below the approach zone or a maximum of one hundred feet (100') if
within an approach zone whichever is least. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
ARTICLE D. OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-16D-1: O District
8-16D-2: Intent And Principal Uses
8-16D-3: Use Regulations And Restrictions
8-16D-4: Conditional Use Permitted
8-16D-1: O DISTRICT:
The Overlay (O) District is hereby created. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
8-16D-2: INTENT AND PRINCIPAL USES:
This District is primarily intended to accommodate all commercial uses
customarily found in a commercial area C-2, C-3, AC-2 or AC-3 including, but
not limited to, retail and service activities, office buildings, public and
quasi-public land uses. This District is also intended on a secondary level to
accommodate all light industrial uses customarily found in an M-1 or AM-1 area.
M-1 and AM-1 uses within the O District must be compatible and operate without
disruption to those uses found under the C-2, C-3, AC-2 and AC-3 Zoning
Districts. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
8-16D-3: USE REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   All applicable use regulations and restrictions apply to the O Zoning
District, which are applicable for the specific use. Refer to C-2, C-3, AC-2,
AC-3, M-1 or AM-1 Zoning regulations and restrictions including setbacks,
yards, and conditional use permit requirements.
   B.   This District is governed by the following aeronautical restrictions,
which pertain to the District residing within an airport influence area, a
transitional surface area and a runway approach surface area:
      1.   No noise sensitive development (i.e., residential, schools or
hospitals).
      2.   Development must comply with FAR part 77 Height and Obstruction
Criteria.
      3.   Building height restricted to the maximum of:
         a.   One hundred feet (100') if within an airport influence area.
         b.   Fifty feet (50') if within a transitional surface area.
         c.   Below the runway approach zone or a maximum of one hundred feet
(100') if within an approach zone, whichever is least. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
8-16D-4: CONDITIONAL USE PERMITTED:
All development and use in the O Zoning District shall be subject to the
conditional use permit procedure as set forth in Chapter 10 of this Title.
(Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
ARTICLE E. AIRPORT LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-16E-1: AM-1 District
8-16E-2: Area Comprising District
8-16E-3: Site And Structure Requirements
8-16E-4: Aeronautical Restrictions
8-16E-5: Primary Permitted Uses
8-16E-6: Accessory Permitted Uses
8-16E-1: AM-1 DISTRICT:
The airport light industrial district (AM-1) is hereby created. (Ord. 99-03, 8-
17-1999)
8-16E-2: AREA COMPRISING DISTRICT:
The airport light industrial district shall consist of all lands within the
city designated on the official zoning map. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
8-16E-3: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Area: In an AM-1 district, there is a required minimum lot area
of eight thousand (8,000) square feet.
   B.   Minimum Lot Width: In an AM-1 district, there is no required minimum
lot width. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
   C.   Minimum Front And Rear Yard Setback: Required minimum front and rear
setbacks in the (AM-1) light industrial district shall be ten feet (10') when
abutting R zoned property. Otherwise setbacks will be as defined by the
international building code.
   D.   Minimum Side Yard Setback: Required minimum side yard setback in the
airport light industrial district shall be ten feet (10') when abutting R zoned
property. Otherwise setbacks will be defined by the international building
code. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999; amd. Ord. 2005-07, 12-20-2005)
   E.   Off Street Parking And Loading: All requirements set forth in chapter 9
of this title must be adhered to.
   F.   Screen Walls: A screen wall, as set forth in subsection 8-3-7B of this
title, is required for all AM-1 uses within one hundred fifty feet (150') of an
R district. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
8-16E-4: AERONAUTICAL RESTRICTIONS:
This district is governed by the following aeronautical restrictions, which
pertain to the district residing within an airport influence area, a
transitional surface area or a runway approach surface area:
   A.   No noise sensitive development (i.e., residential, schools or
hospitals).
   B.   Development must comply with FAR part 77 height and obstruction
criteria.
   C.   Building height restricted to the maximum of:
      1.   One hundred feet (100') if within an airport influence area.
      2.   Fifty feet (50') if within a transitional surface area.
      3.   Below the runway approach zone or a maximum of one hundred feet
(100') if within an approach zone, whichever is least. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
8-16E-5: PRIMARY PERMITTED USES:
This district permits warehouses, moving and storage terminals, manufacturing
and processing plants as follows:
Air express office or depot.
Ambulance service.
Animal boarding, breeding, kennel.
Appliance repair.
Assembly of products and materials.
Automobile repairs.
Automobile storage (no dismantling).
Bottling plant.
Building materials storage yard or sales.
Cabinet shop.
Construction equipment and supplies.
Contractor's equipment, supplies and services.
Crating and hauling depot, crate storage.
Electric light and power company yard.
Electrician shop.
Equipment rental, storage, servicing and repair.
Funeral homes and mortuary.
Laboratories (medical, dental, optical, chemist, veterinarian).
Laundry, steam or wet wash (processing plant).
Lumberyard.
Manufacturing or products and materials.
Metallurgical lab.
Packaging.
Paint storage, shop.
Pest control business.
Plumbing shop.
Recycling center.
Sheet metal shop.
Storage units.
Utility companies.
Warehousing, motor freight, dry goods, liquor, tobacco, mover, mail order and
the like.
All other commercial and industrial uses which complement light industrial uses
as determined by the City Council. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
8-16E-6: ACCESSORY PERMITTED USES:
The accessory permitted uses in the Airport Light Industrial District are auto
parking and uses incidental to utility companies. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
ARTICLE F. PLANNED LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-16F-1: APML District
8-16F-2: Use Regulations And Restrictions
8-16F-1: APML DISTRICT:
The airport planned light industrial district (APML) is hereby created. (Ord.
99-03, 8-17-1999)
8-16F-2: USE REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
With the AM-1 district, an airport planned industrial district (APML district)
may be established in accordance with the following:
   A.   Principal Permitted Uses: Uses permitted on a lot or parcel having the
required area, width and yards.
   B.   Uses: Advertising distribution; bottling plant; blueprinting; dairy
products distribution; electronics manufacturing and assembly; freeport storage
facilities; furniture warehouse and repair; laboratories; photofinishing
(wholesale); printer or publisher; manufacture and assembly of medical and
dental equipment; drafting; optical and musical instruments; watches; clocks;
toys and games; fire stations; municipal buildings and other light industrial
uses; light manufacturing, processing, assembly, fabricating, or storage of
certain specified products or materials; offices related to the industry
itself, corporate and professional offices.
   C.   Conditions:
      1.   Conditional Use Permit: Issuance of a conditional use permit
following review by the city council and in accordance with this article is
required for all APML uses.
      2.   Outside Storage: Any outside storage shall be suitably screened from
the view of public rights of way by walls, planting or other barrier to the
satisfaction of the city council.
      3.   Landscaping: Provisions for landscaping shall be included in the
development plan to be submitted for conditional use permit approval. These
shall include, but are not limited to, screen planting, lawn areas, trees,
shrubs, fences and walls. It shall be the responsibility of the owner or
developer to carry out this program and to provide such maintenance and care as
is required to obtain the effect intended by the original plan. All landscaping
shall be planned and maintained to the satisfaction of the city council. A
screen wall as set forth in subsection 8-3-7B of this title, is required for
all APML uses within one hundred fifty feet (150') of an R-1, R-2, or RMF
district.
   D.   Parking: Appropriately surfaced facilities, subject to review as a part
of the conditional use permit and to include consideration of the following:
      1.   Number of employees at a major shift.
      2.   Customer requirements.
      3.   Special equipment and vehicle requirements.
      4.   Reserve for plant expansion.
      5.   Access and maneuvering space.
      6.   Ingress and egress points.
      7.   Avoidance of routing traffic through established residential
neighborhoods.
   E.   Required Area And Width: Five (5) acre minimum development area with
ten thousand (10,000) square feet minimum lot area within the development, one
hundred fifty foot (150') average widths, unless otherwise permitted by the
city council. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
   F.   Yards: Shall be as defined in the international building code. (Ord.
99-03, 8-17-1999; amd. Ord. 2005-07, 12-20-2005)
ARTICLE G. AIRPORT GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-16G-1: AM-2 District
8-16G-2: Principal Permitted Uses
8-16G-3: Use Regulations And Restrictions
8-16G-4: Yards
8-16G-5: Aeronautical Restrictions
8-16G-1: AM-2 DISTRICT:
The Airport General Industrial District (AM-2) is hereby created. (Ord. 99-03,
8-17-1999)
8-16G-2: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
All uses in this Zone will be required to obtain a conditional use permit as
set forth in Chapter 10 of this Title. All uses permitted in AC-2 and AC-
3 Zones, plus all general industrial uses and those of similar nature, are
intended to be permitted:
Ammunition manufacturing.
Asphalt manufacturing.
Assembly plant.
Bulk fuel station.
Cement or direct product sales.
Chemical manufacturing.
Cold storage plants.
Concrete batch plants.
Die casting.
Distillation of liquor.
Drilling company equipment yard.
Dye manufacturing.
Electronics manufacturing.
Electroplating.
Extrusion of metals.
Farm products storage.
Foundry.
Hide and tallow processing, leather tanning.
Junk dealers yard.
Machine shop.
Metal working plant.
Mining and/or raw materials processing.
Mobile home, camper manufacturer. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
8-16G-3: USE REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Storage Yards: All outside storage areas, which are visible from the
public right of way, shall be suitably screened from the surrounding area by
walls, planting or other barrier to the satisfaction of the City Council.
   B.   Industrial Zone Abutting Residential Zone: When an industrial zone
abuts a residential zone, then a solid fence not less than six feet (6') in
height shall be installed and maintained by the developer to screen the
industrial project from the residential property. Such screening shall be
approved by the city council. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
8-16G-4: YARDS:
All setbacks shall be as defined by the international building code except when
abutting residential property, whereupon setbacks for all yards abutting
residential property shall not be less than twenty five feet (25'). (Ord. 99-
03, 8-17-1999; amd. Ord. 2005-07, 12-20-2005)
8-16G-5: AERONAUTICAL RESTRICTIONS:
This district is governed by the following aeronautical restrictions, which
pertain to the district residing within an airport influence area, a
transitional surface area or a runway approach surface area:
   A.   No noise sensitive development (i.e., residential, schools or
hospitals).
   B.   Development must comply with FAR part 77 height and obstruction
criteria.
   C.   Building height restricted to the maximum of:
      1.   One hundred feet (100') if within an airport influence area.
      2.   Fifty feet (50') if within a transitional surface area.
      3.   Below the runway approach zone or a maximum of one hundred feet
(100') if within an approach zone, whichever is least. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
ARTICLE H. AERONAUTICAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-16H-1: A District
8-16H-2: Principal Permitted Uses
8-16H-3: Accessory Permitted Uses
8-16H-4: Yards
8-16H-5: Aeronautical Restrictions
8-16H-1: A DISTRICT:
The aeronautical district (A) is hereby created. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
8-16H-2: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
The primary use of the aeronautical district is for the establishment and
development of aeronautical related facilities, both commercial and industrial,
to enhance the economic vitality and diversification of the area.
Air express/freight offices or depots.
Aircraft and aviation storage facilities.
Aviation related maintenance facilities.
Aviation related offices and operations.
Education offices and/or operations, which require such access (i.e., flight
schools, military academies, etc.).
Museums.
Public or quasi-public buildings or uses which complement the aeronautical
district as determined by the city council.
Terminal buildings. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
8-16H-3: ACCESSORY PERMITTED USES:
The accessory permitted use in the aeronautical district is auto parking. (Ord.
99-03, 8-17-1999)
8-16H-4: YARDS:
   A.   Setbacks: All setbacks shall be as defined by the international
building code except when abutting residential property, whereupon setbacks for
all yards abutting residential property shall not be less than twenty five feet
(25'). (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999; amd. Ord. 2005-07, 12-20-2005)
   B.   Storage Yards: All outside storage areas, which are visible from the
public right of way, shall be suitably screened from the surrounding area by
walls, planting or other barrier to the satisfaction of the city council.
   C.   Facilities: As a practical matter, all facilities developed under the
aeronautical zoning district will be located to take advantage of access to the
aeronautical apron areas, taxiways and runways available for air commerce. In
consideration of such, all developments under the aeronautical district will be
required to adhere to federal aviation administration FAR part 139, FAR part
107 and FAR part 77 requirements and all other related federal, state and city
regulations deemed applicable by the city council. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
8-16H-5: AERONAUTICAL RESTRICTIONS:
This district is governed by the following aeronautical restrictions, which
pertain to the district residing within an airport influence area, a
transitional surface area or a runway approach surface area:
   A.   No noise sensitive development (i.e., residential, schools or
hospitals).
   B.   Development must comply with FAR part 77 height and obstruction
criteria.
   C.   Building height restricted to the maximum of:
      1.   One hundred feet (100') if within an airport influence area.
      2.   Fifty feet (50') if within a transitional surface area.
      3.   Below the runway approach zone or a maximum of one hundred feet
(100') if within an approach zone, whichever is least. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
ARTICLE I. FOREIGN TRADE ZONE DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-16I-1: FTZ District
8-16I-2: Principal Permitted Uses
8-16I-3: Yards
8-16I-4: Aeronautical Restrictions
8-16I-1: FTZ DISTRICT:
The foreign trade zone district (FTZ) is hereby created. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-
1999)
8-16I-2: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
The primary use of the foreign trade zone district is for the establishment and
development of facilities, which are specific in relation to a federal trade
program designed to enhance the competitiveness of U.S. based businesses versus
their overseas counterparts. This includes both general purpose zones and
subzones. Development would include, but not be limited to: duty exemption on
reexports, relief from inverted tariffs, duty elimination on waste and scrap,
no duty on rejected or defective parts, duty deferral, no duty on domestic
content or value added, relief from state and local ad valorem taxes, duty
savings on sales to the U.S. military, NASA, or other government agencies.
Facilities, which would be permitted include, but are not limited to:
   Automotive manufacturing.
   Chemical manufacturers.
   Distribution operations.
   Electronics manufacturers.
   Oil refineries.
Other manufacturing or processing approved by the foreign trade zones board.
   Pharmaceutical manufacturers.
Public or quasi-public buildings, which are deemed, appropriate by the foreign
trade zones board. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
8-16I-3: YARDS:
   A.   Setbacks: All setbacks shall be as defined by the international
building code except when abutting residential property, whereupon setbacks for
all yards abutting residential property shall not be less than twenty five feet
(25'). (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999; amd. Ord. 2005-07, 12-20-2005)
   B.   Storage Yards: All outside storage areas, which are visible from the
public right of way shall be suitably screened from the surrounding area by
walls, planting or other barrier to the satisfaction of the city council.
   C.   Facilities: As a practical matter, all facilities developed under the
foreign trade zone district will be located to take advantage of access to the
aeronautical apron areas, taxiways and runways available for air commerce. In
consideration of such, all developments under the foreign trade zone district
will be required to adhere to federal aviation administration FAR part 139, FAR
part 107 and FAR part 77 requirements and all other related federal, state and
city regulations deemed applicable by the city council. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
8-16I-4: AERONAUTICAL RESTRICTIONS:
This district is governed by the following aeronautical restrictions, which
pertain to the district residing within an airport influence area, a
transitional surface area or a runway approach surface area:
   A.   No noise sensitive development (i.e., residential, schools or
hospitals).
   B.   Development must comply with FAR part 77 height and obstruction
criteria.
   C.   Building height restricted to the maximum of:
      1.   One hundred feet (100') if within an airport influence area.
      2.   Fifty feet (50') if within a transitional surface area.
      3.   Below the runway approach zone or a maximum of one hundred feet
(100') if within an approach zone, whichever is least. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
ARTICLE J. BONDED WAREHOUSING DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-16J-1: W District
8-16J-2: Site And Structure Requirements
8-16J-3: Aeronautical Restrictions
8-16J-4: Principal Permitted Uses
8-16J-1: W DISTRICT:
The bonded warehousing district (W) is hereby created. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
8-16J-2: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Area: In a W district, there is a required minimum lot area of
ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
   B.   Minimum Lot Width: In a W district, there is no required minimum lot
width. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
   C.   Minimum Front And Rear Yard Setback: Required minimum front and rear
setbacks in the W bonded warehousing district shall be ten feet (10') when
abutting R zoned property. Otherwise setbacks will be as defined by the
international building code.
   D.   Minimum Side Yard Setback: Required minimum side yard setback in the
bonded warehousing district shall be ten feet (10') when abutting R zoned
property. Otherwise setbacks will be defined by the international building
code. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999; amd. Ord. 2005-07, 12-20-2005)
   E.   Off Street Parking And Loading: All requirements set forth in chapter 9
of this title must be adhered to.
   F.   Screen Walls: A screen wall, as set forth in subsection 8-3-7B of this
title, is required for all W uses within one hundred fifty feet (150') of an R
district. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
8-16J-3: AERONAUTICAL RESTRICTIONS:
This district is governed by the following aeronautical restrictions, which
pertain to the district residing within an airport influence area, a
transitional surface area or a runway approach surface area:
   A.   No noise sensitive development (i.e., residential, schools or
hospitals).
   B.   Development must comply with FAR part 77 height and obstruction
criteria.
   C.   Building height restricted to the maximum of:
      1.   One hundred feet (100') if within an airport influence area.
      2.   Fifty feet (50') if within a transitional surface area.
      3.   Below the runway approach zone or a maximum of one hundred feet
(100') if within an approach zone, whichever is least. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
8-16J-4: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
This district permits warehouses, moving and storage terminals, which are
established and developed to take advantage of the bonded warehousing tax
structure. These would include, but are not limited to, the following:
Air express office or depot.
Materials storage, warehousing and sales including motor freight, dry goods,
mail order and the like.
All other operations or facilities, which complement the bonded warehousing
uses as determined by the city council. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
ARTICLE K. RUNWAY APPROACH ZONE DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-16K-1: RPZ District
8-16K-2: Principal Uses Permitted
8-16K-1: RPZ DISTRICT:
The Runway Approach Zone District (RPZ) is hereby created. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-
1999)
8-16K-2: PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED:
This District is established to protect and further the use of the aeronautical
facilities, which would accompany such a Zone. This District has direct
relation to the end of a runway and is established as such per appropriate
Federal Aviation Administration design criteria for a particular runway
facility. This Zoning District prohibits any development or construction of
structures. Land use within a Runway Approach Zone District is restricted to
open space or agriculture only. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
ARTICLE L. BUFFER OPEN SPACE ZONE DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-16L-1: BOSZ District
8-16L-2: Principal Uses Permitted
8-16L-1: BOSZ DISTRICT:
The Buffer Open Space Zone District (BOSZ) is hereby created. (Ord. 99-03, 8-
17-1999)
8-16L-2: PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED:
This District is established to protect and further the use of the aeronautical
facilities, which would be adjacent to such a Zone. This Zoning District is
intended to provide for an increased level of safety and separation of varying
types of land use with regard to air operations located in the vicinity of the
Zone. This Zoning District prohibits any development or construction of
structures other than those related to and deemed appropriate by the City
Council with regard to taxiways and access lanes to and from aviation
facilities. Land use within a Buffer Open Space Zone District is restricted to
access development, open space or agriculture only. (Ord. 99-03, 8-17-1999)
CHAPTER 17
PUBLIC UTILITY EXTENSION LIENS
SECTION:
8-17-1: Definitions
8-17-2: Applicability
8-17-3: Easement Required
8-17-4: Dedication Required
8-17-5: Utility Extension
8-17-6: Extension Lien
8-17-7: Repeal
8-17-8: Severability
8-17-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words shall have the following
meanings:
DEVELOPER: The owner of property being developed into a subdivision or other
property use which requires the extension of one or more main public utility
lines to the property.
EXTENSION: A situation where main public utility lines owned by the city are
required to be extended at least one hundred feet (100') from an existing main
public utility line excluding the distance across the frontage of developer's
property.
UTILITY: Main public utility lines for potable water, sanitary sewer, storm
drain and reuse. (Ord. 2000-04, 8-1-2000)
8-17-2: APPLICABILITY:
All developers of property requiring an extension of public utility lines to
their properties must comply with this chapter; however, this chapter does not
apply to developments which only require an extension of city main utility
lines for a distance less than one hundred feet (100') or to extensions of
private utilities. (Ord. 2000-04, 8-1-2000)
8-17-3: EASEMENT REQUIRED:
The location and specifications of the public utility easement required to
connect the existing utility line to the development must be approved by the
city engineer. Any developer desiring the benefits of this chapter shall, prior
to the final approval of the development by the city, obtain a public utility
easement in the name of the city as required by the city engineer. This
easement shall, in addition to the above, extend across the full frontage of
the developer's property. (Ord. 2000-04, 8-1-2000)
8-17-4: DEDICATION REQUIRED:
Upon connection to the utility, the developer shall dedicate all utility mains
to the city. Upon dedication, the city will own and operate the utility main;
however, the developer is not relieved of any warranty or maintenance
requirements of chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 2000-04, 8-1-2000)
8-17-5: UTILITY EXTENSION:
A developer initiating a utility extension shall be required to construct and
pay any and all costs of all such utility mains extension in accordance with
the plans as submitted and approved by the city engineer. The extension of the
utility must extend across the full frontage of the developer's property. In
the event the utility, in the opinion of the city council or city engineer,
must be constructed of a larger capacity than the minimum capacity set forth in
the applicable city construction standards, the city shall pay the difference
in material cost. The developer shall nevertheless be required to purchase
materials, construct and install such oversize utility. Participation in a
utility extension agreement shall in no case relieve the developer from
connection fees or other standard fees unless so specified in the utility
extension agreement. (Ord. 2000-04, 8-1-2000)
8-17-6: EXTENSION LIEN:
If the city council determines that the area through which the utility will be
extended is suited for growth and development, the city council may apply the
following reimbursement and lien process which shall be applicable to those
parcels or lots deemed benefited by the utility main extension:
   A.   An extension connection fee will be determined by the city upon
completion of the utility extension. Any subsequent utility user within the
area designated connecting directly to such utility extension shall pay an
extension connection fee at the time of connection to the utility. Utility
service from the city will not be provided unless such extension connection fee
is paid in full. The fee shall be determined as follows:
      1.   The developer is solely responsible for the costs of that portion of
the utility extension which is fronted on both sides by property owned by the
developer, and such costs are deducted in the calculation of the extension
connection fee.
      2.   The developer is solely responsible for one-half (1/2) of the costs
of that portion of the utility extension which is fronted only on one side by
property owned by the developer, and such costs are deducted in the calculation
of the extension connection fee.
      3.   The developer shall not be required to pay an extension connection
fee.
      4.   Except as otherwise provided hereafter, the extension connection fee
shall be determined as follows:
Step 1:      Cost of entire utility extension
-   Costs of subsection A1 or A2 of this section
-   Material costs paid or credits issued by city for larger capacity per
section
8-17-5 of this chapter
=   Reimbursement costs
Step 2:      Reimbursement costs
÷   Number of feet to developer's property if developer fronts the utility
extension on both sides; or number of feet to developer's property plus one-
half (1/2) the number of feet of frontage of the developer's property if the
developer's property does not front the utility extension on both sides
=   Cost per foot
Step 3:      Cost per foot
x   Number of feet of owner's property being connected which fronts the public
utility easement of the utility extension
=   Extension connection fee
      5.   Upon good cause to better equitably distribute costs, the council
may determine to use lot acreage rather than frontage feet as the basis for
determining the extension connection fee.
      6.   Upon good cause the council may include lots which do not abut the
public utility easement of the utility extension in determining and assessing
an extension connection fee.
   B.   Extension connection fees shall be paid by the city to the developer of
the original extension up to an amount equal to ninety percent (90%) of the
cost of the extension. The extension connection fee is only due and collectable
upon connection to the utility extension.
   C.   The city shall in no way be obligated to ensure that the developer
making such an extension is paid ninety percent (90%) of the total costs
thereof.
   D.   If more than one developer contributes to an extension, each shall be
refunded in a pro rata fashion according to the amounts contributed.
   E.   The extension connection fee charge shall constitute a public utility
extension lien upon the property adjacent to or abutting the public utility
easement through which the utility extension is constructed and any other
property deemed by the council to have similarly benefited from the extension.
The utility extension lien shall extinguish twenty (20) years after the date of
the completion of the utility extension. The city shall record the liens on the
appropriate properties and provide notice to owners of record within six (6)
months from the completion of the extension. All liens shall be released upon
payment or expiration of the twenty (20) year period, whichever occurs first.
   F.   If the city extends a utility main at its own expense, adjacent or
abutting property, or property which the council deems similarly benefited by
the extension, shall be subject to an extension connection fee and lien as
provided above.
   G.   The above provisions notwithstanding, if a utility extension is
installed on one side of a public street outside of the paved area, the cost of
the extension connection fee and lien shall be proportioned such that the
property owners on the side of the street of the utility extension shall be
responsible for sixty percent (60%) of the reimbursement, and the property
owners on the opposite side shall be responsible for forty percent (40%) of the
reimbursement.
   H.   Nothing herein precludes the city from entering into a mutual agreement
for a utility extension with a developer without applying the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 2000-04, 8-1-2000)
8-17-7: REPEAL:
Any provisions of this code which are in conflict with this chapter are hereby
repealed to the extent of such conflict. (Ord. 2000-04, 8-1-2000)
8-17-8: SEVERABILITY:
In the event any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to be
unconstitutional or otherwise unenforceable, the remaining provisions shall be
given full force and effect. (Ord. 2000-04, 8-1-2000)
CHAPTER 18
APPEALS OF LAND USE DECISIONS
SECTION:
8-18-1: Written Appeals Of Land Use Decisions
8-18-2: Notice Of Hearings On Appeals
8-18-3: Procedures For Appeals Of Land Use Decisions
8-18-4: Matters To Be Heard And Considered On Appeal
8-18-5: Appeals To The Fourth Judicial District Court
8-18-1: WRITTEN APPEALS OF LAND USE DECISIONS:
Any decision of a planning commission (if established) or any other person
appointed or employed by the city who is authorized to make administrative
decisions regarding the use of land, may be appealed in writing to the West
Wendover city council by any person aggrieved by such a decision. All appeals
shall be filed, in writing specifying with particularity the grounds for
appeal, with the city clerk no later than ten (10) calendar days after the
decision. Appeals shall include payment of a filing fee in an amount
established by resolution of the city council and a statement therein of the
reasons why the decision should be amended, modified or reversed. The city
council shall hear and render a decision on any properly made appeal within
sixty (60) calendar days after the city clerk has received the written appeal.
Regardless of the applicable code provisions, an aggrieved person may only
appeal a particular use of land decision once to the city council. (Ord. 01-21,
11-20-2001)
8-18-2: NOTICE OF HEARINGS ON APPEALS:
In appeals of all administrative decisions regarding the use of land, the city
clerk shall give notice of the time and place of the public hearing appeal by
mailing to persons required to receive such notice a copy of the notice at
least ten (10) days before the time set for the appeal hearing by certified or
ordinary first class mail addressed to the person being notified at the post
office address given in his demand for notice, if any, or at his office or
place of residence, if known, or by personally delivering a copy thereof to the
person being notified at least ten (10) days before the time set for the
hearing. If the address or identity of the person is not known and cannot be
ascertained with reasonable diligence, by publishing at least one time a copy
thereof in a newspaper having general circulation in the city of West Wendover,
the publication of which must be at least ten (10) days before the date set for
the hearing. (Ord. 01-21, 11-20-2001)
8-18-3: PROCEDURES FOR APPEALS OF LAND USE DECISIONS:
The procedures pursuant to which the board of councilmen will hear an appeal
are as follows:
   A.   The appellant shall be heard first and shall present his grounds for
appeal.
   B.   The city may respond to appellant's appeal, after which appellant may
present any rebuttal argument or evidence.
   C.   Appellant and the city are entitled to be represented by counsel,
present testimony, evidence and argument on all issues raised on appeal. Formal
rules of evidence shall not be applicable and the council may limit the amount,
type and nature of the evidence provided the appellant is afforded minimum due
process.
   D.   The council may, if it appears helpful to a clear understanding of the
issues, consider evidence or other matters not raised at the administrative
level. (Ord. 01-21, 11-20-2001)
8-18-4: MATTERS TO BE HEARD AND CONSIDERED ON APPEAL:
The city council shall consider all evidence presented at the original hearing,
including oral and written testimony, and any recommendations and findings as
shown by the official record and may affirm, modify or reverse the decision. In
reviewing a decision on an appeal, the governing body will be guided by the
statement of purpose underlying the regulation of the improvement of land
expressed in Nevada Revised Statutes 278.020. Decisions of the city council
shall be considered the final decision for the purpose of judicial review.
(Ord. 01-21, 11-20-2001)
8-18-5: APPEALS TO THE FOURTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT COURT:
Any person who: a) has appealed a decision to the city council in accordance
with this chapter; and b) is aggrieved by the decision of the city council, may
appeal that decision to the fourth judicial district court, in and for the
county of Elko, state of Nevada, by filing a petition for judicial review
within twenty five (25) days after the date of filing of notice of decision
with the city clerk. (Ord. 01-21, 11-20-2001)
TITLE 9
LAND SUBDIVISIONS (Rep. by Ord. 98-09, 10-6-1998)
TITLE 10
FLOOD CONTROL
FLOOD CONTROLCHAPTER 1
FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT CODE
SECTION:
10-1-1: Statement Of Purpose
10-1-2: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
10-1-3: Definitions
10-1-4: Lands To Which This Chapter Applies
10-1-5: Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
10-1-6: Compliance
10-1-7: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
10-1-8: Interpretation
10-1-9: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
10-1-10: Severability
10-1-11: Designation Of The Local Flood Plain Administrator
10-1-12: Establishment Of Development Permit
10-1-13: Permit Application
10-1-14: Permit Application Review
10-1-15: Use Of Other Flood Data
10-1-16: Alteration Of Watercourses
10-1-17: Inspections
10-1-18: Stop Work Orders
10-1-19: Retaining Flood Plain Development Documentation
10-1-20: Map Determinations
10-1-21: Appeals
10-1-22: Submission Of New Technical Data To FEMA
10-1-23: Anchoring
10-1-24: Construction Materials And Methods
10-1-25: Elevation Requirements For Lowest Floor
10-1-26: Lowest Floor Certification Requirements
10-1-27: Nonresidential Floodproofing Requirements
10-1-28: Requirements For Areas Below The Lowest Floor
10-1-29: Standards For Utilities
10-1-30: Standards For Subdivisions
10-1-31: Standards For Critical Structures
10-1-32: Standards For Manufactured Homes
10-1-33: Standards For Recreational Vehicles
10-1-34: Floodways
10-1-35: Mudslide-Prone Areas
10-1-36: Flood-Related Erosion-Prone Areas
10-1-37: Nature Of Variance
10-1-38: Appeal Board
10-1-39: Conditions For Variance
10-1-40: Letter Of Map Amendment
10-1-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this Chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, and streets and bridges
located in areas of special flood hazards;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future blighted
areas caused by flood damage;
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified of property located in areas
of special flood hazards;
   H.   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazards assume
responsibility for their actions; and
   I.   Maintain qualifying standards for participation in the National Flood
Insurance Program. (Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-2: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this Chapter includes methods and
provisions to:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazard, or which result in damaging increases
in erosion or flood heights or velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural flood plains, alluvial fans, stream
channels, and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel
flood waters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas. (Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this Chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meanings they have in common usage and to
give this Chapter its most reasonable application.
ACCESSORY USE: A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal use
of the parcel of land on which it is located.
ALLUVIAL FAN: A geomorphologic feature characterized by a cone- or fan-shaped
deposit of clay, silt, sand, gravel, and boulders that have been eroded from
mountain slopes, transported by flood flows, and deposited on the valley floor.
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or
similar landform, which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-
velocity flows: active processes of erosion, sediment transport, deposition,
and unpredictable flow paths.
ANCHOR: A series of methods used to secure a structure to its footings or
foundation wall so that flood or wind will not displace it.
APPEAL: A request for a review of the Flood Plain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this Chapter.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: Designated Zones AO and AH on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or greater annual chance of
flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (3') where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD-RELATED EROSION HAZARD: The land within a community,
which is most likely to be subject to serve flood- related erosion losses. The
area may be designated as Zone E on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
BACKWATER EFFECT: The rise in water surface elevation caused by some
obstruction such as a narrow bridge opening, building or fill material that
limits the area through which the water must flow.
BASE FLOOD: A flood which has a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The height in relation to mean sea level expected to be
reached by the waters of the base flood at pertinent points in the flood plain
or riverine areas.
BASE FLOOD PLAIN: The flood plain that would be inundated by a one percent (1%)
chance flood.
BASEMENT: Any areas of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BREAKAWAY WALLS: A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
CHANNEL: A natural or artificial watercourse with definite bed and banks to
confine and conduct flowing water.
CHANNEL CAPACITY: The maximum flow that can pass through a channel without
overflowing the banks.
CODE OF FEDERAL REGISTER: Codification of the general and permanent rules
published in the Federal Regulations (CFR) Register by the executive
departments and agencies of the Federal Government.
COMMUNITY: Any state or area or political subdivision thereof, or any Indian
tribe or authorized tribal organization, or authorized native organization,
which has authority to adopt and enforce flood plain management regulation for
the areas within its jurisdiction.
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): Procedures by which contractors,
developers, and communities can request review and determination by the Federal
Insurance Administrator of scientific and technical data for the proposed
project, when complete and functioning effectively, would modify the elevation
of individual structures and parcels of land, stream channels, and flood plains
on the FIRM.
CRITICAL STRUCTURES: A structure for which even a slight chance of flooding
would reduce or eliminate its designed function of supporting a community in an
emergency. Fire stations, hospitals, municipal airports, police stations,
communication antennas or towers, elderly care facilities (old folks' homes)
fuel storage facilities, schools designated as emergency shelters, fresh water
and sewage treatment facilities are some examples of critical structures.
DESIGNATED FLOODWAY: The channel of a stream and the portion of the adjoining
flood plain designated by a regulatory agency to be kept free of further
development to provide for unobstructed passage of flood flows.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
DRY PROOFING: A floodproofing method used to design and construct buildings so
as to prevent the entrance of flood waters.
ENCROACHMENT: Any physical object placed in the flood plain that hinders the
passage of water or otherwise affects flood flows, such as fill, excavation,
storage of equipment and materials or buildings.
EROSION: The process of the gradual wearing away of landmass.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured
home park or subdivision of which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a
minimum the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the flood plain management regulations adopted by a
community.
EXPANSION TO A MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) PARK: The preparation of
additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEDERAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION (FIA): The government unit, a part of Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), that administers the National Flood
Insurance Program (NFIP).
FEDERAL REGISTER: A document published daily by the Federal Government that
provides a uniform system for making available to the public regulations and
legal notices issued by Federal agencies.
FLASH FLOOD: A flood that crests in a short length of time and is often
characterized by high velocity flows. It is often the result of heavy rainfall
in a localized area.
FLOOD BOUNDARY FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM): Official map of a community where the
boundaries of the flood, mudslide and related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as Zones A, M, and E.
FLOOD CONTROL: Keeping flood waters away from specific developments or
populated areas by the construction of flood storage reservoirs, channel
alterations, dikes and levees, bypass channels, or other engineering works.
FLOOD FREQUENCY: A statistical expression of the average time period between
floods equaling or exceeding a given magnitude.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): Official map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the
risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): A document containing the results of and
examination, evaluation and determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate,
corresponding water surface elevations, mudslides and erosion hazards.
FLOOD OR FLOOD WATERS: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland waters; the
unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any source and
mudslides.
FLOOD PLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the flood plain management regulations.
FLOOD PLAIN AND FLOOD-PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by waters from any source.
FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the flood plain, including, but not
limited to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and flood plain
management regulations and ordinances.
FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: This Chapter, and any Federal, State, or
local regulations plus zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, building
codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as grading and
erosion control) and other application of police power which control
development in flood-prone areas for preventing and reducing flood loss and
damage.
FLOOD-RELATED EROSION: The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a
lake or other body of water as a result of undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by an
unanticipated force of nature, such as a flash flood or an abnormal tidal
surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event which results in
flooding.
FLOOD-RELATED EROSION AREA MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of
corrective and preventive measures for reducing flood-related erosion damage,
including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans, flood-related
erosion control works, and flood plain management regulations.
FLOOD-RELATED EROSION-PRONE AREA: A land area adjoining the shore of a lake or
other body of water, which due to the composition of the shoreline or bank and
high water levels or wind-driven currents, are likely to suffer flood-related
erosion damage.
FLOOD ZONES: Zones on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) in which the risk
premium insurance rates have been established by a flood insurance study:
A: Area of special flood hazard without water surface elevations determined.
A1-A30 And AE: Areas of special flood hazard without water surface elevations.
A99: Area of special flood hazard where enough progress has been made on a
protective system, such as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete for
insurance rating purposes.
AH: Area of special flood hazard having shallow water depths and/or
unpredictable flow paths between one and three feet (3') and with water surface
elevations determined.
AO: Area of special flood hazard having shallow water depths and/or
unpredictable flow paths between one and three feet (3').
B And Shaded X: Areas of moderate flood hazard.
C And Unshaded X: Areas of minimal hazard.
D: Areas of undetermined but possible flood hazard.
E: Area of special flood-related erosion hazards.
M: Area of special mudslides or mudflow hazards.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and
their contents.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevations more than a designated height.
FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT LINES: The lines marking the limits of floodways on
Federal, State and local flood plain maps.
FLOODWAY FRINGE: The area of the flood plain on either side of the regulatory
floodway where encroachment may be permitted.
FOOTING: The enlarged base of a foundation wall, pier, or column, designed to
spread the load of the structure as that it does not exceed the soil bearing
capacity.
FOUNDATION: The underlying structure of a building usually constructed of
concrete, which supports the foundation walls, piers, or columns.
FOUNDATION WALLS: A support structure that connects the foundation to the main
portion of the building or superstructure.
FRAUD/VICTIMIZATION: Related to variances of this Chapter, the variance granted
must not cause fraud on or victimization to the public. In examining this
requirement, the City of West Wendover will consider the fact and that every
newly constructed building adds to government responsibilities, and remains a
part of the community for fifty (50) to one hundred (100) years. Buildings
permitted to be constructed below the base flood elevation are subject during
all those years to increased risk of damage from floods, while future owners of
the property and the community as a whole are subject to all the costs,
inconvenience, danger, and suffering that those increased flood damages bring.
Additionally future owners may be unaware of the risk potential to the property
due to flood damage and the extremely high rates for flood insurance.
FREEBOARD: A margin of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for
purposes of flood plain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the many
unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height
calculated for selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave
action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the
watershed.
GOVERNING BODY: The City of West Wendover that is empowered to adopt and
implement regulations to provide for the public health, safety and general
welfare of its citizenry.
HARDSHIP: Related to variances of this Chapter. The exceptional hardship would
result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The City of West
Wendover requires the variance be exceptional, unusual, and peculiar to the
property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not
exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic consideration, physical handicaps,
personal preferences, or the disapproval of one's neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of ground surface prior
to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior as
contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district
or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a
registered historic district; individually listed on a state inventory of
historic places in states with historic preservation programs which have been
approved by the Secretary of Interior; or
   C.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either
by an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior or
directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.
HYDRAULICS: The science that deals with practical applications of water in
motion.
HYDRODYNAMIC LOADS: Forces imposed on structures by flood waters due to the
impact of moving water on the upstream side of the structure, drag along its
sides, and eddies or negative pressure on its downstream side.
HYDROGRAPHY: A graph that charts the passage of water as a function of time. It
shows flood stages, depicted in feet above main sea level or gage height,
plotted against stated time intervals.
HYDROLOGY: The science of the behavior of water in the atmosphere, on the
earth's surface and underground.
HYDROSTATIC LOADS: Forces imposed on a flooded structure due to the weight of
water.
LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): The procedure by which any owner or lessee of
property who believes his property has been inadvertently included in a special
flood hazard area can submit scientific and technical information to the
Federal Insurance Administrator for review to remove the property from said
area. The Administrator will not consider a LOMA if the information submitted
is based on alteration of topography or new hydrologic or hydraulic conditions
since the effective date of the FIRM.
LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): The procedures by which contractors, developers,
and communities can request changes to flood zones, flood plain and floodway
delineations, flood elevations, and planimetric features based on the results
of structural works, improvements, or annexations; resulting in additional
flood hazard areas.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system, which consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accord with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including basement.
An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area is
not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such enclosure is not
built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable nonelevation
design requirements of this Chapter. Attached garages are allowed to be built
at grade. Below grade garages are not allowed as they are considered to be
basements.
MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME): A structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or
without a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The
term "manufactured home" does not include "recreational vehicles".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel or contiguous parcels of land
divided into two (2) or more or manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For the purpose of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
MOBILE HOME: Having the same meaning as the definition of Manufactured Home.
MUDSLIDE: Is a condition where there is a river, flow or inundation of liquid
mud down a hillside usually as a result of a dual condition of loss of brush
covers, and the subsequent accumulation of water on the ground preceded by a
period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A mudslide may occur as a distinct
phenomenon while a landslide is in progress, and will be recognized as such by
the Federal Insurance Administrator only if the mudflow, and not the landslide,
is the proximate cause of damage that occurs.
MUDSLIDE-PRONE AREA: An area with land surfaces and slopes of unconsolidated
material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a potential for
mudflows.
NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD): As corrected in 1929, is a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
flood plain.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For flood plain management purposes, structures for which
"the start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date of these
flood plain management regulations adopted by the City of West Wendover, and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads is completed on or after the effective
date of these flood plain management regulations adopted by the City of West
Wendover.
OBSTRUCTION: Includes, but not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel refuse, fill, structure,
vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into any
watercourse which may alter, impede, retard, or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
100-YEAR FLOOD: Having the same meaning as the definition of Base Flood.
PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE: A structure used for the principal use of the property as
distinguished from an accessory use.
PUBLIC SAFETY/NUISANCE: Related to variances of this Chapter. The granting of a
variance must not result in anything which is injurious to safety or health of
the entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons, or
unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any
navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle built on a single chassis, four hundred (400)
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection,
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-duty truck, and
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
RIVERINE: Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river including tributaries,
stream, brook, etc.
SHEET FLOW AREA: Having the same meaning as the definition of Area Of Shallow
Flooding.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA: An area having special flood, mudslide, or flood-
related erosion hazards, and shown on an FHBM or FIRM in Zones A, AO, A1-A30,
AE, A99, AH, E or M.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and other proposed new
development and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvements was within one hundred eighty (180) days from
the date of the permit. The actual start means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on-site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation, or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include
the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building that is principally aboveground and
includes gas or liquid storage tank and manufactured homes.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENTS: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other proposed, new development of structures, the cost of which equals or
exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
"start of construction" of the improvement. This term includes structures,
which have incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The term does not, however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations or state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure a safe living condition, or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure" provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure".
VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which permits
construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this chapter.
VIOLATION: An infringement, transgression, nonobservance, noncompliance,
infraction or breach of this floodplain management code in any respect. A
violation may occur as a single incident or may be a continuing incident or
incidents. A violation may give rise to liability and/or a misdemeanor offense
under this city code.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929, or other datum, where specified of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
WATERCOURSE: A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, arroyo, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur. (Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999; amd. Ord. 2007-04, 12-4-2007)
10-1-4: LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES:
This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the city. (Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-5: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal insurance
administration (FIA) of the federal emergency management agency (FEMA) in the
flood insurance study (FIS) dated June 16, 1999, and accompanying flood
insurance rate maps (FIRM) and flood boundary and floodway maps (FBFM), dated
June 16, 1999, and all subsequent amendments and/or revisions, are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The FIS and
attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability of this chapter and may
be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow implementation of this
chapter and which are recommended to the city by the floodplain administrator.
The FIS, FIRMs and FBFMs are on file at the city of West Wendover, office of
the city clerk, 801 Alpine Street, West Wendover, NV 89883. The city FIRM is
the flood insurance rate map of the city of West Wendover, Nevada, community
parcel no. 320037 001 A, effective date June 16, 1999. The city may update its
FIRM and FIS by resolution as required from time to time and, further, may
incorporate or reference any county FIRM and FIS by resolution from time to
time as may be required or desirable. (Ord. 2007-04, 12-4-2007)
10-1-6: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. Violations (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor offense, and potentially, a public nuisance subject to
abatement procedures instituted in a court of proper jurisdiction. Nothing
herein shall prevent the city from taking such lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-7: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
other ordinances, easements, covenants, or deed restrictions conflict or
overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions, or that imposing
the higher standards, shall prevail. (Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-8: INTERPRETATION:
Concerning the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions
shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-9: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the city, any officer or employee
thereof, the state, the federal insurance administration, federal emergency
management agency, for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 99-02, 7-
6-1999)
10-1-10: SEVERABILITY:
This chapter and the various parts thereof are hereby declared to be severable.
Should any section of this chapter be declared by the courts to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such decisions shall not affect the validity of
this chapter as a whole, or any portion thereof other than the section so
declared to be unconstitutional or invalid. (Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-11: DESIGNATION OF THE LOCAL FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The building official for the city is hereby appointed local floodplain
administrator to administer and implement this local code granting or denying
floodplain development permits in accordance with its provisions. (Ord. 99-02,
7-6-1999)
10-1-12: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A floodplain development permit is hereby established for all construction and
other development including, without limitation, construction and development
regarding manufactured homes, to be undertaken in areas of special flood hazard
in the city for the purpose of protecting its citizens from increased flood
hazards and ensuring new development is constructed in a manner that minimizes
its exposure to flooding. It shall be unlawful to undertake any development in
an area of special flood hazard, as shown on the flood insurance rate map
enumerated in section
10-1-5 of this chapter, without a valid floodplain development permit.
Applications for a permit shall be made on forms furnished by the local
floodplain administrator and may include, but not be limited to: plans in
duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location dimensions, and elevation
of the area in question, existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of
materials, drainage facilities, and the location of the foregoing. (Ord. 2007-
04, 12-4-2007)
10-1-13: PERMIT APPLICATION:
The application shall be made on forms required by the city and provide at
least the following information, where applicable. Additional information may
be required on the permit application forms.
   A.   The proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest
floor (including basement) of all residential and nonresidential structures
whether new or substantially improved to be located in zones A, A1-A30, AE, and
AH, if base flood elevations data are available.
   B.   The proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest
floor (including basement) and the elevation of the highest adjacent grade of
all residential and nonresidential structures whether new or substantially
improved to be located in Zone AO.
   C.   The proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, to which any new
or substantially improved nonresidential structure will be floodproofed.
   D.   A certificate from a licensed professional engineer or architect in the
State for any utility floodproofing will meet the criteria in Section
10-1-29 of this Chapter.
   E.   A certificate from a licensed professional engineer or architect in the
State for any nonresidential floodproofed structures will meet the criteria in
Section
10-1-27 of this Chapter.
   F.   A description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of the proposed development. Computations by a licensed
professional engineer in the State must be submitted that demonstrates the
altered or relocated segment will provide equal or greater conveyance than the
original stream segment. The applicant must submit any maps, computations or
other material required by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to
revise the documents enumerated in Section
10-1-5 of this Chapter, when notified by the Local Flood Plain Administrator,
and must also provide assurances that the conveyance capacity of the altered or
relocated stream segment will be maintained.
   G.   In certain circumstances the Local Flood Plain Administrator will
require a technical analysis, by a licensed professional engineer in the State,
showing the proposed development located in the special flood hazard area will
not cause physical damage to any other property.
   H.   When there is no base flood elevation data available for Zone A from
any source, the base flood elevation data will be provided by the permit
applicant for all proposed development of subdivisions, manufactured home and
recreational vehicle parks in the special flood hazard areas, for all
developments of fifty (50) lots to five (5) acres, whichever is less. (Ord. 99-
02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-14: PERMIT APPLICATION REVIEW:
The Local Flood Plain Administrator shall process permit applications and will
not issue the flood plain development permit until the following has been
accomplished:
   A.   Review all applications for completeness, particularly with the
requirements of Section
10-1-13 of this Chapter, and for compliance with the provisions and standards
of this Chapter.
   B.   Review all subdivision and other proposed new development, including
manufactured home and recreational parks to determine whether the proposed
development site will be reasonably safe from flooding. When the proposed
building site is located in the special flood hazard area, all new construction
and substantial improvements will meet the applicable standards of Sections
10-1-23 through
10-1-36 of this Chapter.
   C.   Determine whether any proposed development in the special flood hazard
area may result in physical damage to any other property to include stream bank
erosion and any increase in velocities or that it does not adversely affect the
carrying capacity of the areas where base flood elevations have been determined
but a floodway has not been designated. For purposes of this Chapter,
"adversely affects" means the cumulative effect of the proposed development
when combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any
point. To assist the Local Flood Plain Administrator in making this
determination, the permit applicant may be required to submit additional
technical analysis.
   D.   Ensure all other required State and Federal permits have been received.
(Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-15: USE OF OTHER FLOOD DATA:
   A.   When the Federal Emergency Management Agency has designated special
flood hazard areas on the community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) but has
neither produced water surface elevation data nor identified a floodway, the
Local Flood Plain Administrator shall attempt to obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a Federal,
State or other source, including data developed pursuant to subsection 10-1-13H
of this Chapter, as criteria for requiring new construction, substantial
improvements or other proposed development meets the requirements of this
Chapter.
   B.   When base flood elevations are not available, the Local Flood Plain
Administrator may use flood information from any other authoritative source,
such as historical data, to establish flood elevations within the special flood
hazard areas. This information shall be submitted to the City for adoption.
(Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-16: ALTERATION OF WATERCOURSES:
Prior to the issuing of a permit for any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse the Local Flood Plain Administrator:
   A.   Must notify all adjacent communities, Nevada's National Flood Insurance
Program Coordinator, Nevada Division of Water Resources and submittal of
evidence of such notification to the Federal Insurance Administration, and the
Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   B.   Determine that the permit holder has provided for maintenance within
the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying
capacity is not diminished. (Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-17: INSPECTIONS:
The Local Flood Plain Administrator or designee shall make periodic inspections
throughout the period of construction in order to monitor compliance with the
requirements of the flood plain development permit or any variance provisions.
(Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-18: STOP WORK ORDERS:
The Local Flood Plain Administrator shall issue, or cause to be issued, a stop
work for any flood plain development found noncompliant with the provisions of
this Chapter or conditions of the development permit and all development found
ongoing without a flood plain development permit. Disregard of a stop work
shall subject the violator to the penalties described in Section
10-1-6 of this Chapter or any other lawful remedy available to the City. (Ord.
99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-19: RETAINING FLOOD PLAIN DEVELOPMENT DOCUMENTATION:
The Local Flood Plain Administrator shall obtain and retain for public
inspection and have available for the National Flood Insurance Program or the
Federal Emergency Management representative conducting a community assistance
visit, the following:
   A.   Flood plain development permits and certification of compliance.
   B.   Certification required by Section
10-1-25 of this Chapter (lowest floor elevation).
   C.   Certification required by Section
10-1-27 of this Chapter (elevation or floodproofing of nonresidential
structures).
   D.   Certification of elevation required by Section
10-1-30 of this Chapter (subdivision standards).
   E.   Certification required by Section
10-1-34 of this Chapter (floodway encroachments).
   F.   Reports required by Section
10-1-35 of this Chapter (mudflow standards).
   G.   Variances issued pursuant to Sections
10-1-37 through
10-1-39 of this Chapter (variance procedures).
   H.   Notices required under Section
10-1-16 of this Chapter (alteration of watercourses). (Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-20: MAP DETERMINATIONS:
The Local Flood Plain Administrator will make map interpretations where needed,
as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard
and where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual
field conditions. (Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-21: APPEALS:
The City Council shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is an
error in any requirement, decision, or determination made by the Flood Plain
Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this Chapter. The
applicant may petition the Council in writing within ten (10) days of the
adverse action for reconsideration or appeal of a decision by the Local Flood
Plain Administrator. Said petition must set forth the alleged error with
particularity, and the petition must be placed on the agenda for a hearing
before the council within twenty (20) days of its filing. (Ord. 99-02, 7-6-
1999)
10-1-22: SUBMISSION OF NEW TECHNICAL DATA TO FEMA:
When the city base flood elevations either increase or decrease resulting from
physical changes affecting flooding conditions, as soon as practicable, but not
later than six (6) months after the date such information becomes available,
the city will submit the technical or scientific data to FEMA. Such submissions
are useful so that upon confirmation of the physical changes affecting flooding
conditions, risk premium rates and floodplain management requirements will be
based upon current data. This aspirational goal is not intended to create or
enlarge any liability on behalf of the city. (Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-23: ANCHORING:
   A.   All new construction and substantial improvements in areas of special
flood hazard shall be adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
   B.   All manufactured homes in areas of special flood hazard shall meet the
anchoring standards of section
10-1-32 of this chapter. (Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-24: CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS AND METHODS:
All new construction and substantial improvements in areas of special flood
hazard shall be constructed:
   A.   With materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
   B.   Using methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   C.   Ensure electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities are designed or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   D.   Within zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures. (Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-25: ELEVATION REQUIREMENTS FOR LOWEST FLOOR:
Residential construction, new or substantial improvements, in areas of special
hazard, shall have the lowest floor, including basements:
   A.   In zone AO, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a height equal
to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or elevated at
least two feet (2') above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is
specified. (The state recommends that the lowest floor be elevated above the
highest adjacent grade to a height exceeding the depth number specified in feet
on the FIRM by a least 1 foot, or elevated at least 3 feet above the highest
adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.)
   B.   In zone A, elevated to or above the base flood elevation, as determined
by this community. (The state recommends the lowest floor be elevated at least
1 foot above the base flood elevation, as determined by the community.)
   C.   In all other zones, elevated to or above the base flood elevation. (The
state recommends the lowest floor be elevated at least 1 foot above the base
flood elevation.) (Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-26: LOWEST FLOOR CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:
Upon completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest floor including
basement shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor
and verified by the community building inspector in all flood zones established
by this chapter and any special requirements applicable to AO zones. The
certification shall be provided to the floodplain administrator using the
current FEMA elevation certificate. (The state recommends the certification of
the lowest floor including basement be performed after the slab has been poured
for slab on grade or when the lowest floor is complete and prior to the start
of framing.) (Ord. 2007-04, 12-4-2007)
10-1-27: NONRESIDENTIAL FLOODPROOFING REQUIREMENTS:
Nonresidential construction shall either be elevated to conform with section
10-1-25 of this chapter or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities:
   A.   Will be floodproofed below the elevation recommended under Section
10-1-25 of this Chapter so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
   B.   Will have the structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic
and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
   C.   Will be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the standards of Section
10-1-25 of this Chapter are satisfied. The certification shall be provided to
the Flood Plain Administrator. (Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-28: REQUIREMENTS FOR AREAS BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR:
All new construction and substantial improvements with fully enclosed areas
below the lowest floor (excluding basements) that are usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are subject to flooding,
shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on
exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters. Designs for
meeting this requirement must either be certified by a licensed professional
engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
   A.   Must have a minimum of two (2) openings, have a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
   B.   The bottom of all such openings will be no higher than one foot (1')
above the lowest adjacent finished grade.
Openings may be equipped with louvers, valves, screens or other coverings or
devices, provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of flood waters.
(Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-29: STANDARDS FOR UTILITIES:
   A.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   B.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters. Sanitary sewer and storm
drainage systems for buildings that have openings below the base flood
elevation shall be provided with automatic backflow valves or other automatic
backflow devices that are installed in each discharge line passing through a
building's exterior wall.
   C.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-30: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood.
   B.   All subdivision plans will provide the elevation of proposed structures
and pads.
   C.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage.
   D.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   E.   All subdivisions shall provide adequate drainage to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
   F.   Additionally all subdivision proposals will demonstrate by providing a
detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses that the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any
point within the community. (Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-31: STANDARDS FOR CRITICAL STRUCTURES:
Critical structures are not authorized in a special flood hazard area, unless:
   A.   All alternative locations in Flood Zone X have been considered and
rejected.
   B.   All alternative locations in Flood Zone Shaded X have been considered
and rejected.
If the Flood Plain Administrator determines the only practical alternative
location for the development of a new or substantially improved critical
structure is in a special flood hazard area he must give public notice of the
decision and reasons for the elimination of all alternative locations. (Ord.
99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-32: STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES:
   A.   All manufactured homes that are placed or substantially placed or
substantially improved, within Zones A, AH, AE and on the community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map, on sites located:
      1.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
      2.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
      3.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
      4.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site upon
which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a
flood;
will be elevated on permanent foundation so that the lowest floor will be
elevated to or above the base flood elevation (the State recommends at least 1
foot above the base flood elevation) and be securely anchored to an adequate
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top
or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable
State and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
   B.   All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved on sites
in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within Zones A, AH, and AE
on the community's Flood Insurance Rate Map that are not subject to the
provisions of subsection A of this Section, will be elevated so that either
the:
      1.   Lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the base flood
elevation (the State recommends at least 1 foot above the base flood
elevation); or
      2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
thirty six inches (36") in height above grade and is securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement.
   C.   Within Zone A, when no base flood elevation data is available, new and
substantially improved manufactured homes shall have the floor elevated at
least three feet (3') above the highest adjacent grade.
   D.   Within Zone AO, the floor for all new and substantially improved
manufactured homes will be elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least
as high as the depth number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map, or at
least two feet (2') if no depth number is specified. (The State recommends the
lowest floor be elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a height exceeding
the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM by at least 1 foot, or elevated
at least 3 feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is
specified.) (Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-33: STANDARDS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
All recreational vehicles placed on sites within the flood plain on the
community's Flood Insurance Rate Map will either:
   A.   Be on-site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days;
   B.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on wheels or jacking system, is attached to the
site only by quick disconnect-type utilities and security devices, and has no
permanently attached additions; or
   C.   Will meet the permit requirements of Section
10-1-13 of this Chapter and the elevations and anchoring requirements of
manufactured homes in Section
10-1-32 of this Chapter. (Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-34: FLOODWAYS:
Designated floodways are located within the special flood hazard areas
established in Section
10-1-5 of this Chapter. Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due
to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris, potential projectiles, and
erosion potential, the following provisions apply:
   A.   Encroachment will be prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, storage of equipment or supplies, and any other
development within the adopted regulatory floodway; unless it has been
demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses, performed in accordance
with standard engineering practice that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in flood levels within the community during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge, and the Federal Emergency Management
Agency has issued a conditional letter of map revision.
   B.   If subsection 10-1-35A of this Chapter has been satisfied, all proposed
new development and substantial improvements will comply with all other
applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of Sections
10-1-23 through
10-1-36 of this Chapter. (Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-35: MUDSLIDE-PRONE AREAS:
   A.   All permit applications will be reviewed to determine if the proposed
development will be located within a mudslide area.
   B.   The reviewing process will determine if the proposed site and
improvements will be reasonably safe from mudslide hazards. Factors to be
considered in making this determination include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      1.   Type and quality of soils.
      2.   Evidence of ground water or surface water problems.
      3.   Depth and quality of any fill.
      4.   The overall slope of the site.
      5.   The weight that any proposed structure will impose on the slope.
   C.   When a proposed development is located in an area that may have
mudslide hazards, the following will be minimum requirements:
      1.   A site investigation and further review be made by persons qualified
in geology and soils engineering.
      2.   The proposed grading, excavations, new construction, and substantial
improvements are adequately designed and protected against mudslide damages.
      3.   The proposed grading, excavations, new construction and substantial
improvements do not aggravate the existing hazard by creating either on-site or
off-site disturbances.
      4.   Drainage, planting, watering, and maintenance be such as not to
endanger slope stability.
   D.   When a proposed development is determined to be within a mudslide
hazard area, the following requirements will include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Adopting and enforcing a grading ordinance in accordance with data
supplied by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      2.   Regulate the location of foundation systems and utility systems of
new construction and substantial improvements.
      3.   Regulate the location, drainage and maintenance of all excavations,
cuts, and fills and planted slopes.
      4.   Provide special requirements for protective measures including, but
not necessarily limited to, retaining walls, buttress fills, subdrains,
diverted terraces, and benching.
      5.   Require engineering drawings and specifications to be submitted for
all corrective measures, accompanied by supporting soil engineering and geology
reports. (Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-36: FLOOD-RELATED EROSION-PRONE AREAS:
   A.   All permit applications will be reviewed to determine if the proposed
development will be located within a special flood- related erosion hazard
area.
   B.   The reviewing process will determine if the proposed site alterations
and improvements will be reasonably safe from flood- related erosion and will
not cause flood-related erosion hazards or otherwise aggravate the existing
flood-related erosion hazard.
   C.   When the proposed development is found to be in the path of flood-
related erosion or to increase the erosion hazard, require the improvement to
be relocated or adequate protective measures to be taken which will not
aggravate the existing erosion hazard.
   D.   When it has been determined the proposed development is in a special
flood-related erosion hazard, delineated as Zone E on the community FIRM,
require:
      1.   A setback for all new development from the lake, bay, riverfront or
other body of water, to create a safety buffer consisting of a natural
vegetative or contour strip. This buffer will be designated according to the
flood-related erosion hazard and erosion rate, in conjunction with the
anticipated "useful life" of structures, and depending upon the geologic,
hydrologic, topographic and climatic characteristics of the community's land.
The buffer may be used for suitable open space purposes, such as agricultural,
forestry, outdoor recreational and wildlife habitat, and for other activities
using temporary and portable structures only. (Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-37: NATURE OF VARIANCE:
The variance criteria set forth in this Section are based on the general
principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property and are
not personal in nature. A variance may be granted to a parcel of property with
physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the requirements of
this Chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the applicant or the
surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be unique to the property
and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique characteristic must pertain
to the land itself, not to the structure, its inhabitants, or the property
owners.
It is the duty of the City to help protect its citizens from flooding. This
need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of insuring a structure
built below flood level are so serious that variances from the flood elevation
or from other requirements in this Flood Ordinance are quite rare. The long-
term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can only be met if
variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance guidelines provided in
this Chapter are more detailed and contain multiple provisions that must be met
before a variance can be properly granted. The criteria are designed to screen
out those situations in which alternatives other than a variance are more
appropriate. (Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-38: APPEAL BOARD:
   A.   Only the City Council may grant variances to this Chapter. In passing
upon requests for variances, the City shall consider all technical evaluations,
all relevant factors, standards specified in other sections of this Code, and:
      1.   The danger that materials being swept onto other lands and injuring
others;
      2.   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents of
flood damage and the effects of such damage on the existing individual owner
and future owners of the property;
      4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      5.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      6.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan and
flood plain management program for that area;
      9.   The safety of access to the property in time of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters expected at the site;
      11.   The cost of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water system, and streets and bridges.
   B.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of the Local Flood Plain Administrator that:
      1.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars
($100.00) of insurance coverage;
      2.   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to life
and property. It is recommended that a copy of the notice shall be recorded by
the Flood Plain Administrator in the office of the Elko County Recorder and
shall be recorded in a manner so that it appears as an exception on the title
of the affected parcel of land.
   C.   The Flood Plain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such variances
issued in its biennial report submitted to the Federal Insurance
Administration, Federal Emergency Management Agency. (Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-39: CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCE:
   A.   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvements, and other proposed new development to be erected on a lot of one-
half (1/2) acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the base flood level, providing that the
procedures of Sections
10-1-11 through
10-1-22 of this Chapter and Sections
10-1-23 through
10-1-36 of this Chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for issuing
the variance increases.
   B.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of "historic
structures" (as defined in Section
10-1-3 of this Chapter) upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
   C.   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   D.   Variances shall only be issued upon determination that the variance is
the "minimum necessary" considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
"Minimum necessary" means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation from the
requirements of this Chapter. For example, in the case of variances to an
elevation requirement, this means the City need not grant permission for the
applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the applicant
proposed, but only to that elevation which the City believes will both provide
relief and preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
   E.   Variances shall only be issued upon a:
      1.   Showing of good and sufficient cause;
      2.   Determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional "hardship" (as defined in Section
10-1-3 of this Chapter) to the applicant;
      3.   Determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or extraordinary
public expense, create a nuisance (as defined in Section
10-1-3, "public safety/nuisance", of this Chapter), cause fraud or
victimization (as defined in Section
10-1-3 of this Chapter) of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances.
   F.   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial,
improvements, and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that the provisions of Section
10-1-38 of this Chapter are satisfied and that the structure or other
development is protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base
flood and does not result in additional threat to public safety and does not
create a public nuisance.
   G.   Upon consideration of all the factors of Section
10-1-37 of this Chapter and the purposes of this Code, the City may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purpose of this Chapter. (Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
10-1-40: LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT:
The Federal Insurance Administrator will review information from an owner or
lessee of property who believes his property has been inadvertently included in
a special flood hazard area. These procedures shall not apply when there has
been any alteration of topography since the effective date of the first FIRM or
FHBM showing the property within an area of special flood hazard.
The scientific or technical information submission may include, but is not
limited to, the following:
   A.   An actual copy of the recorded plat map bearing the seal of the
appropriate recordation official of the County Clerk or Recorder of Deeds
indicating the official recordation and proper citation, deed or plat book
volume and page number, or an equivalent identification where annotation of the
deed or plat book is not the practice.
   B.   A topographical map showing:
      1.   Ground elevation contours in relation to the NGVD.
      2.   The total area of the property in question.
      3.   The location of the structure or structures located on the property
in question.
      4.   The elevation of the lowest adjacent grade to a structure or
structures.
      5.   An indication of the curvilinear line which represents the area
subject to inundation by a base flood. The curvilinear line should be based
upon information provided by an appropriate authoritative source, such as a
Federal agency, Department of Water Resources, a County water control district,
a County or City Engineer, a Federal Emergency Management Agency Flood
Insurance Study, or a determination by a registered professional engineer.
   C.   A copy of the FHBM or FIRM indicating the location of the property in
question.
   D.   A certification by a registered professional engineer or licensed land
surveyor that the lowest grade adjacent to the structure is above the base
flood elevation.
   E.   The completion of the appropriate forms in the Federal Emergency
Management Agency's Packet, Amendments and Revisions to the National Flood
Insurance Program Maps (TOD-1). (Ord. 99-02, 7-6-1999)
