TOWN OF BIG SANDY, MONTANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 2021-01, passed 5-12-2022
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   References to other sections
   
10.08   References to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Construal of ordinances
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Prohibited acts include causing and permitting
 
   
10.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fee and penalty schedule, see
Ch. 32
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Big Sandy Town
Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein or by law or implication required, the same
rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I that are compatible with future legislation shall
apply to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code
unless otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification in any official
publication to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section unless otherwise provided.
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   All words and phrases shall be construed according to the common
and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall
be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.030)
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   When an act is required by an ordinance, the same being such that
it may be done as well by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall
be construed to include all such acts performed by an authorized agent.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.050)
      (4)   The following grammatical rules shall apply in the ordinances of
the town unless it is apparent from the context that a different construction
is intended.
         (a)   Gender. Each gender includes the masculine, feminine and neuter
genders.
         (b)   Singular and plural. The singular number includes the plural and
the plural includes the singular.
         (c)   Tenses. Words used in the present tense include the past and the
future tenses, and vice versa, unless manifestly inapplicable.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.040)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another.
      CODE. Unless otherwise specifically stated, shall mean this code.
      COUNTY. The County of Chouteau, Montana.
      EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a town employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
town.”
      FEE. A sum of money charged by the town for the carrying on of a
business, profession or occupation.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      KNOWINGLY. Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which brings the
act or omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
      LAW. Denotes applicable federal law, the Constitution and statutes of the
State of Montana, the ordinances of the Town of Big Sandy and, when
appropriate, any and all rules and regulations which may be promulgated
thereunder.
      LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MCA. The abbreviation for Montana Code Annotated.
      MISDEMEANOR. Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this
code which is a lesser offense than a felony, as defined by state law.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL. The Town of Big Sandy.
      MUST and SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      NEGLECT, NEGLIGENT, NEGLIGENCE or NEGLIGENTLY. A want of such attention
to the nature or probable consequences of the act or omission as a prudent
person ordinarily bestows in acting in his or her own concern.
      NUISANCE. Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of
the inhabitants of the town; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on, the property of another person or
to the community.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation or declaration in all cases in which, by
law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the
words “swear” and “sworn” shall be equivalent to the word “affirm” and
“affirmed.”
      OFFENSE. Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission
of any act required by the provisions of this code.
      OFFICERS. Whenever reference is made in this code to a town officer by
title only, shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the town.”
      OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety of the whole or
a part of such building or land.
      PERSON. Includes a natural person, joint venture, joint stock company,
partnership, association, club, company, corporation, business, trust or
organization or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of any
of them.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes money, goods, chattels, things in action and
evidences of debt.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      PUBLIC THOROUGHFARE. Includes streets, alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards,
public ways, public squares, public places and sidewalks.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      RETAILER. Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small
quantities direct to the consumer.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
      SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      STATE. The State of Montana.
      STREET. Includes all streets, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts,
places, squares, curbs or other public ways in this town which have been or may
hereafter be dedicated and open to public use, or such other public property so
designated in any law of this state.
      TENANT and OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, include any person
who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
      TOWN or CITY. The Town of Big Sandy, State of Montana, or the area within
the territorial limits of the town, and such territory outside of the town over
which the town has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any constitutional or
statutory provision.
      TOWN CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
      TOWN COUNCIL. The Council of the town. “All its members” or “all Council
members” means the total number of Council members holding office.
      WHOLESALER or WHOLESALE DEALER. As used in this code, unless otherwise
specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods,
merchandise, articles or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
      WILLFULLY. When applied to the intent with which an act is done or
omitted, implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the
omission referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to
injure another, or to acquire an advantage.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printed, typewritten, mimeographed,
multigraphed or otherwise reproduced in permanent visible form.
      YEAR. A calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.010)
(Ord. 88-2, passed - -1988)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
   (C)   If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (D)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (E)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable, as provided in division (B)
above, does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
§ 10.07 REFERENCES TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCES TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   “Of the town” understood. Use of the title of any officer, employee,
department, board or commission means that officer, employee, department, board
or commission of the town.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.020)
   (B)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (C)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government and that name designation is
incorrectly stated, or on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity, then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(Ord. 88-2, passed - -1988)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, then the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   Except when otherwise provided, the time within which an act is
required to be done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last day unless the last day is Sunday or a holiday, in which case, it
shall also be excluded.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.070)
(Ord. 88-2, passed - -1988)
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code shall not be affected by
the repeal and reenactment, but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section containing the desired amendment substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 CONSTRUAL OF ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of the ordinances of the town and all proceedings under them
are to be construed with a view to effect their objects and to promote justice.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.080) (Ord. 88-2, passed - -1988)
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(MCA § 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This town shall make available to any person for inspection or copying
all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see MCA § 11-1102
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town and subsequently amended, the previous code section
number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, §      ).”
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way;
contracts entered into or franchises granted; the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 PROHIBITED ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING AND PERMITTING.
   Whenever in the ordinances of the town any act or omission is made unlawful,
it shall include causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering or
concealing the fact of such act or omission.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.060) (Ord. 88-2, passed - -1988)
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions or failing to comply with
any of the mandatory requirements of any ordinance of the town is guilty of a
misdemeanor. Except in cases where a different punishment is prescribed by any
ordinance of the town, any person convicted of a misdemeanor under the
ordinances of the town shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 or by
imprisonment not to exceed six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   Each such person is guilty of a separate offense for each and every
day during any portion of which any violation of any provision of the
ordinances of the town is committed, continued or permitted by any such person,
and he or she is punishable accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 1.20.010) (Ord. 88-1, passed - -1988)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Town boundaries
   
11.02   Town wards
§ 11.01 TOWN BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the town are, and the same are described, as follows:
Beginning at a point 150 feet due north of the center of Section 18, Tp. 28 N.,
Rge. 13 E.M.M.; thence due south to intersect with Montana Avenue in the
Lehfeldt’s addition to the town; thence south; thence southwest; thence west to
intersect with the township line between Ranges 12 E. and 13 E.M.M., having
followed the outside boundary of the Lehfeldt’s addition, aforementioned, since
the intersection with Montana Avenue, aforementioned; thence due north along
said township line to a point where the south line of Section 18, Tp. 28 N.,
Rge. 13 E.M.M. joins with the south line of Section 13, Tp. 28 N., Rge. 12
E.M.M., thence due west along the south line of said Section 13, Tp. 28 N.,
Rge. 12 E.M.M. a distance of 1,380.82 feet; thence north, forming an angle of
90 degrees and .08 minutes, for a distance of 2,803.45 feet; thence in an
easterly direction to the point of beginning.
(Prior Code, § 1.08.010) (Ord. 1, passed - -1915)
§ 11.02 TOWN WARDS.
   (A)   First Ward. All that portion of the town southwest of the centerline
of Johannes Avenue and southwest of the centerline of Montana Avenue of the
Lehfeldt Second Addition, and south of First Street between the Riney and the
Elderman Addition, shall constitute the First Ward.
(Prior Code, § 1.16.010)
   (B)   Second Ward. All that portion of the town northeast of the centerline
of Johannes Avenue and northeast of the centerline of Montana Avenue of the
Lehfeldt Second Addition, and north of the centerline of First Street between
the Riney and the Elderman Additions, shall constitute the Second Ward.
(Prior Code, § 1.16.020)
(Ord. 2, passed - -1915)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   REVENUE AND FINANCE
      
32.   FEE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Elections; voter registration required
   
30.02   Employee retirement system
Fire Department
   
30.15   Organization
   
30.16   Fire Chief; powers and duties
   
30.17   Assistant Fire Chief; powers and duties
   
30.18   Police and Fire Department cooperation
   
30.19   Yielding right-of-way to fire engines
   
30.20   Illegal use of fire equipment
   
30.21   Irrigation during fires
 
   
30.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 ELECTIONS; VOTER REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   No person shall vote at any annual or special town election held in
pursuance of the laws of the state and ordinances of the town within and for
the town unless he or she shall have been registered in accordance with the
provisions of the law of the state and the ordinances of the town.
(Prior Code, § 1.12.010) (Ord. 16, passed - -1915) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.02 EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   The contract entered into by and between the Town Council and the
Board of Administration of the Public Employees Retirement System of the state,
dated February 1, 1952, is approved, ratified and adopted by the town.
(Prior Code, § 2.32.010)
   (B)   The town is authorized and directed to take any and all proceedings
necessary for the carrying out of the provisions of the contract, and the town
is authorized and empowered to levy and collect sufficient taxes to raise such
funds as are necessary for the town to pay the Board of Administration, as it
is obligated to under the terms and conditions of the contract with the Board,
and to carry out all obligations that may become due and payable on its part
under the contract.
(Prior Code, § 2.32.020)
(Ord. 76, passed - -1952)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 30.15 ORGANIZATION.
   The Fire Department of the town shall be organized in such manner as the
Council, by resolution, shall direct, and the Council is authorized to adopt
such rules and regulations for the government of the Fire Department that may
be deemed necessary.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.010) (Ord. 32, passed - -1915)
§ 30.16 FIRE CHIEF; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department of the town shall have sole command
and control over all persons connected with the Fire Department of the town,
and shall possess full power and authority over its organization, government
and discipline, and shall have the same powers as the Town Marshal during fires
in the discharge of his or her duties in the suppression of fires, riots,
disturbances and breaches of the peace and to make complaint against any person
or persons violating any town ordinance, and shall arrest such persons or
persons and take them before the Town Judge.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall have entire command and control and direction of
all members of the Fire Department and over all other persons who may be
present at fires, and shall at all times have the full power of a member of the
police force, and shall have charge of and be responsible for the engines and
other apparatus and the property of the town furnished the Fire Department and
see that they are at all times in good condition and ready for use in the
extinguishing of fires, subject only to such orders as may be made by the Mayor
or Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.020) (Ord. 77, passed - -1952)
§ 30.17 ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Assistant Chief of the Fire Department shall aid the Chief in the work
of the Department, and in his or her absence, the Assistant Fire Chief shall
perform his or her duties and have his or her powers.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.030) (Ord. 77, passed - -1952)
§ 30.18 POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT COOPERATION.
   In case of fire, it shall be the duty of the Town Police Department to
cooperate in full with, and subject to, the Chief of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.070) (Ord. 77, passed - -1952)
§ 30.19 YIELDING RIGHT-OF-WAY TO FIRE ENGINES.
   All automobiles and other motor vehicles, with the exception of volunteer
firefighters’ cars being driven upon the streets and alleys of the town, shall
immediately, upon the sounding of the fire siren or other fire alarm, drive the
vehicle to the curb and park until the fire apparatus shall have passed and at
all times shall yield right-of-way to the fire apparatus.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.060) (Ord. 77, passed - -1952) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.20 ILLEGAL USE OF FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   No person, including town employees, other than qualified members of the
Fire Department of the town shall take, use or remove from the premises where
stored, or molest or destroy, any firefighting apparatus owned by the town
without a written permit from the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.040) (Ord. 77, passed - -1952) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.21 IRRIGATION DURING FIRES.
   All citizens of the town shall immediately cause or stop all irrigating and
sprinkling when the fire siren sounds or when they are notified of a fire.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.050) (Ord. 77, passed - -1952) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
30.20 of this code shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not
less than $25 nor more than $100, the same to be paid or served out in the town
jail at the rate of $2 per day.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.040) (Ord. 77, passed - -1952)
CHAPTER 31: REVENUE AND FINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Warrants
Fund Accounts
   
31.15   Funds created
   
31.16   Distribution of taxes into funds
   
31.17   Warrants on funds
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 WARRANTS.
   From and after the passage of the provisions codified in this section, when
any warrant, drawn upon the Town Clerk-Treasurer pursuant to any ordinance or
resolution or direction of the Town Council, is presented to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer for payment and the same is not paid for want of funds, such warrant,
from the time it is so presented until it is called for payment, shall bear
interest at the rate of 6% per annum.
(Prior Code, § 3.04.010) (Ord. 12, passed - -1915)
FUND ACCOUNTS
§ 31.15 FUNDS CREATED.
   There is created for the various departments of the town the following
funds:
   (A)   General Fund;
   (B)   Street Fund;
   (C)   Contingent Fund;
   (D)   Police Department Fund; and
   (E)   Fire Department Fund.
(Prior Code, § 3.08.010) (Ord. 28, passed - -1915)
§ 31.16 DISTRIBUTION OF TAXES INTO FUNDS.
   (A)   All taxes collected for general purposes shall be paid into the
General Fund.
   (B)   All taxes collected for street purposes shall be paid into the Street
Fund.
   (C)   All taxes collected for contingent purposes shall be paid into the
Contingent Fund.
   (D)   All taxes collected for police purposes shall be paid into the Police
Department Fund.
   (E)   All taxes collected for the purposes of fire shall be paid into the
Fire Department Fund.
(Prior Code, § 3.08.020) (Ord. 28, passed - -1915)
§ 31.17 WARRANTS ON FUNDS.
   Every warrant drawn upon the Town Treasury shall designate the fund out of
which the same is to be paid, and shall be paid only out of moneys belonging to
the fund so designated, unless otherwise ordered by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 3.08.030) (Ord. 28, passed - -1915)
CHAPTER 32: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
32.01   Schedule of rates and fees
§ 32.01 SCHEDULE OF RATES AND FEES.
Code Section Description Fee
Code      Description                                                                   Fee
Section
   Ch.    General Provisions
10.99     General penalty                                                               $500
   Ch.    Water System
          Water service connection
             For new construction properties connecting to the main and disturbing a
          paved street, which includes the cost of materials from main to curb valve    $1,750
51.02     and street repairs
             For properties connecting to the water main without disturbing a paved
          street (gravel), which includes the cost of materials from main to curb valve $1,250
          and street repairs
          Monthly inactive property rate                                                $14 monthly water debt
51.03     Reconnection fee                                                              $50; additional $50
                                                                                        for weekend or evening
51.04     Meter testing                                                                 $25
51.09     Bulk water rate                                                               $6/1,000 gallons
51.11     Fire hydrant use                                                              $500 base rate, plus $5/1,000 gallons per month
51.12     Monthly municipal water rates                                                 $46/4,000 gallons; $3/1,000 overage
51.13     Late fee                                                                      1.5% interest after 45 days
          NSF checks                                                                    $35
   Ch.    Sewer System
          Wastewater rates
             Late fee                                                                1.5% interest after 45 days
52.003       Monthly commercial averaged rate                                        $63.15, plus
                                                                                        $3.70 over 5,000 gallons
             Monthly inactive property rate                                          $38
             Monthly residential user rate                                           $63.15
   Ch.    Animal Control
          Dog tags                                                                      $5 if neutered, $10 if unneutered
90.03     Unlicensed dog
             First offense                                                           $25
             Second offense or more                                                  $50
90.05;    Running at large
90.06        First offense                                                           $50
             Second offense or more                                                  $100
          Disturbing the peace (nuisance animal)
90.07        First offense                                                           $50
             Second offense or more                                                  $100
          Dangerous dog
90.08        Offense                                                                 Not less than $50, plus owner shall assume the cost of expenses incurred in §
                                                                                        90.08 of this code
             Second offense                                                          Court hearing
          Interfering with law enforcement
90.13        First offense                                                           $100
             Second offense or more                                                  $300
          Inhumane treatment of animals
90.14        First offense                                                           $50
             Second offense or more                                                  $100
   Ch.    Nuisances
91.45    Noxious or nuisance weeds                                                     $150 minimum, or actual cost of mitigation
 
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER SYSTEM
      
52.   SEWER SYSTEM
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Refuse Disposal
   
50.01   Requirements generally
   
50.02   Acceptable disposal items in containers
   
50.03   Items not to dispose of in containers
REFUSE DISPOSAL
§ 50.01 REQUIREMENTS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Place refuse in the container so the lid can be closed.
   (B)   Do not litter at the site or while transporting refuse to the site.
   (C)   If you are not sure if an item is acceptable for disposal in the
containers, contact the landfill or the County Courthouse prior to disposal.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.02 ACCEPTABLE DISPOSAL ITEMS IN CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Household refuse;
   (B)   Trees, lumber, shrubs and poles cut in lengths of four feet or less,
placed lengthwise in the container;
   (C)   Small quantities of treated grain;
   (D)   Empty chemical barrels, triple-rinsed;
   (E)   White goods: washers, dryers and hot water heaters; and
   (F)   Tires.
§ 50.03 ITEMS NOT TO DISPOSE OF IN CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Batteries and chemicals (including, but not limited to, herbicides,
pesticides and the like);
   (B)   Liquids (including, but not limited to, engine oil, hydraulic fluid
and the like);
   (C)   Large quantities of heavy material (concrete, rocks and the like);
   (D)   Items on fire, warm burn ashes and the like; and
   (E)   Refrigerators, freezers or air conditioners.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 51: WATER SYSTEM
Section
   
51.01   Authority
   
51.02   Request for service connection; fee
   
51.03   Activation, disconnection or reconnection; fee
   
51.04   Water meter installation, reading and testing
   
51.05   One connection per building required; exception
   
51.06   Service line limits; adequate plumbing required
   
51.07   Pipe and plumbing maintenance; Department call-outs
   
51.08   Water turn-on by authorized personnel
   
51.09   Bulk water
   
51.10   Resale of water; servicing other residences
   
51.11   Fire hydrant usage and metering
   
51.12   Rate schedule
   
51.13   Collection of charges; delinquent payments
   
51.14   Charge adjustment for mechanical malfunctions
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Water system rates and fees, see
Ch. 32
§ 51.01 AUTHORITY.
   The following regulations governing the water system of the town have been
adopted by the Town Council pursuant to the authority granted by MCA § 69-7-201
and this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.02 REQUEST FOR SERVICE CONNECTION; FEE.
   (A)   Request for new service. Any person desiring a new water service for a
property within the service area of the town water system shall make the
request at the Town Office.
   (B)   Connection fee. Connection fees shall be as provided in the fee
schedule appendix on file in the Town Office and in
Ch. 32 of this code. The fee must be paid in full before water will be
connected. Once water service is activated, the property owner will be billed
for water and sewer (if applicable).
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.03 ACTIVATION, DISCONNECTION OR RECONNECTION; FEE.
   (A)   Requests for water service activation or disconnection may only be
made by the property owner. A reconnection fee, as provided in the fee schedule
appendix on file in the Town Office an in
Ch. 32 of this code, will be assessed on the first billing after reconnection
is made. No person, other than an authorized individual from the town, shall
turn water valves on or off. If a reconnection is requested on a weekend or
evening, an additional fee, as provided in the fee schedule, will be assessed.
   (B)   (1)   A town water user who requests the permanent discontinuance of
their water service shall pay the shutoff fee as established by the Town
Council. Water service shall then be shut off at the curb box and/or the meter
removed. Any such water user shall continue to pay the inactive user rate until
that property’s portion of any bonded indebtedness relating to the town water
system has been fully paid. The water user shall have the option of paying in
full the outstanding balance of the bond indebtedness at the time of permanent
discontinuance of service. Any properties that fall under the inactive user
definition at the date of this chapter’s adoption will be responsible for the
inactive user rate outlined in the fee schedule.
      (2)   If an inactive user wishes to remove the town curb stop and supply
line from his or her property, the water user shall continue to pay the
inactive user rate until that property’s portion of any bonded indebtedness
relating to the town water and sewer systems has been fully paid. The water
user shall have the option of paying in full the outstanding balance of the
bond indebtedness at the time of permanent discontinuance of service.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 WATER METER INSTALLATION, READING AND TESTING.
   (A)   Meter required.
      (1)   All properties to which town water is supplied shall be equipped
with an operating water meter.
      (2)   The town will furnish a five-eighths inch by three-fourths inch
meter, which shall remain the property of the town after installation. If a
larger meter is required, the town will contribute the amount equal to a five-
eighths inch by three-fourths inch meter and the property owner will contribute
the difference.
      (3)   A separate meter is required for each individual residence and each
individual business, but combined residences and businesses occupying the same
building may be served by a single meter. The meter must be installed within 70
feet of the main or a meter pit is required. If service extends to a second
building on the premises, such as a shop or garage, the line must be plumbed
after the meter, or a second meter must be purchased and will incur only water-
use charges.
   (B)   Installation of meter. The town will install the meters. All meters
shall be installed in a dry, frost-free environment. If a meter pit is
required, the meter will be installed at the property owner’s expense. The
property owner is responsible for the maintenance of the meter pit.
   (C)   Reading meters. A town employee will read meters. A touch pad or
drive-by reader will be installed at the time of meter installation, and the
employee must have access to the touch pad located on an exterior wall.
   (D)   Testing meters. Any municipal water meter shall be taken out and
tested upon complaint of the consumer upon payment of a fee as provided in the
fee schedule appendix on file in the Town Office an in
Ch. 32 of this code. If, upon test, the meter is not within 3% of being
accurate, it shall be repaired or replaced and the fee returned to the
consumer.
   (E)   Meter reading unavailable.
      (1)   Whenever meter readings for any billing period are unavailable,
whether due to meter malfunction, weather conditions or other cause, water
bills shall be calculated on the basis of an average monthly seasonal
consumption rate for the premises. If such average rate is unavailable or is
not reasonably applicable, the billing shall be estimated from a comparison
with similar households or businesses in the community.
      (2)   At such time as normal monthly readings can be obtained, the actual
metered rate will be reinstated.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 ONE CONNECTION PER BUILDING REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, agent or tenant to supply or permit to
be supplied any water to two or more buildings through one and the same
connection, except on special contract with the town.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 SERVICE LINE LIMITS; ADEQUATE PLUMBING REQUIRED.
   (A)   Service line size.
      (1)   Residential properties may not install a service line larger than
one inch for water service.
      (2)   Businesses requiring a service line greater than one inch must
request permission from town authorities.
   (B)   Adequate plumbing. All services are required to have a main shutoff
valve that is accessible and in good working order. Water service may be shut
off at the discretion of the town in cases where the plumbing or associated
improvements have become inadequate through time or neglect. Service will be
restored when the problem is taken care of.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 PIPE AND PLUMBING MAINTENANCE; DEPARTMENT CALL-OUTS.
   (A)   Owners of properties served shall keep the pipes and plumbing upon
their premises in good repair and prevent the waste or leakage of water and
shall be held liable for all damage to the town for their failure to do so. All
repairs for service pipes and plumbing systems of premises shall be made by and
at the expense of the owner of the premises served.
   (B)   The Water Department will turn water service off and on for
maintenance and repairs during regular department hours. Call-outs after hours
will be charged a minimum of $50. No one other than town personnel are to
attempt to turn water off or on at the curb stop.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 WATER TURN-ON BY AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL.
   Water may be turned on at the curb cock only by an authorized employee of
the town, and if turned on by another person, a penalty shall be assessed
against the property.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 BULK WATER.
   (A)   Connections. All bulk water users must provide their own connections
to the system.
   (B)   Chemicals. No chemicals are allowed on any truck filling at the bulk
station.
   (C)   Fees. Fees shall be as provided in the fee schedule appendix on file
in the Town Office and in
Ch. 32 of this code.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.10 RESALE OF WATER; SERVICING OTHER RESIDENCES.
   Water from the town water system may not be resold by users to any
organization, company or individual. Water hoses may not service another
neighboring residence with water unless authorized by the town during an
emergency.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.11 FIRE HYDRANT USAGE AND METERING.
   (A)   Hydrant use. No one may open a fire hydrant except for town personnel
and members of the Volunteer Fire Department.
   (B)   Hydrant meter. A meter for fire hydrant use is available upon request.
There is a base rate for the installation of the meter, plus a fee for “per
gallons used” as provided in the fee schedule appendix on file in the Town
Office an in
Ch. 32 of this code.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.12 RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Water service schedule. The schedule of rates based on meter readings
shall be charged for town water service as provided in the fee schedule
appendix on file in the Town Office and in
Ch. 32 of this code.
   (B)   Modification of rate schedule. The rate schedule may be amended from
time to time by resolution of the Town Council in accordance with this code and
the laws of the state. Any such resolution modifying the rate schedule shall
also provide for amendment of these regulations to reflect the new rate
schedule.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.13 COLLECTION OF CHARGES; DELINQUENT PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Billing cycle. Water meters shall be read monthly on or about the
twenty-fifth day of each month, and bills for water used shall be issued by the
town on or about the last day of each month for payment on or before the
twenty-fifth day of the following month.
   (B)   Party responsible for payment.
      (1)   The owner of the property shall be responsible to pay bills for
services provided to the premises. Bills may be put in a renter’s name with the
signed approval of the property owner, but the owner is ultimately responsible.
      (2)   Service that has been disconnected will not be restored until
delinquent charges have been paid in full. Delinquent charges stay with the
property, not with the individual.
   (C)   Notice of delinquent water bills.
      (1)   Past due notices are sent by mail on or about the middle of the
month after an account is more than 30 days past due. The owner of a rental
that is delinquent is notified by mail at that time as well. The notice will
state a disconnection date (normally between one and a half to two weeks’
notice). If payment is not received, a certified letter will be sent with a
final warning of disconnect in two to four days, depending on how the weekend
falls. The cost of the certified letter (between $5 and $6) will be added to
the delinquent account.
      (2)   If no payment or arrangements are made, the service will be
disconnected and will not be reconnected until all delinquent charges and a
reconnection fee, as specified in the fee schedule appendix on file in the Town
Office and in
Ch. 32 of this code, is paid in full. The owner of a rental will have the
opportunity to pay the renter’s delinquent charges before disconnection is made
and avoid the reconnection fee.
   (D)   Council authority to defer payment. The Town Council shall have the
authority to continue providing water service and to defer the payment of
delinquent water bills after notice of delinquency is sent as herein provided
if, in the Council’s judgment, good cause exists for such deferment.
   (E)   Hearing to dispute bill.
      (1)   (a)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service
to customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a
meaningful opportunity to be heard on disputed bills.
         (b)   The town’s form for application for utility service and all
bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address room number and
telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly visible and
easily readable provisions to the effect:
            1.   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill;
            2.   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second
bill will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid
within ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued
for nonpayment; and
            3.   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing, at which time, he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel, or by any other person of his or her choosing, and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge in the sum of $20.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.14 CHARGE ADJUSTMENT FOR MECHANICAL MALFUNCTIONS.
   If there was extraordinary water consumption on any premises by reason of
broken pipes, faulty toilet seals or other similar cause and the excessive
water use was unknown to the consumer and was promptly corrected upon
discovery, the Town Council may adjust the water bill for said billing period
if the property owner asks for such leniency.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   As set out in §
51.07 of this code, no one other than town personnel are to attempt to turn
water off or on at the curb stop. A fine of $500 may be implemented against an
offender.
   (C)   As set out in §
51.08 of this code, if water is turned on at the curb cock by another person, a
penalty of $500 shall be assessed against the property, and in addition
thereto, the unauthorized person so turning on the water shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   (D)   As set out in §
51.11 of this code, anyone caught opening or tampering with a fire hydrant
without permission will be fined $500.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Definitions
   
52.002   Public sewer use required
   
52.003   Sewer rate schedule
   
52.004   Power and authority of inspectors
   
52.005   Hearing Board; arbitration
   
52.006   Tampering with wastewater facilities
   
52.007   Violations; notice and liability for costs
Sanitary Sewers, Building Sewers and Connections
   
52.020   Public sewer connection or repair; permit required
   
52.021   Building sewer permits; application and fees
   
52.022   Owner responsibility
   
52.023   Separate connection for each building; exception
   
52.024   Old building sewers
   
52.025   Conformance with building and plumbing codes
   
52.026   Building drains
   
52.027   Roof runoff, groundwater drainage to public sewer prohibited
   
52.028   Building sewer connection to public sewer; compliance standards
   
52.029   Inspection before connection to public sewer
   
52.030   Excavation requirements
Public Sewer Use Restrictions and Requirements
   
52.045   Unpolluted water discharge
   
52.046   Storm sewers
   
52.047   Prohibited waters and wastes
   
52.048   Limitations on certain discharges
   
52.049   Injurious discharges; authority of Public Works Director
   
52.050   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
52.051   Commercial garbage; requirements and restrictions
   
52.052   Pretreatment or flow equalization facilities
   
52.053   Structures for waste observation, sampling and measurement
   
52.054   Required information from user
   
52.055   Test and analyses determinations
   
52.056   Special agreements
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
52.070   Connection to private system
   
52.071   Permit requirements
   
52.072   Inspection of installation
   
52.073   Compliance with regulations and requirements
   
52.074   Discontinuing use of septic tanks
   
52.075   Operation in sanitary manner required
   
52.076   Discharge into sanitary sewer or sewer lagoon prohibited
 
   
52.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Sewer system rates and fees, see
Ch. 32
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall. (See SERVICE
CONNECTION or SERVICE TAP and SERVICE PIPE or SERVICE LINE.)
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called HOUSE CONNECTION. (See SERVICE CONNECTION
or SERVICE TAP and SERVICE PIPE or SERVICE LINE.)
   COLLECTION MAIN or MAIN. A sewer pipe owned, operated and maintained by the
town which is used for the collection of sewage and to which service
connections are made.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMMERCIAL SERVICE. Any sewer usage other than solely for residential
purposes.
      (1)   Where a single structure has combined business and residential
usage, the sewer service shall be considered COMMERCIAL SERVICE.
      (2)   Schools, hospitals, clinics, nursing homes, churches, trailer
parks, apartments, condominiums and rooming houses having two or more rooms on
a rental basis are examples of COMMERCIAL SERVICES.
   DEVELOPER. Any individual, firm, corporation or other entity who causes
improvements to be made upon land, with said improvement requiring sewer
service.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of food.
   HEARING BOARD. That board appointed according to the provisions of §
52.005 of this code.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade or
business as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive. (See SHALL.)
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer flows,
into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface water or
groundwater.
   PERMITTEE. Any user which obtains a written permit to cause construction
work to be performed in accordance with the permit.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogen ion
concentration of 10-7.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION. The Public Service Commission of this state.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. The Town Public Works Director or his or her
authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   RESIDENTIAL SERVICE. Sewer usage solely for residential purposes.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
   SERVICE CONNECTION or SERVICE TAP. The connection at the collection main
which connects the customer’s service pipe to the main. (See BUILDING DRAIN and
BUILDING SEWER.)
   SERVICE PIPE or SERVICE LINE. The piping from the service connection at the
main to the customer’s premises. (See BUILDING DRAIN and BUILDING SEWER.)
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is “wastewater.”
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory. (See MAY.)
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which, in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A drain or sewer for conveying water,
groundwater, subsurface water or unpolluted water from any source.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater or other liquids and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   TOWN ADMINISTRATOR. The Mayor of the town or any person authorized by him or
her to act as Administrator of the Sanitary Sewer Department.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The duly elected governing body of the town, including the
Mayor.
   TOWN SEWER. The system operated by the town for the collection, transmission
and treatment of sewage.
   TOWN STANDARDS. Those standards adopted by the Town Council which pertain to
the design, materials and construction practices for sanitary sewers.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewer and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USER, CUSTOMER or CONSUMER. An individual, partnership, association, firm,
public or private corporation or government agency receiving sewer service. In
the case of a tenant, the property owner is considered the CUSTOMER or
CONSUMER.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with “waste treatment plant” or “wastewater treatment plant” or “water
pollution control plant.”
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water,
either continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.002 PUBLIC SEWER USE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Objectionable deposits prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person
to place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public
or private property within the town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the town, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   Discharge of sewage or polluted waters prohibited. It shall be
unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the town, or in any area
under the jurisdiction of the town, any sewage or other polluted waters, except
where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Privies and septic tanks. Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be
unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool
or other facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   (D)   Connection to public sewer required. The owners of all houses,
buildings or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or
other purposes situated within the town and abutting on any street, alley or
right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in the future be located, a
public sanitary or combined sewer of the town is hereby required, at the
owner’s expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect
such facilities directly with the proper public sewer, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within 30 days after the date of official notice to
do so; provided, that said public sewer is within 500 feet of the property
line.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.003 SEWER RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The sewer rate schedule shall be as provided in the fee schedule
appendix on file in the Town Office and in
Ch. 32 of this code. The rate schedule may be amended from time to time by
resolution of the Town Council in accordance with this code and the laws of the
state. Any such resolution modifying the rate schedule shall also provide for
amendment of these regulations to reflect the new rate schedule.
   (B)   (1)   A town water/sewer user who requests the permanent
discontinuance of his or her water/sewer service shall pay the shutoff fee as
established by the Town Council. Water/sewer service shall then be shut off at
the curb box and/or the meter removed.
      (2)   Any such water/sewer user shall continue to pay the inactive user
rate until that property’s portion of any bonded indebtedness relating to the
town water system has been fully paid. The water/sewer user shall have the
option of paying in full the outstanding balance of the bond indebtedness at
the time of permanent discontinuance of service.
   (C)   Any properties that fall under the inactive user definition at the
date of this chapter’s adoption will be responsible for the inactive user rate
outlined in the fee schedule. If an inactive user wishes to remove the town
curb stop and supply line from his or her property, the water/sewer user shall
continue to pay the inactive user rate until that property’s portion of any
bonded indebtedness relating to the town water and sewer systems has been fully
paid. The water/sewer user shall have the option of paying in full the
outstanding balance of the bond indebtedness at the time of permanent
discontinuance of service.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.004 POWER AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   Right of entry. The Public Works Director and other duly authorized
employees of the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing pertinent to discharge to the community
system in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Authority limited. The Public Works Director or other duly authorized
employees are authorized to obtain information concerning industrial processes
which have a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the
wastewater collection system. The industry may withhold information considered
confidential. The industry shall establish that the revelation to the public of
the information in question might result in an advantage to competitors.
   (C)   Town easement. The Public Works Director and other duly authorized
employees of the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the town holds a duly
negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the wastewater facilities lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent
work, if any, on said easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms
of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.005 HEARING BOARD; ARBITRATION.
   (A)   Council to act as Board. The Town Council shall act as a hearing board
for arbitration of differences between the Public Works Director and sewer
users on matters concerning interpretation and execution of the provisions of
this chapter by the Public Works Director.
   (B)   Cost of arbitration. The cost of the arbitration will be divided
equally between the town and the sewer user.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.006 TAMPERING WITH WASTEWATER FACILITIES.
   No person shall willfully break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper
with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is part of the wastewater
facilities.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.007 VIOLATIONS; NOTICE AND LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Notice. Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter
shall be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Cost liability. Any person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned the town by reason of such violation, including attorney fees
reasonably incurred by the town in recovering such damages.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
SANITARY SEWERS, BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 52.020 PUBLIC SEWER CONNECTION OR REPAIR; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening
into or use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Public Works Director.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.021 BUILDING SEWER PERMITS; APPLICATION AND FEES.
   (A)   Classes. There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   For residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (B)   Application; supplementary documents. In either case, the owner or his
or her agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the town.
The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or
other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Public Works
Director.
   (C)   Permit, inspection and tapping fees.
      (1)   A permit and inspection fee for a residential or commercial
building sewer permit and for an industrial building sewer permit shall be paid
to the town at the time the application is filed in an amount specified by the
Town Council from time to time.
      (2)   In addition to the permit and inspection fee, a tapping fee in an
amount specified by the Town Council from time to time shall be paid to the
town at the time the application is filed where the property requiring sewer
service has not been previously connected with the town sewer.
   (D)   Service line installation or repairs; permit requirements. Any and all
installation, repair, replacement or alteration of service lines from the main
to the consumer’s premises shall require a permit issued by the town. The
permit shall set forth the reason for work and a description of the work to be
performed. The holder of the town permit shall be primarily responsible for
compliance with town standards, the State Plumbing Code, these rules and
regulations or any other applicable rules and regulations.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.022 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the town
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.023 SEPARATE CONNECTION FOR EACH BUILDING; EXCEPTION.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except, where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available, nor can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer, but the town does not and will not
assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from
any such single connection aforementioned.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.024 OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Public Works Director, to meet
all requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.025 CONFORMANCE WITH BUILDING AND PLUMBING CODES.
   The size, slope, alignment and materials of construction of all sanitary
sewers, including building sewers, and methods to be used in excavating,
placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the trench shall all
conform to the requirements of the state building and plumbing codes, or other
applicable rules and regulations, of the town and the state.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.026 BUILDING DRAINS.
   (A)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor.
   (B)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building
drain shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building
sewer.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.027 ROOF RUNOFF, GROUNDWATER DRAINAGE TO PUBLIC SEWER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make connections of roof downspouts, foundation drains,
areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building
sewer or building drain which in turn is connected, directly or indirectly, to
a public sanitary sewer unless such connection is approved by the Town Council
and the State Department of Public Health and Human Services for the purpose of
disposal of polluted surface drainage.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.028 BUILDING SEWER CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER; COMPLIANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the state building and plumbing codes, or other
applicable rules and regulations, of the town and the state or the procedures
set forth in appropriate specifications of MPWSS (Montana Public Works Standard
Specifications).
   (B)   All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight and
verified by proper testing.
   (C)   Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials shall be
approved by the Public Works Director before installation.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.029 INSPECTION BEFORE CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Public Works
Director when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of
the Public Works Director or his or her representative.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.030 EXCAVATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
   (B)   Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
   (C)   The customer, at the customer’s expense, is responsible for the
excavation from the point of intended use to the main and for restoration of
the surface to acceptable condition, all of which shall be done in strict
compliance with any ordinance, resolution or regulation of the town governing
excavations in streets and alleys.
   (D)   All excavations in the town streets, alleys or other property require
a permit issued by the Public Works Director for a fee in an amount established
by the Town Council from time to time.
   (E)   The customer, at the customer’s expense, shall maintain all service
piping and appurtenances in good condition, operable and free from leaks.
Failure to do so may be cause for discontinuance of service. It is the
customer’s responsibility to repair any leaks in the service lines immediately
upon discovery.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
PUBLIC SEWER USE RESTRICTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.045 UNPOLLUTED WATER DISCHARGE.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted waters,
such as stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage or cooling water, to any sewer, except for stormwater runoff from
limited areas, which stormwater may be polluted at times and may be discharged
to the sanitary sewer by permission of the Public Works Director and the State
Department of Public Health and Human Services.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.046 STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   Stormwater, other than that exempted under §
52.045 of this code, and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers
or to a natural outlet approved by the Public Works Director and the State
Department of Health.
   (B)   Unpolluted industrial cooling waters or process waters may be
discharged, on approval of the Public Works Director, to a storm sewer,
combined sewer or natural outlet.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.047 PROHIBITED WATERS AND WASTES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard, including, but
not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of less than 140°F
or 60°C using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21. These wastes
include, but are not limited to, gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil and the
like in solid, liquid or gaseous form;
      (2)   (a)   Toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient
quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to contaminate the
sludge of any municipal system, to injure or interfere with any sewage
treatment process or equipment, to constitute a hazard to humans or animals, to
create a public nuisance or to result in the pass-through of inadequately
treated wastes to receiving waters; and
         (b)   Each user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an
increase in the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge of the sanitary
sewer treatment works shall pay for such increased costs.
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities, such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (B)   No person shall discharge to a public sewer or storm drainage system
wastes which cause, threaten to cause or are capable of causing, either alone
or by interaction with other substances:
      (1)   A fire or explosion;
      (2)   Obstruction of flow in the sewer system or injury of the system, or
damage to the wastewater collection, treatment or disposal facilities;
      (3)   Danger to the life or safety of personnel;
      (4)   A nuisance, or prevention of the effective maintenance or operation
of the sewer system, through having a strong or unpleasant odor;
      (5)   Air pollution by the release of toxic or malodorous gases or
malodorous gas- producing substances;
      (6)   Interference with the wastewater treatment process;
      (7)   The town effluent or any other product of the treatment process,
residues, sludges or scums to be unsuitable for reclamation and reuse or to
interfere with the reclamation process;
      (8)   A detrimental environmental impact or nuisance in the waters of the
state or a condition unacceptable to any public agency having regulatory
jurisdiction over the agency;
      (9)   Discoloration or any other condition in the quality of the town
treatment works effluent in such a manner that receiving water quality
requirements established by law cannot be met;
      (10)   Conditions at or near the town treatment works which violate any
statute or any rule, regulation or ordinance of any public agency or state or
federal regulatory body; and
      (11)   Quantities or rates of flow which overload the town collection or
treatment facilities or cause excessive town collection or treatment costs, or
may use a disproportionate share of the town facilities.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.048 LIMITATIONS ON CERTAIN DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The following described substances, materials, waters and wastes shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either the sewers, the sludge of any municipal system or
the wastewater treatment process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect
on the receiving stream or will not otherwise endanger life, limb or public
property or constitute a nuisance.
   (B)   The Public Works Director may set limitations lower than the
limitations established in the regulations in division (C) below if, in his or
her opinion, such more severe limitations are necessary to meet the objectives
in division (A) above. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability,
the Public Works Director will give consideration to such factors as the
quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, the wastewater treatment process
employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment plant and other pertinent
factors.
   (C)   The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of
wastes or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer, which shall not be
violated without approval of the Public Works Director, are as follows:
      (1)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150°F or 65°C;
      (2)   Wastewater containing petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils
or products of mineral oil origin;
      (3)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fat or
grease;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded as defined in §
52.001 of this code. Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from
homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or
similar places where garbage originates from the preparation of food in
kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the premises or when served by
caterers;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or deleterious substances to
such a degree that any such material received in the composite wastewater at
the wastewater treatment works exceeds the limits established by the Public
Works Director for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing pollutants which result in the
presence of toxic or obnoxious gases, vapors or fumes within the POTW in
quantities which may cause acute worker health and safety concerns or public
nuisance;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Public Works Director in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Quantities of flow or concentrations, or both, which constitute a
“slug” as defined in §
52.001 of this code;
      (9)   Waters and wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or which
are amenable to treatment only to such a degree that the wastewater treatment
plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over the receiving waters;
      (10)   Any waters or wastes which, by interaction with other waters or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes;
      (11)   Pollutants which cause corrosive structural damage to the POTW,
but in no case discharges with pH lower than 5.0 unless the POTW is
specifically designed to accommodate such discharges; and
      (12)   Any trucked or hauled wastes unless the POTW is designed to
adequately treat the wastes and the facility has points designated for such
discharges.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.049 INJURIOUS DISCHARGES; AUTHORITY OF PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in §
52.048 of this code and which, in the judgment of the Public Works Director,
may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater facilities, processes,
equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the Public Works Director may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges.
   (B)   If the Public Works Director permits the pretreatment or equalization
of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall
be subject to the review and approval of the Public Works Director and the
State Department of Public Health and Human Services.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.050 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be required when, in the
opinion of the Public Works Director, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts or
any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units.
   (B)   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Public Works Director and the State Plumbing Code and shall be located so as to
be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the
maintaining of these interceptors, the owner shall be responsible for the
proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captivated material and
shall maintain records of the dates and means of disposal, which are subject to
review by the Public Works Director. Any removal and hauling of the collected
materials not performed by the owner or personnel shall be performed by
currently licensed waste disposal firms.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.051 COMMERCIAL GARBAGE; REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The following provisions shall apply to commercial garbage.
   (A)   A wastewater discharge permit shall be obtained for the disposal of
waste from garbage grinders or garbage disintegrating machines, except for
those installed in dwellings.
   (B)   Waste from garbage grinders shall not be discharged into a sanitary
sewer, except where the user has obtained a permit for that specific use from
the town and agrees to undertake whatever self- monitoring is required to
enable the town to equitably determine the user charges based on the waste
constituents and characteristics. Such grinders shall shred the waste to a
degree that all particles will be carried freely under normal flow conditions
prevailing in the public sewer. Garbage grinders shall not be used for grinding
plastic, paper products, inert materials, garden refuse, human, animal or fowl
constituents and metals. Excessive or unnecessarily large quantities of water
shall not be used to flush ground garbage into the sanitary sewer.
   (C)   The following provisions shall supplement the state building and
plumbing codes, or other applicable rules and regulations, of the town and the
state.
      (1)   Any type of business or establishment, such as, but not limited to,
restaurants, bakeries, donut shops, takeout or drive-in eating establishments,
ice cream or milk drive-in stations, hospitals, hotels, markets, recreation or
reception halls and the like, where any grease or other objectionable materials
may be discharged into a public or private sewage main or disposal system shall
have a grease interceptor.
      (2)   Interceptors shall be constructed in accordance with the prior
approved design by the Public Works Director.
      (3)   Each grease interceptor shall be so installed and connected that it
shall be at all times easily accessible for inspection, cleaning and removal of
the intercepted grease. A grease interceptor may not be installed in any part
of a building where food is handled. The proper location of the grease
interceptor shall meet the State Plumbing Code and the approval of the Public
Works Director.
      (4)   Each business establishment for which a grease interceptor is
required shall have an interceptor which shall serve only that business
establishment.
      (5)   Buildings remodeled for a use requiring interceptors shall be
subject to these regulations.
      (6)   Waste discharge from fixtures and equipment in the above mentioned
types of establishments which may contain grease or other objectionable
materials, including, but not limited to, scullery sinks, pot and pan sinks,
dishwashers, food waste disposals, soup kettles and the like, and floor drains
located in areas where such objectionable materials may exist, may be drained
into the sanitary waste through the interceptor when approved by the Public
Works Director. Exception: toilets, urinals and other fixtures containing fecal
material may not flow through the interceptor.
      (7)   The interceptors shall be maintained in efficient operating
condition by periodic removal of the accumulated grease. No such collected
grease shall be introduced into any drainage piping or public or private sewer.
      (8)   Abandoned grease interceptors shall be emptied and filled as
required for abandoned septic tanks in the State Plumbing Code.
      (9)   The cover for grease interceptors shall be one-half inch thick
steel plate that is reinforced as required by the Public Works Director, said
reinforcing to depend upon the load to be imposed on the plate. Except as
otherwise provided, the cover shall be gastight on all interceptors, and the
waste shall enter the interceptor through the inlet pipe only.
      (10)   Interceptors shall be installed in such a manner that drainage
from areas outside the area intended to be served may not enter.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.052 PRETREATMENT OR FLOW EQUALIZATION FACILITIES.
   Where pretreatment or flow equalization facilities are provided or required
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.053 STRUCTURES FOR WASTE OBSERVATION, SAMPLING AND MEASUREMENT.
   When required by the Public Works Director, the owner of the property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable structure, together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances
in the building sewer, to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of
the wastes. Such structures, when required, shall be accessibly and safely
located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Public Works Director. The structure shall be installed by the owner at his or
her expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.054 REQUIRED INFORMATION FROM USER.
   (A)   The Public Works Director may require a user of sewer services to
provide information needed to determine compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   These requirements may include:
      (1)   Wastewater discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
      (2)   Chemical analyses of wastewater;
      (3)   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
      (4)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquids, sludges, oils,
solvents or other materials important to sewer use control;
      (5)   A plot plan of sewers of the user’s property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility locations;
      (6)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and
      (7)   Details of systems to prevent and control the loss of materials
through spills to the municipal sewer.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.055 TEST AND ANALYSES DETERMINATIONS.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, locations, times, durations and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Public Works
Director.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.056 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the town and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the town for treatment.
(Ord. passed - -)
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 52.070 CONNECTION TO PRIVATE SYSTEM.
   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
52.002 of this code, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
wastewater disposal system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.071 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application; supplementary documents. Before commencement of
construction of a private wastewater disposal system, the owner shall first
obtain a written permit signed by the Public Works Director and the Mayor. The
application for such a permit shall be made on a form furnished by the town,
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as are deemed necessary by the Public Works Director.
   (B)   Permit and inspection fee. A permit and inspection fee shall be paid
to the town at the time the application is filed in an amount specified by the
Town Council from time to time.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.072 INSPECTION OF INSTALLATION.
   (A)   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Public
Works Director and Mayor.
   (B)   The Public Works Director shall be allowed to inspect the work at any
stage of construction, and in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the Public Works Director when the work is ready for final inspection
and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within 48 hours of the receipt of notice by the Public Works Director, holidays
or weekends excepted.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.073 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Department
of Public Health and Human Services.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued for any private wastewater disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than 3,500 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.074 DISCONTINUING USE OF SEPTIC TANKS.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private wastewater disposal system, as provided in §
52.002 of this code, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
within 60 days in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools
and similar private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge
and filled with suitable material.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.075 OPERATION IN SANITARY MANNER REQUIRED.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.076 DISCHARGE INTO SANITARY SEWER OR SEWER LAGOON PROHIBITED.
   Discharge into the sanitary sewer or sewer lagoon is not allowed.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in §
52.007(A) of this code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Ord. passed - -)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC AND PARKING
Section
   
70.01   Parking
§ 70.01 PARKING.
   (A)   Manner of parking. All parking shall be parallel on all streets and
U.S. Highway 87 within the town limits, with the exception of Johannes Avenue
from U.S. Highway 87 East to the town limits, where parking shall be
diagonally, and as provided by signs posted with the authority of the Town
Council, granted from time to time, which parking shall be angle.
   (B)   Parking requirements.
      (1)   Angle parking. All vehicles which stand at an angle shall be at 45
degrees to the curb with the right front wheel within one foot of the curb.
      (2)   Parallel parking. All parallel parking shall be with the respective
flow of traffic and the front and rear wheels within one foot of the curb.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.120) (Ord. 88-37, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Vaccination required
   
90.03   License required; fee
   
90.04   License and tag issuance; tag requirements
   
90.05   Running at large
   
90.06   Dogs prohibited in parks
   
90.07   Nuisance animals
   
90.08   Dangerous animals
   
90.09   Vicious animals; enclosure or muzzlement required
   
90.10   Rabies; quarantine and testing
   
90.11   Impoundment; redemption and disposition
   
90.12   Adoption
   
90.13   Unlawful interference with authorities
   
90.14   Inhumane treatment of animals
   
90.15   Allowing escape of animals
   
90.16   Harassing animals
   
90.17   Certain animals prohibited or limited by number
   
90.18   Grandfather clause
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animal-related rates and fees, see
Ch. 32
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT. Any animal six months of age and older.
   ANIMAL. Dogs, cats, goats, cattle, swine, sheep, horses, mules, domestic
fowl/poultry and other birds, rodents, game animals, fur-bearing animals and
wild animals.
(MCA § 81-2-702(1))
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises provided for impounding and caring for dogs and
other animals pursuant to state laws and town ordinances. Dedman Foundation
will be used by the town.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the immediate,
continuous and effective control of the owner or some other competent person.
   CURRENT VACCINATION. The inoculation of a dog or cat with an anti-rabies
vaccine having an effective immunity of one or two years. Animals vaccinated
initially will receive a booster shot one year after the initial vaccination
and thereafter on a biannual basis unless the vaccine used requires re-
vaccination sooner.
   HUMANE DISPOSITION or HUMANE EUTHANASIA. The humane destruction of any
animal by a person who has been certified as properly trained in methods of
euthanasia for each species to be destroyed and is accomplished by a method
that is consistent with the American Veterinary Medical Association’s
recommendations in producing instantaneous unconsciousness and immediate death
without undue pain or distress, or a method that utilizes an anesthesia
produced by an agent which causes painless loss of consciousness and death
following such loss of consciousness.
   ISOLATION. An area which allows an animal to be separated from other healthy
animals. ISOLATION ROOMS do not allow contact between the confined animal and
other animals or the public.
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, mules, asses, sheep, llamas, alpacas, bison, swine,
ostriches, rheas, emus and goats.
   OPEN AREA. A land area free of buildings with enclosed walls and/or roof,
including, but not limited to, homes, garages, bams and sheds. Acceptable
buildings or structures on the OPEN AREA may include, but are not limited to,
enclosures such as pens, corrals, fences or a wind/sun barrier, as approved by
the Council.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping or harboring a dog or other animal who is
presumed to be the adult head of the household owning, keeping or harboring
such an animal.
   PET ANIMAL. Any animal of a domesticated species sold or kept for the
purpose of being a household pet. PET ANIMALS include, but are not limited to,
dogs, cats, birds, rabbits, ferrets, hamsters, guinea pigs, gerbils, white rats
and fish.
   RESTRAINT. Controlled by a leash not longer than six feet, at heel beside a
competent person and obedient of the owner, or within the property limits of
premises controlled by the owner or other persons consenting thereto.
   VACCINATION. The inoculation of a dog or cat with anti-rabies vaccine by a
licensed veterinarian.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed - -)
§ 90.02 VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or harbor any animal over
six months of age unless such animal has a current anti-rabies vaccination as
defined in §
90.01 of this code.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to keep, harbor or maintain in the town
any dog over six months of age unless such dog is duly registered and licensed
as herein provided.
   (B)   Licenses shall be issued by the Town Clerk-Treasurer or by duly
appointed license agents upon proof that the dog has been vaccinated against
rabies within two years of the date when such license expires and upon payment
of an annual license fee, which will be determined by resolution by the Council
and periodically reviewed.
   (C)   For spayed or neutered dogs, or who have been treated with proper
hormone shots rendering them of the same effect as a spayed female, will be
charged half of the annual license fee. Such license shall expire on January 1
following its issuance.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 LICENSE AND TAG ISSUANCE; TAG REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a proper application, proof of vaccination and the
license fee, the Clerk- Treasurer or license agent shall issue to the applicant
a license certificate and metallic tag. The tag shall be stamped thereon the
year for which it was issued and the number corresponding with the number of
the certificate. Each owner is required to provide each dog with a substantial
collar, to which the license tag shall be affixed at all times. Any dog found
off the owner’s premises without a license tag shall be deemed to be not
licensed even though a license has been issued for such dog.
   (B)   In the event that a dog tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate shall be
issued by the Clerk- Treasurer upon presentation of an affidavit to that
effect, a receipt of duplicate.
   (C)   License tags are not transferable from one dog to another, and it is
unlawful for any person to cause or permit a license tag to be placed upon a
dog for which it was not issued. Any dog found with a license tag issued for
another dog shall be deemed to be not licensed. No refunds shall be made on any
dog license fee because of the death of a dog or the owner leaving the town
before the expiration of the license period.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person who owns, harbors, maintains or keeps a
dog or other animal, or the parents or guardians of such person under 18 years
of age, to allow such animal to run at large.
   (B)   Any person may take up any dog running at large and take same to the
animal shelter. No compensation or reward will be paid, directly or indirectly,
for such taking and delivery.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DOGS PROHIBITED IN PARKS.
   The presence of dogs in town parks is prohibited. The owner of any dog that
is found in a town park is deemed in violation of this section and may be
punished as provided in §
90.99 of this code.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 NUISANCE ANIMALS.
   (A)   It is declared a public nuisance for any dog or other animal to
destroy, damage or injure property or other pets, to bite or chase after
persons not trespassing on the property, to injure or attempt to injure the
person, family or property of the owner, to chase vehicles in public streets or
ways or, by prolonged howling, yelping, barking or by any other means declared
to be a public nuisance, for a dog to come onto property not that of the dog’s
owner. Any such nuisance animal may be taken up and impounded by the town
authorities.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to own, harbor, keep or maintain any
such nuisance animal. Any person aggrieved by a nuisance animal, the Town
Attorney or town authorities may file a complaint in the police court charging
the owner with a violation of this section. Upon a third conviction under this
section, the nuisance animal shall be seized and taken up by the town
authorities and put to death forthwith.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   (1)   It is unlawful to own, keep, harbor or maintain a dangerous
animal exhibiting vicious behavior.
      (2)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         VICIOUS BEHAVIOR. Any animal, except a dog assisting a police officer
engaged in law enforcement duties, is presumed vicious if the animal
demonstrates any or all of the following behaviors:
            1.   An attack, without provocation, which requires a defensive
action by any person to prevent bodily injury and/or property damage in a place
where such person is conducting themselves peaceably and lawfully;
            2.   An attack, without provocation, that results in injury to a
person in a place where such person is conducting themselves peaceably and
lawfully; or
            3.   Harassing, chasing or an attack on other pets or on livestock
not trespassing onto the property of, or injuring or attempting to injure the
person, family or property of, the owner.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, a person is peaceably and lawfully
upon the private property of a dog owner when in the performance of any duty
imposed by the laws of this state or any city or county, or by the laws or
postal regulations, of the United States, or when on such property upon
invitation, express or implied.
   (C)   Any such dangerous animal may be taken up and impounded by a law
enforcement officer. The animal may be redeemed by the owner after compliance
with all licensing and vaccination requirements if the animal is not being held
for a court hearing.
   (D)   Upon a second or subsequent conviction under this chapter or in a
single instance where the facts indicate that such action is necessary for the
safety of the citizens of this town or their property, the dangerous animal
shall be seized by a law enforcement officer. A court hearing will determine if
the animal is to be euthanized or permanently removed from the town.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 VICIOUS ANIMALS; ENCLOSURE OR MUZZLEMENT REQUIRED.
   The owner shall confine within a building or secure enclosure every fierce,
dangerous or vicious dog or other animal and shall not take such dog or other
animal out of such building or enclosure unless it is securely muzzled. A chain
shall not be considered an enclosure.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 RABIES; QUARANTINE AND TESTING.
   (A)   Any pet which bites or otherwise exposes a person or animal to
possible rabies shall:
      (1)   If not currently vaccinated, be quarantined at a veterinary
hospital at the owner’s expense for a period of at least ten days after the day
of exposure. The owner of such animal shall have 48 hours from the time of
exposure to provide proof of current vaccination to law enforcement officials
or release the animal to a veterinarian for quarantine. In the event an owner
will not voluntarily release the animal for quarantine, the law enforcement
officer shall obtain a court order to seize the animal and place it in
quarantine at the veterinary hospital of the authority’s choice at the owner’s
expense. The order, if the owner cannot be found at his or her place of
residence, may be served by leaving it with a person of suitable age and
discretion or by placing it in a prominent place at the front door of such
residence;
      (2)   If the animal is currently vaccinated, the animal may, at the
discretion of the law enforcement officer, be quarantined at the owner’s home.
If at any time the animal is known to run at large during the quarantine
period, the animal shall be impounded by law enforcement officers and shall
remain at a veterinary hospital for the remainder of the quarantine period at
the owner’s expense;
      (3)   If the animal is a stray and no owner is identified within 72
hours, the animal shall be euthanized and tested for rabies; and
      (4)   The aforesaid procedure shall be suspended on order of the
attending veterinarian when an animal exhibits symptoms of rabies.
   (B)   Any hybrid-type animal or any animal other than those included in
division (A) above (dog and cat) which bites or otherwise exposes a person or
animal to rabies shall be quarantined or euthanized and tested for rabies.
      (1)   If the animal is quarantined, the animal shall be placed at a
veterinary hospital at the owner’s expense for a period of at least ten days
after the exposure. In the event an owner will not voluntarily release the
animal for quarantine, the law enforcement officer shall obtain a court order
to seize the animal and place it in quarantine at the veterinary hospital of
the authority’s choice at the owner’s expense.
      (2)   If the animal is a stray and no owner is identified within 72
hours, the animal shall be euthanized and tested for rabies.
      (3)   The aforesaid procedure shall be suspended on order of the
attending veterinarian when the animal exhibits symptoms of rabies.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed - -)
§ 90.11 IMPOUNDMENT; REDEMPTION AND DISPOSITION.
   (A)   The owner of any pet which has been impounded, upon providing proof of
ownership, may redeem the pet from the shelter with the following provisions:
      (1)   Proof of current rabies vaccination (dog only);
      (2)   Payment of any impound fee established by the animal shelter for
each day, or part thereof, that the animal has been held in the shelter; and
      (3)   Payment of any veterinary fees incurred.
   (B)   If any dog or other animal is impounded, the owner shall redeem within
72 hours or it shall be subject to disposal as provided for in this chapter. If
such impounded animal has a license or identification tag, at least one attempt
will be made to contact the owner by phone call and by one written notice. A
law enforcement officer may issue a ticket to the person redeeming an impounded
animal for violation of any provision in this chapter and file a complaint in
court.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 ADOPTION.
   If an animal is not redeemed by the owner within the prescribed time limit,
the owner forfeits all right, title and interest therein, and the animal
shelter may offer the same for adoption to the public.
   (A)   A person may adopt a pet once the adoption application has been
approved and upon payment of a nonrefundable adoption fee, as established by
the animal shelter, and any necessary licensing and/or neutering fees.
   (B)   A certificate of sale shall be issued to each purchaser of an animal
which confers title and ownership to that animal free of all claims and
interest of the previous owner.
   (C)   If an animal is not redeemed or adopted, it will be euthanized in a
humane manner.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed - -)
§ 90.13 UNLAWFUL INTERFERENCE WITH AUTHORITIES.
   It is unlawful for any person to hinder, detain or interfere with the town
authorities in the performance of any duty or power imposed on them by this
chapter or to release or attempt to release any animal in the custody of the
town authorities, except as herein provided.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 INHUMANE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully and cruelly inflict pain upon or
injure any animal. It is unlawful for any person to lay out or expose any
poison for the purpose of killing any dog or other animal or to aid or abet any
person in doing so.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.15 ALLOWING ESCAPE OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to open gates or doors or to otherwise
cause or permit dogs or other animals to escape confinement against the wishes
of the owner.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to take or drive any animal out of any
enclosure, stable or other building with the intent that such animal will be
impounded.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 HARASSING ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any person to provoke, harangue, tease, torment or in any
way disturb a dog, or animal, with the intent to cause it to bark or attack any
person.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED OR LIMITED BY NUMBER.
   (A)   Swine. No person shall keep swine within the town of limits.
   (B)   Cats and dogs. No person shall keep upon his or her premises more than
two adult felines or two adult canines.
   (C)   Rabbits. Rabbits are allowed only by permit. The rabbits shall be
confined to a pen, cage or yard fenced with appropriate material to contain
them at all times.
   (D)   Small animals and fowl. It shall be lawful for any person to keep or
maintain a combined total of six chickens, ducks or other similar-sized fowl on
any property in the town limits less than 1.75 acres of open area, but they
shall be confined to a pen, cage or yard fenced with appropriate material to
contain them at all times.
   (E)   Livestock.
      (1)   It shall be lawful for any person to keep or maintain cattle,
sheep, horses, llamas, alpacas, bison, ostriches, rheas, emus, goats, turkey,
chickens, geese or other fowl on any property in the town limits that is 1.75
acres of open area or larger.
      (2)   The number of livestock allowed shall be limited as follows:
         (a)   One cattle, horse, bison, ostrich, rhea, emu, sheep, goat, llama
or alpaca permitted for each 1.75 acres of open area; and
         (b)   Twelve turkeys, chickens, ducks, geese or other similar-sized
fowl permitted, but they shall be confined to a pen, cage or yard fenced with
appropriate material to contain them at all times.
   (F)   Breeding for profit. All breeding kennels must be approved by the
Council.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 GRANDFATHER CLAUSE.
   (A)   Prohibited animals grandfathered. Any prohibited animal within the
town limits at the time the second and final reading of Ord. 2008-01 is passed
shall be allowed to remain upon the property, providing:
      (1)   Under this clause, the specific animal is grandfathered, not the
property or owner; and
      (2)   If the animal has been deemed to be an nuisance, it no longer
qualifies as a grandfathered animal under this section.
   (B)   Documentation.
      (1)   A town elected or appointed official shall personally visit owners
of properties where prohibited animals are known to be kept.
      (2)   Documentation of the existing number of animals will be completed
by a town official and the owner.
      (3)   The town will maintain the record of grandfathered animals.
   (C)   Revocation or suspension. Permits may be revoked/suspended by:
      (1)   A violation of code ordinance or regulation. Grandfathered status
may be revoked or suspended whenever the Town Council determines a violation of
this code, or whenever any ordinance and/or code in any manner detrimental to
the public health, morals or welfare of the community has been violated; or
      (2)   Fraud or misrepresentation. The Council may revoke or suspend any
grandfathered animal for fraud or misrepresentation in its status procurement
or for a violation of any federal or state statute.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found in violation of this chapter commits a civil
violation and shall be subject to a penalty. The penalty will be determined by
resolution by the Council and periodically reviewed. For a list of penalty
fees, refer to
Ch. 32 of this code. Below is a list of the specific violations:
      (1)   Section
90.03, non-license of animal.
         (a)   First offense; and
         (b)   Second offense or more (double the first offense).
      (2)   Sections
90.05 and
90.06, running at large.
         (a)   First offense;
         (b)   Second offense within two years (double the first offense); and
         (c)   Third offense within two years (triple the first offense).
      (3)   Section
90.07, disturbing the peace (nuisance animal).
         (a)   First offense;
         (b)   Second offense within two years (double the first offense); and
         (c)   Third offense within two years (triple the first offense).
      (4)   Section
90.08, dog biting a person (dangerous dog).
         (a)   First offense, plus the owner shall assume all the cost of
expenses incurred in §
90.08 of this code; and
         (b)   Second offense (court hearing).
      (5)   Section
90.13, interfering with a law enforcement officer.
         (a)   First offense; and
         (b)   Second offense or more (double the first offense).
      (6)   Section
90.14, inhumane treatment of an animal.
         (a)   First offense; and
         (b)   Second offense or more (double the first offense).
      (7)   Section
90.16, harassing an animal.
         (a)   First offense; and
         (b)   Second offense or more (double the first offense).
(Ord. 2008-01, passed - -)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
Abatement Generally
   
91.01   Abatement of nuisances
   
91.02   Assessment of cleanup costs against absent owners
   
91.03   Failure to abate within 24 hours
Nuisances Generally
   
91.15   Obstructing or selling on streets; exceptions
   
91.16   Offensive cellars, drains or sewers
   
91.17   Offensive liquid discharges
   
91.18   Offensive pens, stables or enclosures
   
91.19   Slaughter of animals
   
91.20   Inedible animal parts storage
   
91.21   Accumulation or burning of garbage, manure or offal
   
91.22   Accumulation of trash
   
91.23   Runoff of cesspools, drains or sinks
   
91.24   Overflow of water onto streets and sidewalks
   
91.25   Dogs within business buildings
Noxious and Nuisance Weeds
   
91.40   Definitions
   
91.41   Cutting or removing required
   
91.42   Notice procedures
   
91.43   Abatement by town
   
91.44   Appeals
   
91.45   Assessment and collection of costs
   
91.46   Variances
   
91.47   Disposition of funds
Community Decay Nuisances
   
91.60   Definitions
   
91.61   Nuisance declared
   
91.62   Duty to enforce
   
91.63   Community decay standards; exceptions
   
91.64   Junk vehicle nuisances; exceptions
   
91.65   Shielding requirements
   
91.66   Reporting and complaints
   
91.67   Notice requirements
   
91.68   Notice procedures
   
91.69   Appeals
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Noxious and nuisance weed fees, see
Ch. 32
ABATEMENT GENERALLY
§ 91.01 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   In all cases where no provision is herein made defining what are
nuisances and how the same may be removed, abated or prevented, in addition to
what may be declared such herein, these offenses known to be the common law of
the land, in case the same exist within the town limits or within three miles
thereof, or if such nuisances are detrimental or dangerous to the health of the
town, shall be treated as nuisances and proceeded against as in this chapter
provided.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health, Sanitary Police Officer
or Town Marshal, or any member of the Town Council when so required, to notify
the author of any nuisance in the town or beyond the town limits, or within
three miles thereof, either by a verbal or a written notice to abate such
nuisance; provided, such notice shall be required to be served in order to
maintain a prosecution for a violation of such ordinance.
   (C)   If such nuisance is not abated within 24 hours after the notice
aforesaid, then it shall become the duty of the Sanitary Police Officer or
Board of Health to forthwith file a complaint under oath before the Town Judge
setting forth the facts of the violation of any ordinance concerning nuisances,
and an action shall forthwith be commenced to enforce the prescribed penalty,
and it shall be the duty of the Town Attorney to prosecute the same before the
Town Judge.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.120) (Ord. 27, passed - -1915)
§ 91.02 ASSESSMENT OF CLEANUP COSTS AGAINST ABSENT OWNERS.
   (A)   In case any such nuisance shall be in, about or upon any unoccupied
lot within the town owned by an unknown, nonresident or a person absent from
the town or whom the officers cannot find, the Board of Health, or Sanitary
Police Officer, may cause such nuisance to be removed or abated, which shall be
done at the expense of the owner.
   (B)   If suit for the recovery of costs for abating such nuisance be not
brought against such owner of the property, the Town Council may assess such
costs to the property, and such costs shall, as other taxes, be collected.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.130) (Ord. 27, passed - -1915)
§ 91.03 FAILURE TO ABATE WITHIN 24 HOURS.
   Any person or persons having been found guilty of creating, keeping or
maintaining any nuisance who shall neglect or fail to abate or remove such
nuisance within 24 hours next after his or her conviction shall, for each 24
hours thereafter in which the nuisance is continued, be subject to a like
penalty as originally prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.150) (Ord. 27, passed - -1915) Penalty, see §
91.99
NUISANCES GENERALLY
§ 91.15 OBSTRUCTING OR SELLING ON STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons to make use of any street, avenue
or alley of the town as a standing place for a wagon, truck, trailer,
automobile or other vehicle in such a manner so as to in any way obstruct any
of the streets, avenues or alleys of the town or to sell from any wagon truck,
truck, trailer, automobile or other vehicle, or from any booth, counter or
temporary stand, any goods, wares merchandise, produce or any other article
whatsoever; provided, however, that at the time of any public picnic, fair or
any other community celebration, it shall be lawful for any person to sell
goods, wares and merchandise or to conduct a stand for the sale of refreshments
on the streets of the town upon obtaining from the Town Council special
permission and paying such license as the Town Council shall establish for such
purpose.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.020) (Ord. 70, passed - -1939) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 OFFENSIVE CELLARS, DRAINS OR SEWERS.
   Whoever shall suffer or permit any cellar, vault, privy vault, cesspool,
drain, sewer, yard, grounds or premises belonging to or controlled by him or
her, as agent or tenant, to become nauseous, foul, offensive or injurious to
the public health, or unpleasant and disagreeable to adjacent residents or
persons, shall be deemed guilty of committing a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.030) (Ord. 27, passed - -1915) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 OFFENSIVE LIQUID DISCHARGES.
   Whoever shall cause or permit any nauseous, foul or putrid liquid, or a
substance likely to become nauseous, foul, offensive or putrid, to flow or be
discharged, placed or thrown from or out of any premises into or upon any
adjacent premises or any public street or alley, road or highway shall be
deemed guilty of committing a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.040) (Ord. 27, passed - -1915) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 OFFENSIVE PENS, STABLES OR ENCLOSURES.
   Whoever shall, within the town limits, keep or maintain any pen, enclosure,
stable, building or yard for swine, cattle, horses or any other animal or fowl
in such a filthy condition so as to be offensive to neighbors or passers-by or
injurious to public health, or shall deposit any manure upon any street or
alley without first supplying a box for the reception of such manure of offal,
as described by the Town Marshal or Board of Health, such person shall be
deemed guilty of maintaining a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.050) (Ord. 27, passed - -1915) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 SLAUGHTER OF ANIMALS.
   If any person shall slaughter or kill any cattle or sheep or swine within
the town limits, or within one- half mile of the town, or occupy or use any
building for any purpose aforesaid without written permission from the Town
Council, every such person shall, on conviction, be fined therefor.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.090) (Ord. 27, passed - -1915) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.20 INEDIBLE ANIMAL PARTS STORAGE.
   Any person who collects inedible animal parts shall abide by the following
rules and regulations.
   (A)   Accumulated animal parts stored outside shall be disposed of not less
than every other day.
   (B)   All containers shall have covers/lids to prevent foul odors and/or to
prevent animals from getting into said containers.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-5-2014) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21 ACCUMULATION OR BURNING OF GARBAGE, MANURE OR OFFAL.
   Whoever shall pile or deposit any manure, offal, dirt or garbage or any
accumulation of any nauseous substance, within the town or upon any open space
enclosed within any portion thereof, for a period longer than prescribed by the
Board of Health or who shall contribute to the making of any such accumulation,
except for the purpose of immediate removal, or shall place or throw any straw,
hay or other substance which has been used as bedding for animals upon any
street, alley, sidewalk or roof of any building, or whoever shall deposit or
burn, or cause to be deposited or burned, in any street or alley of the town
which, if open to travel, any straw, hay, paper, wood, boards, boxes, manure or
other substance or material without a special permit from the Street
Commissioner, Town Marshal or Board of Health, shall be guilty of committing a
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.060) (Ord. 27, passed - -1915) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 ACCUMULATION OF TRASH.
   Any person, after the passage of this chapter, within the limits of the town
who shall throw or deposit loose or waste paper, straw, hay, waste clothing,
hats, boots, empty cans, boxes, fruit peelings or rinds or other rubbish in any
of the streets or alleys or upon the sidewalks, or the same to accumulate upon
the premises occupied by him or her, so as to be become dangerous to such or
the adjoining premises, or dangerous to life or limb, or shall place any paper
or rubbish in such a place and manner so as to be liable to be blown upon any
of the streets or alleys or sidewalks, in either case, such person shall be
deemed guilty of committing a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.080) (Ord. 27, passed - -1915) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.23 RUNOFF OF CESSPOOLS, DRAINS OR SINKS.
   Whoever shall draw off, or allow to run off, into any ground, street, lot or
place of the town the contents of any part thereof of any vault, privy,
cesspool, drain, sink or cistern; or shall permit the contents of any part
thereof of any vault, privy, sink or cesspool to flow therefrom or to rise
within two feet of any part of the surface of the ground around, or the
contents to become offensive, or neglect to clean out the contents of such
privy, vault or cesspool at least once a year or oftener, if so ordered by the
Board of Health; or shall cover with dirt any vault, cistern, privy or cesspool
until the filthy contents thereof shall have been removed or emptied, unless
otherwise as ordered by the Board of Health, shall be guilty of maintaining a
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.070) (Ord. 27, passed - -1915) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24 OVERFLOW OF WATER ONTO STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   Any person who shall throw or permit to be thrown, or allow or permit to run
or flow, any water or other liquid substance from or out of any premises owned,
occupied or controlled by him or her, except the lawful sprinkling of lawns or
streets, into or upon sidewalks or pavements of the town shall be deemed guilty
of committing a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.100) (Ord. 27, passed - -1915) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.25 DOGS WITHIN BUSINESS BUILDINGS.
   It is unlawful for any person, persons or corporation conducting any general
merchandise business, grocery store, ice cream or confectionary establishment,
bakery, restaurant, boardinghouse, hotel or butcher shop in the town to have or
allow any dog or dogs to remain or loiter within the building where the
business is being carried on, except for service animals.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.010) (Ord. 7, passed - -1915) Penalty, see §
91.99
NOXIOUS AND NUISANCE WEEDS
§ 91.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NOXIOUS WEED. As defined in MCA § 7-22-2101(9).
   NUISANCE WEED. All weeds, grass, wild vegetation and other unsightly,
troublesome or useless vegetation over 12 inches in height growing within the
boundaries of the town and any other untended vegetation creating a potential
fire hazard, or a visual or physical hazard for vehicles or pedestrians, as
determined by town employees, Council members or the Mayor.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 91.41 CUTTING OR REMOVING REQUIRED.
   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity (herein referred to as
“owner”) of any lot, place or area within the town, or the agent of such owner,
is hereby required to cut or remove or to cause to be cut and removed all
nuisance weeds from said property under his or her control or upon one-half of
any public or private road, street or alley adjacent to such owner’s property.
It shall be the duty of the owner, or the agent of such owner, to maintain the
property so that it shall not be considered a fire hazard or a public or
private nuisance.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 7-10-2018) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42 NOTICE PROCEDURES.
   The owner of any property who fails to comply with this subchapter shall be
provided written notice of the violation and shall remove any noxious weeds or
nuisance weeds and bring the property into compliance with this subchapter.
Failure to remove the noxious weeds or nuisance weeds within ten calendar days
from the time the written notice is sent will result in the town removing the
weeds and charging the owner the costs of removal.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 91.43 ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   (A)   Where a complaint has been made or the town has reason to believe,
after inspection and photographic documentation, that noxious weeds or nuisance
weeds as defined herein are present upon the owner’s land within the town
limits in violation of this subchapter, the town, through its designated
representative, may direct or hire someone to act as set forth above in order
to bring the property into compliance.
   (B)   If the owner of any property continues to allow noxious weeds or
nuisance weeds to grow in violation of this subchapter after the town has
already cut or removed noxious weeds or nuisance weeds from the same property
during the preceding 12 months, the town, at its sole discretion, may remove or
cut the noxious weeds or nuisance weeds again as needed without further notice
to the owner. The owner shall be responsible for the costs for cutting or
removal of the noxious weeds or nuisance weeds as set forth below.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 91.44 APPEALS.
   (A)   If an owner disagrees with a notice of violation, the owner may appeal
the violation notice to the Town Council within seven days of receiving the
notice. The appeal must be in writing and set forth specific reasons why the
violation notice is not appropriate or why the owner is unable to comply with
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   For good cause, or in cases of extreme hardship, the Town Council may
make a determination that the provisions of this subchapter should not apply to
this particular property.
   (C)   The decision of the Council is final, subject only to judicial review.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 91.45 ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION OF COSTS.
   If the town exercises its right under this subchapter, then the town shall
assess the owner, or the agent of such owner, a minimum fee of $150 or the
actual cost. The assessment must specify the amount due and order payment of
the assessment within 30 days from the date the assessment is sent. If the
assessed amount is not paid within 30 days, the town shall proceed in any
lawful manner, including, but not limited to, assessing a lien against the
property, to collect the amount of the assessment.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 91.46 VARIANCES.
   (A)   (1)   If the owner requests a variance, the owner must send a letter
to the Town Council, prior to an order for removal of the noxious weeds or
nuisance weeds, setting forth the reasons for the variance. A variance will
only be allowed after a physical visit to the property with the owner. The
variance may only be allowed if all noxious weeds and nuisance weeds are under
control and no fire hazard exists.
      (2)   If at any time during the growing season the conditions change, the
town retains the right to rescind the variance given to the owner.
   (B)   A variance is only valid for each fiscal year, and only after the
growing season has started, to allow for proper inspection of the property.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 91.47 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All monies received for the costs of cutting or removal of noxious weeds or
nuisance weeds by the Town Maintenance Department shall be deposited into the
General Fund.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 7-10-2018)
COMMUNITY DECAY NUISANCES
§ 91.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMUNITY DECAY. Rubble, debris, junk or refuse that has accumulated,
resulting in conditions that are injurious to health, indecent, offensive to
the senses or obstructive to the free use of property so as to interfere with
the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
   ENCLOSED AREAS. Any area inaccessible or not visible from six feet above the
surface of the center of any public street, road or alley.
   JUNK. Any metal, glass, paper, rags, wood, machinery parts, appliances or
equipment parts, cloth or other waste or discarded material of any nature or
substance whatsoever, or any scrap or salvage materials.
   JUNK VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, including component parts, that is not
lawfully and validly licensed and remains inoperative and incapable of being
driven. This includes motor vehicles with permanent registration that otherwise
meet the criteria.
(MCA § 75-10-501(6))
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, company, association, corporation
or organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the town or any town property, within or
without the corporate limits, which is not a street or highway.
   PUBLIC VIEW. Any area that can be seen from any point six feet above the
surface of any public street, road or alley.
   STREET, ALLEY or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of
every publicly maintained way when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public for the purpose of vehicle travel.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 5-12-2022)
§ 91.61 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity (hereinafter “owner”) shall be
guilty of maintaining a public nuisance if the owner allows their property or
vehicle to violate the standards of §§
91.63 or
91.64 of this code. Any such violation shall be deemed a public offence,
punishable as provided in §
91.99 of this code.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 5-12-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.62 DUTY TO ENFORCE.
   (A)   The Town Mayor and/or designees shall be responsible for enforcing
this subchapter and instituting appropriate action to ensure and correct
violations.
   (B)   Where a complaint has been made or where the town believes a violation
of this subchapter exists, the Town Mayor or designee shall provide:
      (1)   An initial notice of a pending potential violation to the owner of
the real property upon with the violation has occurred and/or, when applicable,
the owner of the junk vehicle. This notice shall list the item(s) which may be
a violation and provide a copy of this subchapter; and
      (2)   Written notice of the violation to the owner of the real property
upon which the violation has occurred and/or, when applicable, the owner of the
junk vehicle.
   (C)   If the owner fails to correct the violation to the satisfaction of the
Town Mayor and/or designee in the time frame provided, then the Town Mayor or
designee shall cause the violation to be remedied as provided in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 5-12-2022)
§ 91.63 COMMUNITY DECAY STANDARDS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter to allow any of the
following conditions to exist within public view on any property in the town:
      (1)   The dumping, piling or stacking of bricks, blocks, waste wood
building materials or similar materials on any property, except when such
materials are being used for construction, not to exceed a 120-day period;
      (2)   The storage or accumulation of cardboard boxes, broken packing
boxes, paper or similar items;
      (3)   The piling, dumping or placement of any dirt or demolition waste,
including wood, bricks, concrete or similar materials, on any property unless
such material is to be utilized for fill. When used as fill, all material shall
be covered with clean earth fill once every ten days;
      (4)   The storage or accumulation of iron, metal, vehicle or machine
parts, junk vehicles, wrecked vehicles, tires, household appliances or other
salvaged materials; or
      (5)   The storage and accumulation of any rubble, debris, junk or refuse.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to vehicles enclosed in a building or
covered by a cover specifically designed for covering vehicles (not more than
two vehicles covered per residential property), or to any vehicle held in
connection with a lawfully operated business enterprise, or to any vehicle
retained for antique collection purposes pursuant to MCA § 61-3-411.
   (C)   This section shall not be construed to prevent people from repairing
their own vehicles on private property, even when exposed to public view,
provided said work is completed within 90 days.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 5-12-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.64 JUNK VEHICLE NUISANCES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Nuisance declared. All junk vehicles, whether on public property or on
private property, in public view are declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   Vehicle maintenance. Tearing down, stripping, junking or storage of
vehicles outside of a building or acceptable shielding within any area of the
corporate town limits is prohibited. However, this section shall not be
construed to prevent people from repairing their own vehicles on private
property, even when exposed to public view, provided said work is completed
within 90 days.
   (C)   Abatement.
      (1)   Procedure.
         (a)   Notice. In addition to the notice required by §
91.62 of this code, if the owner of the vehicle and/or lien holder is not the
same person as the owner of the real property upon which the violation is
occurring, the Town Mayor or designee shall make a reasonable attempt to locate
the owner of the vehicle and/or lien holder. The address currently maintained
by the State Department of Motor Vehicle Registration, or the equivalent agency
in any other state or country, shall be deemed the address upon which notice
shall be made. Any notice is deemed complete by deposit into the United States
Postal Service of a return receipt requested mailing to said address.
         (b)   Consent.
            1.   If the owner of the junk vehicle consents to abatement, such
person shall sign a written consent to abate the vehicle and provide to the
town a copy of the motor vehicle registration for said vehicle, if available,
or a bill of sale. The signing of such consent shall in no way relieve the
owner of paying any outstanding lien(s) and the costs associated with the
towing and disposal of said vehicle and related administrative costs, to be set
by resolution.
            2.   If the junk vehicle is on private property and the owner of
the junk vehicle is not the same as the owner of the real property, the town
shall attempt to acquire written consent of the private property owner as well.
If consent of both parties cannot be obtained, then the town shall pursue legal
remedies through the court having proper jurisdiction and venue to abate
nuisances.
         (c)   Involuntary abatement. If the owner does not consent to said
removal, then the town shall pursue legal remedies through the court having
proper jurisdiction and venue to abate nuisances.
      (2)   Public property.
         (a)   Owner determined. If the junk vehicle is on public property and
is not disposed of within ten days of mailing of the violation notice as
provided herein from the town, then the County Sheriff’s Office is authorized
to remove and dispose of said vehicle. The owner of said vehicle shall be
responsible for all costs and expenses for towing, storage and administrative
costs.
         (b)   Owner not determined. If an owner of a junk vehicle on public
property cannot be determined, then the County Sheriff’s Office is immediately
authorized to remove and dispose of said vehicle.
      (3)   Private property. If the junk vehicle is on private property and is
not shielded or disposed of within 30 days of receipt of notice as provided for
herein, the town shall commence an action to abate said nuisance. The owner of
said vehicle shall be responsible for all costs and expenses for towing,
storage, administrative and court costs.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 5-12-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.65 SHIELDING REQUIREMENTS.
   The open storage, accumulation or presence of items or materials that would
be considered a public nuisance under §§
91.63 or
91.64 of this code shall be lawful if such materials and vehicles are shielded
from public view in accordance with the following standards.
   (A)   All shielding barriers must conform to all local zoning, planning,
building and protective covenant requirements.
   (B)   All shielding barriers shall be of sufficient height and density to
conceal any violation on the premises from public view.
   (C)   Any human-made shielding barriers must be constructed of sound
building materials. The barriers must be maintained by the property owner or
occupant in a neat and professional manner and shall be replaced when
necessary.
   (D)   Shielding with shrubs/trees must provide a similar degree of shielding
at all times of the year.
   (E)   Not more than one type of shielding material shall be used on any one
side of the property.
   (F)   Plastics, tarps or other materials placed over junk vehicles are not
acceptable shielding. Car covers specifically designed to attach tightly to and
cover motor vehicles are acceptable for shielding. Up to two junk vehicles may
be shielded by car covers at a single residential location. Car covers must be
maintained and secured at all times and cannot be ripped, torn or blowing loose
in the wind.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 5-12-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.66 REPORTING AND COMPLAINTS.
   Any citizen is entitled to make a written complaint to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer. Such complaints shall include, whenever possible:
   (A)   The nature of the nuisance and/or community decay;
   (B)   The location of the nuisance, including the address;
   (C)   The name of the owner, occupant or manager of the premises where the
nuisance and/or community decay is located;
   (D)   The duration of the nuisance and/or community decay; and
   (E)   The name and address of the complainant.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 5-12-2022)
§ 91.67 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   The owner will be sent written notice of the violation, which shall provide,
at minimum:
   (A)   The name, address and owner of the real property where the violation
has occurred;
   (B)   The type of violation that has occurred;
   (C)   The deadline for correcting the violation;
   (D)   The result of failing to meet the deadline; and
   (E)   The procedure for appealing the violation.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 5-12-2022)
§ 91.68 NOTICE PROCEDURES.
   Written notice will be served in the following manner.
   (A)   In determining the name and mailing address, any records available to
the town may be used. The Town Mayor or designee shall then serve written
notice as provided herein.
   (B)   If the owner occupies the real property where the violation has
occurred, notice may be made personally or mailed to such owner’s last known
address by first-class United States mail.
   (C)   If the owner does not occupy the real property where the violation has
occurred, notice will be mailed to such owner’s last known address by first-
class United States mail.
   (D)   Any notice is deemed complete by deposit into the United States Postal
Service of a return receipt requested mailing to said address.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 5-12-2022)
§ 91.69 APPEALS.
   (A)   The deadline to correct the violation may be suspended if the owner
presents a plan for addressing the violation to the Town Council. The owner may
contact the Town Clerk-Treasurer and request to be added to the agenda of the
next Town Council meeting.
   (B)   (1)   In the event the owner disagrees with a notice of violation, the
owner may appeal the violation notice to the Town Council within ten days of
the date of the written notice. Such appeal must be in writing and include
specific reasons why the violation notice is not accurate or why the owner is
unable to comply with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   For good cause, or in cases of extreme hardship, the Town Council
may make a determination that the provisions of this subchapter should not
apply to a particular property.
      (3)   The decision of the Town Council is final, subject only to judicial
review.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 5-12-2022)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person or persons who shall violate §
91.15 of this code shall be deemed guilty of committing a nuisance and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not less than $5 and not more
than $100. A continued violation of §
91.15, after reasonable notice from the Town Marshal to remove the same, shall
subject the offender to a separate prosecution for each 24 hours such failure
continues, and under the same penalty provided in this division (B).
(Prior Code, § 8.08.020)
   (C)   A person, on conviction of a nuisance as set out in §
91.16 of this code, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $5 nor more
than $50.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.030)
   (D)   A person, on conviction of a nuisance as set out in §
91.17 of this code, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $5 nor more
than $50.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.040)
   (E)   A person, on conviction of a nuisance as set out in §
91.18 of this code, shall be fined a sum of not less than $5 nor more than $50;
the continuance of the same for every day after being notified by the town
officer to abate the same shall be regarded as a separate offense, to be
punished by a like fine.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.050)
   (F)   As set out in §
91.19 of this code, every person, on conviction, shall be fined therefor not
less than $5 nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.090)
   (G)   In accordance with §
91.20 of this code, the minimum fine for the first offense shall be $50, with a
maximum fine of $250 for subsequent offenses.
   (H)   A person, upon conviction of a nuisance as set out in §
91.21 of this code, shall be fined in a sum of not less than $5 nor more than
$50.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.060)
   (I)   A person, upon conviction of a nuisance as set out in §
91.22 of this code, shall be fined in any sum not less than $2 nor more than
$25.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.080)
   (J)   A person, upon conviction of a nuisance as set out in §
91.23 of this code, shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.070)
   (K)   A person, upon conviction of a nuisance as set out in §
91.24 of this code, shall be fined in a sum of not less than $5 nor more than
$25.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.100)
   (L)   Any person, persons or corporation violating §
91.25 of this code shall be deemed guilty of committing a nuisance and shall,
upon conviction, be fined in any sum not less than $5 nor more than $100, and
also, the costs of action.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.010)
   (M)   Violations of §§
91.60 through
91.69 of this code shall be declared a public nuisance, and each day the civil
infraction continues is deemed to be a separate and punishable civil offense.
Violations shall be punishable by a civil penalty not to exceed $300. If the
violation is an ongoing offense, the violation will be punishable by an
additional civil penalty, not to exceed $50 per day, for each additional day
the violation continues.
(Ord. 7, passed - -1915; Ord. 27, passed - -1915; Ord. 70, passed - -1939; Ord.
2014-01, passed 6-5-2014; Ord. 2021-01, passed 5-12-2022)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Fireworks
   
92.01   Sale of fireworks prohibited
   
92.02   Discharge of fireworks prohibited
 
   
92.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 92.01 SALE OF FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
   No person, association, firm or corporation shall hereafter sell, give away
or in any manner dispose of any firecrackers, explosive toys, such as toy
pistols, canes or torpedoes, or any fireworks of any kind or description within
the town.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.010) (Ord. 54, passed - -1919) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
   No person, association, firm or corporation shall hereafter, within the
limits of the town, discharge or set off any firecrackers, toy explosive
pistols or canes, or any explosive toys or torpedoes of any kind, or any
fireworks whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.020) (Ord. 54, passed - -1919) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating §§
92.01 or
92.02 of this code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in the
sum of not less than $10 nor more than $50, and upon failure to pay the fine,
shall serve the same out in the County Jail at the rate of $2 per day.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.030) (Ord. 54, passed - -1919)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Public Skate Park
   
93.01   Park established
   
93.02   Management
   
93.03   Park rules and regulations
 
   
93.99   Penalty
PUBLIC SKATE PARK
§ 93.01 PARK ESTABLISHED.
   The town has established and maintained a public skate park located at the
300 block of Vernon Avenue, Big Sandy, Montana. Said described land shall be
used as a public skate park for the town.
(Ord. -, passed 8-2-2012)
§ 93.02 MANAGEMENT.
   The local officials, including, but not limited to, the Mayor, Council
members and law enforcement of the town, shall be responsible for the control
and management of the public skate park, subject to the rules and conditions
contained herein and subject to revisions made by the Town Council.
(Ord. -, passed 8-2-2012)
§ 93.03 PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to violate any of the following rules and
regulations while at the skate park.
   (A)   Use of the facility is only allowed during park hours (dawn to dusk).
After-hours use or use when closed will result in a trespass citation.
   (B)   All persons within the skate park area must be alert and exercise
common sense. Skate parks are prone to flying objects and bodies. Know your
abilities and skate within them.
   (C)   Proper use of protective gear (helmets, wrist guards, elbow and knee
pads) is strongly recommended. Concrete and steel are harder than you are.
   (D)   Skateboards and inline skates only. Absolutely no bicycles, scooters
or motor vehicles. Violations will result in trespass citations and possible
seizure of equipment.
   (E)   No obstacles, other material, glass, food or drink is allowed in the
skate park. These items jeopardize the skaters.
   (F)   Do not skate if the surface is wet or icy. The skate park surface is
extremely dangerous when wet.
   (G)   No spectators inside the skating area. Spectators, please watch from
outside the facility. You will be much safer there.
   (H)   Trash containers must be used to keep the park clean and safe. Help
keep your skate park clean. Use the trash cans.
   (I)   Be considerate of the surrounding property and neighbors by skating
only in the skate park area. No loud music.
   (J)   Keep pets safe, leashed and outside the skate park area.
   (K)   Alcohol, tobacco products and drugs are prohibited.
(Ord. -, passed 8-2-2012) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
93.01 through
93.03 of this code shall, upon conviction before a court of competent
jurisdiction, be guilty of an offense and shall be subject to the general
penalty provisions of this code in §
10.99 of this code and to applicable state law, as may be appropriate.
(Ord. -, passed 8-2-2012)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSES AND FEES
      
111.   ALCOHOL
      
112.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
CHAPTER 110: LICENSES AND FEES
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License required; term of license
   
110.03   Fee schedule
   
110.04   Manner of payment
   
110.05   Exemption
   
110.06   Application
   
110.07   Refusal to issue; license revocation
   
110.08   Clerk-Treasurer to collect fees
   
110.09   Failure to renew; late charges
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any and all industries, pursuits, commercial enterprises,
occupations, professions and avocations, except those carried on in a temporary
manner by a religious, charitable, fraternal, education or like nonprofit
organization solely as projects for fundraising.
   NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION. Any association, firm or corporation organized for
religious, charitable, educational, civic, scientific or literary purposes
which does not contemplate the distribution of pecuniary gains, profits or
dividends to its members.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation.
   YEAR. A calendar year beginning January 1 and ending December 31.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; TERM OF LICENSE.
   No person shall engage in business in the town without first obtaining a
license as hereinafter provided unless such person is expressly made exempt by
the laws of the state from such licensing authority by the town. All licenses
shall expire on December 31 of the year in which the license is issued unless
otherwise specified.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 11-11-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Annual license fees for business shall be as follows:
      (1)   For all businesses except those listed below, the annual license
fee shall be $25;
      (2)   For transient/itinerant/door-to-door merchants, the license fee
shall be $25 for one to two days. All others shall be $65 for the year; and
      (3)   For home businesses, the license fee shall be $25.
   (B)   There shall be no proration of license fees for home business,
itinerant vendors or transient retail merchants.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 110.04 MANNER OF PAYMENT.
   All licenses herein provided for are payable in advance to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer. In no case shall the license be granted for longer than one year. No
license fees will be prorated.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 110.05 EXEMPTION.
   Only nonprofit businesses or groups shall be exempt from paying businesses
license fees, and therefore, shall not be required to pay a business license
fee.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 110.06 APPLICATION.
   All businesses required to be licensed by this chapter shall make
application in writing, which application shall contain the following
information:
   (A)   The full business name, permanent address and phone number of the
applicant;
   (B)   A brief description of the nature of the business;
   (C)   The location or locations of the business in the city, giving the
street address and phone number of each location and the name of the person in
charge at each location; and
   (D)   The length of time that the right to do business is desired, when
applicable.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 110.07 REFUSAL TO ISSUE; LICENSE REVOCATION.
   Whenever the Town Council shall deem it best for the public interest to do
so, it may, by resolution passed by a majority vote of the Town Council and
approved by the Mayor and attested by the Town Clerk- Treasurer, refuse to
authorize the issuance of any license herein provided for, and the Town Council
hereby expressly reserves, by resolution or affirmative vote of a majority of
the Town Council and approved by the Mayor and attested by the Town Clerk-
Treasurer, the right to revoke any and all licenses that may have been issued
as herein provided when it shall deem it best for the public interest to do so.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 110.08 CLERK-TREASURER TO COLLECT FEES.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall collect all fees for the licenses required by
this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 110.09 FAILURE TO RENEW; LATE CHARGES.
   (A)   Failure to renew the license shall result in the following delinquent
charges.
      (1)   Resident. If a resident license is not paid prior to March 1 of the
year due, an additional charge of $5 will be assessed and an additional $5
added for every 30-day period beyond April 1.
      (2)   Nonresident. A nonresident vendor, merchant or contractor business
license fee is due on the opening day of such business and subject to a $10
penalty if not paid within 30 days of initial opening and an additional $5 for
every 30-day period beyond the initial 30 days.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this section shall prohibit the town from
suspending or revoking a business license for failure to renew said license
within 12 months after the date the license fees were due.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Misdemeanor. Every person who commences or carries on a business,
trade, profession or occupation for the transaction or carrying on of which a
license is required by the provisions of this chapter without procuring a
license as herein prescribed, or who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Penalty imposed. Every person carrying on or engaging in the
transaction of any business for which a license is required without first
procuring the proper license therefor, and any person making material
misrepresentations or omissions in an application for a license, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided by
a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $150 per infraction.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 11-11-2015)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOL
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License to sell beer required; fee
   
111.03   License to sell liquor required; fee
   
111.04   Period of license
   
111.05   Delivery of beer
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ESTABLISHMENTS. As herein contemplated, those licensed to sell beer and/or
liquor at retail by the State Liquor Control Board.
   LIQUORS. As herein defined, includes beer as defined under the State Beer
Act and acts amendatory thereof and supplementary thereto, and is further
deemed to include liquors as defined by Chapter 84 of the Laws of the twenty-
fifth Legislative Session of 1937, known as the Retail Dealers Liquor Act, acts
amendatory thereof and supplementary thereto. This chapter excludes state
liquor stores from its operation.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.010) (Ord. 88-4, passed - -1988)
§ 111.02 LICENSE TO SELL BEER REQUIRED; FEE.
   Any person, firm or corporation licensed by the State Liquor Control Board
to retail beer by the drink in the town shall first purchase a license to sell
retail beer in this town, and the license fee therefor shall be the sum of $50
per year or fraction thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.020) (Ord. 88-4, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 LICENSE TO SELL LIQUOR REQUIRED; FEE.
   Any person, firm or corporation licensed by the State Liquor Control Board
to retail liquor by the drink in the town shall first purchase a license to
sell retail liquor in this town, and the license fee therefor shall be the sum
of $50 per year or fraction thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.030) (Ord. 88-4, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 PERIOD OF LICENSE.
   The license or licenses contemplated by this chapter shall be from July 1 to
June 30 of the year of issuance.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.050) (Ord. 88-4, passed - -1988)
§ 111.05 DELIVERY OF BEER.
   Any person, firm or corporation delivering beer to private residences from
its usual place of business shall be thereby subjected to the licenses and
penalties herein prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.040) (Ord. 88-4, passed - -1988)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any firm, person or corporation selling beer or liquor without having first
obtained a license therefor is subject to the penalties as prescribed by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.060) (Ord. 88-4, passed - -1988)
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Application procedure
   
112.04   Standards for issuance
   
112.05   Revocation procedure
   
112.06   Standards for revocation
   
112.07   Appeal procedure
   
112.08   Exhibiting identification
   
112.09   Town policy on soliciting
   
112.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
112.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
112.12   Prohibited solicitation
   
112.13   Secondhand, junk shop license required
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is a peddler, solicitor
or itinerant merchant as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the town and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the town.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the town.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the town.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the Town Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof. Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file
an application with the Town Clerk-Treasurer. This application shall be signed
by the applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by
the president if a corporation.
      (2)   The applicant may be requested to provide information concerning
the following items:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   1.   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the town;
            2.   The local address of such individual;
            3.   The permanent address of such individual; and
            4.   The capacity in which such individual will act.
         (c)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose
the business will be carried on, and if a corporation, the state of
incorporation;
         (d)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry
on the applicant’s business;
         (e)   1.   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
            2.   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold
by sample as well as from stock; and
            3.   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown and where such goods are at the time of application.
         (f)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the
business; and
         (g)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(b)1. above, or the person identified in division (A)(2)(c)
above, has been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor, and if so, the nature of
each offense and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the town, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business authorizing the applicant
to act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   (1)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation
discloses tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would
pose a substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general
welfare.
      (2)   In particular, it will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of
an application upon tangible evidence that the applicant:
         (a)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
         (b)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
         (c)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
peddlers, solicitors, itinerant merchants and the like;
         (d)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
         (e)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 112.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the Town
Clerk-Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
112.06 of this code. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or
her last known address at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 112.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way so as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general
welfare of the public.
§ 112.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
112.04 or
112.06 of this code shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council. The
appeal shall be taken by filing with the Town Council, within 14 days after
notice of the decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Town Council shall
set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be
given to such person in the same manner as provided in §
112.05 of this code.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 112.08 EXHIBITING IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the town shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or
solicitor licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words
“Licensed Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license
and the number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee
during such time as he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09 TOWN POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the town that the occupants of the
residences in the town shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 112.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, which is exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the
residence, indicating the determination by the occupant and containing the
applicable words, as follows.
 
NO SOLICITORS INVITED
 
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 112.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor, upon going onto any premises
in the town upon which a residence is located, to first examine the notice
provided for in §
112.10 of this code, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement
contained on the notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the
solicitor, whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart
from the premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
112.10 of this code.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.13 SECONDHAND, JUNK SHOP LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall own, operate, manage or conduct any
secondhand or junk shop or engage in such business without first having secured
a license therefor from the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.020) (Ord. 88-4, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A nuisance as set out in §
112.12 of this code is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.050)
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation conducting, owning, operating or
managing a secondhand or junk shop, or engaging in such business, without
having secured the license set out in §
112.13 of this code shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
subject to the penalty prescribed under §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.060)
(Ord. 88-4, passed - -1988)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND DECENCY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
Section
Curfew
   
130.01   Curfew imposed
   
130.02   Parental responsibility
   
130.03   Violators remanded to guardian
CURFEW
§ 130.01 CURFEW IMPOSED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any minor under the age of 18 years to loiter,
idle, wander, stroll or play in or upon the public streets, highways, roads,
alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, public places and public
buildings, places of amusements and entertainment and vacant lots, or other
unsupervised places, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the
following day, official town time.
   (B)   Each violation of the provisions of this section constitutes a
separate offense unless exempted under division (C) below.
   (C)   It is an exemption to a violation under this section that the person
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next- door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the town, a civic organization
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the town, a civic organization or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married, or had been married, or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.020) (Ord. 1985-3, passed - -1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for the parent, guardian or other adult person having
the care and custody of a minor to allow such minor to loiter, idle, wander,
stroll or play in or upon the public grounds, public places and public
buildings, public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds, places
of amusements and entertainment or vacant lots, or other unsupervised places,
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the following day, official
town time; provided, however, that the provisions of this section do not apply
when the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other adult
person having the care and custody of the minor, or where the minor is upon an
emergency errand or legitimate business directed by his or her parent, guardian
or other adult person having the care and custody of the minor.
   (B)   Each violation of the provisions of this section shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.030) (Ord. 1985-3, passed - -1985; Ord. 88-26, passed - -
1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 VIOLATORS REMANDED TO GUARDIAN.
   Any minor violating any provision of §§
130.01 or
130.02 of this code shall be remanded to the custody of his or her parent or
legal guardian.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.040) (Ord. 1985-3, passed - -1985)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND DECENCY
Section
   
131.01   Gambling
   
131.02   Obscenity
   
131.03   Prostitution
   
131.04   Promoting prostitution
   
131.05   Disorderly conduct
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 GAMBLING.
   (A)   From and after the passage of the provisions codified in this section,
it is unlawful for any person within the town to deal, play, carry on, open or
cause to be opened or to conduct, either as owner or employee, whether for hire
or not, any game of monte, roulette, lansquenet, rouge et noir, rondo, tan
fantan, craps, seven-and-a-half, twenty-one or keno, or any other banking or
percentage game, played with cards, dice or any device for money, checks,
credits or any other representative of value.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to permit any of the
prohibited games mentioned in division (A) above to be played, conducted or
dealt in any house owned or rented by such person in whole or in part.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.010) (Ord. 31, passed - -1915) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 OBSCENITY.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      OBSCENE. A thing is OBSCENE if:
         (a)   It is:
            1.   A representation or description of perverted ultimate sexual
acts, actual or simulated;
            2.   A patently offensive representation or description of normal
ultimate sexual acts, actual or simulated; or
            3.   A patently offensive representation or description of
masturbation, excretory functions or lewd exhibition of the genitals.
         (b)   Taken as a whole, the material:
            1.   Applying contemporary state standards, appeals to the prurient
interest in sex;
            2.   Portrays conduct described in division (a) above in a patently
offensive way; and
            3.   Lacks serious literary, artistic, political or scientific
value.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.020)
   (B)   Obscenity prohibited. A person commits the offense of obscenity when,
with knowledge of the obscene nature thereof, he or she purposely or knowingly:
      (1)   Sells, delivers or provides, or offers or agrees to sell, deliver
or provide, any obscene writing, picture, record or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene to anyone under the age of 18;
      (2)   Presents or directs an obscene play, dance or other performance, or
participates in that portion thereof which makes it obscene, to anyone under
the age of 18;
      (3)   Publishes, exhibits or otherwise makes available anything obscene
to anyone under the age of 18;
      (4)   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene exhibition
of his or her body to anyone under the age of 18;
      (5)   Creates, buys, procures or possesses obscene matter or material
with the purpose to disseminate it to anyone under the age of 18; or
      (6)   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of obscene material or
material represented or held out by him or her to be obscene.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.030)
   (C)   Permissible evidence. In any prosecution for an offense under this
section, evidence shall be admissible to show:
      (1)   The predominant appeal of the material and what effect, if any, it
would probably have on the behavior of people;
      (2)   The artistic, literary, scientific, educational or other merits of
the material;
      (3)   The degree of public acceptance of the material in this state;
      (4)   Appeal to prurient interest, or absence thereof, in advertising or
other promotion of the material; or
      (5)   Purpose of the author, creator, publisher or disseminator.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.040)
(Ord. 88-38, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 PROSTITUTION.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in, or agree or offer to engage in,
sexual intercourse with another person for compensation, whether such
compensation is received, or paid, or to be paid.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.050) (Ord. 88-38, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 PROMOTING PROSTITUTION.
   A person commits the offense of promoting prostitution if he or she
purposely or knowingly commits any of the following acts:
   (A)   Owns, controls, manages, supervises, resides in or otherwise keeps,
alone or in association with others, a house of prostitution or a prostitution
business;
   (B)   Procures an inmate for a house of prostitution, or a place in a house
of prostitution for one who would be an inmate;
   (C)   Encourages, induces or otherwise purposely causes another to become or
remain a prostitute;
   (D)   Solicits a person to patronize a prostitute;
   (E)   Procures a prostitute for a patron;
   (F)   Transports a person into or within this state with the purpose to
promote that person’s engaging in prostitution, or procures or pays for
transportation for that purpose;
   (G)   Leases or otherwise permits a place controlled by the offender, alone
or in association with others, to be regularly used for prostitution or for the
procurement of prostitution, or fails to make reasonable effort to abate such
use by ejecting the tenant, notifying law enforcement authorities or using
other legally available means; or
   (H)   Lives, in whole or in part, upon the earnings of a person engaging in
prostitution unless the person is the prostitute’s minor child or other legal
dependent incapable of self-support.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.060) (Ord. 88-38, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully disturb the peace or quiet of any
private or public place in the town by loud or unusual noises, vocal or
instrumental, or to make false alarms by crying “fire,” or to threaten,
quarrel, scold or shout loudly, or to provoke or commit an assault of any
person, or to utter obscene, vulgar and indecent language.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.070) (Ord. 88-38, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of §
131.01 of this code shall be fined in any sum not less than $100 nor more than
$500, and also the costs of the action.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.010) (Ord. 31, passed - -1915)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PLACES
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
Section
Uniform Housing Code
   
150.01   Adoption of Code
   
150.02   Copies on file
   
150.03   Violations unlawful
One- and Two-Family Dwellings
   
150.15   Adoption of Code
   
150.16   Copies on file
   
150.17   Applicability
   
150.18   Civil remedy
Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings
   
150.30   Adoption of Code
   
150.31   Copies on file
   
150.32   Violations unlawful
 
   
150.99   Penalty
UNIFORM HOUSING CODE
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF CODE.
   There is adopted by the Town Council that certain code known as the Uniform
Housing Code, 1979 edition, together with any amendments, additions, new
editions and modifications made thereto; the Uniform Housing Code, 1979
edition, is adopted and incorporated as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.010) (Ord. 114, passed - -1980)
§ 150.02 COPIES ON FILE.
   Copies of the Uniform Housing Code, 1979 edition, shall be filed with the
Town Clerk-Treasurer for inspection by the public.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.020) (Ord. 114, passed - -1980)
§ 150.03 VIOLATIONS UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other
entity to violate any of the provisions of this subchapter or of the Uniform
Housing Code, 1979 edition.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.030) (Ord. 114, passed - -1980) Penalty, see §
150.99
ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS
§ 150.15 ADOPTION OF CODE.
   The Town Council adopts and incorporates herein by this reference that
certain building code known as the CABO One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code, with
the 1984 and 1985 amendments, and all amendments, additions and modifications
made thereto (herein collectively called the “Code”), being particularly the
current edition of the Code upon adoption by and as amended from time to time
by the Building Codes Bureau of the Department of Commerce (or its successor)
of this state.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.010) (Ord. 87-3, passed - -1987)
§ 150.16 COPIES ON FILE.
   Copies of the current edition of the Code, as adopted and amended, shall be
filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer for inspection by the public.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.020) (Ord. 87-3, passed - -1987)
§ 150.17 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter and the code herein adopted by reference shall be applicable
to all buildings situated within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.030) (Ord. 87-3, passed - -1987)
§ 150.18 CIVIL REMEDY.
   It is declared that any violation of this subchapter shall constitute a
public nuisance, and in addition to any other remedies available to the town,
the town may bring a civil action to enjoin the violation of any provisions of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.040) (Ord. 87-3, passed - -1987) Penalty, see §
150.99
UNIFORM CODE FOR THE ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 150.30 ADOPTION OF CODE.
   There is adopted by the Town Council that certain code known as the Uniform
Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, 1979 edition, together with any
amendments, additions, new editions and modifications made thereto; said
Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, 1979 edition, is adopted
and incorporated as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 15.28.010) (Ord. 113, passed - -1980)
§ 150.31 COPIES ON FILE.
   Copies of the Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, 1979
edition, shall be filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer for inspection by the
public.
(Prior Code, § 15.28.020) (Ord. 113, passed - -1980)
§ 150.32 VIOLATIONS UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other
entity to violate any of the provisions of this subchapter or of the Uniform
Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, 1979 edition.
(Prior Code, § 15.28.030) (Ord. 113, passed - -1980) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity violating
any of the provisions of the Uniform Housing Code, as adopted per §
150.01 of this code, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and each such
person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or
portion thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of this
Uniform Housing Code is committed, continued or permitted, and upon conviction
of any such violation, such person shall be punishable by a fine of not more
than $300 or by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both such fine
and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.030)
   (C)   Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or any other entity, as
owner, lessee, sublessee or occupant, violating any of the provisions of §§
150.15 through
150.18 of this code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and each such person or
entity shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or
portion thereof during which any violation of any provision of §§
150.15 through
150.18 is committed, continued or permitted. Upon conviction of any such
violation, such person or entity shall be punished by a fine of not more than
$300 or by imprisonment in jail for not more than 90 days, or by both such fine
and imprisonment. Each day of continuing violation of §§
150.15 through
150.18 shall be deemed a separate offense for the purpose of the penalties
prescribed by this division (C).
(Prior Code, § 15.16.050)
   (D)   Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity violating
any of the provisions of the Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous
Buildings, 1979 edition, as adopted per §
150.30 of this code, shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and
every day or portion thereof during which any violation of any of the
provisions of this Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, 1979
edition, is committed, continued or permitted, and upon conviction of any such
violation, such person shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $300 or
by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 15.28.030)
(Ord. 113, passed - -1980; Ord. 114, passed - -1980; Ord. 87-3, passed - -1987)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PLACES
Section
Street and Sidewalk Specifications
   
151.01   Street widths
   
151.02   Sidewalk widths
   
151.03   Sidewalk locations
Sidewalk Construction and Repair
   
151.15   Notification for repair
   
151.16   Failure to repair a nuisance; liability for damages
   
151.17   Assessment for repairs
Obstructions on Public Property
   
151.30   Obstructions unlawful
   
151.31   Removal of obstructions; costs assessed
   
151.32   Railway cars obstructing
   
151.33   Vehicles obstructing removed; exceptions
Grain Storage Areas
   
151.45   Area established
   
151.46   Rental
   
151.47   Permit required
 
   
151.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Junk vehicle removal from public property, see §
91.64
   Obstructing or selling on streets a nuisance, see §
91.15
   Sewer system excavation requirements, see §
52.030
STREET AND SIDEWALK SPECIFICATIONS
§ 151.01 STREET WIDTHS.
   The width of all streets and avenues in the town are measured from curbline
to curbline as follows:
   (A)   All residence streets and avenues: 30 feet, unless otherwise specified
in division (B) below; and
   (B)   Other specifications:
Location Width
Location                                                             Width
First Avenue South from Montana Avenue to the alley through Block 8, 40 feet
original plat
Fourth Street from Johannes Avenue to Vernon Avenue                  40 feet
Johannes Avenue from Fifth Street to Third Street                    50 feet
Johannes Avenue from Third Street to the railroad                    79 feet
McNamara Avenue from Second Street to Fifth Street                   30 feet
McNamara Avenue from Second Street to Railroad Street South          40 feet
Montana Avenue from Fourth Street to Second Street                   30 feet
Montana Avenue from Railroad Street to the N. line, Block 34         40 feet
Montana Avenue from Second Street to Railroad Street                 40 feet
Montana Avenue from the N. line, Block 34, to Fifth Street           59 feet
Railroad Street North from R.O.W. line to curb                       20 feet
Railroad Street South for its entire length                          40 feet
Second Street from Illinois Avenue to Montana Avenue                 40 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 12.04.010) (Ord. 48, passed - -1917)
§ 151.02 SIDEWALK WIDTHS.
   The width and location of all sidewalks in the town shall be as follows:
      (A)   The width of the walks on all streets and avenues shall be five
feet unless otherwise specified; and
      (B)   Other specifications:
Location Width
Location                                                           Width
First Street from Montana Avenue to the alley through Block 8      9.5 feet
First Street North from Montana Avenue to Railroad                 4.5 feet
On Johannes from Second to the railroad                            10 feet
On Montana from Fifth Street North to the railroad                 10 feet
On Railroad Street North for its entire length                     9.5 feet
On Railroad Street South for its entire length                     9.5 feet
Second Street from Montana Avenue to Illinois Avenue               9.5 feet
South side of First Street North from Montana Avenue to Centennial 9.5 feet
Avenue
 
(Prior Code, § 12.04.020) (Ord. 48, passed - -1917)
§ 151.03 SIDEWALK LOCATIONS.
   (A)   All walks over five feet in width shall be located immediately
adjacent to the property lines.
   (B)   All five-foot walks on 60-foot streets shall be located one foot from
the property lines.
   (C)   All five-foot walks on streets and avenues wider than 60 feet shall be
located in the center of the park space between the curbline and property
lines.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.030) (Ord. 48, passed - -1917)
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
§ 151.15 NOTIFICATION FOR REPAIR.
   For any sidewalk heretofore or hereafter constructed that shall become
broken or otherwise out of repair, or shall need to be wholly relaid or
rebuilt, the Marshal shall notify the owner or agent, or the persons, in front
of which such repairs may be needed, thereafter to make such repairs within a
reasonable time, in writing.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.010) (Ord. 8, passed - -1915)
§ 151.16 FAILURE TO REPAIR A NUISANCE; LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   (A)   If the owner of such places should neglect to make such repairs, if
notified as aforesaid, he or she shall be deemed guilty of maintaining a
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.020)
   (B)   He or she shall also be liable for all damages which the town may
incur for reason thereof, to be brought by the town in a proper action in a
court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.030)
(Ord. 8, passed - -1915) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.17 ASSESSMENT FOR REPAIRS.
   In all cases where a party or parties shall entirely refuse to rebuild or
repair as aforesaid, the sidewalk needing the same shall be repaired or rebuilt
at the expense of the town and the expenses incurred therefor shall be assessed
to and collected of the parties in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.040) (Ord. 8, passed - -1915)
OBSTRUCTIONS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
§ 151.30 OBSTRUCTIONS UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful hereafter for any person or persons or corporation to erect,
place or locate, or cause to be erected, placed or located, any building, fence
or obstruction of any kind whatsoever, in whole or in part, upon any street,
avenue, alley or other public grounds within the town.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.010) (Ord. 15, passed - -1915) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.31 REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTIONS; COSTS ASSESSED.
   (A)   It is unlawful, upon conviction of any person, persons or corporation
for a violation of the provisions of this subchapter, for the Town Judge to
make an order directing the Town Marshal to remove and abate any such
obstructions, and it shall be the duty of the Town Marshal to give such person
guilty of placing, erecting or locating such obstruction, or causing the same
to be done, notice to remove the same.
   (B)   Upon his or her failure to do so within 24 hours, the Marshal shall
forthwith remove the same and report the cost thereof to the Town Judge, and
the same shall be taxed up against such persons erecting, placing or locating
the same, or causing the same to be done, and shall be collected as other costs
are collected.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.020) (Ord. 15, passed - -1915) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.32 RAILWAY CARS OBSTRUCTING.
   From and after the passage of the provisions codified in this section, it is
unlawful for any railway company, or any officer, agent or employee of any
railway company, operating a railroad in the town to suffer or permit any
engine, car or train of cars owned or operated by such railway company to stand
upon, across or in any way to obstruct any street or avenue of the town at the
intersection thereof with the railroad for more than ten minutes at any one
time for any purpose. Nor shall any street or avenue in the town be again
obstructed by any such railway company, or the officers, agents or servants,
for any purpose whatsoever within five minutes after an obstruction is removed
and the street again given open to traffic.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.030) (Ord. 18, passed - -1915) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.33 VEHICLES OBSTRUCTING REMOVED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever any street, alley or other public ground of the town shall be
obstructed by any vehicle, loaded or otherwise, the Mayor, Council members,
Marshal or any police officer may order the removal of such vehicle in such a
manner as the public convenience may require.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.040)
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this subchapter, it is lawful for
loaded vehicles to temporarily obstruct traffic on streets or alleys for the
purpose of unloading, but for no longer than a reasonable length of time, and
then only with permission of the Mayor, Council members or Town Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.050)
(Ord. 74, passed - -1950) Penalty, see §
151.99
GRAIN STORAGE AREAS
§ 151.45 AREA ESTABLISHED.
   There is established a grain storage area for the erection of private grain
storage facilities consisting of 12 lots, each 50 feet wide by 140 feet deep,
located in S one-half NW one-fourth of Section 18, Tp. 28 N., Rge. 13 E. M.P.M.
adjacent to the townsite, all as shown on the plat thereof on file with the
Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 12.16.010) (Ord. 82, passed - -1956)
§ 151.46 RENTAL.
   The lots shall be made available for rental by the residents of the town at
an annual rental of $1 per year and for a term of not more than 33 years for
the purpose of the erection of private grain storage facilities only.
(Prior Code, § 12.16.020) (Ord. 82, passed - -1956)
§ 151.47 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No private grain storage facility shall be erected within the limits of the
town by any person, firm or corporation without such person, firm or
corporation having first obtained a permit in writing to do so from the Town
Council.
(Prior Code, § 12.16.030) (Ord. 82, passed - -1956) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   On conviction of a nuisance as set out in §
151.16 of this code, the owner shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $5 for
each day the sidewalk remains out of repair after the expiration of the time
specified in the notice, and also, all costs of suit.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.020)
   (C)   (1)   Any person or persons or corporation who shall violate the
provisions of §
151.30 of this code, or shall cause the same to be done, shall be deemed guilty
of committing a nuisance and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any
sum not less than $10 and not exceeding $100.
      (2)   Any person or persons or corporation who shall be convicted of a
violation of any of the provisions of §
151.30, and after being notified by the Town Marshal to remove the same within
a reasonable time thereafter, shall be deemed guilty of a separate violation
for every 24 hours the same shall remain unremoved.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.010)
   (D)   A violation of any of the provisions of §
151.32 of this code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $300 and not less
than $10, and also, the costs of the action.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.030)
   (E)   Any person or persons refusing to comply with an order to remove an
obstructing vehicle as defined in §
151.33 of this code shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $1 nor more than $10, and all
costs of action.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.060)
(Ord. 8, passed - -1915; Ord. 15, passed - -1915; Ord. 18, passed - -1915; Ord.
74, passed - -1950)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Montana Code Annotated
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MONTANA CODE ANNOTATED
 
MCA Cite     Code Section
7-22-2101(9) 91.40
61-3-411     91.63
69-7-201     51.01
75-10-501(6) 91.60
81-2-702(1)  90.01
             
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2023 Code
Prior Code 2023 Code
1.04.010   10.05
1.04.020   10.08
1.04.030   10.05
1.04.040   10.05
1.04.050   10.05
1.04.060   10.18
1.04.070   10.10
1.04.080   10.15
1.08.010   11.01
1.12.010   30.01
1.16.010   11.02
1.16.020   11.02
1.20.010   10.99
2.24.010   30.15
2.24.020   30.16
2.24.030   30.17
2.24.040   30.20;
           30.99
2.24.050   30.21
2.24.060   30.19
2.24.070   30.18
2.32.010   30.02
2.32.020   30.02
3.04.010   31.01
3.08.010   31.15
3.08.020   31.16
3.08.030   31.17
5.08.010   111.01
5.08.020   111.02
5.08.030   111.03
5.08.040   111.05
5.08.050   111.04
5.08.060   111.99
5.12.020   112.13
5.12.050   112.99
5.12.060   112.99
8.04.010   92.01
8.04.020   92.02
8.04.030   92.99
8.08.010   91.25;
           91.99
8.08.020   91.15;
           91.99
8.08.030   91.16;
           91.99
8.08.040   91.17;
           91.99
8.08.050   91.18;
           91.99
8.08.060   91.21;
           91.99
8.08.070   91.23;
           91.99
8.08.080   91.22;
           91.99
8.08.090   91.19;
           91.99
8.08.100   91.24;
           91.99
8.08.120   91.01
8.08.130   91.02
8.08.150   91.03
9.04.010   131.01;
           131.99
9.04.020   131.02
9.04.030   131.02
9.04.040   131.02
9.04.050   131.03
9.04.060   131.04
9.04.070   131.05
9.08.020   130.01
9.08.030   130.02
9.08.040   130.03
10.08.120  70.01
12.04.010  151.01
12.04.020  151.02
12.04.030  151.03
12.08.010  151.15
12.08.020  151.16;
           151.99
12.08.030  151.16
12.08.040  151.17
12.12.010  151.30;
           151.99
12.12.020  151.31
12.12.030  151.32;
           151.99
12.12.040  151.33
12.12.050  151.33
12.12.060  151.99
12.16.010  151.45
12.16.020  151.46
12.16.030  151.47
15.12.010  150.01
15.12.020  150.02
15.12.030  150.03;
           150.99
15.16.010  150.15
15.16.020  150.16
15.16.030  150.17
15.16.040  150.18
15.16.050  150.99
15.28.010  150.30
15.28.020  150.31
15.28.030  150.32;
           150.99
           
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     51.01—
-        - -         51.14;
                     51.99
                     52.001—
                     52.007;
                     52.020—
                     52.030;
-        - -         52.045—
                     52.056;
                     52.070—
                     52.076;
                     52.999
                     90.01—
2008-01  - -         90.18;
                     90.99
1        - -1915     11.01
2        - -1915     11.02
7        - -1915     91.25;
                     91.99
                     151.15—
8        - -1915     151.17;
                     151.99
12       - -1915     31.01
                     151.30;
15       - -1915     151.31;
                     151.99
16       - -1915     30.01
18       - -1915     151.32;
                     151.99
                     91.01—
                     91.03;
                     91.16—
27       - -1915     91.19;
                     91.21—
                     91.24;
                     91.99
28       - -1915     31.15—
                     31.17
31       - -1915     131.01;
                     131.99
32       - -1915     30.15
48       - -1917     151.01—
                     151.03
                     92.01;
54       - -1919     92.02;
                     92.99
70       - -1939     91.15;
                     91.99
74       - -1950     151.33;
                     151.99
76       - -1952     30.02
                     30.16—
77       - -1952     30.21;
                     30.99
82       - -1956     151.45—
                     151.47
                     150.30—
113      - -1980     150.32;
                     150.99
                     150.01—
114      - -1980     150.03;
                     150.99
1985-3   - -1985     130.01—
                     130.03
                     150.15—
87-3     - -1987     150.18;
                     150.99
88-1     - -1988     10.99
                     10.05;
                     10.08;
88-2     - -1988     10.10;
                     10.15;
                     10.18
                     111.01—
                     111.05;
88-4     - -1988     111.99;
                     112.13;
                     112.99
88-26    - -1988     130.02
88-37    - -1988     70.01
88-38    - -1988     131.02—
                     131.05
                     93.01—
-        8-2-2012    93.03;
                     93.99
2014-01  6-5-2014    91.20;
                     91.99
                     110.01—
2016-01  11-11-2015  110.09;
                     110.99
2018-01  7-10-2018   91.40—
                     91.47
                     91.60—
2021-01  5-12-2022   91.69;
                     91.99
                    
 
 
