CITY OF BIG TIMBER, MONTANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through:
Ord. 496, passed 5-19-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439
www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 490
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF BIG TIMBER, MONTANA,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the City of Big Timber
are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and
substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the City and for the proper conduct of its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Montana Legislature empowers and authorizes the City to revise,
amend, restate, codify and compile any existing ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate such
ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS the Big Timber City Council has authorized a general compilation,
revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of a general and
permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form; and
WHEREAS it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the City
and for the preservation of the public peace, health safety, and general
welfare of the municipality that the ordinance take effect at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BIG TIMBER CITY COUNCIL:
   1.   The general ordinances of the City as revised, amended, restated,
codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall constitute
the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Big Timber, Montana."
   2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in 1, above, shall consist of the
following Titles: I-XV.
   3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such Code of
Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this
ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in
such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching land, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the Big Timber City Council and the City Clerk is hereby authorized
and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the office of the City
Clerk.
   5.   Such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties, and regulations therein
contained and the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
PASSED by the Big Timber City Council on first reading at a regular session
held on March 7, 2022.
Aye  3  1 Absent                           /s/ Greg Deboer
                                       Greg Deboer, Mayor
Nay  0
ATTEST:
/s/ Nadine Stosich
Nadine Stosich, Clerk/Treasurer
   PASSED by the Big Timber City Council on second reading at a regular session
held on March 21, 2022.
Aye  3  1 Absent                           /s/ Greg Deboer
                                       Greg Deboer, Mayor
Nay  0
ATTEST:
/s/ Nadine Stosich
Nadine Stosich, Clerk/Treasurer
Approved as to form and content:
/s/ Jim Lippert
Jim Lippert, City Attorney
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Big
Timber City Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances,” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another.
      CITY. The City of Big Timber.
      CITY CLERK/TREASURER. The City Clerk/Treasurer of the city.
      CITY COUNCIL. The City Council.
      CODE. Unless otherwise specifically stated, shall mean this code.
      COUNTY. Sweet Grass County, Montana.
      EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words of the
city.
      FEE. A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a
business, profession, or occupation.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      KNOWINGLY. Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which brings the
act or omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
      LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession, or occupation.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive. (See SHALL.)
      MCA. Abbreviation for Montana Code Annotated.
      MISDEMEANOR. Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this
code which is a lesser offense than a felony as defined by state law.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL. The city of Big Timber.
      NEGLECT, NEGLIGENT, NEGLIGENCE, or NEGLIGENTLY. A want of such attention
to the nature or probable consequences of the act or omission as a prudent
person ordinarily bestows in acting in his or her own concern.
      NUISANCE. Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of
the inhabitants of the city; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of, another person or
to the community.
      OATH. Includes affirmation.
      OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land, includes any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
      OFFENSE. Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission
of any act required by the provisions of this code.
      OFFICERS. Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by
title only, shall be construed as though followed by the words of the city.
      OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business, or
profession.
      OWNER. As applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, or joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
      PERSON. Includes the singular and the plural and shall also mean and
include any person, firm, corporation, association, partnership, or any other
form of association or organization.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action, and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right, or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged, or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      PUBLIC THOROUGHFARE. Shall include streets, alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, public ways, public squares, public places, and sidewalks.
      RETAILER. Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles, or things in small
quantities direct to the consumer.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory. (See MAY.)
      STATE. The State of Montana.
      STREET. Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevard, public ways, public
square, public places, and sidewalks.
      TENANT. As applied to a building or land, includes any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
      WHOLESALER or WHOLESALE DEALER. As used in this code unless otherwise
specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods,
merchandise, articles, or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
      WILLFULLY. When applied to the intent with which an act is done or
omitted, implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the
omission referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to
injure another, or to acquire an advantage.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(2015 Code, § 1-3-2)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
   (C)   If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (D)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (E)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) with respect to that chapter,
subchapter, or section.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(MCA § 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This city shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see MCA § 11-1102
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in 2015 and subsequently amended, the previous
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(2015 Code, §
     ).”
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way; contracts entered into or franchises granted; the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway; and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever, in any provision of this city code or other ordinance
of the city, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful, a
misdemeanor, or an offense, or whenever in any such provision or ordinance the
doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful, where no specific penalty is otherwise provided therefor, any person,
upon conviction for the violation of any such provision of this city code or
ordinances, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 or by imprisonment
not to exceed six months or both such fine and imprisonment for each such
offense. Each day any violation of any provision of this city code or any
ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   In the construction and interpretation of this section, the
revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered as a recovery or
penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
(2015 Code, § 1-4-2)
   (B)   (1)   If the judgment is for a fine alone, execution may issue thereon
as on a judgment in a civil case.
      (2)   If the judgment is for a fine and imprisonment until fine be paid,
the defendant must be committed to the custody of the proper officer and
detained and allowed a credit for each day of incarceration as provided in
division (B)(3) below.
      (3)   (a)   Any person incarcerated on a bailable offense and against
whom a judgment of imprisonment is rendered must be allowed credit for each day
of incarceration prior to or after conviction, except that the time allowed as
a credit may not exceed the term of the prison sentence rendered.
         (b)   Any person incarcerated on a bailable offense who does not
supply bail and against whom a fine is levied on conviction of the offense must
be allowed a credit for each day of incarceration prior to conviction, except
that the amount allowed or credited may not exceed the amount of the fine. The
daily rate of credit for incarceration must be established annually by the
Board of County Commissioners by resolution. The daily rate must be equal to
the actual cost incurred by the detention facility for which the rate is
established.
(2015 Code, § 1-4-3)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Jurisdiction
   
11.02   Wards
   
11.03   Corporate seal
§ 11.01 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The city has jurisdiction to impose penalties and fines within its
corporate limits.
   (B)   Measures of a regulatory or penal nature may be imposed by the city
over the territory occupied by the municipal public works, and over and along
the line of reservoirs, streams, trenches, pipes, drains, and other
appurtenances used in the construction and operation of such works.
   (C)   The police or other law enforcement agency of the city shall have the
authority to respond and take appropriate action to calls involving fights,
riots, loud noises (including, but not limited to, barking dogs), disorderly
conduct, acts of conduct calculated to disturb the public peace, and unlawful
possession of intoxicating substances within three miles of the city limits.
   (D)   Health and quarantine ordinances and regulations may be enforced in
and over all places within five miles of the boundaries of the city.
(2015 Code, § 1-4-1) (Ord. 449, passed 5-1-2001)
§ 11.02 WARDS.
   The city is hereby divided into two wards, as follows:
   (A)   Ward 1 shall consist of all that portion of the city within its
incorporated limits lying east of the center of the street designated on the
official plats of the city as McLeod AND north of the center of the street
designated on the official plats of the city as Seventh Avenue; and
   (B)   Ward 2 shall consist of all that portion of the city within its
incorporated limits lying west of the center of the street designated on the
official plats of the city as McLeod Street AND south of the center of the
street designated on the official plats of the city Seventh Avenue.
(2015 Code, § 1-8-1) (Ord. 496, passed 5-19-2025)
§ 11.03 CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   The corporate seal of the city shall be circular in form with inner
and outer circles of rope design. The outer circle shall be one and fifteen-
sixteenths inches in diameter and the inner circle shall be one and three-
fourths inches in diameter. It shall bear upon the space between the two
circles the words “City of Big Timber, Sweet Grass County, Montana,” and upon
the space within the inner circle the word “seal.”
   (B)   The seal described hereinabove is hereby adopted as the corporate seal
of the city.
   (C)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall be the custodian of the seal.
(2015 Code, § 1-8-3)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNING BODY
      
31.   OFFICIALS, EMPLOYEES, AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
33.   FINANCE
      
34.   CITY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNING BODY
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Ordinances
Mayor
   
30.15   Qualifications
   
30.16   Duties
   
30.17   Powers
   
30.18   Terms of office
City Council
   
30.30   Qualifications of Alderman
   
30.31   Meetings
   
30.32   Standing committees
   
30.33   Special committees
   
30.34   Duties of committees
   
30.35   Meetings called to order
   
30.36   Order of business
   
30.37   Voting; majority elects
   
30.38   Rules
   
30.39   General powers of City Council
   
30.40   Eminent domain
   
30.41   Prescribing duties and compensation
   
30.42   Obtaining reports from officers
   
30.43   Contracts
   
30.44   Arrests
   
30.45   Imposition of penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 ORDINANCES.
   The style, adoption, repeal, and amendment of any ordinances and resolutions
shall be made in accordance with the requirements of MCA Title 7, Chapter 1,
part 41; local government ordinances, resolutions, and initiatives and
referendums; Montana Code Annotated (1995); and as amended.
(2015 Code, § 1-8-2)
MAYOR
§ 30.15 QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   No person is eligible for the office of the Mayor, unless he or she:
      (1)   Is at least 21 years old;
      (2)   Has been a resident of the state for at least three years; and
      (3)   Has been a resident for at least two years preceding the election
to office of the city or an area which has been annexed by the city.
   (B)   The office of Mayor is considered vacant if the individual elected as
Mayor ceases to be a resident of the city.
(2015 Code, § 1-5-1)
§ 30.16 DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall devote so much of his or her time to the duties of his or
her office as an efficient and faithful discharge thereof may require. He or
she shall, from time to time, give the City Council such information and
recommend such measures as he or she may deem beneficial to the city; he or she
shall examine the grounds of all complaints against any of the officers of the
city to determine existence of a violation or neglect of duty, and report the
evidence thereof, if deemed sufficient for the removal of said officer, to the
City Council. He or she shall require that every officer, on the expiration of
his or her term of office or resignation or removal from the same, deliver to
his or her successor all monies, books, and other material and appurtenances
belonging to such office. He or she shall perform all other duties imposed by
state law upon such office.
(2015 Code, § 1-5-2)
§ 30.17 POWERS.
   The Mayor is the chief executive officer of the city and has the power to:
   (A)   (1)   Nominate and, with the consent of the City Council, appoint all
nonelective officers of the city provided for by the City Council, except as
provided for in MCA Title 7; and
      (2)   Suspend and, with the consent of the City Council, remove any
nonelective officer, stating in the suspension or removal the cause thereof.
   (B)   Supervise the discharge of official duty by all subordinate officers;
   (C)   Require of any of the officers of the city an exhibit of such
officer’s books and papers;
   (D)   Grant pardons and remit fines and forfeitures for offenses against
city ordinances when, in the Mayor’s judgment, public justice would be thereby
subserved. The Mayor must report all pardons granted, with the reasons
therefor, to the next City Council;
   (E)   Exercise such power as may be vested in the Mayor by ordinance of the
city, in and over all places within five miles of the boundaries of the city
for the purpose of enforcing the health and quarantine ordinances and
regulations of the city;
   (F)   Sign his or her name officially for and in behalf of the city on all
contracts, including deeds, bills, notes, obligations, and other agreements,
documents, and papers, to which the city is a party, and to require that the
conditions in the said instruments are faithfully performed;
   (G)   Approve all ordinances and resolutions of the City Council adopted by
it and, in case the same do not meet his or her approbation, to return the same
to the next regular meeting of the City Council with his or her objections in
writing. No ordinance or resolution so vetoed by the Mayor shall go into effect
unless the same be afterwards passed by two-thirds’ vote of the whole number of
Council members;
   (H)   Prepare the budget in consultation with the City Council and
department heads;
   (I)   Exercise control and supervision of all departments and boards to the
degree authorized by ordinance of the City Council;
   (J)   Call special meetings of the City Council. The Mayor must state, by
message, the object of the meeting, and the business of the meeting must be
restricted to the object stated;
   (K)   Preside at meetings and decide all tie votes of the City Council but
shall have no other vote;
   (L)   Enforce the gaming laws of the state; and
   (M)   Exercise any other powers granted to a Mayor under state law.
(MCA §§ 7-3-4101, 7-3-4102, 7-4-4303, 7-4-4305, 7-4-4306, 7-5-4122, 7-5-4205,
and 7-5-4206) (2015 Code, § 1-5-3)
§ 30.18 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The Mayor shall hold office for a term of four years and until the
qualification of his or her successor.
(2015 Code, § 1-5-4)
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.30 QUALIFICATIONS OF ALDERMAN.
   No person is eligible for the office of Alderman unless he or she is a
resident of the city for at least 60 days preceding the election to the office
of the ward electing him or her or of an area which has been annexed by the
city and placed in the ward.
(2015 Code, § 1-6-1)
§ 30.31 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The City Council shall hold a regular meeting for the transaction of
city business on the first and third Mondays in each month, and such other
meetings to which the City Council, by order, may adjourn or which may be
called. In the event the first or third Monday falls on a holiday, such
regularly scheduled meeting shall be held on Tuesday following such holiday
Monday.
   (B)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or at the request of three
members of the City Council. When special meetings are called, the City Clerk/
Treasurer shall give reasonable notice thereof, in writing, to the Mayor and
all members of the City Council present in the city.
(2015 Code, § 1-6-2) (Ord. 444, passed 6-4-1997)
§ 30.32 STANDINGS COMMITTEES.
   At the first regular meeting of the City Council following its election, the
Mayor shall appoint committee members of the City Council for the ensuing term
for the following committees:
   (A)   Finance;
   (B)   Streets and Alleys;
   (C)   Water and Sewer;
   (D)   Parks and Recreation;
   (E)   Fire and Police;
   (F)   Sanitation;
   (G)   Airport; and
   (H)   Zoning.
(2015 Code, § 1-6-3)
§ 30.33 SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   The Mayor may appoint such special committees as deemed necessary for the
efficient operation of the city.
(2015 Code, § 1-6-4)
§ 30.34 DUTIES OF COMMITTEES.
   Each committee shall have referred to it all matters relating to its area of
specialization and such committee shall investigate and report from time to
time all matters within its area as directed by the City Council or the Mayor.
(2015 Code, § 1-6-5)
§ 30.35 MEETINGS CALLED TO ORDER.
   The City Council shall convene and be called to order by the Mayor, or in
his or her absence, by the President of the City Council, and in the absence of
both the Mayor and the President of the City Council, by the senior Alderman
present, at 7:00 p.m. and the City Clerk/Treasurer shall proceed to call the
roll and record in the minutes the names of all members present and announce
whether or not a quorum is present.
(2015 Code, § 1-6-6)
§ 30.36 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   At all meetings of the Council, the order of business shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Minutes, reading, and correcting, if necessary, and approving
minutes of last regular meeting and minutes of special and intervening
meetings;
      (2)   Presentation of petitions and communications;
      (3)   Reports of officers;
      (4)   Reports of standing committees;
      (5)   Reports of special committees;
      (6)   Unfinished business; and
      (7)   New business.
   (B)   For good cause, the Mayor may, upon motion and majority vote, change
the order of business.
(2015 Code, § 1-6-7)
§ 30.37 VOTING; MAJORITY ELECTS.
   The ayes and nays must be called and recorded on the final passage of any
ordinance, bylaw, or resolution or making of any contract, and the voting on
the election or appointment of any officer must be viva voce and the majority
of the whole number of members elected is requisite to appoint or elect an
officer, and such vote must be recorded.
(MCA § 7-5-4121(2) and 7-5-4103) (2015 Code, § 1-6-8)
§ 30.38 RULES.
   The City Council may determine the rules of its proceedings, punish its
members for improper conduct, and expel any member for the same by a two-
thirds’ vote of the members elected, and must cause to be kept a journal of the
proceedings, which must be open to inspection.
(MCA § 7-5-4103) (2015 Code, § 1-6-9)
§ 30.39 GENERAL POWERS OF CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council has the power to make and pass all bylaws, ordinances,
orders, and resolutions, not repugnant to the constitution of the United States
or of the state, or of the provisions of state law, necessary for the
government or management of the affairs of the city, for the execution of the
powers vested in the body corporate, and for carrying into effect the
provisions of MCA Title 7, as amended.
(MCA § 7-3-4101) (2015 Code, § 1-6-10)
§ 30.40 EMINENT DOMAIN.
   (A)   The City Council has the power to condemn private property for
opening, establishing, widening, or altering any street, alley, part, sewer, or
waterway in the city and for establishing, constructing, and maintaining any
sewer, waterway, or drain ditch outside of the corporate limits of the
municipality or for any other municipal and public use.
   (B)   This section authorizing the taking of private property for any such
use is conclusive as to the necessity of the taking and must conform to and the
proceedings thereunder had as provided in MCA Title 70, Chapters 30 and 31
concerning eminent domain, as amended from time to time.
(2015 Code, § 1-6-11)
§ 30.41 PRESCRIBING DUTIES AND COMPENSATION.
   The City Council has the power to fix compensation and to prescribe the
duties of all officers and other employees of the city, subject to the
limitations mentioned in the Montana Code Annotated, as amended from time to
time.
(MCA § 7-5-4110) (2015 Code, § 1-6-12)
§ 30.42 OBTAINING REPORTS FROM OFFICERS.
   The City Council has the power to require from an officer, at any time, a
report, in detail, of the transactions of his or her office or any matter
connected therewith.
(MCA § 7-5-4112) (2015 Code, § 1-6-13)
§ 30.43 CONTRACTS.
   The City Council has the power to make any and all contracts necessary to
carry into effect the powers granted by state law and to provide for the manner
of executing the same.
(MCA § 7-5-4301) (2015 Code, § 1-6-14)
§ 30.44 ARRESTS.
   The City Council has the power to make regulations authorizing the Sheriff
and Police Department to make arrests of persons charged with crimes, within
the limits of the city and within five miles thereof, and along the line of
water supply or other public works of the city.
(MCA § 7-32-4301) (2015 Code, § 1-6-15)
§ 30.45 IMPOSITION OF PENALTIES.
   The City Council has the power to impose fines and penalties for the
violation of any city ordinance as provided in §
10.99.
(2015 Code, § 1-6-16)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICIALS, EMPLOYEES, AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Elections in accordance with statute
   
31.02   Qualifications of electors
   
31.03   Designation of an Environmental Certifying Officer
   
31.04   Appointment of Hatch Act Information Officer
City Officer and Employees
   
31.15   Principal officers
   
31.16   Elective and appointive officers
   
31.17   Commencement of term
   
31.18   Salaries
   
31.19   Bonds
   
31.20   Indemnification
   
31.21   Other
City Clerk/Treasurer
   
31.35   Appointment
   
31.36   Term
   
31.37   Duties
   
31.38   Deputy Clerk/Treasurer
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 ELECTIONS IN ACCORDANCE WITH STATUTE.
   All primary and general elections shall be held in accordance with the
statutes of the state.
(2015 Code, § 1-9-1)
§ 31.02 QUALIFICATIONS OF ELECTORS.
   Any person shall be qualified to vote in any and all city elections provided
he or she is a resident of the city or an area which has been annexed and
certified as such by the City Clerk/Treasurer and County Clerk and Recorder,
and is qualified and registered to vote under state law.
(2015 Code, § 1-9-2)
§ 31.03 DESIGNATION OF AN ENVIRONMENTAL CERTIFYING OFFICER.
   The city and the county will ensure that it, and all of its contractors or
agents, shall conduct all program matters in a non-discriminatory manner such
that all persons regardless of race, gender, age, disability, or other
protected class shall be treated equally and further each shall comply with the
policies and procedures delineated in the 2010 Pioneer Medical Center
Management Plan, approved by the state’s Department of Commerce Community
Development Block Grant Program.
(Res. 911, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 31.04 APPOINTMENT OF HATCH ACT INFORMATION OFFICER.
   The City Clerk/Treasurer is hereby appointed to serve as Hatch Act
Information Officer, and that as such he or she will inform each of the city’s
officials and employees of the provisions of the Hatch Act, being 5 U.S.C. §§
7321 et seq., through the use of an employee manual, written memoranda, or
other written means of notification, maintain on file a copy of the brochure
entitled Political Activity and the State and Local Employee, http://
www.osc.gov/documents/hatchact/ha_fed.pdf, and monitor compliance with the
provisions of the Hatch Act.
(Res. 913, passed 8-15-2011)
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 31.15 PRINCIPAL OFFICERS.
   (A)   The executive officer of the city is the Mayor.
   (B)   The legislative officers are the Aldermen.
   (C)   There shall be a judicial officer termed a City Judge. A justice of
the peace may also hold or fill the office of City Judge.
(2015 Code, § 1-7-1)
§ 31.16 ELECTIVE AND APPOINTIVE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The officers of the city consist of one Mayor and two Aldermen from
each ward, all of whom must be elected by the qualified electors of the city,
and one appointed City Judge.
   (B)   There may also be appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent
of the City Council, one City Judge, one City Clerk/Treasurer, who is ex
officio city assessor and ex officio tax collector, one deputy City Clerk/
Treasurer, one Director of Public Works, one City Attorney, one animal control
officer, and other officers necessary to carry out the provisions of this code
of ordinances.
   (C)   Subject to the limitations contained in city ordinances and state law,
the City Council or Mayor may prescribe the duties of all city officers and the
City Council may fix their compensation.
(2015 Code, § 1-7-2)
§ 31.17 COMMENCEMENT OF TERM.
   The terms of all officers elected at a city election are to commence on the
first Monday in January after such elections. Appointive officers shall
commence their employment within ten days after receiving notice of their
appointment.
(2015 Code, § 1-7-3)
§ 31.18 SALARIES.
   The salaries of the officers and employees of the city shall be set annually
by resolution or ordinance of the City Council.
(2015 Code, § 1-7-4)
§ 31.19 BONDS.
   All city officers shall be included in a blanket bond for the faithful
performance of their duties, said bond to be executed by a duly authorized
surety company, the premiums thereon to be paid by the city.
(2015 Code, § 1-7-5)
§ 31.20 INDEMNIFICATION.
   In any civil action brought against any public official or employee of the
city alleging a violation of initiative 75 or similar subsequent initiative,
the city shall defend the action on behalf of the official or employee and
indemnify the official or employee for any liability resulting from the alleged
violation of initiative 75 or similar subsequent initiative.
(2015 Code, § 1-7-6) (Ord. 447, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 31.21 OTHER.
   Vacancies, removal, abolishment, consolidation, salaries, and bonding of
officers are governed by MCA Title 7, as amended.
(2015 Code, § 1-7-7)
CITY CLERK/TREASURER
§ 31.35 APPOINTMENT.
   The Mayor shall, subject to the advice and consent of the City Council,
appoint a City Clerk/Treasurer and a deputy City Clerk/Treasurer who each shall
hold office for the duration of his or her appointment or until his or her
successor is appointed and qualified.
(2015 Code, § 1-7A-1)
§ 31.36 TERM.
   Each of the appointments for City Clerk/Treasurer and deputy City Clerk/
Treasurer shall be for four years only. No appointee is guaranteed renewal of
his or her appointment.
(2015 Code, § 1-7A-2)
§ 31.37 DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall perform such duties as are required by
state statute for City Clerks and City Treasurers and such other duties as the
City Council or Mayor may prescribe.
   (B)   For all purposes, including, without limitation, the administering of
any state or city law, rule, ordinance, policy, or the like, the duties
prescribed by law, rule, ordinance, policy, or the like to either the City
Clerk and/or the City Treasurer shall be deemed to be the responsibility of the
City Clerk/Treasurer established under this chapter.
(2015 Code, § 1-7A-3)
§ 31.38 DEPUTY CLERK/TREASURER.
   The deputy City Clerk/Treasurer shall assist the City Clerk/Treasurer in the
performance of Clerk/Treasurer duties as are required by state statute, as the
City Council or Mayor may prescribe or as the City Clerk/Treasurer may direct
and shall serve as acting City Clerk/Treasurer in the absence of the City
Clerk/Treasurer.
(2015 Code, § 1-7A-4)
CHAPTER 32: PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Volunteer Fire Department
   
32.02   Law enforcement agreement
City Attorney
   
32.15   Appointment
   
32.16   Qualifications
   
32.17   Term
   
32.18   Duties
   
32.19   Compensation
   
32.20   Additional counsel
   
32.21   Removal; suspension
City Judge
   
32.35   City Court
   
32.36   Appointment
   
32.37   Docket
   
32.38   Procedure for instituting an action
   
32.39   Issuance of warrant
   
32.40   Duty of arresting officer
   
32.41   Bail
   
32.42   Money deposited in lieu of bond
   
32.43   Receipts
   
32.44   Report filed with City Clerk/Treasurer
   
32.45   Trials
   
32.46   Compensation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The members, officers, duties, meetings, and functions of the city volunteer
Fire Department shall be as set forth in the constitution and bylaws of the
organization as the same now exists or may be amended from time to time.
(2015 Code, § 7-1-1)
§ 32.02 LAW ENFORCEMENT AGREEMENT.
   The City Council members, Police Department members, officers, duties, and
functions of the city police shall be as set forth in the law enforcement
agreement between the county and the city, as the agreement now exists or may
be amended from time to time.
(2015 Code, § 4-1-1)
CITY ATTORNEY
§ 32.15 APPOINTMENT.
   The Mayor, subject to the consent and approval of the City Council, may
appoint an Attorney who shall hold office for the duration of his or her
appointment or until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
(2015 Code, § 1-7B-1)
§ 32.16 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Attorney to be appointed shall be a person who has been licensed to
practice as an attorney in this state.
(2015 Code, § 1-7B-2)
§ 32.17 TERM.
   The Attorney shall hold office for two years, unless suspended or removed as
provided by this subchapter.
(2015 Code, § 1-7B-3)
§ 32.18 DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Attorney to attend before the City Court
and other courts, and prosecute on behalf of the city, and he or she shall
generally do and perform such other acts as pertain to the office of the City
Council.
   (B)   He or she shall, when required, draw for the use of the Council
contracts and ordinances for the government of the city and, when required,
give to the Mayor or City Council written opinions on questions pertaining to
the duties and the rights, liabilities, and powers of the city, and perform all
such duties as required by state law.
(2015 Code, § 1-7B-4)
§ 32.19 COMPENSATION.
   For such services, the Attorney shall receive a salary and fees as may be
fixed by the City Council by ordinance or resolution.
(2015 Code, § 1-7B-5)
§ 32.20 ADDITIONAL COUNSEL.
   Nothing herein shall be taken or construed as preventing the City Council
from employing other and additional counsel in special cases and providing for
the payment of such services.
(2015 Code, § 1-7B-6)
§ 32.21 REMOVAL; SUSPENSION.
   The Attorney may be suspended or removed from office by the City Council for
the neglect, violation, or disregard of his or her official duties.
(2015 Code, § 1-7B-7)
CITY JUDGE
§ 32.35 CITY COURT.
   The City Court shall be open daily Monday through Friday, legal holidays
excepted, at the courtroom in the county courthouse, commencing at such hours
as the City Judge may designate, whenever there are cases for disposition.
(2015 Code, § 1-7C-1)
§ 32.36 APPOINTMENT.
   The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council, shall appoint a
justice of the peace to act as City Judge who shall hold office for the
duration of his or her appointment or until his or her successor is appointed
and qualified.
(2015 Code, § 1-7C-2)
§ 32.37 DOCKET.
   The City Judge shall keep a docket of proceedings in said court, in which
shall be entered daily, as they occur, a synopsis of the proceedings in each
case, from the arrest to final judgment, and an entry of the appeal, if any
appeal be taken.
(2015 Code, § 1-7C-3)
§ 32.38 PROCEDURE FOR INSTITUTING AN ACTION.
   Actions for the violation of any law of the city must be commenced in one of
the following methods.
   (A)   When the offense is committed in the presence of any police officer,
he or she may arrest the offender without a warrant and bring him or her
forthwith before the City Judge.
   (B)   (1)   In all other cases, a complaint must be filed and verified by
the party making the same, which shall contain the name of the party to be
arrested, if known, and, if not known, the complaint may designate him or her
by any other name.
      (2)   The complaint shall also contain a brief statement of the acts
constituting the offense for which the person is arrested, with the date of the
offense, if known, and reference to the title of the chapter or ordinance,
number, and section thereof, he or she is charged with violating.
(2015 Code, § 1-7C-4)
§ 32.39 ISSUANCE OF WARRANT.
   Upon filing the complaint, the City Judge may, if the complaint charges the
violation of any city ordinance, issue a summons or warrant to any police
officer and the officer must serve the warrant by taking the defendant into
custody and bringing him or her before the City Judge.
(2015 Code, § 1-7C-5)
§ 32.40 DUTY OF ARRESTING OFFICER.
   The officer making the arrest shall make due return on his or her warrant;
and if any officer arrests a person without a warrant, said officer shall
forthwith file in the City Court a complaint against the person arrested as
provided in this chapter.
(2015 Code, § 1-7C-6)
§ 32.41 BAIL.
   (A)   Any person arrested for a violation of a city law may be admitted to
bail by giving bond with security, to be approved by the City Judge, and if he
or she cannot act, then the Sheriff, in such sum as he or she or either of them
may specify.
   (B)   The bond shall be conditioned that the defendant will appear at the
time named therein before the City Court and answer to the charge for which he
or she has been arrested.
   (C)   The bond shall be filed in the City Court, and, if the defendant fails
to appear at the time mentioned in the bond, the City Judge may declare the
bond forfeited.
(2015 Code, § 1-7C-7)
§ 32.42 MONEY DEPOSITED IN LIEU OF BOND.
   Any person arrested for the violation of a city law, in lieu of the bond
mentioned in §
32.41 may deposit with the City Judge or Sheriff such sum as may be specified
by either of said officers, who shall give to the person arrested a receipt for
the money so deposited in lieu of bail; if the person depositing the money
appears before the City Court at the time of the first setting thereof after
the money was so deposited, then said money shall be returned to the person
depositing it, but if he or she fails to appear, the City Judge shall declare
the deposit forfeited to the city and cause the same to be paid to the
treasury.
(2015 Code, § 1-7C-8)
§ 32.43 RECEIPTS.
   (A)   When a fine imposed by the City Judge for the violation of a city law
be paid in money, he or she shall issue a receipt therefor in triplicate on
blanks to be furnished him or her by the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   One copy shall be furnished to the person so fined, one copy shall
accompany the City Judge’s monthly report to the City Council and the other
shall remain in the City Court as a part of its report.
(2015 Code, § 1-7C-9)
§ 32.44 REPORT FILED WITH CITY CLERK/TREASURER.
   The City Judge shall make out and file in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer monthly a report on the number of cases tried, the person convicted,
the fine and cost imposed and whether the same has been paid, the number of
days any person convicted has been sentenced to confinement in the county jail
by the City Judge, and before filing the same, he or she shall pay over to the
City Clerk/Treasurer all monies received in payment of fines and make a receipt
therefor, which receipt shall be attached to the report filed with the City
Clerk/Treasurer.
(2015 Code, § 1-7C-10)
§ 32.45 TRIALS.
   All proceedings in the City Court shall be conducted in the same manner as
are trials in criminal cases before justices of the peace under the laws of the
state and all persons tried before the City Court shall have the same remedies
and rights of appeal as now are or may hereafter be prescribed by law in
criminal cases before justices of the peace. The City Judge shall have the same
right and authority to punish for contempt and maintain order in his or her
court that justices of the peace have. All proceedings for the violation of any
city law, both civil and criminal, must be prosecuted in the name of the city.
(2015 Code, § 1-7C-11)
§ 32.46 COMPENSATION.
   The annual salary of the City Judge shall be as determined from time to time
by resolution of the City Council, payable in monthly installments, together
with necessary travel expenses as defined and provided by state law and
necessary office expenses.
(2015 Code, § 1-7C-12)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Capital Improvement Program
   
33.02   Public Library Depreciation Reserve Fund
   
33.03   Policy concerning the payment of claims
Spending Policy
   
33.15   General Fund
   
33.16   All special revenue funds
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.
   The city formally adopts a Capital Improvement Program in accordance with
MCA § 7-6-616. The capital improvement program shall be funded by an amount not
to exceed 5% of the money received from the all-purpose levy, and shall be used
in accordance with MCA § 7-6-616.
(2015 Code, § 1-10-1)
§ 33.02 PUBLIC LIBRARY DEPRECIATION RESERVE FUND.
   (A)   The city-county Carnegie Public Library was officially created in
accord with the MCA Title 22, Chapter 1, part 7 and MCA § 22-1-303 by the
governing bodies of both the county and the city under the provision of the
state laws relating to public libraries and an inter-local library contract.
   (B)   The Library Board of Trustees was appointed and made responsible for
the oversight and direction of the library in accord with MCA §§ 22-1-308 and
22-1-309.
   (C)   The Library Board of Trustees is entrusted to ensure that the
residents of the library service area are provided access to quality library
services and resources that will meet both current and future needs.
   (D)   MCA § 22-1-305 provides as follows: Library Depreciation Reserve Fund
authorized. The governing body of any city or county or a combination of city
and county in the state may establish a Library Depreciation Reserve Fund for
the replacement and acquisition of property, capital improvements, and
equipment necessary to maintain and improve city, county, or city-county
library services.
   (E)   On April 9, 2019, the Carnegie Public Library Board of Trustees voted
to request establishment of a Library Depreciation Reserve Fund.
   (F)   On May 3, 2019, the County Commissioners, by letter of endorsement,
approved establishment of a Library Depreciation Reserve Fund.
   (G)   On June 3, 2019, the City Council met at a lawfully noticed public
meeting and determined that creating such a reserve fund provides sound fiscal
management of library funds.
   (H)   The city does establish a Library Depreciation Reserve Fund for the
Carnegie Public Library under MCA § 22-1-305.
   (I)   The Library Depreciation Fund will be managed and subject to audit
controls in a similar manner as other funds under the control and authority of
the Library Board of Trustees so long as such actions do not restrict the
purposes for which the Fund was established.
(Res. 973, passed 5-5-2019)
§ 33.03 POLICY CONCERNING THE PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   All claims against the city for payment must be presented to the City
Council for approval prior to payment.
   (B)   If the City Council is unable to meet due to a lack of quorum or other
circumstances preventing the City Council from meeting, the City Clerk/
Treasurer shall circulate the claims to the City Council and the Mayor shall
poll the Council prior to payment of the claims.
(Res. 998, passed 11-2-2020)
SPENDING POLICY
§ 33.15 GENERAL FUND.
   (A)   The city receives inflows from revenue and other financing sources
from numerous sources for use in the General Fund. The Fund will expend those
resources on multiple purposes of the local government. The intention of this
subchapter is to identify the expenditure order of resource categories for the
General Fund. Resources will be categorized according to Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles (GAAP) for state and local governments. When both
restricted and unrestricted are available in the General Fund, the following
spending policy will apply:
      (1)   First Restricted;
      (2)   Second Committed;
      (3)   Third Assigned; and
      (4)   Fourth Unassigned.
   (B)   The City Council, Mayor, and Clerk/Treasurer individually have the
authority to express assignments in the General Fund.
(Res. 909, passed 6-27-2011)
§ 33.16 ALL SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS.
   (A)   The city receives inflows from revenue and other financing sources
from various sources for use in special revenue funds. Special revenue funds
will expend those resources on the specific purpose of the fund. The intention
of this spending policy is to identify the expenditure order of resource
categories for all special revenue funds. Resources will be categorized
according to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) for state and
local governments. When both restricted and unrestricted resources are
available in a special revenue fund, the following spending policy will apply:
      (1)   First Restricted;
      (2)   Second Committed; and
      (3)   Third Assigned.
   (B)   The City Council, Mayor, and Clerk/Treasurer individually have the
authority to express assignments in special revenue funds.
(Res. 909, passed 6-27-2011)
CHAPTER 34: CITY POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Fair housing
   
34.02   Americans with Disabilities Act complaint procedures
   
34.03   ADA complaint form
   
34.04   Flags flown at city offices
§ 34.01 FAIR HOUSING.
   (A)   The city makes a firm commitment to do all within its power to
eliminate prejudice, intolerance, disorder, and discrimination in housing.
   (B)   A fair housing law poster, which has the “Equal Housing Opportunity”
logo, will be displayed at City Hall.
   (C)   The following procedures will be used to accomplish the purpose of
this section:
      (1)   The City Council shall inform all city employees of the city’s
commitment to fair housing;
      (2)   The City Council will post the resolution reproduced in this
section in city buildings and other public places and publicize it;
      (3)   The City Council shall direct all employees to forward immediately
to the Mayor any reports they receive of housing discrimination; and
      (4)   The Mayor shall forward such complaints to the state’s Human Rights
Commission, Department of Labor and Industry, P.O. Box 1728, Helena, Montana
59624-1728, within ten days of receipt of said complaint.
(Res. 912, passed 8-15-2011)
§ 34.02 AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT COMPLAINT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   The Rehabilitation Act of 1973 § 504, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 701 et
seq., and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), being 42 U.S.C. §§
12101 et seq., provide comprehensive civil rights protection to individuals
with disabilities in the areas of employment, public accommodations, state and
local government services and programs, and telecommunications.
      (2)   Title II of the ADA states, in part, that: “No otherwise qualified
disabled individual shall, solely by reason of such disability, be excluded
from the participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subject to
discrimination in programs or activities sponsored by a public entity.”
   (B)   The city has adopted this complaint procedure to provide prompt and
equitable resolution of complaints alleging any action prohibited by the U.S.
Department of Justice regulations implementing Title II of the ADA.
   (C)   Any individual who believes that he or she or a specific class of
individuals with disabilities has been subjected to unlawful discrimination on
the basis of that disability by the city or any of the city’s contractors or
suppliers may, by himself or herself or by an authorized representative, file a
written complaint.
   (D)   Complaints or questions should be addressed to: (Clerk/Treasurer. P.O.
Box 416, Big Timber, MT 59011 Phone: 406-932-5611). TDD # (406) - ___ - _____.
Montana Relay System for the Deaf: Dial 711 or 1-800-253-4091 to use Montana
Relay. The Clerk/Treasurer has been designated to coordinate compliance with
the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 § 504 and the Americans with Disabilities Act of
1990.
      (1)   The complaint must be filed in writing and contain the name,
address, and telephone number of the individual or representative filing the
complaint; a description of the alleged discriminatory action in sufficient
detail to inform the department of the nature and date of the alleged
violation; the signature of the complainant or authorized representative; and a
description of the corrective action that is being sought. Complaints filed on
behalf of a third party must identify the alleged victims of the
discrimination. Complaints may be filed on the attached complaint form.
      (2)   The complaint must be received within 20 calendar days after the
alleged violation occurs. This time may be extended, as determined by the
Section 504/ADA Coordinator, for good cause shown.
      (3)   The city shall promptly conduct an informal investigation of the
complaint. Interested parties will be afforded an opportunity to submit
information relevant to the complaint.
      (4)   A written response will be issued and a copy forwarded to the
complainant no later than 30 calendar days after completion of the
investigation.
      (5)   The city will maintain the files and records relating to the
complaint and its investigation according to the records retention schedule for
personnel documents found in Montana Operations Manual, Volume I, Chapter 800.
      (6)   Nothing in this complaint resolution procedure shall be construed
as preventing an individual from pursuit of other remedies, including filing a
formal complaint with the state’s Human Rights Commission, with any federal
agency the individual believes is appropriate, or with the U.S. Department of
Justice. The time limit for filing a formal complaint is 180 days after the
alleged incident. This procedure also does not preclude the individual’s right
to file a lawsuit in Federal District Court.
(Res. 914, passed 8-15-2011)
§ 34.03 ADA COMPLAINT FORM.
 
CITY OF BIG TIMBER, MONTANA
ADA COMPLAINT FORM
 
COMPLAINANT’S NAME:                                                                                                 
MAILING ADDRESS:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
TELEPHONE NUMBER:                                                                (8:00 am to 5:00 pm, Mon-Thurs & 8:00 am to 3 pm Friday)
 
PLEASE DESCRIBE THE ALLEGED DISCRIMINATORY ACTION OR DENIAL OF SERVICE. Please provide sufficient details. Include: description of alleged discriminatory action, names, dates, places, actions/events, witnesses, etc.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 [          ] CHECK HERE if additional pages are attached
 
PLEASE SPECIFY WHAT CORRECTIVE ACTION YOU ARE SEEKING:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[          ] CHECK HERE if additional pages are attached.
_________________________________________________________________________
SIGNATURE OF PERSON MAKING COMPLAINTDATE
 
COMPLAINTS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO: (Name and Address of ADA/Section 504 Coordinator). Telecommunications Device for the Deaf - TDD: (406) 444-2978.
Dial 711 or 1-800-253-4091 to use the Montana Relay Service.
 
*    *      *      *      *      *      *      *
FOR AGENCY USE ONLY
_________________________________________________________________________
SIGNATURE OF PERSON MAKING COMPLAINT
_________________________________________________________________________
DATE
____________________________________________
TITLE
 
(Res. 914, passed 8-15-2011)
§ 34.04 FLAGS FLOWN AT CITY OFFICES.
   Flags that shall be flown on the three flag poles located at the City
Offices are hereby restricted to 1) the official flag of the United States of
America and POW/MIA; 2) the official flag of the State of Montana; and 3) the
official flag of the City of Big Timber, Montana. The City shall comply with
orders or requests from the Governor of the State of Montana or the United
States of America with respect to the position of the flags on the flag poles.
(Ord. 495, passed 11-22-2023)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER SYSTEM
      
51.   SEWER SYSTEM
      
52.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: WATER SYSTEM
Section
   
50.01   Rules and regulations
   
50.02   Determination of annual budget for system
   
50.03   Prior rates
   
50.04   Equivalent dwelling unit
   
50.05   Base rate charge
   
50.06   Usage charge
   
50.07   Monthly charge
   
50.08   Apartment complexes
   
50.09   Subsequent rate increase
   
50.10   Further rate increases
§ 50.01 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   All matters relating to water and water usage shall be governed by the
“Rules and Regulations Governing Utility Services and Streets for the City of
Big Timber, Montana” and “Standards for Public Works Improvements for the City
of Big Timber, Montana,” adopted by reference herein and as modified from time
to time by the City Council.
(2015 Code, § 9-2-1)
§ 50.02 DETERMINATION OF ANNUAL BUDGET FOR SYSTEM.
   (A)   Each year, the City Council shall determine the amount of money needed
to pay the costs of the system, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The payment of the reasonable expense of operation and maintenance
of the system;
      (2)   Administration of the system;
      (3)   The payment of principal and interest on any bonded or other
indebtedness of the system; and
      (4)   The establishment or maintenance of any required reserves,
including reserves needed for expenditures for depreciation and replacement of
facilities, as may be determined necessary from time to time by the Council or
as covenanted in the ordinance or resolution authorizing any outstanding bonds
of the system.
   (B)   Based on the annual needs of the system, the Council will establish
monthly charges for the use and availability of the system.
(Res. 956, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 50.03 PRIOR RATES.
   (A)   Base rate charge. The city charges users of the system a monthly flat
rate (the “base rate charge”) per line size as shown in the table below.
 
Diameter by Inch Base Rate Charge
5/8 and 3/4      $22
1                $22
1-1/2            $25
2                $30
3                $35
 
   (B)   Usage charge. In addition, the city charges a monthly usage charge
(the “usage charge”) of $1 per 1,000 gallons used per connection or
proportionate charge for gallons of water consumed in excess of any 1,000-
gallon increment up to 30,000 gallons. Water usage over 30,000 gallons per
connection per month is charged $1.50 per 1,000 gallons.
   (C)   Monthly charge. The monthly charge for the use and availability of the
system is the sum of the base rate charge and the usage charge (such sum, the
“monthly charge”).
   (D)   Apartment complexes. Apartment complexes connected to the system are
charged based on the number of apartments in the complex. Each apartment within
an apartment complex is charged a base rate charge of $22 per month.
(Res. 956, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 50.04 EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT.
   (A)   Effective as of July 1, 2017, the city will implement a standardized
Equivalent Dwelling Unit (EDU) methodology for imposing rates and charges and
base it on the size of the service line for each connection. A three-fourths
inch service, the standard size service line for single-family residential
users, will equal one EDU.
   (B)   The following table shows the number of EDUs for each size of service
line and the total EDUs:
 
      Service Line     Number of Apartment Units EDUs per Hookup Total EDUs
      Diameter by Inch Hookups
     5/8 and 3/4      841       58              1               899
     1                91        56              1.79            263.13
     1-1/2            5                         4               20
     2                6                         7.14            42.84
     3                2                         16              32
Total                  948       114                             1256.97
 
(Res. 956, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 50.05 BASE RATE CHARGE.
   Effective as of July 1, 2017, the base rate charge will increase from $22 to
$32.20 per EDU per month as follows:
 
Diameter by Inch Cost per EDU Multiplier Proposed Base Rate Charge
5/8 and 3/4      $32.20       1          $32.20
1                $32.20       1.79       $57.64
1-1/2            $32.20       4          $128.80
2                $32.20       7.14       $229.91
3                $32.20       16         $515.20
 
(Res. 956, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 50.06 USAGE CHARGE.
   In addition to the increased base rate charge, effective as of July 1, 2017,
the monthly usage charge will increase to $1.80 per 1,000 gallons used per
connection or proportionate charge for gallons of water used in excess of any
1,000-gallon increment up to 20,000 gallons of water per month and water usage
above 20,000 gallons per month will be charged $2.70 per 1,000 gallons used per
connection or proportionate charge for gallons of water consumed in excess of
any 1,000-gallon increment.
(Res. 956, passed 5-15-2017, § 3.03)
§ 50.07 MONTHLY CHARGE.
   The monthly charge for the use and availability of the system will increase
to the sum of the new base rate charge and the new usage charge (such sum, the
“monthly charge”).
(Res. 956, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 50.08 APARTMENT COMPLEXES.
   Apartment complexes connected to the system are charged based on the number
of apartments in the complex. Each apartment within an apartment complex will
be charged the base rate charge of $32.20 per month.
(Res. 956, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 50.09 SUBSEQUENT RATE INCREASE.
   The Council will implement an annual 3% increase in the then-current base
rate charge and the then-current usage charge over the next four fiscal years
as described on the table below:
3% WATER RATE INCREASE OVER 4 FISCAL YEARS (2019, 2020, 2021, 2022)
              FY 2019            FY 2020            FY 2021            FY 2022
Meter              Usage Rate         Usage Rate         Usage Rate         Usage Rate
Size  ED Us/       (per 1,000         (per 1,000         (per 1,000         (per 1,000
by    Service Base gal)          Base gal)          Base gal)          Base gal)
Inch          Rate <      >      Rate <      >      Rate <      >      Rate <      >
                   20,000 20,000      20,000 20,000      20,000 20,000      20,000 20,000
                   gal    gal         gal    gal         gal    gal         gal    gal
3% WATER RATE INCREASE OVER 4 FISCAL YEARS (2019, 2020, 2021, 2022)
              FY 2019                 FY 2020                 FY 2021                 FY 2022
Meter                   Usage Rate              Usage Rate              Usage Rate              Usage Rate
Size  ED Us/            (per 1,000              (per 1,000              (per 1,000              (per 1,000
by    Service Base Rate gal)          Base Rate gal)          Base Rate gal)          Base Rate gal)
Inch                    <      >                <      >                <      >                <      >
                        20,000 20,000           20,000 20,000           20,000 20,000           20,000 20,000
                        gal    gal              gal    gal              gal    gal              gal    gal
5/
8 and 1       $33.17    $1.86  $2.79  $34.17    $1.92  $2.88  $35.20    $1.98  $2.97  $36.26    $2.04  $3.06
3/4
1     1.79    $59.37    $1.86  $2.79  $61.16    $1.92  $2.88  $63       $1.98  $2.97  $64.89    $2.04  $3.06
1-1/2 4       $132.67   $1.86  $2.79  $136.66   $1.92  $2.88  $140.76   $1.98  $2.97  $144.99   $2.04  $3.06
2     7.14    $236.81   $1.86  $2.79  $243.92   $1.92  $2.88  $251.24   $1.98  $2.97  $258.78   $2.04  $3.06
3     16      $530.66   $1.86  $2.79  $546.58   $1.92  $2.88  $562.98   $1.98  $2.97  $579.87   $2.04  $3.06
4     28.57   $947.56   $1.86  $2.79  $975.99   $1.92  $2.88  $1,005.27 $1.98  $2.97  $1,035.43 $2.04  $3.06
6     64.29   $2,132.25 $1.86  $2.79  $2,196.22 $1.92  $2.88  $2,262.11 $1.98  $2.97  $2,329.98 $2.04  $3.06
8     113.78  $3,773.63 $1.86  $2.79  $3,886.84 $1.92  $2.88  $4,003.45 $1.98  $2.97  $4,123.56 $2.04  $3.06
10    177.78  $5,896.26 $1.86  $2.79  $6,073.15 $1.92  $2.88  $6,255.35 $1.98  $2.97  $6,443.02 $2.04  $3.06
 
(Res. 956, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 50.10 FURTHER RATE INCREASES.
   Subsequent adjustments to the city’s water rates will be made by resolution
of the Council duly adopted after a public hearing with notice thereof given as
provided by law.
(Res. 956, passed 5-15-2017)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER SYSTEM
Section
   
51.01   Rules and regulations
   
51.02   Determination of annual budget for system
   
51.03   Previous rates
   
51.04   Equivalent dwelling unit
   
51.05   Base rate charge
   
51.06   Usage charge
   
51.07   Monthly charge
   
51.08   Subsequent rate increase
   
51.09   Further rate increases
§ 51.01 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   All matters relating to sewage and sewage disposal shall be governed by the
“Rules and Regulations Governing Utility Services and Streets for the City of
Big Timber, Montana” and “Standards for Public Works Improvements for the City
of Big Timber, Montana,” adopted by reference herein and as modified from time
to time by the City Council.
(2015 Code, § 9-1-1)
§ 51.02 DETERMINATION OF ANNUAL BUDGET FOR SYSTEM.
   (A)   Each year, the City Council shall determine the amount of money needed
to pay the costs of the system, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The payment of the reasonable expense of operation and maintenance
of the system;
      (2)   Administration of the system;
      (3)   The payment of principal and interest on any bonded or other
indebtedness of the system; and
      (4)   The establishment or maintenance of any required reserves,
including reserves needed for expenditures for depreciation and replacement of
facilities, as may be determined necessary from time to time by the Council or
as covenanted in the ordinance or resolution authorizing any outstanding bonds
of the system.
   (B)   Based on the annual needs of the system, the Council will establish
monthly charges for the use and availability of the system.
(Res. 957, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 51.03 PREVIOUS RATES.
   (A)   Base rate charge. The city charges users of the system a monthly flat
rate (the “base rate charge”) per line size as shown in the table below.
 
Diameter by Inch Base Rate Charge
5/8 and 3/4      $10.90
1                $10.90
1-1/2            $43.60
2                $52.50
3                $87.20
 
   (B)   Usage charge. In addition, the city charges a monthly usage charge
(the “usage charge”) of $1.90 per 1,000 gallons used per connection or
proportionate charge for gallons of water consumed in excess of any 1,000-
gallon increment.
   (C)   Monthly charge. The monthly charge for the use and availability of the
system is the sum of the base rate charge and the usage charge (such sum, the
“monthly charge”).
(Res. 957, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 51.04 EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT.
   Effective as of July 1, 2017, the city will implement a standardized
Equivalent Dwelling Unit (“EDU”) methodology for imposing rates and charges
based on the size of the service line for each connection. A three-fourths inch
service, the standard size service line for single-family residential users,
will equal one EDU. The following table shows the number of EDUs for each size
of service line:
 
      Service Line Diameter by Number of Hookups EDUs per Hookup Total EDUs
      Inch
     5/8 and 3/4              829               1               829
     1                        75                1.79            134.25
     1-1/2                    5                 4               20
     2                        3                 7.14            21.42
     3                        2                 16              32
Total                          914                               1,036.67
 
(Res. 957, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 51.05 BASE RATE CHARGE.
   Effective as of July 1, 2017, the base rate charge will increase from $10.90
to $28 per EDU per month as follows:
 
Diameter by Inch Cost per EDU Multiplier Proposed Base Rate Charge
5/8 and 3/4      $28          1          $28
1                $28          1.79       $50.12
1-1/2            $28          4          $112
2                $28          7.14       $199.92
3                $28          16         $448
 
(Res. 957, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 51.06 USAGE CHARGE.
   In addition to the increased base rate charge, effective July 1, 2017, the
monthly usage charge will increase to $3.30 per 1,000 gallons used per
connection or proportionate charge for gallons of water used in excess of any
1,000-gallon increment.
(Res. 957, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 51.07 MONTHLY CHARGE.
   The monthly charge for the use and availability of the system will increase
to the sum of the new base rate charge and the new usage charge.
(Res. 957, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 51.08 SUBSEQUENT RATE INCREASE.
   The Council will implement an annual 3% increase in the then-current base
rate charge and the then-current usage charge over the next four fiscal years
as described on table below:
3% SEWER RATE INCREASE OVER 4 FISCAL YEARS (2019, 2020, 2021, 2022)
                FY 2019    FY 2020    FY 2021             FY 2022
Meter                Usage      Usage           Usage               Usage
Size by EDUs/   Base Rate  Base Rate            Rate (per           Rate (per
Inch    Service Rate (per  Rate (per  Base Rate 1,000     Base Rate 1,000
                     1,000      1,000           gal)                gal)
                     gal)       gal)
3% SEWER RATE INCREASE OVER 4 FISCAL YEARS (2019, 2020, 2021, 2022)
                FY 2019         FY 2020         FY 2021         FY 2022
Meter                     Usage           Usage           Usage           Usage
Size by EDUs/             Rate            Rate            Rate            Rate
Inch    Service Base Rate (per  Base Rate (per  Base Rate (per  Base Rate (per
                          1,000           1,000           1,000           1,000
                          gal)            gal)            gal)            gal)
5/8 and 1       $28.84    $3.40 $29.71    $3.51 $30.61    $3.62 $31.53    $3.73
3/4
1       1.79    $51.63    $3.40 $53.18    $3.51 $54.78    $3.62 $56.43    $3.73
1-1/2   4       $115.36   $3.40 $118.83   $3.51 $122.40   $3.62 $126.08   $3.73
2       7.14    $205.92   $3.40 $212.10   $3.51 $218.47   $3.62 $225.03   $3.73
3       16      $461.44   $3.40 $475.29   $3.51 $489.55   $3.62 $504.24   $3.73
4       28.57   $823.96   $3.40 $848.68   $3.51 $874.15   $3.62 $900.38   $3.73
6       64.29   $1,854.13 $3.40 $1,909.76 $3.51 $1,967.06 $3.62 $2,026.08 $3.73
8       113.78  $3,281.42 $3.40 $3,379.87 $3.51 $3,481.27 $3.62 $3,585.71 $3.73
10      177.78  $5,127.18 $3.40 $5,281    $3.51 $5,439.43 $3.62 $5,602.62 $3.73
 
(Res. 957, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 51.09 FURTHER RATE INCREASES.
   Subsequent adjustments to the city’s sewer rates will be made by resolution
of the Council duly adopted after a public hearing with notice thereof given as
provided by law.
(Res. 957, passed 5-15-2017)
CHAPTER 52: GARBAGE
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Disposal of wastes
   
52.03   Inflammable rubbish, acids, and explosives
   
52.04   Dumping prohibited
   
52.05   Garbage from outside city limits
   
52.06   Removal required
   
52.07   Depositing prohibited
   
52.08   Funds, appropriation, borrowing, and other means
   
52.09   Refuse collection and disposal permits
   
52.10   Prohibitions; private responsibility
   
52.11   Service of notices and orders; hearings; enforcement
   
52.12   Inspection
   
52.13   Collection
   
52.14   Solid waste rate increase
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. The residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke, or other
combustible materials in homes, stores, institutions, and small industrial
establishments for the purpose of heating, cooking, and disposing of waste
combustible materials. Cinders produced in steam-generating plants are not
included within the meaning of this term.
   GARBAGE. Includes animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of foods. It is composed largely of
organic matters and their natural moisture content. The term does not include
within its meaning food processing wastes from canneries, slaughterhouses,
packing plants, or similar industries, or large quantities of condemned food
products. GARBAGE originates primarily in kitchens, stores, markets,
restaurants, hotels, and other places where food is stored, cooked, or
consumed.
   INFLAMMABLE RUBBISH or COMBUSTIBLE RUBBISH. Comprises miscellaneous
flammable materials. Generally, it is the organic component of rubbish such as
paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, furniture, bedding, rubber,
leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, and similar material.
   NONCOMBUSTIBLE RUBBISH. Comprises miscellaneous refuse materials that are
nonflammable at ordinary temperatures. For the most part, it is the inorganic
component of rubbish such as tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass, crockery,
dust, metal furniture, and the like.
(2015 Code, § 3-2-1)
   PERSON. Any institution, public or private, corporation, individual,
partnership, or other entity, but shall exclude the city.
   PREMISES. Land, buildings, or other structures, vehicles, watercraft, or
parts thereof, upon or in which refuse is stored.
   REFUSE. All solid wastes of a community, including garbage, ashes, rubbish,
dead animals, street cleanings, and solid market and industrial wastes, but not
including body wastes.
(2015 Code, § 3-3-1)
   RUBBISH. All refuse not included in garbage and ashes. It consists of a
great variety of combustible and noncombustible waste materials from
households, stores, and institutions. This waste is defined more specifically
as COMBUSTIBLE RUBBISH and NONCOMBUSTIBLE RUBBISH, but whenever the word
RUBBISH is used alone, it means a mixture of both. TRASH is synonymous with
RUBBISH.
(2015 Code, § 3-2-1)
§ 52.02 DISPOSAL OF WASTES.
   The disposal of garbage, rubbish, and other wastes shall be as the City
Council orders by regulation.
(2015 Code, § 3-2-2) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 INFLAMMABLE RUBBISH, ACIDS, AND EXPLOSIVES.
   No person shall place or cause to be placed in or near the receptacle
provided for the removal of ashes any highly flammable rubbish, acids, or
explosives of any kind whatsoever.
(2015 Code, § 3-2-3) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 DUMPING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to dump or leave any garbage or rubbish:
   (A)   In or upon any highway, road, street, or alley of this city;
   (B)   In or upon any public recreational property; and/or
   (C)   On privately owned property, provided this section shall not apply to
the owner, his or her agents or those disposing of garbage or rubbish with the
owner’s consent.
(2015 Code, § 3-2-4) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 GARBAGE FROM OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to dispose of, place, or deposit within the city
limits any ashes, garbage, trash, or any other kind of rubbish generated,
created, or originated outside of the boundaries of the city limits.
   (B)   The city is not responsible for collecting any ashes, garbage, trash,
or any other kind of rubbish generated, created, or originated outside of the
boundaries of the city limits.
   (C)   (1)   This prohibition against the depositing of ashes, garbage,
trash, or any other kind of rubbish generated, created, or originated outside
of the boundaries of the city limits applies regardless of landowner permission
and all ordinances shall be interpreted to include such a prohibition
regardless of landowner consent.
      (2)   This prohibition does not apply to minor amounts of ashes, garbage,
trash, or rubbish which may have originated outside of the city limits but are
deposited infrequently and incidentally to the use of a property within the
city limits by an owner, or the owner’s lessees, invitees, and guests.
   (D)   An example of minor, incidental use includes, without limitation, the
cleaning out of trash from a vehicle which may have accumulated incidentally
from a trip outside of the city limits.
   (E)   This section does not apply to persons who are valid out-of-city
limits subscribers.
(2015 Code, § 3-2-5) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   In order to protect the health of the residents of the city, all refuse must
be removed from the city limits and from areas within five miles of the city
limits unless otherwise specified in the garbage and sanitation regulation from
time to time set forth by the City Council or as otherwise provided by the City
Council.
(2015 Code, § 3-3-2)
§ 52.07 DEPOSITING PROHIBITED.
   No refuse shall be cast, thrown, or deposited by any person upon any street,
alley, or public place, or, without the consent of the owner, upon the premises
of any other person within this city or within five miles of the city limits.
(2015 Code, § 3-3-3) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.08 FUNDS, APPROPRIATION, BORROWING, AND OTHER MEANS.
   (A)   Authorization. The City Council is authorized to make funds available
by appropriation, by borrowing, or by other means, in accordance with the laws
and procedures of this city, for equipment for the collection or disposal of
refuse, and for the establishment, maintenance, and operation of refuse
collection systems and refuse disposal methods and sites.
   (B)   Service charges.
      (1)   Liability for cost. Service charges for the cost of collecting and
disposing of refuse from the streets, alleys, and private premises shall, in
all cases, be assessed and taxed against the real estate from which such
garbage or refuse is collected and each lot from which refuse is collected
shall, as far as practicable, bear its share of the expense of collecting and
disposing of refuse in proportion to the amount of refuse collected therefrom.
      (2)   Establishment; administration. Refuse service charges within the
jurisdictional limits of the city or upon real property within the city, for
the purpose of financing the establishment, maintenance, and operation of
refuse collection systems or refuse disposal methods and sites are to be
established and administered as follows.
         (a)   Rate schedule. It shall be the duty of the City Council to
estimate, as near as practicable, the cost of collecting and disposing of
refuse in the city and, within its jurisdictional limits, from time to time as
may be necessary. The City Council will, by resolution, pass a rate schedule.
         (b)   Apportionment. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk/Treasurer,
after the passage of the resolution fixing the basic refuse rates, to extend
the list on the lots liable for the tax, the total amount to be taxed against
each lot or portion of lot.
         (c)   Levy and assessment. The City Council shall thereupon
provisionally pass a resolution levying and assessing refuse taxes in
accordance with such extensions. The resolution shall give the number and
description of each lot to be assessed; the total amount of such assessment;
the name of the owner, if known; and the date when the City Council will hear
objections.
         (d)   Notice to lot owners. There must be published at least once in
the newspaper located in the city a notice to all lot owners of the passage of
the resolution, and the time and place for hearing objections to its final
passage. This notice must be published at least ten days prior to the time set
for hearing objections to its final passage.
         (e)   Effective date. A resolution levying and assessing refuse taxes
in accordance with this chapter may specify an effective date. In the event the
resolution does not specify an effective date, the resolution shall become
effective the first day of the month next following the time set for hearing of
objections as above provided.
   (C)   Payment.
      (1)   Billing. Refuse service charges, as provided by this section, may
be payable quarterly, by separate billing in conjunction with the water bill,
if any; if no water bill is sent, by billing during the same period of time.
      (2)   Due date. Such fees shall be paid by the property owner within 30
days after date of mailing statement.
      (3)   Delinquent charges. If any refuse service charges are delinquent, a
carrying fee will be added in the sum of 2/3% per month. If any refuse service
charges, together with carrying fees added, are still delinquent on June 30 of
each year, they will be certified to the County Treasurer by the City Clerk/
Treasurer, and such delinquent assessments with carrying charges added shall be
entered by the County Treasurer to the delinquent tax list of the county.
(2015 Code, § 3-3-4)
§ 52.09 REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person who does not
possess an unrevoked permit from the City Council to engage in the business of
refuse collection or refuse disposal for compensation in the city. The City
Council shall issue permits for such applicants; provided that such permits
shall be limited to persons having proper equipment and personnel to collect
and dispose of refuse in accordance with the provisions of this chapter; and,
provided further, the City Council may issue such permits on a contractual
basis for the collection and disposal of refuse in accordance with the laws of
the state and pursuant to such regulations for the collection and disposing of
refuse that it from time to time sets forth.
   (B)   Contract. If the City Council lets the collection and disposal of the
refuse on contract for a specified time, it may grant the person receiving the
contract an exclusive franchise for the collection and disposal of refuse for
the period set forth in the contract.
   (C)   Application for permit; fee. If, however, the City Council is not
under an exclusive contract for the collection and disposal of refuse with
another person, every person desiring to engage in the collection and/or
disposal of refuse shall make written application to the City Council setting
forth the name of such person, the residence address thereof or the address of
the place of business, a description of equipment to be used in the collection
and/or disposal of such refuse, and the place of disposal and the method of
disposal to be practiced. Upon approval of such application, the City Council
shall issue a permit to the applicant. A permit fee, as determined by the City
Council, shall be payable in advance to the city.
   (D)   Denial of application. Any person whose application for a permit has
been denied may request, and shall be granted, a hearing before the City
Council.
   (E)   Term; renewal. All permits, exclusive of contracts, under this chapter
shall expire in one year. Permits shall be renewable annually in the same
manner and upon payment of the same annual fee as provided above.
(2015 Code, § 3-3-5)
§ 52.10 PROHIBITIONS; PRIVATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The owner, his or her agent, or the occupant of any premises within
the city shall be responsible for the sanitary condition of the premises
occupied or owned by him or her, and must conform to the reasonable regulations
affecting the storage of refuse as may from time to time be passed by the City
Council.
   (B)   Any person responsible for:
      (1)   Refuse on premises not served by the refuse collection system of
the city; or
      (2)   For refuse not acceptable for collection by the city, shall make
arrangements for the collection and disposal of such refuse with the City
Clerk/Treasurer and obtain a permit from him or her, and also obtain a
registration certificate from the Health Officer or the health body having
jurisdiction over the city, if such certificate is required by the city, state,
or federal law.
(2015 Code, §§ 3-3-6)
§ 52.11 SERVICE OF NOTICES AND ORDERS; HEARINGS; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Notice of violation. Whenever the City Council or the City Attorney
determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or the regulation passed
pursuant to this chapter, the City Attorney shall give notice of such alleged
violation to the person responsible therefor as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Notice requirements.
      (1)   Such notice shall:
         (a)   Be put into writing;
         (b)   Include a statement of the reasons why it is being issued;
         (c)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it
requires; and
         (d)   Be served upon the holder of a permit issued under this chapter,
or upon the owner, his or her agent or the occupant of any premises within the
city or within a five-mile radius of the city; provided that such notice shall
be deemed to have been properly served when a copy thereof has been served
personally, or in accordance with the state’s rules of civil procedure or
attached to the garbage container or rack.
      (2)   Such notice may:
         (a)   Contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will
effect compliance with the provisions of this chapter; and
         (b)   State that, unless conditions or practices described in such
notice which violate this chapter or regulations enacted hereunder are
corrected within a reasonable time specified in such notice, a permit which has
been issued pursuant to this chapter or a contract given by said city may be
suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Request for hearing. Any person who is affected by any notice issued
in connection with the enforcement of any provision of this chapter may
request, and shall be granted, a hearing on the matter before the City Council;
provided, that such person shall file, in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer, a written petition requesting such hearing and setting forth a brief
statement of the grounds therefor, within ten days after the day notice was
served.
   (D)   Notice of hearing. Upon receipt of such petition, the City Clerk/
Treasurer shall set a time and place for such hearing and shall give the
petitioner written notice thereof.
   (E)   Hearing; postponement. At such hearing, the petitioner shall be given
an opportunity to be heard. The hearing shall be commenced not later than ten
days after the day on which the petition was filed or at least the next regular
City Council meeting; provided that, upon application of the petitioner, the
City Clerk/Treasurer may postpone the date of the hearing for a reasonable time
beyond such ten-day period when, in his or her judgment, the petitioner has
submitted a good and sufficient reason for such postponement.
   (F)   Action of Council. After such hearing, the City Council shall sustain,
modify, or withdraw the notice, depending upon its findings based on such
hearing as to whether or not the provisions of this chapter and the regulations
adopted pursuant thereto have been complied with. If the City Council sustains
or modifies such notice, it shall have the effect of law and any subsequent
violation of the same matter or failure to correct those things set forth in
the notice will be considered a misdemeanor and punishable pursuant to § 
10.99. In the case of any notice which states that a permit required by this
chapter may be suspended or revoked, the City Council may suspend or revoke
such permit if an order is issued and corrective action has not been taken
within the time specified in the notice.
   (G)   City Council decision; appeal. The proceedings of such hearings,
including the findings and decisions of the City Council, shall be summarized,
reduced to writing, and entered as a matter of public record in the minutes of
the City Council by the City Clerk/Treasurer. Such record shall also include a
copy of every notice or order issued in connection with the matter. Any person
aggrieved by the decision of the City Council may seek relief therefrom in any
court of competent jurisdiction, as provided by the laws of the state.
   (H)   Emergency. Whenever the City Council finds that an emergency exists
involving a serious health hazard which requires immediate action to protect
the public health, it may, without notice or hearing, issue a written order
reciting the existence of such emergency and the conditions violating this
chapter which require corrective action to remove such health hazard. If such
corrective action is not taken, the City Council may take or direct such action
as may be necessary to protect the public health. Notwithstanding other
provisions of this chapter, such order shall be effective immediately. Any
person to whom such order is directed shall comply therewith immediately, but,
upon petition to the City Council as hereinabove set forth, shall be afforded a
hearing as soon as possible, but in any case not later than three days after
the petition was filed.
   (I)   Delegation of authority. The City Council may from time to time
delegate the functions set forth in this section to the Sanitation Committee
appointed by the Mayor and approved by the majority of the City Council.
(2015 Code, § 3-3-7)
§ 52.12 INSPECTION.
   The City Council, or its designated authority, after identifying itself,
shall have the power to enter at reasonable times upon private or public
property for the purpose of inspecting and investigating conditions relating to
the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
(2015 Code, § 3-3-8)
§ 52.13 COLLECTION.
   (A)   (1)   Acceptable refuse. The following refuse shall be considered to
be acceptable for collection:
         (a)   Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking, and/or consumption of foods;
         (b)   The residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke, or other
combustible materials;
         (c)   Nonputrescible solid wastes, excluding ashes, consisting of
paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery,
metals, and similar materials; and
         (d)   Small, dead animals, not exceeding 70 pounds each in weight,
which die in the normal course of community activity, excluding condemned
animals, animals from a slaughterhouse, or other animals normally considered
agricultural or industrial refuse, shall be removed upon request to the City
Clerk/Treasurer, or the person collecting the refuse for the city.
      (2)   Unacceptable refuse. The following refuse shall be considered not
acceptable for collection:
         (a)   Dangerous materials or substances, such as poisons, acids,
caustics, infectious materials, and explosives;
         (b)   Unusual quantities of materials resulting from the repair,
excavation, or construction of buildings or structures, such as earth, plaster,
mortar, roofing, and building materials;
         (c)   Materials which have not been prepared for collection in
accordance with this chapter and the regulations that may from time to time be
passed by the City Council for the collection and storage of refuse;
         (d)   Solid wastes resulting from industrial process; and
         (e)   Car bodies or vehicle bodies, barbed wire, excessive amounts of
brush and trees.
   (B)   The matters set forth in division (A)(2) above as not acceptable for
collection may only be dumped in the city landfill by first obtaining a permit
from the City Clerk/Treasurer.
(2015 Code, § 3-3-9)
§ 52.14 SOLID WASTE RATE INCREASE.
   Pursuant to MCA §§ 69-7-101 et seq., solid wastes rates shall be increased
by 8% for FY 2019- 2020 and 3% annually for the duration of the five-year
contract.
(Res. 984, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating a provision of §§
52.02,
52.03,
52.04, and
52.05 shall, upon complaint and conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as
provided in §
10.99.
(2015 Code, § 3-2-6)
   (B)   A person may also be charged with maintaining a nuisance in violation
of §§
52.01 through
52.05 and, if convicted of the offense of maintaining a public nuisance under
this chapter, is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine as provided in
the general penalty in §
10.99. The city reserves any and all additional remedies available to enforce
this chapter, including, but not limited to, injunction, abatement, and cease
and desist orders available under this code and state law.
(2015 Code, § 3-4-13)
(Ord. 472, passed 11-16-2009)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING RULES
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Uniform Traffic Act adoption
   
70.02   Uniform Traffic Act application
§ 70.01 UNIFORM TRAFFIC ACT ADOPTION.
   (A)   All ordinances of the city relating to the regulation of traffic
within the city are hereby revised and recodified by the adoption of the
uniform act regulating traffic on highways as set forth in MCA Title 61,
Chapters 8 and 9, and as amended from time to time.
   (B)   One full printed copy of the code is on file in the office of the City
Clerk/Treasurer. The aforesaid uniform act regulating traffic on highways is
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter as fully, and for
all intents and purposes, as though set forth herein at length.
(2015 Code, § 5-1-1)
§ 70.02 UNIFORM TRAFFIC ACT APPLICATION.
   All traffic within the city will be governed and regulated by the provisions
of MCA Title 61, Chapters 8 and 9 and this title.
(2015 Code, § 5-1-2)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Driving off established streets and alleys
   
71.02   Basic driving rule
   
71.03   Hazards
   
71.04   Driving under the influence
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 DRIVING OFF ESTABLISHED STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle off of that portion of established
streets and alleys designed for vehicular traffic without the consent,
expressed or implied, of the owner of the property which is driven upon. Unless
otherwise posted, consent is implied to drive upon driveways or parking areas
serving commercial establishments.
(2015 Code, § 5-2-2) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 BASIC DRIVING RULE.
   Every person operating or driving a vehicle of any character on the streets,
alleys, or public ways of this city shall drive the same in a careful and
prudent manner, and at a rate of speed no greater than is reasonable and proper
under the conditions existing at the point of operation, taking into account
amount and character of traffic, condition of brakes, weight of vehicle, grade
and width of road, condition of surface, and freedom of obstruction to view
ahead, and so as not to unduly or unreasonably endanger the life, limb,
property, or other rights of any person entitled to the use of the street or
road.
(2015 Code, § 5-3-6) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 HAZARDS.
   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements of §
71.03, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when approaching and crossing an
intersection or railway grade crossing, when approaching and going around a
curve, when traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway, and when special
hazard exists with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of
weather or road condition.
(2015 Code, § 5-3-6) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. Any person operating or in actual physical control
of a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs creates a
significant risk to the public safety, health, and general welfare of the
residents of the city. To help secure public safety, health, and general
welfare for all persons, the city adopts this section in an effort to deter
persons from engaging in this dangerous activity. This section is adopted
pursuant to MCA §§ 7-14-4102 and 7-14-4103, as well as pursuant to the exercise
of the city’s self-government powers granted by the city’s charter.
   (B)   Unlawful to refuse to submit to breath test. If an officer has
reasonable grounds to believe a person has been driving or has been in actual
physical control of a motor vehicle upon the ways of the state open to the
public while under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or a combination of the
two, then it is unlawful and constitutes a misdemeanor offense for that person
to refuse to submit to one or more breath tests to detect alcohol and/or drugs
requested and designated by any peace officer, as defined by state law.
      (1)   Prior to charging a person with a violation of this section, a
peace officer must inform the person requested to take the designated test that
refusing the breath test is a misdemeanor offense under this code of ordinances
and must identify the penalties associated with the offense.
      (2)   If any detained person refuses to submit to one or more breath
tests requested and designated by a peace officer, as provided by state law,
the refused test may not be given. However, the person refusing to submit to
any such requested breath test may be charged with a misdemeanor offense
pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 488, passed 9-7-2021) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating a provision of this chapter for which another
penalty has not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to
penalty as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Incarceration is not a penalty for violation of §
71.04. A person convicted under §
71.04 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $250, nor more than $500, no
portion of which may be suspended, waived, or deferred by the court.
(2015 Code, § 5-2-3) (Ord. 488, passed 9-7-2021)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING RULES
Section
   
72.01   Manner of parking
   
72.02   Parking distances from curb
   
72.03   Parking of unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
   
72.04   Extended running of vehicle while parked
   
72.05   Vicarious liability
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 MANNER OF PARKING.
   Except as otherwise provided in this code, whenever any motor vehicle is
parked upon any street in this city, it shall be parked on the right side of
the street headed in the direction of traffic.
(2015 Code, § 5-4-1) (Ord. 451, passed 5-15-2000) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 PARKING DISTANCES FROM CURB.
   Except as otherwise provided in this code, the operator of a vehicle shall
not stop, stand, or park such vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with the
edge of the roadway, headed in the direction of traffic, and with the curbside
wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the edge of the roadway.
(2015 Code, § 5-4-2) (Ord. 450, passed 5-15-2000) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 PARKING OF UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or operator of a motor vehicle, which is
not licensed or in running condition, to store or leave the same upon any
street or right-of-way of the city for more than five days.
(2015 Code, § 5-4-4) (Ord. 457, passed 9-5-2000) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 EXTENDED RUNNING OF VEHICLE WHILE PARKED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park any
vehicle or trailer on any public road or way in any residentially zoned
district of the city and leave the engine, refrigeration unit, or other
motorized mechanism of such vehicle or trailer running unless the vehicle or
trailer is stopped, standing, or parked for actual and momentary loading or
unloading, or warming of the vehicle’s engine in preparation of moving the
vehicle.
   (B)   It shall be presumed that the continuous running of an engine,
refrigeration unit, or other motorized mechanism for longer than 30 minutes
shall not be for the purpose of actual and momentary loading, unloading, or
warming of the vehicle’s engine in preparation of moving the vehicle. Frequent
starting and stopping of an engine, refrigeration unit, or other motorized
mechanism shall not be a defense to the 30-minute presumption.
(2015 Code, § 5-4-6) (Ord. 426, passed 11-21-1992) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 VICARIOUS LIABILITY.
   (A)   All parking ordinances shall impose absolute liability upon the
registered owner of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   It shall be no defense to any parking violation that the motor vehicle
was illegally parked by another, unless it is shown that the vehicle was being
used without the consent of the registered owner.
(2015 Code, § 5-4-7) (Ord. 426, passed 11-21-1992) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating a provision of this chapter for which another penalty
has not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as
provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(2015 Code, § 5-4-8) (Ord. 460, passed 9-3-2002)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Motorcycles
   
73.01   Rights and duties
Bicycles
   
73.15   Application
   
73.16   Traffic laws apply
   
73.17   Dismounting to make turn
   
73.18   Parking
   
73.19   Riding on sidewalks
Snowmobiles
   
73.30   Purpose
   
73.31   Locations travel allowed
   
73.32   Crossing streets
   
73.33   Parking
   
73.34   Operation
 
   
73.99   Penalty
MOTORCYCLES
§ 73.01 RIGHTS AND DUTIES.
   Every person riding a motorcycle upon a street or roadway shall be granted
all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the
driver of a vehicle by the provisions of this traffic code and other traffic
ordinances of this city, except as to special regulations in this chapter and
except as to those provisions of law which, by their nature, can have no such
application.
(2015 Code, § 5-5-6) Penalty, see §
73.99
BICYCLES
§ 73.15 APPLICATION.
   The regulations of this subchapter applicable to bicycles shall apply
whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street or upon any path set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(2015 Code, § 5-5-1)
§ 73.16 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by this traffic code, except as to special regulations in this
subchapter and except as to those provisions of this traffic code which, by
their very nature, can have no application.
(2015 Code, 5-5-2) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.17 DISMOUNTING TO MAKE TURN.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the direction of
any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle to make any
such turn.
(2015 Code, 5-5-3) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.18 PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the
roadway against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle
or against a building, in such manner as to afford the least obstruction to
pedestrian traffic.
   (B)   No person shall park a bicycle against a glass window at any time.
(2015 Code, § 5-5-4) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.19 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle, skateboard, or skates upon any
sidewalk within the districts officially zoned as CBD or PLI.
   (B)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle, skateboard, or skates upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall
give an audible signal before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
(2015 Code, § 5-5-5) Penalty, see §
73.99
SNOWMOBILES
§ 73.30 PURPOSE.
   Because of heavy snow conditions which, from time to time, occur within the
city and surrounding areas and the resultant transportation problems arising
therefrom, the City Council has found it necessary to adopt a snowmobile code
for the purpose of preserving public peace, health, and safety under the terms
and conditions prescribed in this subchapter.
(2015 Code, § 5-6-1)
§ 73.31 LOCATIONS TRAVEL ALLOWED.
   Snowmobiles, subject to the terms of this subchapter, are hereby allowed to
travel upon the roadway and shoulder portions of city streets and alleys except
the streets set forth in
Chapter 74, Schedule II.
(2015 Code, § 5-6-2) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.32 CROSSING STREETS.
   (A)   Snowmobiles, however, may cross these streets. Such crossing shall be
made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the direction of the highway,
at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick and safe crossing.
   (B)   The snowmobile shall make a complete stop before entering any part of
said highway or road, and the operator shall yield the right-of-way to all
oncoming traffic.
(2015 Code, § 5-6-2) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.33 PARKING.
   Snowmobiles are prohibited on private property, sidewalks, parks, school
yards, except for purposes of parking and in case of emergency. Snowmobiles
shall not park on sidewalks.
(2015 Code, § 5-6-2) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.34 OPERATION.
   (A)   The operator of a snowmobile within the city limits must possess a
valid state driver’s license and abide by all traffic laws of the state and the
city.
   (B)   No snowmobile shall be operated on a public street or alley unless
equipped with at least one head lamp and one tail lamp, which shall be lighted
at all times during such operation, and unless equipped with a suitable braking
device which may be operated by either hand or foot.
   (C)   No snowmobile shall be operated on public streets or alleys of the
city without at least a five-foot aerial attached to the machine with a bright
colored flag near the top of the aerial.
   (D)   Snowmobiles shall, at all times, yield the right-of-way to all other
oncoming traffic and foot traffic.
   (E)   (1)   All snowmobiles operating within the city shall be equipped at
all times with noise suppression devices, including an exhaust muffler, in good
working order and in constant operation.
      (2)   No snowmobile operated within the city shall be modified by any
person in any manner that shall amplify or otherwise increase total noise
emissions to a level greater than that emitted by the snowmobile as originally
constructed, regardless of date of manufacture.
   (F)   Snowmobiles shall travel single file and at no time ride two or more
abreast.
   (G)   Towing with a rope, chain, or cable by a snowmobile is prohibited.
(2015 Code, § 5-6-3) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating a provision of §§
73.01 and
73.15 through
73.19 for which another penalty has not been provided shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(2015 Code, § 5-5-7)
   (B)   (1)   A person who violates any provision of §§
73.31 through
73.34 shall pay a civil penalty as provided in §
10.99.
      (2)   A person who wilfully violates any provision of §§
73.31 through
73.34 shall pay a civil penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(2015 Code, § 5-6-4)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Snowmobiles
   
III.   Driving movements
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall drive a motorized vehicle at a speed in excess
of 25 mph.
      (2)   No person shall drive a motorized vehicle at a speed in excess of
20 mph on that portion of McLeod Street from and between the intersection of
McLeod Street and Highway 10 to the north and the intersection of McLeod Street
and Fourth Avenue to the south.
      (3)   This division (A), under the authority of MCA § 61-8-310(1)(d),
will remain in effect so long as the senior citizen center, by whatever name,
remains on McLeod Street.
(2015 Code, § 5-3-1)
   (B)   The above speed limit of 25 mph shall apply to all streets and alleys
within the city limits unless otherwise specifically posted.
(2015 Code, § 5-3-2)
   (C)   School zones as specifically posted shall have a speed limit of 15
mph.
(2015 Code, § 5-3-3)
   (D)   Lions Club Park shall have a speed limit of 15 mph as specifically
posted along the said park.
(2015 Code, § 5-3-4)
   (E)   Certain state highways constituting entrances or exits to the city
shall have a speed limit of 35 mph as specifically posted and signed by the
state.
(2015 Code, § 5-3-5)
(Ord. 464, passed 3-1-2004)
SCHEDULE II. SNOWMOBILES.
   Snowmobiles may not travel on the following streets:
 
Street
Fourth Avenue from Hooper Street to Highway 10
Highway 10
Highway 191
McLeod Street
 
(2015 Code, § 5-6-2)
SCHEDULE III. DRIVING MOVEMENTS.
   The turning movement commonly known as a U-TURN, reversing the direction of
travel of a vehicle upon a street by executing a 180-degree turn, regardless of
by what means this is accomplished, is prohibited upon McLeod Street from, and
including, its intersection with First Avenue to, and including, its
intersection with Fourth Avenue.
(2015 Code, § 5-2-1) Penalty, see §
71.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking
SCHEDULE I. PARKING.
   (A)   (1)   No vehicle may park on McLeod Street where any part of said
vehicle extends over or past the white shoulder stripe into the driving lane.
      (2)   This prohibition applies to all portions of McLeod Street where
diagonal or angle parking is provided.
(2015 Code, § 5-4-3)
   (B)   Angle parking is allowed:
 
Street        Location                           Side(s)
              From its intersection with Fourth
McLeod Street Avenue to its intersection with     
              the Burlington Northern right-of-
              way
              Streets in the immediate vicinity
             of churches during church services  
              and functions
Second Avenue                                   Both the north and south sides
Third Avenue  Between Anderson Street on the     North and south sides
              east and Hooper Street on the west
 
(2015 Code, § 5-4-5)
(Ord. 458, passed 9-5-2000; Ord. 465, passed 12-20-2004) Penalty, see §
72.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
93.   TREES, SHRUBS, AND WEEDS
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Noisome substances
   
90.02   Offensive matter
   
90.03   Nauseous liquids
   
90.04   Cellars; drains
   
90.05   Abatement
Community Decay
   
90.20   Definitions
   
90.21   Declaration of a public nuisance
   
90.22   Exemptions
   
90.23   Entry upon private property
   
90.24   Initial action
Administration and Enforcement
   
90.35   Notice of nuisance condition
   
90.36   Hearing
   
90.37   Council orders; notice
   
90.38   Abatement by city
   
90.39   Assessment for costs
   
90.40   Summary abatement
   
90.41   Errors in procedure
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see MCA §§ 7-5-4104, 27-30-101 et seq., 27-30-201 et
seq., and 45-8-111 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 NOISOME SUBSTANCES.
   It is a public nuisance to cause or suffer the carcass of any animal or any
offal, filth or noisome substance to be collected or to remain in any place in
the city, to the prejudice of others.
(2015 Code, § 3-1-1)
§ 90.02 OFFENSIVE MATTER.
   It is a public nuisance for any owner, lessee, occupant, or resident of any
premises to suffer or cause to be maintained on such premises for 24 hours or
longer any unwholesome, decaying, or putrid animal or vegetable matter which
contaminates the atmosphere or endangers or injures the health of any person,
or which is indecent or offensive to the senses, or interferes with the comfort
or enjoyment of any resident in the city.
(2015 Code, § 3-1-2)
§ 90.03 NAUSEOUS LIQUIDS.
   It is unlawful for any person to cause or permit any nauseous, foul, or
putrid liquid substance to be discharged, placed, or thrown, or to flow from or
out of any premises into or upon any adjacent premises, or any public street,
alley, road, or sidewalk, or into any channel or watercourse.
(2015 Code, § 3-1-3)
§ 90.04 CELLARS; DRAINS.
   Whoever shall suffer or cause any cellar, vault, drain, pool, privy, or
sewer belonging to or controlled by him or her to become, from any cause,
nauseous, foul, offensive, or injurious to the public health, or unpleasant and
disagreeable to adjacent residents or persons, within the limits of the city,
shall be deemed guilty of committing a public nuisance.
(2015 Code, § 3-1-4)
§ 90.05 ABATEMENT.
   Whenever any nuisance shall exist upon, in front of, or along any lot or
parcel of land within the city, whether such lot or parcel of land be occupied
or unoccupied, the Director of Public Works, instead of prosecuting the owner
of the premises or his or her agent, may cause such nuisance to be abated
either after notice or, in case of emergency, immediately without notice. Such
abatement shall be done at the expense of the owner and the city may specially
assess such expense to such property as a tax, which shall be collected as
other taxes are collected.
(2015 Code, § 3-1-6)
COMMUNITY DECAY
§ 90.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED, WRECKED, JUNKED, or DISMANTLED VEHICLE, EQUIPMENT, or MACHINERY.
Every vehicle, machine, or piece of equipment which is not being used for its
manufactured or intended purpose and has been discarded, abandoned, wrecked,
stored, junked, dismantled, or partially dismantled, including parts thereof.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Includes the ordinance enforcement officer and any
employee of the city that the enforcement officer designates to carry out the
responsibilities identified herein within the city’s zoning jurisdiction.
   FIRE HAZARD. Where owing to the existence of solid waste or waste, dried
grass, weeds, or shrubbery, or dilapidated or deteriorated structures, the
condition of the property is likely to cause a fire.
   INOPERABLE. With respect to any vehicle, the inability of all significant
mechanical and electrical systems on such vehicle to operate properly and
dependably, or the absence of any significant parts. With respect to wheeled
and/or motorized vehicles, and where applicable, INOPERABLE means the inability
of any of the following systems to operate properly and dependably or the
absence of such parts: tires, wheels, brakes, engine, ignition, transmission,
suspension, steering, windows, windshield, horn, muffler, rearview mirror,
windshield wiper, service brakes, parking brakes, headlights, brake lights, or
turn signals.
   OBJECT. Any material, substance, or composition not yet classified as waste,
solid waste, or a fire hazard but which may subsequently be determined to be
waste, solid waste, or a fire hazard. OBJECT, though used in the singular term,
can also mean the plural when circumstances require.
   OWNER. OWNER of the title to real property or the contract purchaser of real
property as shown in the last available complete assessment roll in the office
of the County Assessor.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association, or
corporation.
   SHIELDING. Refers to fencing or other fabricated barriers to conceal a
facility from public view. It also refers to natural barriers.
   SOLID WASTE. All putrescible and nonputrescible waste including, but not
limited to, garbage, rubbish, refuse, demolition wastes (including wood,
bricks, concrete, used road black top, and other similar materials), ashes,
wastepaper and cardboard, sewage, sludge, septic tank and cesspool pumpage, or
other sludge, commercial, industrial, construction waste, discarded home and
industrial appliances, manure, bird droppings, vegetable or animal solid and
semisolid wastes, dead animals, and other waste.
   UNLICENSED. With respect to any vehicle which is required to be registered
under state law with the Department of Justice, Motor Vehicle Division, the
absence of the appropriate license tags and/or stickers attached to such
vehicle showing a current registration.
   VEHICLE. Any automobile, car, truck, motorcycle, tractor, trailer, pole
trailer, bus, camper, motor home, travel trailer, recreational vehicle, boat,
or other watercraft.
   WASTE. Useless or discarded materials.
(2015 Code, § 3-4-1) (Ord. passed 11-16-2009)
§ 90.21 DECLARATION OF A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   The deposit, accumulation, storage, collection, maintenance, or
display of waste, solid waste; abandoned, wrecked, junked, or dismantled
vehicles, equipment, or machinery; inoperable or unlicensed vehicles; or dried
grass, weeds, or shrubbery is hereby found to create a condition tending to
reduce the value of private property; to promote blight, deterioration, and
unsightliness; to create fire hazards; to create a harborage for rodents,
birds, and insects; and to be injurious to the health, safety, and general
welfare of the people.
   (B)   Therefore, the presence of waste, solid waste; abandoned, wrecked,
junked, or dismantled vehicles, equipment, or machinery; inoperable or
unlicensed vehicles; or dried grass, dried weeds, or dried shrubbery on private
or public property is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance which may
be abated in accordance with the provisions of §§
90.35 through
90.41.
(2015 Code, § 3-4-2) (Ord. 472, passed 11-16-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 EXEMPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to vehicles enclosed in a building, covered
by a cover specifically designed for covering vehicles, vehicles which are
shielded according to the definition set forth in §
90.20, or to any vehicle held in connection with a lawfully operated business
enterprise.
(2015 Code, § 3-4-3) (Ord. 472, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 90.23 ENTRY UPON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   The ordinance enforcement officer is authorized at all times to
enter upon private property and examine any object for the purpose of
determining if it is a public nuisance as defined herein.
      (2)   However, before entering upon private property, the ordinance
enforcement officer shall obtain consent of the occupant thereof or have a
warrant of the appropriate court authorizing his or her entry for the purpose
of inspection.
   (B)   No search warrant shall be issued under the terms of this section
until an affidavit has been filed with the appropriate court showing probable
cause for such inspection by stating the purpose and the extent of the proposed
inspection or other specific or general information concerning the object in
question and identifying the property on which it is situated.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to interfere with or attempt to prevent
the ordinance enforcement officer from entering upon private premises and
inspecting such object when the ordinance enforcement officer exhibits a
warrant authorizing the entry of or has obtained consent of the occupant of the
property.
(2015 Code, § 3-4-4) (Ord. 472, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 90.24 INITIAL ACTION.
   (A)   (1)   When the ordinance enforcement officer determines that a
nuisance condition described in this title exists in the city’s zoning
jurisdiction, the ordinance enforcement officer shall make an initial contact
with the property owner for the purpose of making said owner aware of the
violation.
      (2)   The initial contact shall be in writing or by telephone followed up
in writing.
      (3)   The initial contact shall explain the violation; cite the
applicable provision(s) of this code; set a date for compliance and/or
abatement, which compliance date shall be not more than 21 calendar days from
the notice; and provide contact information for the city ordinance enforcement
officer.
   (B)   (1)   In the event that a nuisance condition persists after the date
given for abatement/compliance as set forth in division (A) above, the
ordinance enforcement officer shall issue a second notice requiring abatement/
compliance in no more than 21 calendar days.
      (2)   Should the nuisance condition persist beyond that time period, the
ordinance enforcement officer shall proceed as set forth in §
90.35.
(2015 Code, § 3-4-5) (Ord. 472, passed 11-16-2009)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 90.35 NOTICE OF NUISANCE CONDITION.
   (A)   Mailed notice.
      (1)   The ordinance enforcement officer shall notify the owner and any
occupants of the premises by personal service or by certified mail. The notice
shall state:
         (a)   A hearing will be held before the City Council concerning the
nuisance character of the property;
         (b)   A description of the property and alleged nuisances; and
         (c)   The time and place of the hearing.
      (2)   A copy of this notice shall be posted on the property.
   (B)   Published and posted notices. At least ten days prior to the hearing
date, the city shall publish a notice of the hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city or post notices in at least three public places in
the city.
(2015 Code, § 3-4-6) (Ord. 472, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 90.36 HEARING.
   (A)   At the hearing, the owner or other interested parties shall have the
right to be heard.
   (B)   The Council may inspect the property and consider the facts observed
in determining whether the property is a nuisance.
   (C)   (1)   If the Council determines that the property is a nuisance, the
Council may, by resolution, order the property to be made safe and prescribe
what must be done to make it safe.
      (2)   In the resolution, the Council may set a time, not less than ten
days, within which the order must be obeyed.
(2015 Code, § 3-4-7) (Ord. 472, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 90.37 COUNCIL ORDERS; NOTICE.
   Notice of the Council’s determination and orders by the Council shall be by
personal service or by certified mail to the owner of the property. If the
orders are not obeyed and the property is not made safe within the time
specified by the order, the Council may order the property made safe at the
expense of the owner of the property on which it is located.
(2015 Code, § 3-4-8) (Ord. 472, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 90.38 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   If the Council orders are not complied with, the Council may specify the
work to be done and direct that it be undertaken by city personnel and
equipment or that the city contract for such work.
(2015 Code, § 3-4-9) (Ord. 472, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 90.39 ASSESSMENT FOR COSTS.
   (A)   The city shall forward to the owner, by personal service or by
certified mail, a notice stating:
      (1)   The total cost of abatement, including the administrative costs;
      (2)   The costs as indicated will be assessed to and become a lien
against the property unless paid within 30 days from the date of the notice;
and
      (3)   If the owner objects to the costs of the abatement as indicated, a
written notice of objection may be filed with the city not more than ten days
from the date of the notice.
   (B)   No sooner than 30 days after the date of the notice of costs, the
Council, in the regular course of business, shall hear and make a decision on
the objections to the costs assessed.
   (C)   If the costs of the abatement are not paid within 30 days from the
date of the notice of costs and if no objection was filed within ten days from
the Council determination, an assessment of the costs, as stated or as decided
by the Council, shall be made by resolution, and thereafter recorded with the
County Clerk and Recorder and/or assessed with other property assessments at
which time it shall constitute a lien on the property from which the nuisance
was removed or abated.
   (D)   The lien shall bear interest at a rate set by the Council at the time
of assessment.
(2015 Code, § 3-4-10) (Ord. 472, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 90.40 SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   The procedure of this chapter need not be followed if the condition of the
property is unmistakably dangerous and imminently endangers life or property.
In this instance, the city ordinance enforcement officer or the Sheriff may
summarily abate the nuisance.
(2015 Code, § 3-4-11) (Ord. 472, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 90.41 ERRORS IN PROCEDURE.
   Failure to conform to the requirements of this chapter that does not
substantially and adversely affect the legal right of a person does not
invalidate a proceeding under this chapter.
(2015 Code, § 3-4-12) (Ord. 472, passed 11-16-2009)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever causes, erects, suffers, or maintains any nuisance or other
offense prohibited by §§
90.01 through
90.05 shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99. Every such nuisance or offense, when a conviction therefor is had, shall
be abated by the Director of Public Works or other proper officer, at the
expense of the defendant.
(2015 Code, § 3-1-7)
   (B)   A person may also be charged with maintaining a nuisance in violation
of §§
90.01 through
90.05 of this title and if convicted of the offense of maintaining a public
nuisance under this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine as
provided in the general penalty in §
10.99. The city reserves any and all additional remedies available to enforce
this chapter, including, but not limited to, injunction, abatement, and cease
and desist orders available under this code and state law.
(2015 Code, § 3-4-13)
(Ord. 472, passed 11-16-2009)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Animal control officer
   
91.03   Humane shelter
   
91.04   Dogs in city parks
   
91.05   Certain animals prohibited
   
91.06   Cruelty to animals
   
91.07   Animal enclosures
   
91.08   Running at large
   
91.09   Barking dogs and crying cats
   
91.10   Biting and destroying property or other pets
   
91.11   Harboring a feral cat
Licensing
   
91.25   Licensing and registration
   
91.26   License and registration fees
   
91.27   License tags
   
91.28   Term of license
Rabies Control
   
91.40   Vaccination
   
91.41   Vaccination cost
   
91.42   Reporting an animal bite
   
91.43   Impoundment of rabies suspects
   
91.44   Exposure to rabid animal
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACQUIRED AFTER JANUARY 1. Any unlicensed dog or cat brought into the city
limits after January 1 for the given year or which becomes over six months of
age after January 1.
   AT LARGE. Refers to any dog or cat being otherwise than on the premises of
its owner when the dog is not attached to a leash held by a competent person or
restrained within a motor vehicle or when the cat is uncollared.
   CATS. Includes both male and female cats whether altered or not.
   DOGS. Includes both male and female dogs whether altered or not.
   FERAL CAT. Any domesticated cat of any breed or sex, whether neutered or
not, which has no apparent owner and is at large within the city limits.
   OWNER. 
      (1)   Includes any person, firm, or corporation owning, harboring,
sheltering, or keeping a dog or cat.
(2015 Code, § 4-3B-1)
      (2)   Any person owning, keeping, or harboring an animal.
   RESIDENCE. The dwelling place and surrounding property of one family.
(2015 Code, § 4-3A-1)
§ 91.02 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   (A)   The city may appoint an animal control officer to enforce this chapter
and conduct such other duties as the animal control officer may be authorized
by ordinance.
   (B)   However, this chapter may also be enforced by any peace officer
employed to enforce generally the city ordinances.
(2015 Code, § 4-3B-2)
§ 91.03 HUMANE SHELTER.
   The animal control officer or city shall cause a humane shelter for dogs and
cats to be maintained and operated in a sanitary and humane manner.
(2015 Code, § 4-3B-3)
§ 91.04 DOGS IN CITY PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any dog to enter or remain upon any public park on
lands owned or leased by the city. This prohibition applies to all dogs,
whether on a leash and attended by their owner or handler. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, leashed dogs attended by their owner or handler are allowed in
Dornix Park and the Boulder River Campground.
(2015 Code, § 4-3-B-8) (Res. 975, passed 5-6-2019; Res. 986, passed 11-18-2019)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, harbor, or allow to be at
large any livestock, fowl, or swine within the city limits.
   (B)   Excepted from the above prohibition will be an allowance of up to
eight female chickens (hens only) within the city limits under the following
conditions.
      (1)   There will be an annual permit fee of $20 to be paid to the city,
due in January of each year.
      (2)   No roosters shall be permitted in the City limits.
      (3)   No chickens shall be allowed to run loose in the City.
      (4)   Chickens shall be kept only on single-family lots and are
prohibited on multi-dwelling parcels.
      (5)   No chicken enclosure shall be located within ten feet of a
sidewalk, city street, or neighboring property line or within 20 feet of a
neighboring residence or in a front yard.
      (6)   All chickens must be kept in a coop within a fenced backyard.
      (7)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper of chickens to allow
them to be a nuisance to any neighbors, including, but not limited to, habitual
noise, offensive odors from the birds, or their enclosure.
(2015 Code, § 4-3A-2) (Ord. 483, passed 6-16-2014) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   A person commits the offense of cruelty to animals if he or she knowingly or
negligently subjects an animal to mistreatment or neglect by:
   (A)   Overworking, beating, tormenting, trapping by anyone other than an
authorized city animal control officer or State of Montana licensed trapper,
injuring or killing any animal, carrying any animal in a cruel manner;
   (B)   Failing to provide an animal in his or her custody with proper food,
drink, or shelter;
   (C)   Abandoning any helpless animal or abandoning any animal on any
highway, railroad, or in any other place where it may suffer injury, hunger, or
exposure or become a public charge; or
   (D)   Promoting, sponsoring, conducting, or participating in a horse race of
more than two miles; or promoting, sponsoring, conducting, or participating in
any fight between any animals.
(2015 Code, § 4-3A-3) (Ord. 480, passed 8-1-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 ANIMAL ENCLOSURES.
   It is a public nuisance for any person to keep or maintain any pen or
enclosure, stable, or building for animals in such a filthy or unwholesome
condition as to be offensive to neighbors or passersby, or injurious to the
health of the neighborhood.
(2015 Code, § 3-1-5) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Failure to restrain.
      (1)   Prohibited. It is unlawful for an owner of a dog or cat to allow or
permit such dog or cat to be at large within the corporate limits of the city.
      (2)   Violation; penalty. Any person violating the provisions of this
section shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in §
91.99.
   (B)   Impoundment.
      (1)   Animals running at large. Any licensed or unlicensed dog or cat
found being in violation of this section may be taken and placed in a
designated city humane shelter by any animal control officer or peace officer.
Licensed dogs or cats at large and not under restraint, in the discretion of
the animal control officer or peace officer, may be taken and returned to the
owner, but a complaint or citation for a violation of this section shall be
personally served upon the owner.
      (2)   Notice of impoundment. Whenever any licensed dog or cat is
impounded, the animal control officer or peace officer shall notify the owner.
No notice to the owner of impoundment shall be required if the dog or cat is
unlicensed. Generally, it is the duty of dog or cat owners to know the
whereabouts of his, her, or their dogs or cats at all times.
      (3)   Records.
         (a)   Immediately upon impounding any animal, the animal control
officer or peace officer shall cause to be recorded in a book to be provided by
the city the following information upon each dog or cat:
            1.   The sex;
            2.   Color;
            3.   Breed, if capable of determination;
            4.   Estimate of age;
            5.   Distinguishing marks, if any;
            6.   The date and hour of impounding; and
            7.   Upon final disposition of such animal, the record shall show
such disposition.
      (4)   Release from impoundment; fees.
         (a)   Impounding fees. Impounded dogs or cats may be recovered by the
owner upon proper identification. However, before any dog or cat is released
from the humane shelter, the animal control officer or city shall cause to be
collected from the person claiming such dog or cat a maintenance fee of $5 for
each day or fraction of a day the dog or cat has been impounded and an
impounding fee of $15 for the first impounding, of $25 for the second
impounding, and of $50 for the third and any subsequent impounding in any one
calendar year.
         (b)   License fee; vaccination cost. In addition, the animal control
officer or city shall cause to be collected from such owner the license fee
required by the city and cost of any vaccinations required by the city, unless
satisfactory evidence is produced that the license fee has been paid and the
dog or cat is adequately vaccinated.
         (c)   Unredeemed animals. If an impounded, licensed dog or cat is not
redeemed by its owner within eight days after notice, it may be disposed of by
the city. If an impounded, unlicensed dog or cat is not redeemed by its owner
within eight days after impoundment, it may be disposed of by the city.
      (5)   Disposition of unredeemed animals.
         (a)   Death. If an impounded dog or cat is not redeemed by the owner
or some person acting in the owner’s behalf within eight days of impoundment,
then the animal control officer or city may cause the dog or cat to be put to
death. Payment of fees and costs required by division (B)(4) above must be made
for a dog or cat to be redeemed.
         (b)   Adoption. Instead of putting a dog or cat to death after the
required time, the animal control officer or city may cause an impounded dog or
cat to be given to any person who pays the impoundment and licensing fees,
which said fees may be waived in order to facilitate an adoption, but no
license fee shall be required if the animal’s home will be outside the city
limits. All rights, title, and interest of the animal’s original owner shall be
forfeited if the dog or cat is not redeemed within eight days of impoundment.
(2015 Code, § 4-3B-5) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 BARKING DOGS AND CRYING CATS.
   (A)   Harboring prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
harbor any dog which habitually barks, howls, or yelps, or any cat which
habitually cries or howls to the great discomfort of the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood, or in such manner as to materially disturb or annoy persons in
the neighborhood who are of ordinary sensibilities. Such dogs and cats are
hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   Complaint; notice to owner. Whenever any person shall complain to the
animal control officer or Sheriff’s Department that a dog which habitually
barks, howls, or yelps or a cat which habitually cries or howls is being kept
by any person in the city, the animal control officer or Sheriff’s Department
shall notify the person harboring or owner of said dog or cat that a complaint
has been received and that the person should take whatever steps are necessary
to alleviate the howling, barking, yelping, or crying.
   (C)   Verified complaint. If the warning given to the person alleged to be
keeping a dog or cat as set forth above is ineffective, then a verified
complaint of at least two citizens not from the same family may be presented to
the animal control officer or Sheriff’s Department alleging that a dog which
habitually barks, howls, or yelps, or a cat which habitually cries or howls is
being kept by a person within the city. The animal control officer or Sheriff’s
Department shall inform the owner of such dog or cat that said petition has
been received and shall cite the person harboring or owner of the dog or cat
for the violation alleged in said petition.
(2015 Code, § 4-3B-6-1) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 BITING AND DESTROYING PROPERTY OR OTHER PETS.
   (A)   Prohibited. It is declared a public nuisance for a dog or other animal
to destroy property or other pets, to bite, or chase after persons not
trespassing on the property of the animal’s owner.
   (B)   Additional remedies. In addition, the City Judge may impose one of the
following remedies:
      (1)   Order that the animal involved be permanently confined to the
owner’s premises; or
      (2)   Order that the animal involved be seized and destroyed.
(2015 Code, § 4-3B-6-2) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 HARBORING A FERAL CAT.
   (A)   Declared nuisance. It is declared a public nuisance and unlawful for
any person to harbor a “feral cat” as defined in §
91.01.
   (B)   Offense defined. A person commits the offense of harboring a feral cat
by:
      (1)   Feeding a feral cat; or
      (2)   Permitting a feral cat to take shelter or to otherwise remain on
the person’s property.
   (C)   Attempt to seize; investigation. The animal control officer shall
attempt to seize and dispose of any feral cat in accordance with §
91.08. The animal control officer or any peace officer shall investigate any
report of a person harboring a feral cat.
   (D)   Notice to cease and remove. The animal control officer shall issue a
written notice to any person alleged to be harboring a feral cat. Such written
notice shall order the person to remove any feral cat from the person’s
property and to cease harboring activities as set forth in division (B) above.
   (E)   Reimbursement of costs. The City Judge may also order a person
convicted of harboring a feral cat to reimburse the city for labor and
materials expended to seize and dispose of any feral cat harbored by the
convicted person.
(2015 Code, § 4-3B-6-3) Penalty, see §
91.99
LICENSING
§ 91.25 LICENSING AND REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Required. No owner shall keep within the city limits any dog or cat
over six months of age unless it is currently licensed and registered with the
city in accordance with this subchapter. Every person or owner who knowingly
keeps, feeds, harbors, or allows to stay about any premises occupied or
controlled by such person, any dog or cat for which no license fee has been
paid, or upon which no license tag and vaccination tag are kept as required by
this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Vaccination required. No dog or cat shall be registered and licensed
unless it has a current vaccination or an exemption as required by §§
91.40 through
91.44.
   (C)   Record of tags. Any person authorized to register and license dogs or
cats shall account for all tags and furnish the city with a list of all tags
and the owner licensing the dog or cat.
   (D)   Authorization of veterinarians. The city may authorize licensed
veterinarians to accept license fees and issue certificates and tags for dogs
and cats. All veterinarians authorized to receive applications and issue
certificates must have small animal quarantine facilities. The city may also
authorize other personnel as needed to perform the duties required by this
section.
(2015 Code, § 4-3B-4-1)
§ 91.26 LICENSE AND REGISTRATION FEES.
   (A)   Fees. These fees are for the annual registration and licensing of dogs
or cats.
      (1)   Spayed or neutered. The owner of each neutered male dog or cat and
each spayed female dog or cat, over six months of age, kept or staying within
the city limits, shall pay a fee of $15 per annum per dog or cat.
      (2)   Unspayed female. The owner of every unspayed female dog or cat,
over six months of age, which is kept or stays within the city limits, shall
pay a fee of $25 per annum per dog or cat; but, if the owner of an unspayed
female dog or cat presents to the city a veterinarian’s certificate stating
that the dog or cat has been treated to prevent it from coming into heat until
after the next licensing date, then the license fee for the unspayed female dog
or cat shall be the same as for a spayed female dog or cat.
      (3)   Unneutered male. The owner of every unneutered male dog or cat over
the age of six months, which is kept or stays within the city limits shall pay
a fee of $25 per annum per dog or cat.
   (B)   Place and time of payment. Dogs and cats shall be registered and the
license fee shall be paid to the city on or before January 1 of each calendar
year, but if any dog or cat is acquired by any owner subsequent to January 1,
such fee shall be paid within seven days of the date of acquisition of the dog
or cat.
   (C)   No proration period. The license fee shall not be prorated and shall
cover the fiscal year or balance thereof from the date of payment.
   (D)   Delinquency penalty. If the fee is not paid on or before February 1 of
each year, or within seven days of the date of acquisition of any dog or cat
acquired after January 1, there shall be charged a late fee of $5 in addition
to the amount of fee provided herein.
   (E)   Exemptions. Police or Sheriff’s Department dogs and dogs used to lead
the blind are exempt from the licensing fees but must be registered.
(2015 Code, § 4-3B-4-2) (Res. 821, passed 6-21-1999; Ord. 466, passed 7-5-2005)
§ 91.27 LICENSE TAGS.
   (A)   Issuance of tag. Upon payment of the license fee under §
91.28, the city shall cause to be issued to the owner a license certificate in
the form of a receipt and a metallic tag for each dog or cat so licensed. The
tag shall have stamped thereon the year for which it was issued and the number
appearing on the certificate. Every owner shall provide each dog or cat with a
collar and shall securely attach to such collar the license tag and vaccination
tag.
   (B)   Transferability; use of tag on unlicensed animal. No license is
transferable and no license tag shall be fastened to any dog or cat other than
the one for which it was issued. Any person who knowingly fastens a license tag
or a vaccination tag to any dog or cat other than the dog or cat for which such
tag was issued or who willfully permits a dog or cat to wear any license tag or
vaccination tag issued for another dog or cat is guilty of a misdemeanor. The
animal control officer or peace officer shall impound and dispose of every dog
or cat found bearing a license tag or vaccination tag not issued for that dog
or cat, in the same manner as a dog or cat may be impounded, redeemed, or
disposed of under §
91.08.
   (C)   Duplicate tag. In case a license tag is lost or destroyed, the owner
of the dog or cat shall apply to the city, or the city’s authorized
representative, for a duplicate tag and the city shall cause to be issued a
duplicate tag upon presentation of the receipt showing payment for the license
for the current year and upon payment of $2 for the duplicate tag.
(2015 Code, § 4-3B-4-3)
§ 91.28 TERM OF LICENSE.
   All licenses expire at 12:00 midnight December 31 of the year following
payment of the license fee.
(2015 Code, § 4-3B-4-4) (Res. 821, passed 6-21-1999)
RABIES CONTROL
§ 91.40 VACCINATION.
   (A)   No person shall own or keep within the city any dog six months of age
or older or any cat six months of age or older, unless such dog or cat has a
current vaccination for rabies.
   (B)   Vaccinations will not be required of any dog or cat when both of the
following documents to be filed at the city are approved and accepted:
      (1)   An affidavit from a veterinarian that such dog or cat should not be
inoculated with rabies vaccine and the valid veterinary-medical reasons
therefor; and
      (2)   An affidavit from the owner that such dog or cat is so kept that it
cannot come into contact with other animals, including the method of such
keeping.
   (C)   Dogs or cats shall be revaccinated at least every three years.
(2015 Code, § 4-3B-7-1)
§ 91.41 VACCINATION COST.
   (A)   The cost of rabies vaccination shall be borne by the owner of the
animal.
   (B)   Public rabies vaccination-registration clinics may be held at any time
by the officials responsible for enforcement and administration of this
subchapter.
(2015 Code, § 4-3B-7-2)
§ 91.42 REPORTING AN ANIMAL BITE.
   (A)   Physicians/medical practitioners. It shall be the duty of every
physician or other medical practitioner to report to the city the names and
addresses of persons treated for bites inflicted by animals, together with such
other information as is pertinent to rabies control.
   (B)   Persons with knowledge. It shall be the duty of all persons having
knowledge of an animal bite to notify the city of said bite and to provide
information pertinent to rabies control.
   (C)   Veterinarians.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of every veterinarian to report immediately to
the city the location and description of any animal which is in violation of
this subchapter.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of every veterinarian having an animal
quarantined for a bite to submit a report to the city as to the condition of
said quarantined animal on the tenth day immediately following the date of said
bite incident.
(2015 Code, § 4-3B-7-3)
§ 91.43 IMPOUNDMENT OF RABIES SUSPECTS.
   (A)   Report of bite. Any officer, upon receiving notification from the
owner, victim, physician, veterinarian, or other complainant that an animal is
involved in a bite incident, shall order the capture and quarantining of said
animal causing the bite.
   (B)   Quarantine or destruction of animal. Dogs or cats which bite persons
shall be placed under quarantine for ten days. However, clinically ill or stray
dogs or cats shall be destroyed immediately for rabies testing.
   (C)   Immediate destruction. Immediate destruction of a clinically normal,
owned biting dog or cat, for rabies examination, shall be done only following
consultation with a veterinarian, the owner, and the appropriate officials.
   (D)   Destruction; submission for testing. Any wild or other animal which
bites or is suspected of biting a person or other animal shall be destroyed
immediately and submitted for rabies testing.
   (E)   Owner’s responsibilities.
      (1)   Immediate confinement. Every animal that bites a human or other
animal, has rabies, or is under suspicion of having rabies shall be immediately
confined by the owner or person having custody of the animal.
      (2)   Notice of location. The city or a law enforcement officer must be
immediately notified of the location of the animal.
      (3)   Contact with other animals, people. The owner or person having
custody shall not permit such animal to come in contact with any other animal
or person.
      (4)   Surrender possession. The owner or person having custody must
surrender possession of such animal to the city on demand for supervised
quarantine and/or rabies verification.
      (5)   Supervised quarantine. Supervised quarantine shall be in a
veterinary hospital, other facility approved by the city, or by any other
method of adequate confinement approved by the appropriate officer.
   (F)   Quarantine reports; release. The quarantine period shall be for not
less than ten days immediately following the bite, and shall be under the
supervision of a veterinarian who shall submit to the city written reports as
to the animal’s health on the initial day of observation and on the fifth and
tenth day immediately following the date of said bite incident. A release from
quarantine may be issued if no signs of rabies have been observed during the
quarantine period.
   (G)   Notice to city. The owner or person having custody shall immediately
notify the city as to veterinarian supervising the quarantine.
   (H)   Violation of quarantine. Violation of quarantine by any person shall
be just cause for seizure and impoundment of the quarantined animal by the
city.
   (I)   Veterinarian to direct disposition. Any veterinarian shall direct the
disposition of any animal found to be or suspected of being rabid.
   (J)   Carcasses. The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall be
immediately surrendered to the city.
   (K)   Investigation by city. All animal bites reported shall be investigated
by personnel of the city.
(2015 Code, § 4-3B-7-4)
§ 91.44 EXPOSURE TO RABID ANIMAL.
   (A)   An unvaccinated dog or cat bitten by a known rabid animal shall be
destroyed immediately.
   (B)   A dog or cat with a current rabies vaccination shall be immediately
revaccinated and confined under observation for at least 30 days.
   (C)   Any animal, other than a dog or cat, exposed to a known rabid animal
shall be immediately destroyed.
(2015 Code, § 4-3B-7-5)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be subject
to penalty as provided in §
10.99 but in any case a fine of not less than $35 for a first offence.
(2015 Code, § 4-3A-2)
   (B)   Any person causing or permitting a dog to violate §
91.04 is guilty of a misdemeanor subject to penalty as provided in §
91.99.
(2015 Code, § 4-3B-8)
   (C)   Any person found guilty of permitting a nuisance to exist as defined
by §
91.09(A) shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
91.99, and may be ordered to remove such animal permanently from the city
within 24 hours of such order.
(2015 Code, §4-3B-6-1)
   (D)   A person convicted under §
91.10 thereof shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(2015 Code, § 4-3B-6-2)
   (E)   A person convicted of the offense of harboring a feral cat as per §
91.11 is subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(2015 Code, § 4-3B-6-3)
   (F)   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, any person violating this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to
the following penalty:
      (1)   First conviction. An owner violating this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon a first conviction, shall be punished by a fine of not
less than $35 nor more than $280;
      (2)   Second conviction. Upon a second conviction within a consecutive
12-month period, by a fine of not less than $70 nor more than $280;
      (3)   Third conviction. Upon a third conviction within a consecutive 12-
month period, by a fine of not less than $140 nor more than $500;
      (4)   Fourth or subsequent convictions. Upon a fourth or subsequent
conviction within a consecutive 12-month period, by a fine of not less than
$280 nor more than $500;
      (5)   Imprisonment. Upon any conviction, an owner violating this chapter,
in addition to fine, may also be imprisoned for any period not to exceed 90
days; and
      (6)   Continuing violation. If any violation is continuing, each day of
violation shall be deemed a separate violation.
(2015 Code, § 4-3B-9)
(Res. 483, passed 6-16-2014; Res. 975, passed 5-6-2019; Res. 986, passed 11-18-
2019)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Obstructions
   
92.02   Protection of streets and traffic during construction
   
92.03   Driveway construction
Sidewalks
   
92.15   Construction; reconstruction and repair
   
92.16   Duty of property owners
   
92.17   Snow and ice removal
   
92.18   Driving over, defacing, or destroying prohibited
Excavations
   
92.30   Rules and regulations
   
92.31   Proof of insurance; indemnification
   
92.32   Inspection
   
92.33   Minimum travel interference
   
92.34   Time limit for open excavation
   
92.35   Backfilling and restoration
   
92.36   Revocation
   
92.37   Remedies
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   All obstructions and encroachments shall be governed by the “Rules and
Regulations Governing Utility Services and Streets for the City of Big Timber,
Montana” and “Standards for Public Works Improvements for the City of Big
Timber, Montana,” adopted by reference herein and as modified from time to time
by the City Council.
(2015 Code, § 6-4-1) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 PROTECTION OF STREETS AND TRAFFIC DURING CONSTRUCTION.
   Protection of streets and traffic during construction shall be governed by
the “Rules and Regulations Governing Utility Services and Streets for the City
of Big Timber, Montana” and “Standards for Public Works Improvements for the
City of Big Timber, Montana,” adopted by reference herein and as modified from
time to time by the City Council.
(2015 Code, § 6-5-1) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 DRIVEWAY CONSTRUCTION.
   All driveway construction shall be governed by the “Rules and Regulations
Governing Utility Services and Streets for the City of Big Timber, Montana” and
“Standards for Public Works Improvements for the City of Big Timber, Montana,”
adopted by reference herein and as modified from time to time by the City
Council.
(2015 Code, § 6-3-1) Penalty, see §
92.99
SIDEWALKS
§ 92.15 CONSTRUCTION; RECONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR.
   The City Council may order sidewalks, foot pavements, curbs, gutters, or any
combination thereof, constructed, reconstructed, or repaired in front of any
lot or parcel of land without the formation of a special improvement district,
and whenever the City Council shall order any such sidewalk, foot pavement,
curb, gutter, or any combination thereof, constructed, reconstructed, or
repaired, such order shall be entered upon the minutes of the City Council and
shall name the street and give a legal description of the lot or parcel of land
along which said sidewalk, foot pavement, curb, gutter, or any combination
thereof, is to be constructed, reconstructed, or repaired, according to the
“Rules and Regulations Governing Utility Services and Streets for the City of
Big Timber, Montana” and “Standards for Public Works Improvements for the City
of Big Timber, Montana,” adopted by reference herein and as modified from time
to time by the City Council.
(2015 Code, § 6-1-1)
§ 92.16 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   It is the duty of the owners or tenants or their agents of any premises
within the city to keep the sidewalks in front of and adjoining their premises
in good, safe, and substantial condition and repair, and the owners or tenants
shall see that all breaks and unsoundness of any character resulting from
natural deterioration, or from any cause whatever, are repaired with all
possible dispatch, according to the “Rules and Regulations Governing Utility
Services and Streets for the City of Big Timber, Montana” and “Standards for
Public Works Improvements for the City of Big Timber, Montana,” adopted by
reference herein and as modified from time to time by the City Council.
(2015 Code, § 6-1-2)
§ 92.17 SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL.
   (A)   Generally. It is the duty of the owner or tenant or his, her, or their
agents of any premises within the city to keep the sidewalks in front of and
adjoining his or her premises clean and safe for pedestrians, and with all
possible dispatch to remove snow, ice, slush, and other impediments to safe and
convenient foot travel, and to prevent continuous accumulation of the same upon
such sidewalks. In no case shall the snow, ice, slush, mud, or other material
removed from such sidewalk be dumped, placed, or deposited on or upon adjacent
sidewalks. Said snow, ice, slush, mud, or other materials may be removed from
such sidewalk onto adjoining streets or onto the parkway between nonintegral
curb and sidewalk but may not be dumped, placed, or deposited in such manner so
as to create a hazard to vehicles or pedestrian traffic. In no event may such
snow, ice, slush, or other material be dumped, placed, or deposited beyond the
center line of said adjoining streets, according to the “Rules and Regulations
Governing Utility Services and Streets for the City of Big Timber, Montana” and
“Standards for Public Works Improvements for the City of Big Timber, Montana,”
adopted by reference herein and as modified from time to time by the City
Council.
   (B)   Removal from private sidewalks, driveways, or parking lots. No owner
or tenant or his, her, or their agents shall cause or allow snow, ice, slush,
mud, or other material removed from a private sidewalk, private driveway, or
private parking lot to be dumped, placed, or deposited on or upon adjoining
streets or sidewalks or parkways within the dedicated public right-of-way
except said snow, ice, slush, mud, or other materials may be removed from such
private sidewalk, private driveway, or private parking lot onto the parkway
between nonintegral curb and sidewalk but may not be dumped, placed, or
deposited in such manner so as to create a hazard to vehicles or pedestrian
traffic, according to the “Rules and Regulations Governing Utility Services and
Streets for the City of Big Timber, Montana” and “Standards for Public Works
Improvements for the City of Big Timber, Montana,” adopted by reference herein
and as modified from time to time by the City Council.
(2015 Code, § 6-1-3) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 DRIVING OVER, DEFACING, OR DESTROYING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or park any vehicle of any kind
upon, over, or across any sidewalk, curb, parkway, or boulevard unless a
driveway approach has been constructed. To mark, deface, or destroy any
sidewalk or curb, or cause the same to be done is also unlawful, and any such
person so violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(2015 Code, § 6-1-4) Penalty, see §
92.99
EXCAVATIONS
§ 92.30 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   All excavations shall be governed by the “Rules and Regulations Governing
Utility Services and Streets for the City of Big Timber, Montana” and
“Standards for Public Works Improvements for the City of Big Timber, Montana,”
adopted by reference herein and as modified from time to time by the City
Council.
(2015 Code, § 6-2-1)
§ 92.31 PROOF OF INSURANCE; INDEMNIFICATION.
   No excavation permit shall be issued hereunder until the applicant has filed
proof that he or she has, in force, a general liability policy having a limit
of not less than $5,000,000, an automobile liability policy having a limit of
not less than $5,000,000; a workers’ compensation policy having a limit of not
less than $1,000,000; and an owner’s liability policy having a limit of not
less than $2,000,000. By signing and submitting his or her application, the
applicant agrees to save, indemnify, and hold harmless the city from any loss
from injury or property damage resulting from the excavation.
(2015 Code, § 6-2-2)
§ 92.32 INSPECTION.
   Upon completion of the excavation and backfilling and restoration, and upon
expiration of the one- year maintenance period, the applicant may request
inspection of the excavation site by the City Clerk/Treasurer or other
appropriate city official.
(2015 Code, § 6-2-3)
§ 92.33 MINIMUM TRAVEL INTERFERENCE.
   Excavations in streets and alleys shall be made in such manner as to impede
travel as little as possible. At no time during the progress of the work shall
sidewalks be unnecessarily blocked to travel.
(2015 Code, § 6-2-4)
§ 92.34 TIME LIMIT FOR OPEN EXCAVATION.
   The time that any street or alley excavation is open may be limited by the
Engineer or other responsible official of the city.
(2015 Code, § 6-2-5)
§ 92.35 BACKFILLING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Required. After the completion of the laying of any pipe, line, or
conduit, or the installation or repair of any facility for which the excavation
was undertaken, the excavator shall cause the work to be backfilled and
resurfaced in such a manner as to make the street in as good a condition as
before the excavation.
   (B)   Maintenance period.
      (1)   Any person making any excavation in any street or alley, as set
forth in this subchapter, shall be fully responsible for the maintenance of the
excavation for a period of one year after the backfill thereof.
      (2)   If any settlement occurs in the area that was formerly excavated,
the excavator or person causing the excavation shall immediately, upon notice,
fill in the settling and put the street, alley, or avenue, in as good a
condition as possible for use by the public.
(2015 Code, § 6-2-6)
§ 92.36 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Authority to revoke. Any permit issued under authority of this chapter
may be revoked for failure of the permittee to perform the work in accordance
with the specifications, methods, or time limit required or approved by the
city.
   (B)   Request for hearing; reinstatement. Any permittee whose permit is
revoked may, upon request, receive a hearing before the City Council or person
designated by the City Council. The City Council, after such hearing, may
reinstate the permit or take any other action it deems proper.
(2015 Code, § 6-2-7)
§ 92.37 REMEDIES.
   The remedies hereinbefore provided shall not be deemed exclusive but are in
addition to any and all other remedies available to the city, including actions
at law or equity.
(2015 Code, § 6-2-9)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating a provision of §
92.01 shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(2015 Code, § 6-4-2)
   (B)   Any person violating a provision of §
92.02 shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(2015 Code, § 6-5-2)
   (C)   Any person violating a provision of §
92.03 shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(2015 Code, § 6-3-2)
   (D)   As per §§
92.30 through
92.37, any person making an excavation without a permit shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(2015 Code, § 6-2-8)
CHAPTER 93: TREES, SHRUBS, AND WEEDS
Section
Trees and Shrubs
   
93.01   Planting within curb line
   
93.02   Overhanging streets or sidewalks
   
93.03   Duty to maintain
   
93.04   Failure to remove hazardous trees
   
93.05   Absence of notice
Weeds
   
93.20   Definition
   
93.21   Weeds prohibited
   
93.22   Notice to destroy
   
93.23   Failure to comply
 
   
93.99   Penalty
TREES AND SHRUBS
§ 93.01 PLANTING WITHIN CURB LINE.
   No person shall plant any tree within six feet of any curb line.
(2015 Code, § 6-7-1(A)) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 OVERHANGING STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   The owner or agent of the abutting property shall keep the trees on or
overhanging the streets or sidewalks trimmed so that all branches will be at
least 13 feet above the surface of the street and nine feet above the
sidewalks.
(2015 Code, § 6-7-1(B)) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 DUTY TO MAINTAIN.
   It is the duty of the owners or tenants or his, her, or their agents of any
premises within the city to keep the trees and plants upon the city rights-of-
way or boulevards adjoining his, her, or their premises in a good and safe
condition and remove any trees or plants, or parts thereof, which are hazardous
or in danger of falling.
(2015 Code, § 6-7-2(A)) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 FAILURE TO REMOVE HAZARDOUS TREES.
   If an owner fails to remove a hazardous tree after notice from the city, the
city may do so at the owner’s expense. The cost of removal shall be assessed
against the premises and to the extent allowed by law is a lien upon the lot or
parcel of land adjacent thereto and may be enforced or the amount may be
recovered by a suit before any court of competent jurisdiction.
(2015 Code, § 6-7-2(B))
§ 93.05 ABSENCE OF NOTICE.
   Absence of notice to owners or tenants to remove a hazardous, dangerous, or
unsafe tree or plant from the city right-of-way or boulevard, shall not be so
construed as to release the owners or tenants of real estate from the duty of
keeping the trees and plants in good and safe condition.
(2015 Code, § 6-7-2(C))
WEEDS
§ 93.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NOXIOUS WEEDS. All rank vegetable growth of every kind and nature,
including, but not limited to, dandelions and all weeds known as Canada
thistle, Scotch bull thistle, Russia thistle, sow thistle, quack grass, leafy
spurge (Euphorbia esula or Euphorbia virgata), field bindweed, Russian knapweed
(Centaurea picris), hoary cress (Lepidium draba, Lepidium repens, and
Hymenophysa pubescens), dodder, or any similar unwanted vegetation over eight
inches in height.
(2015 Code, § 6-6-1)
§ 93.21 WEEDS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of any lot, place, or area within the city, or agent of such owner,
shall permit noxious weeds on such lot, place, or area and one-half of any road
or street lying next to such property abutting thereon. The existence of such
noxious weeds shall constitute a public nuisance.
(2015 Code, § 6-6-2) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 NOTICE TO DESTROY.
   (A)   Notice required. Whenever noxious weeds are found to exist upon any
premises within the city, the city shall notify the owner of the property or,
if no such person can be found, the person in control of the premises.
   (B)   Contents of notice. The notice shall state that the existence of such
noxious weeds constitutes a public nuisance and shall order the owners or
persons in charge to exterminate or remove all such weeds on any lot, place, or
area within the city limits, and upon one-half of any adjacent street or road.
The notice shall further inform such property owners, or his, her, or their
agents, that upon his, her, or their failure to remove or exterminate such
weeds within a specified time, the city may proceed to have such weeds removed
or exterminated and assess the cost thereof to the property involved.
   (C)   Service of notice. Personal notice of the order shall be served. In
case personal service cannot be obtained, then the notice shall be published in
a prominently displayed advertisement once a week for two weeks in a newspaper
in the city, or if no such paper exists, in a newspaper within the county. The
last date of publication shall be not less than seven days prior to the date
upon which the city shall commence the removal of weeds from such property.
(2015 Code, § 6-6-3) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   Removal by city. Upon the failure, neglect, or refusal of any owner,
or agent thereof, to exterminate or remove noxious weeds growing, lying, or
located upon the property of the owner or upon one-half of any road or street
lying next to the lands before the date specified in the notice, the city may
exterminate or remove such noxious weeds.
   (B)   Costs; lien. The city shall report to the City Clerk/Treasurer the
cost of such extermination. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall make an additional
charge of 10% to cover administrative costs. The total costs shall be assessed
against the lot or parcel of land from which the noxious weeds have been
exterminated or removed. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall cause the aforesaid
costs to become a lien against the property involved.
(2015 Code, § 6-6-4) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating a provision of §§
93.21 through
93.23 shall, upon complaint and conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as
provided in §
10.99.
(2015 Code, § 6-6-5)
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
94.01   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code
   
94.02   Open fires
   
94.03   Smoking in bed
   
94.04   Storage of explosives
   
94.05   Limitations on storage of flammable liquids
   
94.06   Fireworks
   
94.07   Fire hazard; weeds and grasses
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   The Uniform Fire Code, latest edition, as amended from time to time,
recommended by the International Conference of Building Officials, together
with the appendices, is declared to be the city Fire Prevention Code for the
purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and
property from fire or explosion.
   (B)   One full printed copy of the code is on file in the office of the City
Clerk/Treasurer. The aforesaid Uniform Fire Code is hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this chapter as fully, and for all intents and purposes, as
though set forth herein at length. It shall be known and designated as the
“Fire Prevention Code” of the city.
(2015 Code, § 7-2-1) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 OPEN FIRES.
   No person shall build any open fire within the city limits of Big Timber.
This includes any open burning of trash, household garbage, yard rubbish or
clippings, bonfires, fires in burn barrels, pits, or any other fire. This does
not include cooking or heating fires which are enclosed within a manufactured
gas or charcoal cooking grill or other enclosed brick or stone cooking grill,
or a patio or deck heating unit which has a wire screen or expanded metal top.
(2015 Code, § 7-3-1) (Ord. 481, passed 6-4-2012) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 SMOKING IN BED.
   It is unlawful for any person to smoke any form of tobacco while lying upon
a bed in any hotel, motel, or other public rooming establishment within the
city.
(2015 Code, § 7-3-2) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept any giant powder,
nitroglycerin, dynamite, or other highly explosive compound within the city or
within three miles of the corporate limits of the city.
(2015 Code, § 7-3-3) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 LIMITATIONS ON STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to store flammable liquids in outside
aboveground tanks except in areas of the city zoned industrial.
   (B)   No person within the city shall store flammable or combustible liquids
or liquefied petroleum gas in new bulk plants except in areas which are zoned
industrial.
(2015 Code, § 7-3-4) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Prohibited. The discharge, firing, or use of fireworks, rockets,
torpedoes, roman candles, or other fireworks or substances designed or intended
for pyrotechnic display or demonstration, except when done by an adult or under
adult supervision on July 3, 4, 5 or December 31 of any year, is prohibited
within the city.
   (B)   Exception. The Mayor may, at any time, permit a public display of
fireworks under such conditions as he or she may prescribe. Nothing in this
chapter shall be construed to be in contravention of MCA Title 50, Chapter 37.
   (C)   Time period for selling. No person may offer fireworks of any kind for
sale at retail before June 24 and after July 5.
   (D)   Prohibition of possession and discharge in city parks and on city
recreational property. The discharge of fireworks in, or within 300 feet of,
any city parks or other city owned property is prohibited. No fireworks may be
discharged within 1,000 feet of any hospital, nursing, or assisted living
facility. No fireworks may be discharged within 300 feet of any gas station,
oil, or propane storage facility or other area which is highly flammable in
nature.
   (E)   Holidays. Fireworks may be discharged on July 3, 4, and 5 from 12:00
noon until 12:00 midnight, and on December 31 from 12:00 noon until January 1
at 1:00 a.m.
(2015 Code, § 7-3-5) (Ord. 469, passed 8-20-2007; Ord. passed 485, 8-1-2016)
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 FIRE HAZARD; WEEDS AND GRASSES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      WEEDS AND GRASSES. Includes all such vegetation growth over eight inches
in height, and any other combustible vegetation which constitutes a fire hazard
as determined by the County Fire Marshal.
   (B)   Prohibition. The owner, contract purchaser, tenant, or other occupant
of any real property within the city limits, or adjacent thereto, within the
law enforcement powers of the city (§
10.99), shall remove all grass and weeds over eight inches in height, or any
other readily combustible vegetation, from said real property so that such
material will not constitute a fire hazard. After July 1 of each year, all
weeds and grasses over eight inches in height constitute a fire hazard for the
purposes of this section.
   (C)   Failure to comply. Whenever such weeds, grasses, or other combustible
vegetation exists upon any such real property as set out in division (B) above,
the Director of Public Works may cause such weeds and grasses, or other
combustible vegetation, to be cut or removed after a seven day notice to the
owner or occupant, or in the case of an emergency, immediately without notice.
Such removal shall be done at the expense of the owner of the real property and
the city may either bill the owner for the expense of removal, or specially
assess such expense to such real property as a tax, which shall be collected as
other taxes are collected.
(2015 Code, § 7-3-7) (Ord. 463, passed 11-3-2003)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any and all penalties in the Fire Prevention Code are replaced by the
following penalty provision. Any person violating a provision of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not more than $500.
(2015 Code, § 7-2-2)
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty has not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to
penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(2015 Code, § 7-3-6)
   (C)   The penalty for violations of §
94.06 shall be not less than $50 or more than $500.
(Ord. 485, passed 8-1-2016)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   SOLICITING
      
112.   PAWNBROKERS AND SECONDHAND GOODS
      
113.   LIQUOR OPERATIONS
      
114.   AMUSEMENTS AND RECREATION
      
115.   GAMBLING
      
116.   MARIJUANA BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Scope
   
110.02   Unlawful activities
   
110.03   Application
   
110.04   Submission to City Council
   
110.05   Examination of applicant
   
110.06   Grounds for issuance or denial
   
110.07   Term of license
   
110.08   Fees
   
110.09   Inspection
   
110.10   Assignment
   
110.11   Renewal of license
   
110.12   Record of licenses
   
110.13   Separate licenses required
   
110.14   Suspension or revocation
   
110.15   Misrepresentation
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter apply to the issuance of every kind of
license or permit authorized by the city. Whenever a provision of a particular
licensing ordinance shall be deemed in conflict with any phrase or section of
this chapter, the provision of the particular licensing ordinance shall
prevail.
(2015 Code, § 2-1-1)
§ 110.02 UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES.
   No provision contained in this title shall be construed so as to license any
trade, business, occupation, vocation, pursuit, profession, or entertainment
prohibited by any law of the United States, of the state, or prohibited by the
provisions of this code or other ordinance of the city.
(2015 Code, § 2-1-2) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Form. Every person desiring to conduct any business or other activity
in the city for which a license is required must file with the City Clerk/
Treasurer of the city, on a form to be provided by the City Clerk/Treasurer, an
application for license, in writing.
   (B)   Fee. The fee for such license must accompany the application.
   (C)   Required information. The application shall be subscribed and sworn to
by the applicant before an officer authorized to take oaths, and shall set
forth:
      (1)   The name of the applicant;
      (2)   His or her place of permanent residence;
      (3)   His or her local business address, if any;
      (4)   Date of his or her arrival in the city;
      (5)   City or county from which last license, if any, received;
      (6)   Description of the activity to be licensed, and its location;
      (7)   Whether the applicant shall act as principal or agent;
      (8)   If acting as agent, the name and place of business of the
principal; and
      (9)   If the applicant is the agent, the principal’s acknowledgment of
such agency must accompany the application.
(2015 Code, § 2-1-3)
§ 110.04 SUBMISSION TO CITY COUNCIL.
   On receipt of any application for a license or other authorization to do
business, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall submit the same to the City Council at
its next regular or special session.
(2015 Code, § 2-1-4)
§ 110.05 EXAMINATION OF APPLICANT.
   (A)   Personal appearance. The City Council may notify or cause to be
notified, in writing, the applicant to appear before the City Council for the
purpose of further inquiry into the facts and circumstances of the application
and the fitness of the applicant to be licensed.
   (B)   Investigation. The City Council may instruct the Director of Public
Works or other city officer to investigate the facts stated in each license
application, the qualifications and character of the applicant and the officers
and owners of the firm to be licensed.
(2015 Code, § 2-1-5)
§ 110.06 GROUNDS FOR ISSUANCE OR DENIAL.
   (A)   Character. If the City Council shall determine that the applicant for
a license or any person interested in the ownership of any business sought to
be licensed are persons of such character that the business to be licensed may
be operated in such manner as to be detrimental to the public health, peace,
morals, or general welfare of the city, such application shall be denied;
otherwise, the application shall be granted.
   (B)   Premises. If the City Council shall find, after investigation, that
the premises or buildings of the business to be operated under license are in
unsafe condition, or are constructed or operated in such a way as to be
detrimental to the public welfare, the City Council shall deny the application
for license.
   (C)   Public interest. The city may refuse to issue licenses when it may
deem it best for the public interest.
(2015 Code, § 2-1-6)
§ 110.07 TERM OF LICENSE.
   Unless the City Council shall provide otherwise, either by ordinance or in
an individual license, the term of every license issued under authority of this
title shall be for one year, and shall commence July 1 and end the following
June 30.
(2015 Code, § 2-1-7)
§ 110.08 FEES.
   (A)   Collection. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall be charged with the
collection of the fees for the licenses required by this title.
   (B)   Fees. The fees shall be as set forth in the city fee schedule.
   (C)   Proration. With the exception of nonresident salesperson licenses, the
fees for all licenses issued after July 1 shall be calculated pro rata on the
number of months remaining in the year. A month will be included in the
proration if an application is filed on or before the fifteenth day of the
month. No allowance shall be made for any period less than one month.
   (D)   Lien. All property held or used in any business for which a license is
required is liable for such license and is subject to a lien for the amount of
the fee for such license.
   (E)   Disposition of fee upon denial of application. If a license
application shall be denied, the license fee that may have accompanied the
application shall be returned to the applicant.
(2015 Code, § 2-1-8)
§ 110.09 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Right of entry. Any business licensed under this title shall, at all
times, be subject to inspection by officials of the city. The licensee and/or
employees of such licensee shall at all times permit any official of the city
to enter the premises where such licensed business is conducted, for inspection
of such premises and the activity under license.
   (B)   Restriction or obstruction of city official. It is unlawful for any
person to restrict or obstruct any city official in the exercise of the right
of entry to a licensed premises or the inspection of any licensed activity.
(2015 Code, § 2-1-9) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10 ASSIGNMENT.
   (A)   Nothing contained in this title shall be construed to create any
vested right in any person to the assignment, renewal, reissuance, or
continuance of any license; the right thereto shall be always vested in the
City Council.
   (B)   No licensee shall assign any license granted by the city, unless
authorized by the City Council in writing or by ordinance.
(2015 Code, § 2-1-10) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.11 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   Application for renewal of a license shall be made in the same manner as
application for the original license.
(2015 Code, § 2-1-11)
§ 110.12 RECORD OF LICENSES.
   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall keep a record of all licenses granted by the
city showing for each license the date issued, to whom issued, the amount
collected, the date of expiration, the premises described therein, change of
location, or transfer, if any, and any other pertinent fact with reference
thereto.
(2015 Code, § 2-1-12)
§ 110.13 SEPARATE LICENSES REQUIRED.
   Except as otherwise provided, no license issued by the City Council shall
cover more than one classification of license or more than one trade, business,
occupation, pursuit, vocation, or entertainment.
(2015 Code, § 2-1-13)
§ 110.14 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Grounds.
      (1)   Whenever the City Council determines that any licensee is
conducting the activity licensed in a manner which violates this code or any
ordinance or regulation of the city or operating the business licensed in any
manner detrimental to the public health, morals, or welfare, the City Council
may order the suspension or revocation of the license.
      (2)   The City Council may revoke or suspend any license for fraud or
misrepresentation in its procurement, or for a violation of any federal or
state statute.
      (3)   If, when revoked, any license has an unexpired period of six months
or more, 50% of the license fee collected thereunder shall be refunded to the
licensee upon demand; provided that the demand for refund be made within 30
days after such revocation.
   (B)   Procedure. Before considering the suspension or revocation of any
license issued under this title, the City Council shall give the licensee an
opportunity to appear before it and be heard in relation to any matter under
investigation. The licensee shall be notified, in writing, of the time and
place of hearing or investigation.
(2015 Code, § 2-1-14)
§ 110.15 MISREPRESENTATION.
   No person shall willfully misrepresent any material fact in any license
application made by him or her.
(2015 Code, § 2-1-15) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating a provision of this chapter for which another penalty
has not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as
provided in §
10.99.
(2015 Code, § 2-1-16)
CHAPTER 111: SOLICITING
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Solicitation prohibited
   
111.03   Solicitation permit
   
111.04   Invitation
   
111.05   Possession and display of license
   
111.06   Door-to-door solicitation
   
111.07   Application contents; fees
   
111.08   Commercial permit holder responsibilities
   
111.09   Persons prohibited
   
111.10   Denial or revocation of a permit
   
111.11   Permit term
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL SOLICITOR. Any person, whether as volunteer, owner, agent,
consignee, or employee, who engages in door-to-door commercial solicitation.
   DOOR-TO-DOOR COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION. Attempting to make personal contact
with any person at his or her residence, without prior invitation by or
appointment with the resident, for the primary purpose of:
      (1)   Attempting to sell, for present or future delivery, any goods,
wares, or merchandise, newspaper or magazine subscriptions, or any services to
be performed immediately or in the future, whether or not the person has,
carries, or exposes a sample of such goods, wares, or merchandise, and whether
or not he or she is collecting advance payments for such sales and services;
      (2)   Seeking or attempting to obtain contributions of money or any other
thing of value for the benefit of any association, organization, corporation,
or program, excluding those defined under DOOR-TO-DOOR NON-COMMERCIAL
SOLICITATION; or
      (3)   Personally delivering to the resident a handbill or flyer
advertising a commercial event, activity, good, or service that is offered to
the resident for purchase at a location away from the residence or at a future
time.
   DOOR-TO-DOOR NON-COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION. Attempting to make personal
contact with any person at his or her residence, without prior specific
invitation by or appointment with the resident, for the primary purpose of:
      (1)   Seeking or asking for a gift or donation for a public entity or
nonprofit organization exempt from federal income tax under 26 U.S.C. § 501(c);
      (2)   Soliciting the sale of goods, wares, or merchandise for present or
future delivery, or the sale of services to be performed immediately or in the
future, with the entire proceeds of such sale to be paid directly to, or used
exclusively for the benefit of, a public entity or nonprofit organization
exempt from federal income tax under 26 U.S.C. § 501(c);
      (3)   Personally delivering to the resident a handbill or flyer
advertising a future not-for-profit event, activity, good, or service;
      (4)   Distribution of religious tracts and information on behalf of a
religious organization; and/or
      (5)   Door-to-door canvassing and pamphleteering as a vehicle for the
dissemination of ideas or views or opinions by one engaged in political
activities as a candidate or on behalf of a candidate in a recognized federal,
state, or local election, or on behalf of an issue on an upcoming ballot.
   DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION PERMIT. A document issued by Big Timber
authorizing a commercial solicitor to engage in door-to-door commercial
solicitation.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, company, corporation, business, partnership,
organization, or any other entity on behalf of whom a person is acting.
   “NO COMMERCIAL SOLICITORS” SIGN or “NO COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION” SIGN. A
prominently displayed sign that is exhibited on or near the main entrance to
the premises or on or near the main door to any residence, stating “no
commercial solicitors” or “no commercial solicitation” and applies only to
commercial solicitation.
   “NO SOLICITORS” SIGN or “NO SOLICITATION” SIGN. A prominently displayed sign
that is exhibited on or near the main entrance to the premises or on or near
the main door to any residence, stating “no solicitors” or “no solicitation”
and applies to all form of solicitation.
   NON-COMMERCIAL SOLICITOR. Any person, whether as volunteer, owner, agent,
consignee, or employee, who engages in door-to-door non-commercial
solicitation.
   PERMIT HOLDER. Any person to whom a permit has been issued under the
provisions of this chapter.
   PUBLIC ENTITY. The state, county, municipality, school district, special
improvement district, and any other kind of district, agency, instrumentality,
or political subdivision thereof organized pursuant to law and any separate
entity created by intergovernmental contract or cooperation only between or
among the state, county, municipality, school district, special improvement
district, and every other kind of district, agency, instrumentality, or
political subdivision thereof.
   RESIDENCE. A private RESIDENCE in the city, including, but not limited to,
condominium units and apartments, and shall include the yards, grounds, or
hallways thereof.
(Ord. 487, passed 5-4-2020)
§ 111.02 SOLICITATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall engage in commercial solicitation upon any
premises without prior invitation from the occupant thereof if such premises is
posted with a notice prominently displayed upon which is printed “no commercial
solicitors” or “no commercial solicitation.”
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, a dwelling, house, or apartment
or other residence will be deemed to be posted against solicitation if the
above notice is exhibited on or near the main entrance to the premises or on or
near the main door to any residence located thereon.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall engage in any form of solicitation upon any
premises without prior invitation from the occupant thereof if such premises is
posted with a notice prominently displayed upon which is printed “no
solicitors” or “no solicitation.”
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, a dwelling, house, or apartment
or other residence will be deemed to be posted against solicitation if the
above notice is exhibited on or near the main entrance to the premises or on or
near the main door to any residence located thereon.
      (3)   This provision shall apply to all solicitation including, but not
limited to, commercial, religious, charitable, non-profit, or political.
(Ord. 487, passed 5-4-2020) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 SOLICITATION PERMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in door-to-door
commercial solicitation activities within the city without first obtaining a
door-to-door solicitation permit issued by the city.
   (B)   Unless authorized or permitted pursuant to the terms and provisions of
this chapter, the practice of being in and upon private residential property
within the city by solicitors for the purpose of commercial solicitation, the
same is prohibited and is punishable as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 487, passed 5-4-2020)
§ 111.04 INVITATION.
   (A)   Any solicitor previously invited by the owner or occupant of the
private residential property is exempt from the prohibitions under §§
111.02 and
111.03. Such invitation shall not relieve the commercial solicitor from
complying with all other terms and provisions of this chapter including the
requirement to obtain a door-to-door solicitation permit.
   (B)   Those persons engaged in non-commercial solicitation, as defined
herein, are not required to obtain a door-to-door solicitation permit.
(Ord. 487, passed 5-4-2020)
§ 111.05 POSSESSION AND DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every person permitted pursuant to this chapter must at all times possess
and display his, her, or their door-to-door solicitation permit in a
conspicuous place while soliciting, and shall produce the same whenever
requested to do so by a police officer or other person.
(Ord. 487, passed 5-4-2020) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION.
   (A)   No person will engage in solicitation upon any residential premises
after having been asked by the owner or occupant thereof to leave such premises
or residence.
   (B)   There will be no solicitation upon any residential premises, other
than upon prior invitation by the occupant, prior to 9:00 a.m. or after 8:00
p.m., of any day.
   (C)   Not more than two individuals will engage in solicitation upon any
residential premises at the same time for the same goods or merchandise,
services, or for religious or charitable purposes. Each individual member of a
group engaged in solicitation in violation of this provision will be deemed to
have violated such provision.
   (D)   Every person engaged in solicitation shall, at the time of initial
contact with a prospective customer or donor, immediately identify himself or
herself and truthfully state the purpose of the solicitation.
(Ord. 487, passed 5-4-2020) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 APPLICATION CONTENTS; FEES.
   (A)   (1)   Each person applying for a door-to-door solicitation permit
shall submit written application on forms provided by the city with payment of
the permit fee to the city.
   (2)   The applicant shall state upon oath or affirmation that the
information contained in the application is truthfully provided to the best of
his or her knowledge and belief.
   (B)   The applicant shall supply the following information and any such
additional information that the city may include upon the application form:
      (1)   Applicant’s true and correct name, and any former names or aliases;
      (2)   Applicant’s business address and business telephone number;
      (3)   If different from the applicant, the name, address, and phone
number of the responsible person or entity;
      (4)   The name, address, and phone number of the applicant’s immediate
supervisor, if any;
      (5)   Information regarding the business including, without limitation,
its legal status and proof of registration with, or a certificate of good
standing from the Secretary of State;
      (6)   A brief explanation of the nature and duration of the solicitation
activity that requires a permit under this chapter;
      (7)   Whether a permit, license, or registration in connection with
soliciting has ever been revoked by any jurisdiction and an explanation of the
circumstances;
      (8)   A complete list of all persons to be authorized to solicit under
the permit;
      (9)   For each person authorized to solicit under a permit, the following
information:
         (a)   Name, address, phone number, and date of birth; and
         (b)   Proof of identification by submittal of any of the following
that bear a photograph of said person:
            1.   A valid U.S. driver’s license or identification card issued by
any state;
            2.   A valid U.S. uniformed service identification card;
            3.   A valid U.S. passport; or
            4.   U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Green Card.
      (10)   Any other information determined to be relevant by the
administrative official; and
      (11)   Permit fees as adopted annually in the city.
(Ord. 487, passed 5-4-2020)
§ 111.08 COMMERCIAL PERMIT HOLDER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Any person seeking to engage in door-to-door commercial solicitation
must obtain a door-to-door solicitation permit from the city and pay the permit
fee as provided in this chapter before commencing any such solicitation.
   (B)   All door-to-door solicitation permits shall be issued in the name of
the applicant. Upon issuance of each permit, the city shall create and maintain
a list of all persons authorized to engage in commercial solicitation under the
permit. It shall be the sole responsibility of the permit holder to:
      (1)   Provide a copy of the permit to each person authorized to engage in
solicitation under the permit;
      (2)   Ensure that each person authorized to solicit under the permit
complies with the terms and conditions of the permit and with the provisions of
this chapter;
      (3)   Notify the city in writing of any persons added to or deleted from
the list of authorized solicitors; and
      (4)   Submit to the city, for each person to be added to such list, the
information required under §
111.07(B)(8).
   (C)   The city shall, within five business days of the city’s receipt of a
complete application for a permit under this chapter, issue such permit,
together with a list of all persons authorized to engage in door-to-door
commercial solicitation under the permit, unless the city determines that the
permit application is denied under the criteria stated in §
111.10.
(Ord. 487, passed 5-4-2020)
§ 111.09 PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   A person shall not be eligible for issuance of a permit nor be authorized
under a permit under this chapter if a permit previously issued to such person
by the city under §
111.07 has been revoked by the city under §
111.10.
(Ord. 487, passed 5-4-2020)
§ 111.10 DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF A PERMIT.
   The city shall deny an application for a permit, refuse to renew a permit,
or revoke a permit issued under this chapter if the city determines that the
applicant has:
   (A)   Made any material misrepresentation or false statement in the
application for the permit;
   (B)   Failed to notify the city if any person authorized to solicit under
the permit, including the applicant, becomes a prohibited person as outlined in
§
111.09, after the issuance of the permit;
   (C)   Failed to obtain necessary licenses as required by the city;
   (D)   Failed to conduct and/or supervise solicitation activities under the
permit so as to reasonably ensure that such solicitation is in compliance with
the terms of the permit and with the provisions of this chapter; or
   (E)   Authorized, condoned, or knowingly tolerated any unlawful solicitation
or any solicitation conducted in such a manner as to constitute a menace to the
health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
(Ord. 487, passed 5-4-2020)
§ 111.11 PERMIT TERM.
   Unless otherwise revoked under §
111.10, a door-to-door solicitation permit shall expire at the end of the
calendar year in which the permit was issued.
(Ord. 487, passed 5-4-2020)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person to violate any of the provisions of this
chapter, and, upon conviction thereof, shall, if a penalty is not otherwise
specified, be punished by a fine of not more than $500, to which court costs
shall be added. In situations found appropriate by the trial court, restitution
may also be required.
(Ord. 487, passed 5-4-2020)
CHAPTER 112: PAWNBROKERS AND SECONDHAND GOODS
Section
Pawnbrokers
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   License fee
   
112.04   Register
   
112.05   Records
   
112.06   Purchase from minors
Junk Dealers
   
112.20   License required
   
112.21   Fee
   
112.22   Exemption
   
112.23   License to state location
   
112.24   Changing business location
   
112.25   Acting as pawnbroker
   
112.26   Records
   
112.27   Purchases from minors
Secondhand Stores
   
112.40   Definition
   
112.41   License required
   
112.42   Fee
   
112.43   Records
   
112.44   Purchases from minors
 
   
112.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see MCA §§ 7-21-4201, 7-21-4207, and 7-21-4208
PAWNBROKERS
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   Any person whose business it is to take or receive by way of pledge, pawn,
or exchange, any goods, wares, or merchandise, or any kind of personal property
whatever, for the repayment or security of money loaned thereon, shall be
deemed a pawnbroker.
(2015 Code, § 2-5-1)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of pawnbroker within the city or own,
operate, or conduct a pawn shop unless he or she has obtained a valid license
issued by the city.
(2015 Code, § 2-5-2) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 LICENSE FEE.
   The fee for a city license to engage in the business of pawnbroker shall be
set by resolution of the City Council.
(2015 Code, § 2-5-3)
§ 112.04 REGISTER.
   (A)   Required. Every person who shall engage in the business of a
pawnbroker in the city shall keep a book in which shall be entered, in legible
writing, a description of every article taken as a pledge, pawn, or security
for money paid, advanced, or loaned thereon, together with the names and
residences of the persons from whom such property was purchased or taken.
   (B)   Inspection. The register and the property so taken shall, at all
times, be subject to examination by any police officer or any person
accompanied by a police officer.
(2015 Code, § 2-5-4) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 RECORDS.
   The owners and keepers of pawn shops are required to keep a record of all
articles purchased by them. The record and the articles purchased are subject
to the inspection of all police officers of the city.
(2015 Code, § 2-5-5) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 PURCHASE FROM MINORS.
    No pawnbroker shall purchase any article from a minor without the written
consent of the parent or guardian of such minor.
(2015 Code, § 2-5-6) Penalty, see §
112.99
JUNK DEALERS
§ 112.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of buying or selling or dealing in
junk, rags, old rope, paper, bagging, old iron, iron bars, copper, brass, tin,
empty bottles, rubber, lead, or any other articles that are ordinarily bought
or dealt in by persons commonly called junk dealers, without being licensed for
such purpose by the city.
(2015 Code, § 2-3-1) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.21 FEE.
   The city license fee for engaging in the junk business shall be set by
resolution of the City Council.
(2015 Code, § 2-3-2)
§ 112.22 EXEMPTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to persons engaged only in
buying or collecting rags or paper to be used exclusively in the manufacture of
paper.
(2015 Code, § 2-3-3)
§ 112.23 LICENSE TO STATE LOCATION.
   Every license granted to any keeper of a junk shop shall designate the
location where the junk trade is to be carried out.
(2015 Code, § 2-3-4)
§ 112.24 CHANGING BUSINESS LOCATION.
   No junk dealer shall change the location of his or her business without the
written permission of the city.
(2015 Code, § 2-3-5) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.25 ACTING AS PAWNBROKER.
   No keeper of a junk shop as such shall carry on or hold a license to carry
on the business of a pawnbroker.
(2015 Code, § 2-3-6) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.26 RECORDS.
   The owners and keepers of junk shops are required to keep a record of all
articles purchased by them. The record and the articles purchased are subject
to the inspection of all police officers of the city.
(2015 Code, § 2-3-7) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.27 PURCHASES FROM MINORS.
   No junk dealer shall purchase any article from a minor without the written
consent of the parent or guardian of such minor.
(2015 Code, § 2-3-8) Penalty, see §
112.99
SECONDHAND STORES
§ 112.40 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SECONDHAND DEALER. Any person who engages in the business of buying and
selling secondhand goods, wares, or merchandise, of any kind whatever, other
than a charitable or nonprofit organization.
(2015 Code, § 2-4-1)
§ 112.41 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of secondhand dealer within the city,
or own, operate, or conduct a secondhand store unless he or she has obtained a
valid license issued by the city.
(2015 Code, § 2-4-2) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.42 FEE.
   The fee for a city license to operate a secondhand store shall be set by
resolution of the City Council.
(2015 Code, § 2-4-3)
§ 112.43 RECORDS.
   The owners and keepers of secondhand shops are required to keep a record of
all articles purchased by them. The record and the articles purchased are
subject to the inspection of all police officers of the city.
(2015 Code, § 2-4-4) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.44 PURCHASES FROM MINORS.
   No secondhand shop shall purchase any article from a minor without the
written consent of the parent or guardian of such minor.
(2015 Code, § 2-4-5) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating a provision of §§
112.02 through
112.06 or which another penalty has not been provided shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(2015 Code, § 2-5-7)
   (C)   Any person violating a provision of §§
112.20 through
112.27 for which another penalty has not been provided shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(2015 Code, § 2-3-9)
   (D)   Any person violating a provision of §§
112.41 through
112.44 for which another penalty has not been provided shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(2015 Code, § 2-4-6)
CHAPTER 113: LIQUOR OPERATIONS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License required
   
113.03   Application
   
113.04   Fees
   
113.05   State license
   
113.06   Application for transfer
 
   
113.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   See MCA Title 16, Chapters 3 and 4
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEER. Any beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt, or hops, or of any other similar products in
drinkable water, containing not more than 7% alcohol by weight.
   BOARD. The liquor control BOARD of the state which is officially designated
as the “Montana Liquor Control Board.”
   LIQUOR. Includes any alcoholic, spirituous, vinous, fermented, malt, or
other LIQUOR which contains more than 1% of alcohol by weight, but shall not
mean or include BEER, as that term is defined above.
   RETAILER. Any person, club, association, fraternal organization,
partnership, or any other kind of organization, engaged in the sale and
distribution of either liquor or beer, either on draft or in bottles or cans.
   SALE and SELL. Includes exchange, barter, and traffic. These terms also
include the selling or supplying or distributing, by any means whatsoever, of
liquor or of any liquid known or described as beer or near beer, or by any name
whatever commonly used to describe malt or brewed liquor, by any partnership or
by any society, association, or club, whether incorporated or unincorporated,
and whether heretofore, or hereafter formed or unincorporated, to any person,
partnership, society, association, or club or to any member thereof.
   WINE. An alcoholic beverage made from the normal alcoholic fermentation of
the juice of sound, ripe fruit, or other agricultural products without addition
or abstraction, except as may occur in the usual cellar treatment of clarifying
and aging and that contains not less than 7% nor more than 24% alcohol by
volume. WINE may be ameliorated to correct natural deficiencies, sweetened, and
fortified in accordance with applicable federal regulations and the customs and
practices of the industry. Other alcoholic beverages not defined as above but
made in the manner of WINE, labeled, and sold as WINE in accordance with
federal regulations are also WINE.
(2015 Code, § 2-2-1)
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No retailer shall sell liquor in the city unless he or she shall possess a
valid and current license issued by the city.
(2015 Code, § 2-2-2) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 APPLICATION.
   The application of a retailer for a license to sell liquor within the city
shall specify the location by street and number of the premises where the
business is to be carried on, the names of the persons conducting the business,
whether individually or as a fraternal organization, partnership, club, or
other organization, and provide such other information as the City Council
shall require.
(2015 Code, § 2-2-3) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 FEES.
   (A)   Beer retailer’s fee. No retailer who is licensed by the state to sell
beer shall sell beer within the city unless such retailer has paid an annual
fee to the city in an amount set by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   Wine amendment fee. Any licensed beer retailer who possesses a wine
amendment to his or her beer license, as issued by the state, may, upon payment
of an annual fee to be set by resolution of the City Council, receive an
amendment to said license permitting him or her to sell wine within the city.
   (C)   Liquor retailer’s fee. The fee for a city license to sell liquor shall
be set by resolution of the City Council.
   (D)   Collection; receipt. The fees shall be collected by the City Clerk/
Treasurer, who shall give a receipt therefor.
(2015 Code, § 2-2-4) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 STATE LICENSE.
   (A)   Required. No liquor license required by this chapter for any retailer
shall be issued until the applicant therefor has been granted a license by the
state’s Liquor Control Board.
   (B)   Revocation, withdrawal, or suspension. Any revocation, withdrawal, or
suspension of any license granted by the state pursuant to the state’s Retail
Liquor License Act, being MCA §§ 16-4-101 et seq., shall at once and
simultaneously therewith operate also as a revocation, withdrawal, or
suspension, as the case may be, of any license granted by the city under the
provisions of this chapter.
(2015 Code, § 2-2-5) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.06 APPLICATION FOR TRANSFER.
   (A)   Approval required. No license issued under the provisions of this
chapter shall be transferable except as provided in the state’s Retail Liquor
License Act, being MCA §§ 16-4-101 et seq., and then only after such transfer
is approved by the City Council after written application for permission to
transfer.
   (B)   Required information. Such application shall be in writing, state the
name, occupation, age, and sex of the proposed transferee; his or her
residence; and length of time he or she has resided there.
   (C)   Fee. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall charge and collect a fee to be set
by the city to cover the cost of all proceedings in connection with such
transfer.
(2015 Code, § 2-2-6) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating a provision of this chapter for which another penalty
has not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as
provided in §
10.99.
(2015 Code, § 2-2-7)
CHAPTER 114: AMUSEMENTS AND RECREATION
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   License required
   
114.03   Application
   
114.04   License fees
   
114.05   Display of license
   
114.06   Transfer of license
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUKEBOX. Any music vending machine, contrivance, or device which, upon
insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate, disc, or key into any slot, crevice,
or other opening, or by payment of any price, operates or may be operated for
the emission of songs, music, or similar amusement.
   MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE. A machine which, upon insertion of a coin,
slug, token, plate or disc, may be operated by the public generally for use as
a game, entertainment, or amusement, whether or not registering a score. It
shall include such devices as marble machines and all games, operations, and
transactions similar thereto under whatsoever name they may be indicated.
(2015 Code, § 2-6-1)
§ 114.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person displaying for public patronage or keeping for operation any
jukebox or mechanical amusement device, as defined in §
114.01, shall be required to obtain from the city a license therefor.
(2015 Code, § 2-6-2) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for the license required by §
114.02 shall be made to the City Clerk/Treasurer upon a form supplied for that
purpose.
   (B)   The application for such license shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Place where machine or device is to be displayed or operated and
the business conducted at that place; and
      (3)   Any other information of a like nature required by the city.
(2015 Code, § 2-6-3) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 LICENSE FEES.
   The license fee for every jukebox and every mechanical amusement device
shall be set by resolution of the City Council.
(2015 Code, § 2-6-4)
§ 114.05 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every person issued a license under authority of this chapter shall post the
same permanently and conspicuously at the location of the machine on the
premises where the device is operated or maintained for operation.
(2015 Code, § 2-6-5) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   If the licensee shall move his or her place of business to another
location within the city, the license may be transferred to such new location
upon application to the City Clerk/Treasurer, giving the street and number of
the new location.
   (B)   If the business of the licensee is sold or transferred, the license
may be transferred to the purchaser or transferee; provided, however, that the
City Clerk/Treasurer shall be notified of such transfer.
(2015 Code, § 2-6-6) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating a provision of this chapter for which another penalty
has not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as
provided in §
10.99.
(2015 Code, § 2-6-7)
CHAPTER 115: GAMBLING
Section
General Provisions
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Unsuitable methods of operation
   
115.03   Records
   
115.04   Unauthorized gambling games
   
115.05   Inspection
Licensing
   
115.20   License required
   
115.21   Social games
   
115.22   Application
   
115.23   Liquor license required
   
115.24   License qualifications
   
115.25   Fees
   
115.26   Terms of license
   
115.27   Applications submitted after July 1
   
115.28   Dealer license required
   
115.29   Examination of licensees and their agents
   
115.30   Forfeiture
   
115.31   All persons with interest required to apply
   
115.32   All persons financially interested to make application
   
115.33   Denial because of ownership
   
115.34   Disclosure of true owner of premises
   
115.35   Assertion of constitutional rights
   
115.36   Revocation; notice of appeal
 
   
115.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED CARD GAMES. Authorized gambling games and are limited to the card
games known as bridge, cribbage, hearts, pan, pinochle, pitch, rummy, whist,
solo, and poker. All other card games are unauthorized and are prohibited from
being played on licensed premises.
   DEALER. An individual dealing, supervising, participating in, conducting,
and operating authorized card games and games of chance as an agent, servant,
employee, or independent contractor for a licensee on a premises for which a
gaming license has been issued pursuant to this chapter.
   GAMBLING GAME. Any game or contest of chance whereby one risks money, chips,
or tokens redeemable in money, no matter how conceived or operated, and
includes, but is not limited to, every game described in MCA Title 23, Chapter
5; provided, however, that any gambling game exempted from local regulation and
licensing by state law shall not be included in this definition.
   GAMING MACHINE. Any implement, device, equipment, or machine designed,
intended, or used for the conduct of raffles or the receptacle and master board
used for the conduct of bingo, or any machine for which money is received for
play that depicts an authorized card game, bingo, or keno.
   POKER. Draw, stud, or low-ball or any combination thereof, played with five
or more cards per player.
   PREMISES. A building, structure, lot, or parcel of real property under
control of any person.
   RAFFLE. A game of chance whereby prizes are awarded on the basis of a
winning number or ticket selected in a drawing.
(2015 Code, § 2-7-3)
§ 115.02 UNSUITABLE METHODS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The city deems that any activity on the part of any licensee, his or
her agents, or employees, which is inimical to the public health, safety,
morals, good order, and general welfare of the people of this city, is
operating in an unsuitable manner and shall be grounds for disciplinary action
by the city in accordance with the state gambling laws and regulations of the
city.
   (B)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the following acts
or omissions may be determined to be unsuitable methods of operation:
      (1)   Failure to exercise discretion and sound judgment to prevent
incidents which might reflect on the repute of this city;
      (2)   Permitting persons who are visibly intoxicated or otherwise not in
full control of their faculties to participate in gaming activity;
      (3)   Complimentary service of intoxicating beverages in the gaming area
in accordance with decency, dignity, good taste, honesty, and inoffensiveness;
      (4)   Failure to conduct advertising and public relations activities in
accordance with decency, dignity, good taste, honesty, and inoffensiveness;
      (5)   Employing in any card room any person who has not obtained a
“dealer’s license” as defined and provided in this chapter;
      (6)   Employing in any capacity in or about any licensed establishment
any person who has been denied a gaming license on the grounds of unsuitability
or whose past activities and reputation would tend to bring discredit on this
city;
      (7)   Employing in any gaming operation any person whom the city or any
court has found guilty of cheating or using any improper device in connection
with any game, whether as a licensee, dealer, or player at a licensed game; as
well as any person whose conduct of a licensed game as a dealer or other
employee of a licensee resulted in revocation or suspension of the license of
such licensee;
      (8)   Permitting games to be played by the use of credit extended by the
house to a player or between players;
      (9)   Not posting rules of game, and, in addition, posting the value of
colors of chips used in play; and
      (10)   Violating any state gaming or liquor or beer laws.
(2015 Code, § 2-7-11) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03 RECORDS.
   (A)   Required; retention.
      (1)   Every licensee shall keep complete and accurate records of all
transactions pertaining to gambling in the licensed establishment.
      (2)   All accounting records shall be retained for a period of three
years unless written permission to do otherwise is obtained from the city.
   (B)   Gross income and expense. Every holder of a gaming license shall
maintain records adequate to reveal gross income and expense relating to gaming
operations.
   (C)   Corporate records. Corporate licensees shall keep available for
inspection:
      (1)   A certified copy of articles of incorporation and any amendments
thereof;
      (2)   A current copy of the bylaws;
      (3)   A current list of officers and directors;
      (4)   Minutes of all meetings of stockholders and directors;
      (5)   A current list of all stockholders, including their names and
addresses and the number of shares held by each and date acquired;
      (6)   A complete record of all transfers of stock; and
      (7)   A record of amounts paid to the corporation for issuance of stock
and other capital contributions.
   (D)   Partnership records. Partnerships shall maintain individual accounts
in the general ledger for each partner shown separately:
      (1)   Dates of capital contributions and percent of interest held;
      (2)   Withdrawals of partnership funds or assets; and
      (3)   Salaries paid to each partner.
   (E)   Sole proprietorship records. A sole proprietorship shall maintain
adequate records to reflect the original investment, subsequent additions
thereto, and withdrawals therefrom.
   (F)   Inspection. No applicant or licensee shall neglect or refuse to
produce records or evidence or to give information upon proper and lawful
demand by an authorized agent of the city or shall otherwise interfere or
attempt to interfere with any proper or lawful efforts by the city or any agent
of the city to procure such information.
(2015 Code, § 2-7-12) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.04 UNAUTHORIZED GAMBLING GAMES.
   No licensee shall permit any game other than those specifically provided for
by state law to be operated on the premises for which the license has been
issued.
(2015 Code, § 2-7-15) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.05 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The city, its duly authorized representative, the County Attorney, or
any peace officer shall have the right at any time to make an examination of
the premises and to check the licensee’s books, records, and gaming equipment.
   (B)   (1)   At all times, when any person other than the licensee or his or
her employees are within or upon any premises licensed for gambling games, such
premises shall be open to immediate inspection by the County Attorney, any
peace officer, and any authorized representative of the city.
      (2)   Such persons shall have immediate access to the premises and all
parts thereof.
      (3)   Doors of licensed premises shall not be locked while persons other
than the licensee or his or her employees are within or upon such licensed
premises.
(2015 Code, § 2-7-21)
LICENSING
§ 115.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of state law, no gambling game which is open to
participation by members of the general public shall be conducted in the city
by anyone, either as owner, lessee, or employee, on premises which have been
licensed for the sale of liquor, beer, or wine, without not having first
procured and thereafter maintained in full force and effect, a gaming license
issued by the City Clerk/Treasurer.
(2015 Code, § 2-7-1) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.21 SOCIAL GAMES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit social games played
in private homes or residences or other premises not licensed for the sale of
liquor, beer, or wine.
(2015 Code, § 2-7-2)
§ 115.22 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Form. All applications for gaming licenses shall be made to the city
upon blanks supplied by the city.
   (B)   Prerequisites to filing. As a prerequisite to filing, all of the
following must be completed and presented:
      (1)   Application form, under oath, in duplicate, for the individual or
business entity along with the appropriate application fee;
      (2)   Personal history record, under oath, in duplicate, including
criminal record for each individual, partner, joint venturer, trustee, or
corporate officer who has any financial interest, direct or indirect, in the
business entity, said personal history to be deemed a part of the application
form;
      (3)   Two fingerprint cards for each individual, partner, or corporate
officer; and
      (4)   Two copies of each of the following, if applicable:
         (a)   Articles of incorporation and certificate of incorporation;
         (b)   Partnership agreement;
         (c)   Trust agreement;
         (d)   Joint venture agreement;
         (e)   Purchase agreement;
         (f)   Lease agreement;
         (g)   Bill of sale; and
         (h)   Management agreement.
   (C)   Submittal; fees. Gaming licenses under this subchapter shall only be
issued upon application for such license delivered to the City Clerk/Treasurer,
together with the license fees as hereinafter set forth, together with a
nonrefundable application fee to be set by resolution of the City Council to be
paid into the General Fund. The application fee shall not apply to fraternal or
nonprofit organizations applying for temporary licenses as hereinafter set
forth.
   (D)   Investigation. Upon receipt of such application and the appropriate
application fee, the city will make or cause to be made a thorough
investigation as to the qualifications of the applicant and the suitability of
the premises for operating a gambling game.
   (E)   Additional information. Each applicant shall promptly furnish the city
with all additional information pertaining to the application or to the
applicant which the city may require. Failure to supply the information
requested within five days after the request has been received by the applicant
shall constitute grounds for delaying consideration of the application.
   (F)   Separate applications required. A separate application is required for
each establishment for which a license is sought, irrespective of the ownership
of such establishment.
   (G)   Number of individuals on application limited. The city may, whenever
it deems public interest to so require in a particular case, limit the number
of individuals who may be named in any initial application for a license or in
any application to add new parties to, or for approval of new interest under an
existing license.
   (H)   Corporate applications. A corporate application shall be accompanied
by a sworn statement showing the names of all the owners of all issued stock of
such corporation, together with the amount of stock owned by each stockholder
and the residence addresses of said owners.
   (I)   State corporation. No gaming license shall be issued to a foreign
corporation or to a state corporation unless a majority of the issued stock of
said state corporation is owned by persons who have been residents of the state
for a period of one year immediately before making application for a gaming
license.
   (J)   Issuance. If, upon such investigation, it appears that the applicant
is qualified under the law and that the premises are suitable for conducting
gambling games under the laws of the state and the rules and regulations of the
city, the city will issue a gaming license if all other requirements of the
laws and these rules and regulations are fulfilled.
(2015 Code, § 2-7-4)
§ 115.23 LIQUOR LICENSE REQUIRED.
   At the time an applicant files his or her application for a gaming license,
in addition to the fees mentioned, the applicant must furnish the City Clerk/
Treasurer with satisfactory proof that the applicant holds a current liquor
license, beverage license, or on-premises beer or wine license as issued by the
state’s Department of Revenue, Liquor Control Division.
(2015 Code, § 2-7-5)
§ 115.24 LICENSE QUALIFICATIONS.
   No license shall be issued to:
   (A)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame;
   (B)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or any gambling or other
crime or misdemeanor, opposed to decency and morality, under the laws of the
federal government of any state of the United States;
   (C)   Any person whose license issued under this subchapter or the ordinance
or regulation of any other city, town, or county of this state relating to
gaming, has been revoked for cause;
   (D)   A person who at the time of the application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for any such license upon a first
application;
   (E)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States and who has not
been a resident of the state for at least one year immediately preceding the
filing of the application for license;
   (F)   In the case of applicants for licenses, a person who is not the legal
owner or operator of the business or establishment to be licensed;
   (G)   Minors and incompetents;
   (H)   Any person who has been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude or violence against an individual; or
   (I)   Any holder of public office, either elected or appointed, or any
police officer or Sheriff’s Department officer, or any spouse of any such
officer or office holder.
(2015 Code, § 2-7-6)
§ 115.25 FEES.
   (A)   Fees due. Before issuing any license as defined in this subchapter,
the City Clerk/Treasurer shall charge and collect from each applicant, in
addition to any application fee which might otherwise be required by this
chapter, a license fee which shall be set by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   Lien.
      (1)   All property held or used for or on the premises for which a
license is required by the provisions of this subchapter is liable for such
license and subject to a lien for the amount thereof, which lien has precedence
over any other lien, claims, or other demands except those of the United States
and the state, or either of them, and if any person fails or refuses to procure
a license before the transaction of any games, the Director of Public Safety
must seize such property or any other property belonging to such person and
sell it in the manner provided by law for foreclosure of agister’s liens.
      (2)   Such procedure for the collection of such license shall be
cumulative and in addition to any procedure and penalty imposed for violation
of this chapter.
(2015 Code, § 2-7-7)
§ 115.26 TERMS OF LICENSE.
   For purposes of computation of the foregoing license fees, the term YEAR
refers to the 12 consecutive months commencing on July 1 of each year and
ending on the following June 30. All gaming licenses and dealer licenses will
automatically expire on June 30 of each year.
(2015 Code, § 2-7-8)
§ 115.27 APPLICATIONS SUBMITTED AFTER JULY 1.
   Any applicant for a gaming license or dealer’s license issued pursuant to
this chapter who shall make application for such license after July 1 of any
year, shall pay the full license fee for that year, even though the license the
applicant may ultimately receive will be valid for less than a full 12-month
period. License fees are not proratable.
(2015 Code, § 2-7-9)
§ 115.28 DEALER LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall be employed in a gaming operation without first having
obtained a dealer’s license.
(2015 Code, § 2-7-10) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.29 EXAMINATION OF LICENSEES AND THEIR AGENTS.
   (A)   Power to summon. The city may summon any licensee or his or her agents
or employees to appear to testify before it or its agents with regard to the
conduct of any licensee or the agents or employees of any licensee.
   (B)   Testimony. All such testimony shall be under oath and may embrace any
matters which the city or its agents may deem relevant to the discharge of
their official duties.
   (C)   Representation by counsel. Any person so summoned to appear shall have
the right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Use as evidence. Any testimony so taken may be used by the city as
evidence in any proceeding or matter then before it or which may later come
before it.
   (E)   Failure to appear. Failure to so appear and testify fully at the time
and place designated, unless excused, shall constitute grounds for the
revocation or suspension of any license held by the person summoned, his or her
principal, or his or her employer.
(2015 Code, § 2-7-13)
§ 115.30 FORFEITURE.
   (A)   Misrepresentation; violation. In the event any applicant for licensing
misrepresents or has misrepresented any fact requested or required under this
subchapter or violated any of the requirements or rules of this subchapter and/
or laws of the state pertaining to gambling or liquor laws, said license is and
shall be subject to forfeiture and revocation, and such revocation shall be in
addition to any other penalty imposed by law, and violation of any of the state
criminal codes, gambling laws, or liquor laws shall constitute forfeiture and
revocation of said license.
   (B)   Dealer’s license. Conviction of a violation of the gambling laws and
this chapter shall constitute forfeiture of a dealer’s license.
(2015 Code, § 2-7-14)
§ 115.31 ALL PERSONS WITH INTEREST REQUIRED TO APPLY.
   If the city determines that a landlord or financier, by reason of the extent
of his or her holdings or his or her inherent control financially, cannot, in
fact, be separated from the gaming operation and that as a practical matter a
single entity exists regardless of the form of organization, it may require
that all such individuals be licensed. Without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, such a situation may be deemed to exist in any instance where an
owner of premises leased the same to operators under terms which are not in
accordance with the usual and accepted business practice.
(2015 Code, § 2-7-16)
§ 115.32 ALL PERSONS FINANCIALLY INTERESTED TO MAKE APPLICATION.
   Applications for licenses shall be in the names of all persons financially
interested or to be financially interested in the business to be conducted
pursuant thereto, and the names of all such persons shall appear on such
licenses. A disqualification of any one or more such persons to hold such
licenses shall disqualify all thereof. This requirement shall not apply to
nonprofit organizations or churches unless the city determines it necessary.
(2015 Code, § 2-7-17)
§ 115.33 DENIAL BECAUSE OF OWNERSHIP.
   The city may deem that premises are unsuitable for the conduct of gaming
operations by reason of ownership of an interest whatsoever in such premises by
a person who is unqualified or disqualified to hold a gaming license regardless
of the qualifications of the person who seeks to hold a license to operate
gaming in or upon such premises.
(2015 Code, § 2-7-18)
§ 115.34 DISCLOSURE OF TRUE OWNER OF PREMISES.
   In all cases in which the premises wherein or whereupon the gaming operation
for which a gaming license is sought are not wholly owned by the applicant, the
applicant shall furnish to the city a statement of the name and address of the
owner of such premises, a copy of all agreements whereby the applicant is
entitled to possession of the premises and such other information as the city
may require.
(2015 Code, § 2-7-19)
§ 115.35 ASSERTION OF CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS.
   An applicant may claim any privilege afforded by the constitution of the
United States or of the state in refusing to answer questions by the city.
However, a claim of privilege with respect to any testimony or evidence
pertaining to an application may constitute sufficient grounds for denial.
(2015 Code, § 2-7-20)
§ 115.36 REVOCATION; NOTICE OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Revocation. The city shall have the right, for cause, to revoke or
suspend any license issued hereunder and take possession of such license.
   (B)   Notice of appeal. The action of the city in this respect shall be
subject to an appeal of the District Court. Notice of such appeal shall be
filed, in writing, with the City Clerk/Treasurer within 30 days of such
revocation or suspension. Otherwise, the action of the city in revoking or
suspending the gaming license shall be final and conclusive.
(2015 Code, § 2-7-22)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter or the terms of his or
her license shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(2015 Code, § 2-7-23)
CHAPTER 116: MARIJUANA BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
116.01   Purpose and intent
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   Prohibited marijuana businesses
Medical Marijuana Business
   
116.10   Definitions
   
116.11   Medical marijuana dispensary
   
116.12   Non-conforming structures/uses
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 116.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this section to prohibit the location of certain
marijuana businesses within the jurisdictional area of the City of Big Timber
and the Big Timber Zoning Jurisdiction, pursuant to the vote of the electorate
in November 3, 2020 general election; to regulate medical marijuana businesses
to promote the health, safety, morals, and the general welfare of the citizens
of the City of Big Timber, and to provide interim guidance in the event that
there is a change in the opt in requirements for marijuana businesses in the
city's jurisdictional area.
   (B)   The provisions of this section have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a restriction on the availability of medical marijuana allowed
pursuant to Montana law, subject to the siting and inspection requirements
herein for medical marijuana dispensaries. Similarly, it is not the intent or
effect of these regulations to restrict or deny access by adults to providers
of medical marijuana provided the requirements of MCA §§ 16-12-501 et seq. are
met.
   (C)   The provisions of this section do not prohibit the personal use of
marijuana and cultivation of marijuana for personal use, subject to the limits
and requirements set forth in MCA §§ 16-12-106 and 16-12-108 and other
provisions of state law.
(Ord. 489, passed 12-6-2021; amd. 6-6-2022; Ord. 493, passed 1-16-2023)
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following definitions from MCA § 16-12-102
apply:
   ADULT USE DISPENSARY. A licensed premises from which a person licensed by
the department may:
      (1)   Obtain marijuana or marijuana products from a licensed cultivator,
manufacturer, dispensary, or other licensee approved under this chapter; and
      (2)   Sell marijuana or marijuana products to registered cardholders,
adults that are 21 years of age or older, or both.
   CULTIVATOR. A person licensed by the department to:
      (1)   Plant, cultivate, grow, harvest, and dry marijuana; and
      (2)   Package and relabel marijuana produced at the location in a natural
or naturally dried form that has not been converted, concentrated, or
compounded for sale through a licensed dispensary.
   INDOOR CULTIVATION FACILITY. An enclosed area used to grow live plants that
is within a permanent structure using artificial light exclusively or to
supplement natural sunlight.
      (1)   The term may include:
         (a)   A greenhouse;
         (b)   A hoop house; or
         (c)   A similar structure that protects the plants from variable
temperature, precipitation, and wind.
   MANUFACTURER. A person licensed by the department to convert or compound
marijuana into marijuana products, marijuana concentrates, or marijuana
extracts and package, repackage, label, or relabel marijuana products as
allowed under this chapter.
   MARIJUANA BUSINESS. A cultivator, manufacturer, adult-use dispensary,
medical marijuana dispensary, combined-use marijuana licensee, testing
laboratory, marijuana transporter, or any other business or function that is
licensed by the department under this chapter.
   MARIJUANA TRANSPORTER. A person that is licensed to transport marijuana and
marijuana products from one marijuana business to another marijuana business,
or to and from a testing laboratory, and to temporarily store the transported
retail marijuana and retail marijuana products at its licensed premises but is
not authorized to sell marijuana or marijuana products to consumers under any
circumstances.
   TESTING LABORATORY. A qualified person, licensed under this chapter that:
      (1)   Provides testing of representative samples of marijuana and
marijuana products; and
      (2)   Provides information regarding the chemical composition and potency
of a sample, as well as the presence of molds, pesticides, or other
contaminants in a sample.
(Ord. 489, passed 12-6-2021; amd. 6-6-2022; Ord. 493, passed 1-16-2023)
§ 116.03 PROHIBITED MARIJUANA BUSINESSES.
   Except for a medical marijuana business as allowed and provided for in §§
116.10 through
116.02 below, this section prohibits the operation of all the following
marijuana businesses within the jurisdiction of the City of Big Timber:
      (1)   Cultivator;
      (2)   Manufacturer;
      (3)   Adult use dispensary;
      (4)   Combined use marijuana licensee;
      (5)   Testing laboratory; and
      (6)   Marijuana transporter.
   as such businesses are defined herein and licensed by the Department of
Revenue pursuant to MCA Title 16, Chapter 12. In the event that the opt-in
provisions of the Montana Marijuana Regulation and Taxation Act are amended to
remove the requirement of local government approval of such marijuana
businesses, then a six-month moratorium on the operation of such businesses
shall be in place pending adoption of further regulations to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare. Such six-month moratorium shall begin when the law
authorizing a change to the opt-in provisions becomes effective. (Ord. 489,
passed 12-6-2021; amd. 6-6-2022; Ord. 493, passed 1-16-2023)
MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESS
§ 116.10 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply to a medical marijuana business:
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA. Marijuana or marijuana products that are for sale solely
to a cardholder who is registered under MCA Title 16, Chapter 12, part 5.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY. A structure on a permanent foundation from
which a registered cardholder may obtain marijuana or marijuana products.
   LICENSED PREMISES. All locations related to, or associated with, a specific
license that is authorized under this chapter and includes all enclosed public
and private areas at the location that are used in the business operated
pursuant to a license, including offices, kitchens, restrooms, and storerooms.
   LICENSEE. A person holding a state license issued pursuant to this chapter.
   REGISTERED CARDHOLDER or CARDHOLDER. A Montana resident with a debilitating
medical condition (as defined by MCA § 16-12-102(10)) who has received and
maintains a valid registry identification card.
   REGISTRY IDENTIFICATION CARD. A document issued by the department pursuant
to MCA § 16-12-503 that identifies an individual as a registered cardholder.
(Ord. 489, passed 12-6-2021; amd. 6-6-2022; Ord. 493, passed 1-16-2023)
§ 116.11 MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY.
   (A)   This chapter permits medical marijuana dispensaries subject to the
conditions of this section. However, no other medical marijuana businesses are
permitted, except to the extent manufacture or cultivation of the medical
marijuana product is part of the licensee's license as a provider, and subject
to the limits on amount of plants/area per registered cardholder.
   (B)   Standards. The following standards apply to all medical marijuana
dispensaries within the City of Big Timber Zoning jurisdiction.
      (1)   Zoning districts. Zoning districts in which a medical marijuana
dispensary can be located are Manufactured and Industrial (MI) or Highway
Business (HB). The growing, selling or distribution of cannabis or
paraphernalia in any other zones or districts of the City of Big Timber is
prohibited.
         (a)   Zoning district setbacks.
            1.   Within permitted zoning districts, the following setbacks
apply: 1,000 feet from the nearest school, education facility, facilities where
minors gather or day-care facility, these include parks and community centers.
            2.   One thousand feet from nearest church, worship facility or
other religious institution.
            3.   Six hundred feet from any residence or residential zoned area.
            4.   Distances will be measured in a straight line, without regard
to intervening structures, from the property line of a medical marijuana
business to the property line of the preceding land uses or zoning districts.
      (2)   Medical marijuana dispensaries cannot be operated as a home
occupation or business.
      (3)   Any medical marijuana dispensary is subject to state fire and state
electrical inspections or requirements, but not limited to at least two fire
department inspections and electrical inspections per year. These certificates
must be posted on the premises.
      (4)   The medical marijuana dispensary licensee is subject to all state
licensure requirements and proof of licensure, including any terms and
conditions shall be submitted to the Planning Office.
      (5)   Signage shall comply with
Chapter 154 of this code.
      (6)   The cultivation, manufacture, or sale of marijuana for medical
purposes and as part of the medical marijuana dispensary license, shall be
subject to all local, state and federal laws, rules, and regulations.
      (7)   Any medical marijuana dispensary requires a conditional use
application, which is to be reviewed by the City County Planning Board and
subject to the final decision of the governing body.
         (a)   If medical marijuana is grown or cultivated for a provider's
registered cardholders, the following requirements apply:
            1.   The property is owner occupied.
            2.   Such manufacture and/or cultivation must be allowed by the
terms of the medical marijuana dispensary license.
            3.   The cultivation area cannot be located on a parcel with any
other commercial cannabis activity not allowed herein.
            4.   All marijuana cultivation shall be done inside of an enclosed
structure and not outdoors. Such structure will be outfitted with the best
available odor control technology.
            5.   The area where medical marijuana is manufactured or cultivated
shall comply with the setback and inspection requirements set forth in this
section.
(Ord. 489, passed 12-6-2021; amd. 6-6-2022; Ord. 493, passed 1-16-2023)
§ 116.12 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES/USES.
   Any medical marijuana business, located within the limits of the City of Big
Timber, existing upon passage of this chapter which does not comply with the
requirements established herein shall be deemed a legal nonconforming use. Any
such nonconforming use medical marijuana business shall obtain a conditional
use permit for non-conforming use within 90 days of the approval and passage of
this chapter.
(Ord. 489, passed 12-6-2021; amd. 6-6-2022; Ord. 493, passed 1-16-2023)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   WEAPONS
      
132.   MEDICAL MARIJUANA
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Disturbing the peace
Minors
   
130.15   Curfew
   
130.16   Duty of parent or guardian
   
130.17   Written notice
   
130.18   Minors remaining in public places
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   No person within the city, or within three miles of the city limits, shall
willfully and maliciously disturb the peace and quiet of any street,
neighborhood, family, or person by loud, tumultuous noise, or by tumultuous or
offensive conduct, or by using offensive, loud radio or television sets, or by
threatening, quarreling, scolding, hollering, challenging to fight or fighting,
or by cursing, swearing, uttering obscene, profane, vulgar, or indecent
language in the presence of any person or persons.
(2015 Code, § 4-2-1) (Ord. 455, passed 8-21-2000) Penalty, see §
130.99
MINORS
§ 130.15 CURFEW.
   No child under the age hereinafter set forth shall be upon any public
thoroughfare or any other public place of this city, unless such child is
accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or other person having legal care
and custody of the child, or is accompanied by a responsible person 21 years of
age, or is in the performance of an errand or duty directed by his or her
parent, guardian, or legal custodian, or whose legally recognized employment
makes it necessary for such child to be in or upon city streets, thoroughfares,
or other public places between the hours set forth:
   (A)   Children the age of 12 years and under: between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 6:00 a.m., unless exempted under division (C) below; and
   (B)   Children over the age of 12 years and under the age of 18 years:
between the following hours, unless exempted under division (C) below:
      (1)   Eleven p.m. to 6:00 a.m. Sunday through Thursday; and
      (2)   One a.m. to 6:00 a.m. Friday and Saturday.
   (C)   It is an exemption to a violation under this section that the person
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning from, without any stop or detour, an official school, religious,
or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for
the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married, or had been married, or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
(2015 Code, § 4-5-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 DUTY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN.
   No parent, guardian, or other person having the legal care and custody of
any child coming within the provisions of this subchapter shall allow or permit
such child to go or be in or upon any of the city thoroughfares or any other
public place in the city after the hours prescribed in §
130.15 unless reasonable necessity can be shown therefor.
(2015 Code, § 4-5-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 WRITTEN NOTICE.
   The Sheriff’s Department, upon finding a child under the prescribed ages set
forth in §
130.15 in or upon the city streets, thoroughfares, or other public places of
the city, in violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter after the
hours prescribed, shall cause such child to be taken to his or her home and
shall deliver to the child’s parents, guardian, or custodian written notice of
the violation of this subchapter together with a notice that unless the terms
of this subchapter are complied with, a penalty will be imposed against the
parents, guardian, or legal custodian.
(2015 Code, § 4-5-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 MINORS REMAINING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   It is unlawful and punishable as hereinafter provided for the
licensee, or any agent, servant, or employee of a licensee, holding an all-
beverage license, authorized by the provisions of MCA Title 16, Chapter 4, part
2, to allow any person under the age of 21 years to be or remain in the barroom
or room which is used primarily for dispensing alcoholic beverages within the
premises upon which business is carried on under said license, within the city
unless such person is:
      (1)   Accompanied by at least one of his or her parents or by his or her
duly appointed guardian;
      (2)   Accompanied by a spouse who is over the age of 21 years; or
      (3)   Lawfully employed by the licensee and then shall be permitted upon
the premises only during his or her working hours.
   (B)   It shall be a defense to the provisions of division (A) above that a
person under the age of 21 years exhibited to the licensee, or the agent,
servant, and employee of the licensee, a driver’s license or birth certificate
showing the person to be 21 years of age or older.
   (C)   It is unlawful and punishable as hereinafter provided for a person
under the age of 21 years to be or remain in the barroom or room which is used
primarily for dispensing alcoholic beverages within the premises upon which
business is carried on under an all-beverage license authorized by the
provisions of MCA Title 16, Chapter 4, part 2, unless such person is:
      (1)   Accompanied by at least one of his parents or by his or her duly
appointed guardian;
      (2)   Accompanied by a spouse who is over the age of 21 years; or
      (3)   Lawfully employed by the licensee and then shall be permitted upon
the premises only during his or her working hours.
(2015 Code, § 4-5-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating a provision of this chapter for which another
penalty has not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to
penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(2015 Code, § 4-5-1)
   (B)   Any person violating §
130.18 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in §
10.99.
(2015 Code, § 4-5-2)
CHAPTER 131: WEAPONS
Section
   
131.01   Definition
   
131.02   Concealed weapons
   
131.03   Discharge prohibited
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREARMS. Any instrument used in the propulsion of shot, shell, or bullets
or other harmful objects by the action of gunpowder exploded within it, or by
the action of compressed air within it, or by the power of springs and
including what are commonly known as air rifles, BB guns, slings, or flippers.
(2015 Code, § 4-4-1)
   WEAPON. Includes guns, pistols, revolvers, rifles, shotguns, and other
barreled WEAPONS which utilize combustible propellants. That term shall also
include any other projectile WEAPON, BB guns, pellet guns, Air/CO2 rifles or
pistols, paintball guns, bows (recurve or compound), crossbows, and slingshots.
(Ord. 486, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 131.02 CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry concealed upon his or her
person any brass knuckles, revolver, pistol, dagger, stiletto, or other deadly
weapon.
(2015 Code, § 4-4-2) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 DISCHARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a weapon of any kind on
city property. This section shall not apply to any law enforcement officer
while in the discharge of his or her official duty nor to any person destroying
a rabid animal nor for similar necessity.
(Ord. 486, passed 12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
131.03 may be guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable as provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. 486, passed 12-4-2017)
CHAPTER 132: MEDICAL MARIJUANA
Section
   
132.01   Definitions
   
132.02   Use of medical marijuana in public places declared a nuisance
   
132.03   Use of medical marijuana in public places prohibited
   
132.04   Operation of motor vehicles while under the influence of medical
marijuana prohibited
   
132.05   Prohibition of medical marijuana signs
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MARIJUANA, PROVIDER, MARIJUANA-INFUSED PRODUCT, MARIJUANA-INFUSED PRODUCT
PROVIDER, REGISTERED CARDHOLDER, or CARDHOLDER. Shall have the meaning provided
to such terms by the state’s Medical Marijuana Act, § 2 (SB 423), being MCA §§
50-46-301 et seq., passed by the 2011 Montana Legislature.
   STOREFRONT. Any commercial establishment, structure, vehicle, or building
that is accessible from a public right-of-way by the general public or sectors
of the public for the purpose of obtaining marijuana or marijuana-infused
products.
(Ord. 478, passed - -2011)
§ 132.02 USE OF MEDICAL MARIJUANA IN PUBLIC PLACES DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   The use of medical marijuana in public places within the city limits is
declared to be a public nuisance.
(2015 Code, § 3-5-1) (Ord. 474, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 132.03 USE OF MEDICAL MARIJUANA IN PUBLIC PLACES PROHIBITED.
   The smoking of medical marijuana is prohibited in all public places, parks,
and buildings and on all sidewalks, alleys, and streets open to the public in
the city.
(2015 Code, § 3-5-2) (Ord. 474, passed 1-4-2010) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF MEDICAL
MARIJUANA PROHIBITED.
   No person may operate or be in the actual physical control of any motor
vehicle or other motorized form of transportation on public streets or roadways
in the city while using or being under the influence of medical marijuana.
(2015 Code, § 3-5-3) (Ord. 474, passed 1-4-2010) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.05 PROHIBITION OF MEDICAL MARIJUANA SIGNS.
   No symbols, signs, or other graphic representations of marijuana leaves,
plants, joints, or other marijuana paraphernalia shall be placed in a public
location to advertise, identify, or locate a medical marijuana caregiver’s
growing, sale, or production location.
(2015 Code, § 3-5-4) (Ord. 474, passed 1-4-2010) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of the provisions of §§
132.02,
132.03,
132.04, and
132.05  shall be subject to the penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(2015 Code, § 3-5-5) (Ord. 474, passed 1-4-2010)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   SIGNS
      
152.   FLOODPLAINS
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
154.   ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Moving of Buildings
   
150.01   Permit required
   
150.02   Application
   
150.03   Restrictions on issuance of permit
   
150.04   Duties of permittee
   
150.05   Revocation
 
   
150.99   Penalty
MOVING OF BUILDINGS
§ 150.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall move, remove, or relocate any building or structure within
or into the city without first having obtained a moving permit from the city.
(2015 Code, § 8-2-1) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every application for a permit to move, remove, or relocate any
building or structure in the city shall be made to the City Clerk/Treasurer, in
writing, upon forms furnished by the city and shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   Address of present location of the structure;
      (2)   Address of new location;
      (3)   Type of construction (frame, masonry, masonry veneer, and the
like);
      (4)   Length, width, and height of building or structure;
      (5)   Specific route over which the building or structure is to be moved;
      (6)   Type of occupancy (dwelling, garage, office, and the like) for both
old and new location; and
      (7)   Proposed moving date and time of day.
   (B)   The city may require any additional information which it shall find
necessary to make a fair determination of whether a permit should be issued.
(2015 Code, § 8-2-2)
§ 150.03 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The following restrictions and conditions shall be observed before the
issuance of a permit as required by this subchapter.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued to any person to move or relocate any
building or structure upon another building site unless such use, building, or
proposed conversion thereof conforms to zoning and building requirements of the
city.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued to any person to move, remove, or locate any
building or structure which is so constructed or in such condition as to be
dangerous or unsafe or which is infested with pests or is unsanitary or which,
if it be a dwelling for habitation, is unfit for human habitation or which is
so dilapidated, defective, or in such a condition of deterioration or disrepair
that its relocation at the proposed site would create a safety or health hazard
or would cause substantial damage or material detriment to the property in the
immediate vicinity of the proposed site.
   (C)   Every such application shall be accompanied by the written consent of
the Chief of the Fire Department and Sheriff, who shall be notified of the
route to be taken and when the removal or relocation shall be made.
   (D)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall specify in the permit the route to be
taken in the moving of a building, such means to be used to prevent the street
pavement from being subjected to abnormal stresses, and the limit of time which
such building or structure shall be upon the streets or alleys.
   (E)   No circuit or box of the city fire alarm shall be disturbed in any
manner except with the permission of the Chief of the Fire Department.
   (F)   No building or structure which is being moved upon or over any street,
alley, or property of the city shall be occupied as living quarters while such
building or structure is in transit.
   (G)   No permit, as required by this subchapter, shall be issued unless the
applicant shows that he or she has adequate machinery, appliances, and
equipment to safely complete the proposed moving.
(2015 Code, § 8-2-3) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   Every permittee under this subchapter shall:
   (A)   Move a building only over streets designated for such use in the
written permit;
   (B)   Notify the City Clerk/Treasurer, in writing, of a desired change in
moving date and hours as proposed in the application;
   (C)   Notify the City Clerk/Treasurer, in writing, of any and all damage
done to property belonging to the city within 24 hours after the damage or
injury has occurred;
   (D)   Cause warning lights to be displayed during the hours of darkness on
every side of the building, while standing on a street, in such manner as to
warn the public of the obstruction, and shall at all times erect and maintain
barricades across the streets in such manner as to protect the public from
damage or injury by reason of the moving or removal of the building;
   (E)   Remove the building from the city streets after four days of occupancy
unless an extension is granted by the city;
   (F)   Remove all rubbish and materials and fill all excavations to existing
grade at the original building site so that the premises are left in a safe and
sanitary condition; and
   (G)   Properly disconnect all utilities, plug the sanitary sewer with a
concrete plug, and have the Water Department disconnect the water service.
(2015 Code, § 8-2-4) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05 REVOCATION.
   The Building Official of the city or the Public Works Director is authorized
and empowered to revoke any permit granted under the terms of this chapter if
it shall become known to him or her that the permittee is, in any manner,
failing to comply with the terms of the permit or this subchapter or, when in
the opinion of the official, public convenience and safety require such
revocation.
(2015 Code, § 8-2-5)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating a provision of §§
150.01 through
150.05 shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(2015 Code, § 8-2-6)
CHAPTER 151: SIGNS
Section
   
151.01   Title
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Declaration
   
151.04   Definitions
   
151.05   Permit required
   
151.06   Authority to refuse
   
151.07   Permit fees
   
151.08   Duration of permit
   
151.09   Regulations
   
151.10   Maintenance
   
151.11   Exempt signs
   
151.12   Prohibited signs
   
151.13   Nonconforming signs
   
151.14   Removal
   
151.15   Enforcement
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “sign ordinance” of the city and may be
so cited and pleaded and shall be referred to herein as “this chapter.”
(2015 Code, § 8-1-1)
§ 151.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards for the fabrication,
erection, and use of signs, symbols, markings, and advertising devices within
the zoning districts or jurisdictional area, and to maintain a traditional
appearance to the city business districts.
(2015 Code, § 8-1-2)
§ 151.03 DECLARATION.
   (A)   The sign rules and regulations for the city are declared to be the
city sign rules and regulations for the purpose of prescribing regulations
governing signage within the zoning districts or jurisdictional area.
   (B)   The aforesaid sign rules and regulations are amended by the additions,
deletions, and modifications set forth within the regulations from time to
time.
(2015 Code, § 8-1-3)
§ 151.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED SIGN. A sign which no longer identifies or advertises a bona fide
business, lessor, service, owner, product, or activity, and/or for which no
legal owner can be found.
   AREA OF SIGN. The area of one face for a flat sign only. For signs with
three or more faces, the AREA OF SIGN will mean the total of all faces. This
includes any frame or integral part of the display, but excluding the necessary
supports or uprights on which the sign may be placed. If the sign consists of
more than one section or module, whether on-premises or an off-premises sign,
all AREAS will be totaled to compute the area of the sign.
   AWNING, CANOPY, or MARQUEE. A roof-like shelter extending from part or all
of a building face.
   BANNER. A sign of light weight material, including flags, that is mounted to
a pole or a building at one or more edges. National, state, municipal, or other
official flags shall not be considered BANNERS.
   BUILDING FRONTAGE. The linear length of a building facing the public access
or right-of-way.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters,
and/or illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without altering the
face or surface of the sign.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign erected on a freestanding frame, mast, or pole,
and not attached to any building.
   GROUND SIGN. A sign which rests on the ground and which is not securely
(permanently) affixed to the ground or any structure.
   HEIGHT OF SIGN. The vertical distance measured from the highest point of the
adjacent sidewalk grade, adjacent street grade, or upper surface of the street
curb to the highest point of the sign. Elevated roadways shall not be used to
compute SIGN HEIGHT.
   JURISDICTIONAL AREA. Refer to MCA § 76-2-310(1).
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. Any advertising structure or sign which was lawfully
erected and maintained prior to such time as it came within the purview of this
chapter and any amendments thereto, and which fails to conform to all
applicable regulations and restrictions of this chapter.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN OR OFF-SITE. Any sign which directs attention to a
business, commodity, service, or entertainment not located on the zone lot upon
which the sign is located.
   PERMANENT SIGN. A durable sign securely affixed to the ground or to a
structure.
   PORTABLE SIGN. A sign not permanently attached to the ground or building.
   PREMISES. Any area of land with its appurtenances and buildings which,
because of its unity and use, may be regarded as the smallest conveyable unit
of real estate.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign which is attached to, suspended from, or supported
by a building and which projects more than 16 inches from the building.
   PUBLIC BULLETIN BOARD. An enclosed area for temporary posting of community
information or events.
   ROOF SIGN. A sign erected upon, against, or directly above a roof or on top
of or above the parapet of a building.
   SIGN. Any device, structure, fixture, or placard using graphics, symbols,
and/or written copy designed specifically for the purpose of advertising or
identifying any establishment, product, goods, or service.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign which is not permanently affixed.
   TRADE DRESS. Any recognizable colors. Numbers, letters, or symbols are
signage, not TRADE DRESS.
   WALL SIGN. A sign painted on, attached to, or erected against a wall of a
building with the face parallel to the building wall and extending not more
than one foot therefrom.
   ZONE LOT. A parcel of land in single ownership that is a sufficient size to
meet minimum zoning requirements for area, coverage, and use, and that can
provide such yards and other open spaces as required by the zoning regulations.
(2015 Code, § 8-1-4) (Ord. 448, passed 3-20-2000)
§ 151.05 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Required; exception. It is unlawful to erect, construct, or change the
use of any “sign,” as defined in §
151.04, without first obtaining a sign permit from the City-County Planning
Officer/Office; provided that signs conforming to the requirements of this
chapter and advertising seasonal businesses may be removed for the seasons
during which the business is not in operation without being required to
purchase a new permit on reinstallation of the sign.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   All applications for sign permits shall be accompanied by plans,
designs, specifications, or drawings stating specifically:
         (a)   All dimensions;
         (b)   Animations, if any;
         (c)   Lighting;
         (d)   Colors; and
         (e)   Plan of installation, stating clearances and setbacks.
      (2)   Any changes from the original plans, submitted at the time of
application, shall be approved, in writing, by the City-County Planning
Officer/Office.
(2015 Code, § 8-1-5) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 AUTHORITY TO REFUSE.
   The City-County Planning Officer/Office may refuse a sign permit for any
sign which does not comply with any of the requirements of this chapter.
(2015 Code, § 8-1-6)
§ 151.07 PERMIT FEES.
   All sign permit fees shall be determined by the City Council, by resolution,
based on the fair market value of the sign and may be changed when needed. The
fees shall be paid at the time the application is made.
(2015 Code, § 8-1-7) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 DURATION OF PERMIT.
   A sign permit shall become null and void if installation is not begun within
180 calendar days from the date the permit was issued. If work authorized by a
sign permit is suspended or abandoned for 180 calendar days, a new permit shall
be first obtained before work is restarted, and an additional fee of up to the
amount required for a new permit may be assessed in the discretion of the City-
County Planning Officer/Office.
(2015 Code, § 8-1-8) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.09 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Area.
      (1)   The sign area per zone lot shall not exceed the smaller of the
following:
 
Zone                                                   HB  CBD MI
Maximum square feet                                    150 100 150
Square feet of sign per linear foot of street frontage 1.5 1.5 1.5
 
      (2)   Off-premises signs shall not exceed 32 square feet. No more than
three off-premises signs per zone lot.
   (B)   Height. The maximum height of a sign shall not exceed a height of 30
feet or six feet above the roofline of the building to which the sign is
affixed, whichever is lower.
   (C)   Setback.
      (1)   All freestanding signs shall be set back a minimum of ten feet from
the property line, measured from the property line to the nearest point of the
sign.
      (2)   Any projecting sign, canopy, awning, or marquee shall not extend
over the sidewalk closer than 18 inches from the back of the adjacent curb, nor
shall it be lower than seven and one-half feet from the sidewalk which it
overhangs.
   (D)   Lighting. Signs part of an awning, marquee, or canopy may be
illuminated behind the logo or lettering only.
(2015 Code, § 8-1-9) (Ord. 448, passed 3-20-2000) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.10 MAINTENANCE.
   All signs shall be maintained in a safe, presentable, and good structural
condition, including the repair or replacement of defective parts, painting,
and cleaning.
(2015 Code, § 8-1-10) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.11 EXEMPT SIGNS.
   The following signs do not require a permit:
   (A)   Temporary signs such as “for sale,” political campaign signs, garage
sales, and the like, not to exceed six square feet per sign, limited to four
signs per zone lot, and which shall be removed within one week after the
designated event;
   (B)   Signs denoting special events that are otherwise prohibited by this
chapter may be displayed two weeks before and not to exceed one week after the
event;
   (C)   One identification sign per zone lot not to exceed 20 square feet
bearing only property number, post box numbers, and names of occupants of
premises. This identification sign shall be a wall sign;
   (D)   Official governmental flags;
   (E)   Historical markers with approval of the City-County Planning Officer/
Office;
   (F)   Freestanding or hung signs located inside a building;
   (G)   Signs placed on public property by public or quasi-public entities
giving information or warnings; and
   (H)   Incidental signs.
(2015 Code, § 8-1-11) (Ord. 462, passed 6-16-2003)
§ 151.12 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs are prohibited:
   (A)   Temporary, lighted ground signs over 24 square feet; banners; or
balloon signs;
   (B)   Animated, rotating, revolving beacons or searchlights, flashing signs,
signs which have moving parts; provided that the provisions of this division
(B) do not apply to signs denoting the correct time and temperature for the
convenience of the public, so long as the only moving parts of such a public
service sign are those necessary for the display of the correct time and/or
temperature and the only advertising message displayed thereon is the name of
the business or individual maintaining the sign;
   (C)   Strings, lines, or streamers of exposed light bulbs, except as
temporary holiday decorations;
   (D)   Signs which emit audible sound, odor, or visible matter;
   (E)   Notices, political posters, handbills, advertisements, or any other
signs attached, erected, or painted on any tree; power, telephone, or any
utility pole; bridge; fire hydrant; or official public sign in any public
right-of-way; and
   (F)   Abandoned signs are to be removed within 60 days of the close of the
business.
(2015 Code, § 8-1-12) (Ord. 462, passed 6-16-2003) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.13 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   A “nonconforming sign” is any sign which was placed or erected prior
to the effective date hereof, or is located in newly annexed territory, which
does not conform to the provisions of this chapter as it may be amended from
time to time. No such nonconforming sign shall be enlarged or increased, nor
extended to occupy a greater area of square footage than was occupied at the
effective date or amendment of this chapter.
   (B)   All nonconforming signs on a zone lot shall be brought into compliance
within 180 days of notice from the city if:
      (1)   The use advertised is suspended for 180 calendar days;
      (2)   The use changes;
      (3)   The sign is altered in any way, except for ordinary maintenance or
business name changes; or
      (4)   The sign is relocated.
   (C)   A change in the information on the face of an existing nonconforming
sign is allowed if the change is solely to update the advertising of that
business.
   (D)   Nonconforming signs which are changed for any reason other than
ordinary maintenance shall require a permit, as specified under §
151.05, prior to replacement.
(2015 Code, § 8-1-13) (Ord. 462, passed 6-16-2003) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.14 REMOVAL.
   Abandoned signs shall be removed within 30 calendar days of notice from the
city. Removal of the signs shall be the responsibility of the owner of the sign
and/or owner of the premises.
(2015 Code, § 8-1-14) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.15 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the City-County Planning Officer/Office.
(2015 Code, § 8-1-15)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to
penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(2015 Code, § 8-1-16)
CHAPTER 152: FLOODPLAINS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Title
   
152.002   Statutory authority
   
152.003   Findings of fact
   
152.004   Purpose
   
152.005   Methods to reduce losses
   
152.006   Regulated area
   
152.007   Floodplain Administrator
   
152.008   Compliance
   
152.009   Abrogation and greater responsibility
   
152.010   Regulation and interpretation
   
152.011   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.012   Severability
   
152.013   Disclosure provision
   
152.014   Amendment of regulations
   
152.015   Public records
   
152.016   Subdivision review
   
152.017   Disaster recovery
   
152.018   Definitions
Forms, Fees, and Permits
   
152.030   Forms
   
152.031   Fees
   
152.032   Floodplain permit
   
152.033   Application evaluation
Regulated Flood Hazard Areas
   
152.045   Regulated flood hazard areas
   
152.046   Interpretation of regulated flood hazard area boundaries
   
152.047   Alteration of regulated flood hazard area
   
152.048   Uses allowed without a permit within the regulated flood hazard area
   
152.049   Prohibited uses, activities, and structures within the regulated
flood hazard area
Development Requirements in the Floodway
   
152.060   Uses requiring permits
   
152.061   General requirements
   
152.062   Mining of material requiring excavation from pits or pools
   
152.063   Railroad, highway, and street stream crossings
   
152.064   Limited filling for road and railroad embankments
   
152.065   Buried or suspended utility transmission lines
   
152.066   Storage of materials and equipment
   
152.067   Domestic water supply wells
   
152.068   Buried and sealed vaults for sewage disposal in campgrounds and
recreational areas
   
152.069   Public and private campgrounds
   
152.070   Structures accessory or appurtenant
   
152.071   Construction of or modifications to surface water diversions
   
152.072   Flood control and stream bank stabilization measures
   
152.073   Stream and bank restoration
   
152.074   Existing residential and nonresidential buildings
Development Requirements in the Flood Fringe or Regulated Flood Hazard Area
with No Floodway
   
152.085   Uses requiring permits
   
152.086   General requirements
   
152.087   Residential building, exceptions, and additional requirements
   
152.088   Non-residential building, exceptions, and additional requirements
Emergencies
   
152.100   General
   
152.101   Emergency notification and application requirements
Variances
   
152.115   General
   
152.116   Variance application requirements
   
152.117   Notice requirements for floodplain variance application
   
152.118   Evaluation of variance application
   
152.119   Decision
   
152.120   Judicial review
Administrative Appeals
   
152.135   General
   
152.136   Appeals requirements
   
152.137   Notice and hearing
   
152.138   Decision
   
152.139   Judicial review
Enforcement
   
152.150   Investigation request
   
152.151   Notices to enter and investigate lands or waters
   
152.152   Notice to respond and order to take corrective action
   
152.153   Administrative review
   
152.154   Appeal of administrative decision
   
152.155   Failure to comply with order to take corrective action
   
152.156   Other remedies
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 TITLE.
   These regulations are known and may be cited as the “City of Big Timber
Floodplain Hazard Management Regulations,” hereinafter referred to as “these
regulations,” or “this chapter.”
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 152.002 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Floodplain and floodway management is incorporated in MCA Title 76,
Chapter 5 and describes the authority, procedures, and minimum standards for
local regulations and is further described in Montana Administrative Rule (ARM)
Title 36, Chapter 15.
   (B)   The authority to regulate development in specifically identified flood
hazard areas has been accepted pursuant to MCA § 76-5-301.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 152.003 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The city has adopted this chapter in order to comply with the state’s
Floodplain and Floodway Management Act, MCA Title 76, Chapter 5, and to ensure
compliance with the requirements for local government’s continued participation
in the National Flood Insurance Program.
   (B)   Flooding is a natural phenomenon and the flood hazard areas of the
city are subject to periodic inundation.
   (C)   Flooding can result in loss of life and property, health, and safety
hazards; disruption of commerce and governmental services; and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief.
   (D)   Uncontrolled development and the unplanned, improper, and/or
cumulative obstructions in floodplains can increase flood heights and
velocities, further exacerbating damage and affecting the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
   (E)   The permanent or temporary occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses
vulnerable to floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately
elevated, flood proofed, or otherwise protected from flood damage also affect
the health, safety, and welfare of the community.
   (F)   Adoption of minimum standards will enhance the public health, safety,
and general welfare.
   (G)   Flood hazard areas specifically adopted herein as regulated flood
hazard areas have been delineated and designated by order or determination of
the Department of Natural Resources and Conservation (DNRC) pursuant to MCA §§
76-5-201 et seq.
   (H)   These regulations have been reviewed by state’s Department of Natural
Resources and Conservation and the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The
state’s Department of Natural Resources and Conservation has found the
regulations acceptable in meeting the Department’s minimum standards. The
Federal Emergency Management Agency finds that these regulations are adequate
and consistent with the comprehensive criteria for land management and use
pursuant to the standards established in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3.
(Ord. 484, passed 5-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM §
36.15.202, 44 C.F.R. § 60.1(b), MCA § 76-5-302, and 42 U.S.C. § 4022
§ 152.004 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of these regulations is to promote public health, safety,
and general welfare of the residents and minimize public and private losses due
to flood conditions in regulated flood hazard areas.
   (B)   These regulations are intended to:
      (1)   Protect human life and health;
      (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   Minimize prolonged business and public service interruptions;
      (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains; electric, telephone, and sewer lines; streets; and bridges;
      (6)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
disruptions; and
      (7)   Ensure compliance with the minimum standards for the continued
participation in the National Flood Insurance Program for the benefit of the
residents.
(Ord. 484, passed 5-20-2015)
§ 152.005 METHODS TO REDUCE LOSSES.
   In accordance with MCA § 76-5-102, these regulations are intended to reduce
flood losses through the following methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flooding or that may cause excessive increases in flood
heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses of land vulnerable to floods, including public
facilities, be developed or constructed to at least minimum standards or to
otherwise minimize flood damage;
   (C)   Regulate the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are needed to accommodate floodwaters;
   (D)   Regulate filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage;
   (E)   Limit, condition, or regulate the construction of flood barriers which
will impact other land, flood water depth, or velocity of floodwaters;
   (F)   Distinguish between the land use regulations applied to the floodway
within the regulated flood hazard area and those applied to that portion of the
regulated flood hazard area not contained in the floodway;
   (G)   Apply more restrictive land use regulations within the floodway of the
regulated flood hazard area; and
   (H)   Ensure that regulations and minimum standards, insofar as possible,
balance the greatest public good with the least private injury.
(Ord. 484, passed 5-20-2015)
§ 152.006 REGULATED AREA.
   (A)   These regulations apply only to the flood hazard areas specifically
adopted herein as regulated flood hazard areas, which are more fully and
specifically described in §§
152.045 through
152.047. Requirements and approvals for alterations to the regulated flood
hazard area are specified in §§
152.045 through
152.047. The regulated flood hazard area includes areas specifically
identified, labeled, and illustrated on maps such as floodplain, floodway, or
flood fringe that have differing uses allowed and minimum building standards
that apply. The regulated flood hazard area is the geographic area inundated by
the flood of 100-year frequency illustrated and depicted in the referenced
studies and maps.
   (B)   The regulated flood hazard area supporting study and maps illustrating
the regulatory area are based on studies and maps that have been specifically
adopted pursuant to MCA §§ 76-5-201 et seq. The maps and accompanying study
become the regulated flood hazard area only when formally adopted by DNRC and
subsequently by the political subdivision by these regulations. The original
source of studies and data may be from a Flood Insurance Study by FEMA, or
other studies by Corps of Engineers, Soil Conservation, United States
Geological Service, or other federal or state agency.
(Ord. 484, passed 5-20-2015)
§ 152.007 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Council has appointed the Planning Director as Floodplain
Administrator. The Floodplain Administrator’s duty is to administer and
implement the provisions of these regulations. The Floodplain Administrator
must serve to meet and maintain the commitments pursuant to 44 C.F.R. § 59.22
(a) to FEMA to remain eligible for National Flood Insurance for individuals and
business within the political subdivision.
(Ord. 484, passed 5-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM § 36.15.204(2)(h) and 44 C.F.R. § 59.22(b)(1)
§ 152.008 COMPLIANCE.
   Development, new construction, alteration, or substantial improvement may
not commence without full compliance with the provisions of these regulations.
(Ord. 484, passed 5-20-2015) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.009 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   It is not intended by these regulations to repeal, abrogate, or impair
any existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions, zoning, or other
regulations in effect.
   (B)   However, where these regulations impose greater restrictions, the
provision of these regulations must prevail.
(Ord. 484, passed 5-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.1(d)
§ 152.010 REGULATION AND INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of these regulations, all provisions
shall be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 484, passed 5-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.1
§ 152.011 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   These regulations do not imply that land outside the regulated flood hazard
areas or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood
damages. These regulations shall not create liability on the part of the
community or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result
from reliance on these regulations or any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder.
(Ord. 484, passed 5-20-2015)
§ 152.012 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, sentence, or phrase of these regulations is held to
be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, then
said holding will in no way affect the validity of the remaining portions of
these regulations.
(Ord. 484, passed 5-20-2015)
§ 152.013 DISCLOSURE PROVISION.
   All property owners or his, her, or their agents in the regulated flood
hazard areas shall notify potential buyers or his, her, or their agents that
such property, including any permitted uses transferred, is located within the
regulated flood hazard area and is subject to regulation and any permitted uses
that are transferred, information regarding regulated flood hazard area, and
the repository for floodplain maps is available in the Floodplain
Administrator’s office.
(Ord. 484, passed 5-20-2015) Penalty, see §
152.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM § 36.15.204(2)(g)
§ 152.014 AMENDMENT OF REGULATIONS.
   These regulations may be amended after notice and public hearing in regard
to the amendments to these regulations. The amendments must be found adequate
and acceptable by DNRC and FEMA to be effective and must be submitted for
review at least 30 days prior to official adoption.
(Ord. 484, passed 5-20-2015)
§ 152.015 PUBLIC RECORDS.
   Records, including permits and applications, elevation and flood proofing
certificates, certificates of compliance, fee receipts, and other matters
relating to these regulations, must be maintained by the Floodplain
Administrator and are public records and must be made available for inspection
and for copies upon reasonable request. A reasonable copying cost for copying
documents for members of the public may be charged and may require payments of
the costs before providing the copies.
(Ord. 484, passed 5-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. §§ 59.22(a)(9)(iii) and 60.3(b)(5)(iii)
§ 152.016 SUBDIVISION REVIEW.
   Within the regulated flood hazard area, subdivisions, including new or
expansion of existing manufactured home parks, must be designed to meet the
following criteria.
   (A)   The base flood elevations and boundary of the regulated flood hazard
area must be determined and considered during lot layout and building location
design.
   (B)   Locations for future structures and development must be reasonably
safe from flooding.
   (C)   Adequate surface water drainage must be provided to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
   (D)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and
water systems must be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage.
   (E)   Floodplain permits must be obtained, according to these regulations,
before development occurs that is within the regulated flood hazard area.
   (F)   If a subdivision is not located within a regulated flood hazard area,
the subdivision applicant may need to establish a base flood elevation,
consistent with requirements found in the subdivision regulations.
(Ord. 484, passed 5-20-2015) Penalty, see §
152.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(a)(4), (a)(4)(ii), (a)(4)(iii), and
(b)
§ 152.017 DISASTER RECOVERY.
   (A)   In the event of a natural or human-made disaster, the Floodplain
Administrator should participate in the coordination of assistance and provide
information to structure owners concerning hazard mitigation and recovery
measures with the Federal Emergency Management Agency, state’s Disaster
Emergency Services, state’s Department of Natural Resources and Conservation,
and other state, local, and private emergency service organizations.
   (B)   Upon completion of cursory street view structure condition survey
within the regulated flood hazard area, the Floodplain Administrator shall
notify owners that a permit may be necessary for an alteration or substantial
improvement before repair or reconstruction commences on damaged structures
because of damages caused by natural or human-made disasters such as floods,
fires, or winds.
   (C)   Owners should be advised that structures that have suffered
substantial damage and will undergo substantial improvements require a
floodplain application and permit and must be upgraded to meet the minimum
building standards herein during repair or reconstruction.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM §
36.15.702, 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(c)(2) and (c)(3), and MCA § 76-5-404(3)(b)
§ 152.018 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   100-YEAR FLOOD. One percent annual chance flood. See BASE FLOOD.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A structure or use that is secondary but related
to the primary structure or use permitted in these regulations (e.g., a picnic
shelter would be accessory to a campground).
   ACT. Montana Floodplain and Floodway Management Act, MCA §§ 76-5-101 through
76-5-406.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provisions of these regulations or a request for a
variance.
   APPLICANT. A person, or a person’s agent, who submits an application as
required by these regulations.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH, or VO zone on
the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance of
flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable, and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in a mapped or identified floodplain
within a community subject to inundation by a 1% or greater chance of flooding
in any given year (i.e., the 100- year floodplain).
   ALTERATION. Any change or addition to an artificial obstruction that either
increases its external dimensions or increases its potential flood hazard.
(ARM § 36.15.101(2))
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure in which the use is incidental or
accessory to the use of a principal structure.
(44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
   ARTIFICIAL OBSTRUCTION. Any obstruction which is not natural and includes
any development, dam, diversion, wall, riprap, embankment, levee, dike, pile,
abutment, projection, revetment, excavation, channel rectification, road,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, refuse, automobile body, fill, or other
analogous structure or matter in, along, across, or projecting into any
regulated flood hazard area that may impede, retard, or change the direction of
the flow of water, either in itself or by catching or collecting debris carried
by the water, or that is placed where the natural flow of the water would carry
the same downstream to the damage or detriment of either life or property. See
also DEVELOPMENT.
(ARM § 36.15.101(3)) (MCA § 76-5-103(1))
   BASE FLOOD (FLOOD OF 100-YEAR FREQUENCY). A flood having a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
(ARM § 36.15.101(4)) (44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation above sea level of the base flood
in relation to the National Geodic Vertical Datum of 1929 or the North American
Vertical Datum of 1988 or unless otherwise specified.
(ARM § 36.15.101(5))
   BASEMENT. Any area of a building, except a crawl space, as having its lowest
floor below ground level on all sides.
(44 C.F.R. § 59.1) (NFIP Insurance Manual, Rev. April 2021)
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
(44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
   CHANNEL. The geographical area within either the natural or artificial banks
of a watercourse or drain way.
(MCA § 76-5-103(2))
   CRAWL SPACE. An enclosure that has its interior floor area no more than five
feet below the top of the next highest floor. See ENCLOSURE and SUBGRADE
CRAWLSPACE.
(NFIP Insurance Manual, Rev. April 2021)
   DNRC. The state’s Department of Natural Resources and Conservation.
   DESIGNATED FLOODWAY. A floodway whose limits have been designated and
established by order of the Department of Natural Resources and Conservation,
state, or Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials. See also ARTIFICIAL OBSTRUCTION.
(44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A building that has no basement and that has it lowest
elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls,
posts, piers, pilings, or columns. A building on a crawlspace is considered an
ELEVATED BUILDING.
(NFIP Insurance Manual, Rev. April 2021)
   ENCLOSURE. That portion below the lowest elevated floor of an elevated
building that is either partially or fully shut in by rigid walls including a
crawlspace, subgrade crawlspace, stairwell, elevator, or a garage below or
attached.
   ENCROACHMENT. Activities or construction within the regulated flood hazard
area, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, and other
development.
   ENCROACHMENT ANALYSIS. A hydrologic and hydraulic analysis performed by an
engineer to assess the effects of the proposed artificial obstruction or
nonconforming use on base flood elevation, flood flows, and flood velocities.
   ESTABLISH. To construct, place, insert, or excavate.
(ARM § 36.15.101(9)) (MCA § 76-5-103(7))
   EXISTING ARTIFICIAL OBSTRUCTION or NONCONFORMING USE. An artificial
obstruction or nonconforming use that was established before land use
regulations were adopted pursuant to MCA § 76-5-301(1).
(MCA 76-5-404(3))
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The identified portion of the floodplain of the regulated
flood hazard area outside the limits of the floodway.
(ARM § 36.15.101(10))
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The report in which FEMA has provided flood profiles,
as well as the flood boundary/floodway map and the water surface profiles.
   FLOOD OF 100-YEAR FREQUENCY (BASE FLOOD). A flood magnitude expected to
recur on the average of once every 100-years or a flood magnitude that has a 1%
chance of occurring in any given year.
(44 C.F.R. § 59.1) (MCA § 76-5-103(9))
   FLOOD OF 100-YEAR PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary
facilities, electrical, plumbing, HVAC systems, structures, and their contents.
The term includes wet flood proofing, dry flood proofing, and elevation of
structures.
(44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
   FLOODPLAIN. The area of the regulated flood hazard area including and
adjoining the watercourse or drainway that would be covered by the floodwater
of a base flood. The area is partitioned into a flood fringe and floodway where
specifically designated. See REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. Community official or representative appointed to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter.
   FLOODWAY. The identified portion of the floodplain of the regulated flood
hazard area that is the channel and the area adjoining the channel that is
reasonably required to carry the discharge of the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface by more than one-half foot.
(MCA §§ 76-5-103(5) and 76-5-103(11))
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of
the watershed.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure. Elevation
certificates must also show the elevation of the highest grade adjacent to a
proposed development for flood insurance purposes.
   HVAC. Heating, ventilating, and air conditioning.
   HYDRAULICS. The depth of water (elevation) in a drainage way, watercourse,
river, or stream channel.
   HYDROLOGY. The discharge in cubic feet per second (CFS) of water in a
drainage way, watercourse, river, or stream channel.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official response from FEMA that amends or
revises the FEMA Special Flood Hazard Area and FEMA Flood Insurance Study for
flood insurance purposes and/or flood risk hazard. FEMA LETTERS OF MAP CHANGE
specific to an amendment or revision include.
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A letter of determination from FEMA
issued in response to a request that a property or structure is not subject to
the mandatory flood insurance requirement because it was inadvertently located
in the effective FEMA special flood hazard area. The material submitted and
response from FEMA may be considered by the Floodplain Administrator for
determining if a property or structure is within the regulated flood hazard
area and subject to these regulations.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). A letter of approval
from FEMA removing the mandatory requirement for flood insurance on property
based on placement of fill or an addition. Placement of fill or an addition
must be preceded by a permit pursuant to these regulations. Placement of fill
does not remove the development from the regulated flood hazard area or these
regulations.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official FEMA amendment to the
currently effective FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map or FEMA Flood Boundary Map
based on a physical change to the floodplain of the special flood hazard area.
It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations, and elevations on
the FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map or FEMA Flood Boundary Map and may amend the
FEMA Flood Insurance Study. It must be preceded by an approved alteration of
the designated floodplain from DNRC and subsequently an amendment to the
regulated flood hazard area.
      (4)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A FEMA letter of
approval for a proposed physical change that, when completed, would propose to
change the flood zones, delineation, or elevations on the FEMA Flood Insurance
Rate Map or FEMA Flood Boundary Map and may amend the FEMA Flood Insurance
Study through a subsequent LOMR. The CLOMR may be considered in an evaluation
by DNRC and the Floodplain Administrator during consideration of a proposed
alteration to the regulated flood hazard area.
   LEVEE. A human-made embankment, usually earthen, designed and constructed in
accordance with the commonly accepted engineering practices to contain,
control, or divert the flow of water to provide protection from temporary
flooding. For a LEVEE structure to be reflected on the FEMA FIRMs as providing
flood protection, the LEVEE structure must meet the requirements set forth in
44 C.F.R. § 65.10.
   LOWEST FLOOR. Any floor of a building including a basement used for living
purposes, storage, or recreation. This includes any floor that could be
converted to such a use.
(ARM § 36.15.101(14)) (44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
   MAINTENANCE. Customary and historical cleaning and removal of silt,
branches, trees, stock, and other debris as well as minor repair or restoration
of an existing structure or artificial obstruction to the size, shape,
position, and height it had immediately prior to its deterioration.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. Includes the construction of
facilities for servicing the manufactured home lots and, at a minimum, includes
the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final
site grading or the pouring of concrete pads.
(44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
   MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOME. A building that may be residential or non-
residential, is transportable in one or more sections, built on a permanent
chassis, and designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation when
connected to the required utilities and includes park trailers, travel
trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than 180
consecutive days.
(ARM § 36.15.101(15))
   NATURAL OBSTRUCTION. Any rock, tree, gravel, or analogous natural matter
that is an obstruction and has been located within the floodplain or floodway
by a non-human cause.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the commencement of clearing,
grading, filling, or excavating to prepare a site for construction occurs on or
after the effective date of these regulations and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
(ARM § 36.15.101(20)) (44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR
SUBDIVISION for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, includes, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads and is completed on or after the
effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
(44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
   NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE. Any structure that does not conform to the
standards or permitting requirements established under these regulations. NON-
CONFORMING STRUCTURES may be grandfathered under these regulations, but
alternations or changes in use are not grandfathered.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. A land use within a mapped or designated floodplain not
in accordance with these regulations.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL. Buildings including manufactured homes that are not
residential, including commercial, agricultural, industrial buildings, and
accessory buildings. See RESIDENTIAL.
   OWNER. Any person who has dominion over, control of, or title to an
artificial obstruction.
(MCA § 76-5-103(13))
   PERSON. Includes any individual or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association, or any other entity, including state and local
governments and agencies.
(44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A park trailer, travel trailer, or other similar
vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a motorized
vehicle; and
      (4)   Designed primarily for use as temporary living quarters for
recreation, camping, travel, or seasonal use, not for use as a permanent
dwelling.
(44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
   REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA. A floodplain whose limits have been designated
pursuant to MCA Title 76, Chapter 5, part 2, and is determined to be the area
adjoining the watercourse that would be covered by the floodwater of a base
flood. The REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA consists of the floodway and flood
fringe where specifically designated.
(ARM § 36-15-101(11)) (MCA §§ 76-5-103(4) and 76-5-103(10))
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. A dwelling or building for living purposes or place of
assembly or permanent use by human beings and including any mixed use of
residential and non-residential use. All other buildings are non-residential.
   RIPRAP. Stone, rocks, concrete blocks, or analogous materials that are
placed along the bed or banks of a watercourse or drainway for the purpose of
preventing or alleviating erosion.
(ARM § 36.15.101(18))
   SCOUR DEPTH. The maximum depth of streambed scour caused by erosive forces
of the base flood.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Land area which has been specifically identified
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency as the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. It is useful
for the purposes of identifying flood hazards by local subdivisions of
government for regulatory purposes as well as use by the National Flood
Insurance Program for establishing risk zones and flood insurance premium
rates. The FEMA flood hazard area zone designation or flood risk potential is
as illustrated on FEMA’s Flood Hazard Boundary Map or Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   STRUCTURE. Any artificial obstruction.
   SUBGRADE CRAWLSPACE. A crawlspace foundation enclosure that has its interior
floor no more than five feet below the top of the next higher floor and no more
than two feet below the lowest adjacent grade on all sides. A foundation
exceeding either dimension is a basement.
(NFIP Insurance Manual, Rev. April 2021)
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would
exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
(44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure where the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure either before the improvement or repair is started or if the
structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred.
      (1)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
construction of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building commences.
      (2)   The term does not include:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or state inventory of historic places.
(ARM § 36.15.101(21)) (44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
   SUITABLE FILL. Fill material which is stable, compacted, well graded, and
pervious, not adversely affected by water and frost, devoid of trash or similar
foreign matter, tree stumps or other organic material; and is fitting for the
purpose of supporting the intended use and/or permanent structure.
(ARM § 36.15.101(22))
   VARIANCE. A grant or relief from the development requirements of these
regulations which would permit construction in a manner that would be otherwise
prohibited by these regulations by an approval pursuant §§
152.115 through
152.120.
(ARM § 36.15.101(23))
   VIOLATION. A finding and order pursuant to the regulations against the owner
or responsible party of the failure of a structure or other development to be
fully compliant with these regulations.
(44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
(Ord. 484, passed 5-20-2015)
FORMS, FEES, AND PERMITS
§ 152.030 FORMS.
   The following forms may be required by the Floodplain Administrator:
   (A)   Floodplain Permit Application Form. The “Joint Application for
Proposed Work in Montana’s Steams, Wetlands, Regulated Flood Hazard Areas, and
Other Waterbodies,” or other designated application form. A completed FEMA MT-
1 form or other documentation may be required to accompany the application when
required by the Floodplain Administrator;
   (B)   Floodplain Permit Compliance Report.
      (1)   A report required to be submitted by the applicant to the
Floodplain Administrator, once the permitted project in the regulated flood
hazard area is completed or within the designated time stipulated on the
floodplain permit.
      (2)   A compliance report including an elevation and/or flood proofing
certificate may be required where specified for the purpose of documenting
compliance with the requirements of the permit.
   (C)   Floodplain Variance Application Form. An application submitted by the
applicant to the Floodplain Administrator to initiate a proposed variance from
the requirements of these regulations as described in §§
152.115 through
152.120;
   (D)   Floodplain Appeal Notice Form. A form submitted by the applicant or an
aggrieved party to initiate the appeal process described in §§
152.135 through
152.139;
   (E)   Floodplain Emergency Notification Form. A written notification form
required pursuant to §§
152.100 and
152.101 of these regulations; and
   (F)   Official Complaint Form. A form that may be used by any person to
notify the Floodplain Administrator of an activity taking place that appears to
be noncompliant with the requirements of these regulations.
(Ord. 484, passed 5-20-2015)
§ 152.031 FEES.
   A reasonable application fee for processing of permit applications may be
imposed. Fees may be adopted for costs of permit applications, notices,
variances, inspections, certifications, or other administrative actions
required by these regulations.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM § 36.l5.204(3)(b)
§ 152.032 FLOODPLAIN PERMIT.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   A floodplain permit is required for a person to establish, alter,
or substantially improve an artificial obstruction, nonconforming use, or
development within the regulated flood hazard area;
      (2)   A floodplain permit is required for artificial obstructions,
developments, and uses not specifically listed in §§
152.060 through
152.074 and
152.085 through
152.088, except as allowed without a floodplain permit in §
152.048, or as prohibited as specified in §
152.049, within the regulated flood hazard area;
      (3)   Artificial obstructions and nonconforming uses in a regulated flood
hazard area not exempt under §
152.048 is a public nuisances unless a floodplain permit has been obtained;
      (4)   A floodplain permit is required for an alteration of an existing
artificial obstruction or nonconforming use that increases the external size or
increases its potential flood hazard and not exempt under §
152.048;
      (5)   A floodplain permit is required to reconstruct or repair an
existing artificial obstruction that has experienced substantial damage and
will undergo substantial improvement; and
      (6)   Maintenance of an existing artificial obstruction or use that is a
substantial improvement or an alteration requires a floodplain permit.
   (B)   Required floodplain permit application information. A floodplain
permit application shall include, but is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   A completed and signed floodplain permit application;
      (2)   The required review fee;
      (3)   Plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions,
and elevation of the proposed project including landscape alterations, existing
and proposed structures, and the location of the foregoing in relation to the
regulated flood hazard areas and, if applicable, the floodway boundary;
      (4)   A copy of other applicable permits or pending applications required
by federal or state law, as submitted, which may include, but are not limited
to, a 310 permit, SPA 124 permit, Section 404 Permit, 318 Authorization, 401
Certification, or a Navigable Rivers Land Use License or Easement for the
proposed project; and the applicant must show that the floodplain permit
application is not in conflict with the relevant and applicable permits; and
      (5)   Additional information related to the specific use or activity that
demonstrates the design criteria and construction standards are met or exceeded
as specified in §§
152.060 through
152.074 and
152.085 through
152.088.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM §§ 36.15.204(2)(a) and 36.15.216, 44 C.F.R. §§
60.1 and 60.3(a)(2), MCA §§ 76-5-404 and 76-5-405
§ 152.033 APPLICATION EVALUATION.
   (A)   Floodplain permit application review.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review and evaluate the
floodplain permit application and shall approve, approve with conditions, or
deny the application within 60 days of receipt of a correct and complete
application.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator shall determine whether the floodplain
permit application contains the applicable elements required in these
regulations and shall notify the applicant of the Floodplain Administrator’s
determination.
      (3)   If the floodplain permit application is found to be missing the
required elements and if the applicant corrects the identified deficiencies and
resubmits the floodplain application, the Floodplain Administrator shall notify
the applicant whether the resubmitted floodplain application contains all the
elements required by these regulations, as applicable.
      (4)   This process shall be repeated until the applicant submits a
completed floodplain permit application containing all the elements required by
these regulations, or the application is withdrawn.
      (5)   If, after a reasonable effort, the Floodplain Administrator
determines that the floodplain application remains incomplete, the Floodplain
Administrator shall deny the floodplain permit application and notify the
applicant of missing elements. No further action shall be taken on the
floodplain permit application by the Floodplain Administrator until the
floodplain permit application is resubmitted.
      (6)   A determination that a floodplain permit application is correct and
complete for review does not ensure that the floodplain permit application will
be approved or conditionally approved and does not limit the ability of the
Floodplain Administrator to request additional information during the review
process.
   (B)   Notice requirements for floodplain permit applications.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a complete application for a floodplain permit, the
Floodplain Administrator shall prepare a notice containing the facts pertinent
to the floodplain permit application, and shall:
         (a)   Publish the notice at least once in a newspaper of general
circulation in the area;
         (b)   Serve notice by first-class mail upon adjacent property owners;
         (c)   Serve notice to the state’s National Flood Insurance Program
Coordinator, located in DNRC, by the most efficient method. Notice to other
permitting agencies or other impacted property owners may be provided; and
         (d)   Prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse in the
regulated flood hazard area, additionally provide notice to FEMA and adjacent
communities.
      (2)   The notice shall provide a reasonable period of time, not less than
15 days, for interested parties to submit comments on the proposed activity.
   (C)   Floodplain permit criteria.
      (1)   Floodplain permit applications shall be approved, provided the
proposed new construction, substantial improvement, or alteration of an
artificial obstruction meets the requirements of the minimum standards and
criteria in §§
152.060 through
152.074 and
152.085 through
152.088 and other requirements of these regulations.
      (2)   A floodplain permit application for a development that will cause
an increase of more than zero feet to the base flood elevation of the floodway
or more than one-half feet to the base flood elevation of the regulated flood
hazard area without a floodway shall not be approved until approval for an
alteration pursuant to §
152.047 has been approved, the regulated flood hazard area is amended, and a
FEMA CLOMR, where required, is issued.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall determine that all necessary
permits have been received from those governmental agencies from which approval
is required by federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act Amendment of 1972, 36 U.S.C. § 1334.
   (D)   Decision.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator shall approve, conditionally approve,
or deny the proposed floodplain permit application. The Floodplain
Administrator shall notify the applicant of his or her action and the reasons
thereof within 60 days of receipt of a correct and complete floodplain permit
application, unless otherwise specified.
      (2)   A copy of the approved floodplain permit must be provided to DNRC.
      (3)   The approval of a floodplain permit application does not affect any
other type of approval required by any other statute or ordinance of the state
or any political subdivision or the United States, but is an added requirement.
   (E)   Floodplain permit conditions and requirements. Upon approval or
conditional approval of the floodplain permit application, the Floodplain
Administrator shall provide the applicant with a floodplain permit with
applicable specific requirements and conditions, including, but not limited to,
the following.
      (1)   The floodplain permit will become valid when all other necessary
permits required by federal or state law are in place.
      (2)   (a)   Completion of the development pursuant to the floodplain
permit shall be completed within one year from the date of floodplain permit
issuance or a time limit commensurate with the project construction timeline
for completion of the project or development.
         (b)   The applicant may request an extension for up to an additional
year.
         (c)   The request must be made at least 30 days prior to the permitted
completion deadline.
      (3)   The applicant shall notify subsequent property owners and their
agents and potential buyers of the floodplain development permit issued on the
property and that such property is located within a regulated flood hazard area
and shall record the notice with the Floodplain Administrator.
      (4)   The applicant shall maintain the artificial obstruction or use to
comply with the conditions and specifications of the permit.
      (5)   The applicant shall allow the Floodplain Administrator to perform
on site inspections at select intervals during construction or completion.
      (6)   The applicant shall provide periodic engineering oversight and/or
interim reports during the construction period to be submitted to the
Floodplain Administrator to confirm constructed elevations and other project
elements.
      (7)   The applicant shall submit a compliance report including
certifications where required and applicable, including flood proofing,
elevation, surface drainage, proper enclosure openings, and materials to the
Floodplain Administrator within 30 days of completion or other time as
specified.
      (8)   The applicant shall submit an annual performance and maintenance
report on bank stabilization or other projects utilizing maturing vegetative
components to the Floodplain Administrator for a period of five years or a time
specified in the permit.
      (9)   The applicant shall submit evidence of a submittal of a FEMA Letter
of Map Revision (LOMR) to FEMA and applicable fees within six months of project
completion and proceed with due diligence for acceptance of the document and
necessary supporting materials by FEMA.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM § 36.15.204(2)(c), (2)(e), and (2)(g), 44 C.F.R.
§§ 60.3 and 65.3, MCA §§ 76-5-108, 76-5-405(2), and 76-5-406
REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
§ 152.045 REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The regulated flood hazard areas are the 100-year floodplains
illustrated and referenced in the following specific studies and reports
described as follows:
      (1)   Flood Insurance Study, dated December 13, 2013; and
      (2)   FIRM Maps, dated May 18, 2015.
   (B)   The Regulated Flood Hazard Areas specifically described or illustrated
in the above referenced studies and maps of the 100-year floodplain have been
delineated, designated, and established by order or determination by the DNRC
pursuant to MCA §§ 76-5-201 et seq.
   (C)   Delineation of any floodways are required as part of the subdivision
review process.
   (D)   Use allowances, design and construction requirements specifically in
§§
152.048,
152.049,
152.060 through
152.074, and
152.085 through
152.088 in these regulations vary by the specific floodplain areas, including
areas identified as floodway and flood fringe within the regulated flood hazard
area.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 152.046 INTERPRETATION OF REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The mapped boundaries of the floodplain illustrated in the referenced
studies and maps in this section are a guide for determining whether property
is within the regulated flood hazard area.
   (B)   A determination of the outer limits and boundaries of the regulated
flood hazard area or the flood fringe and floodway within the regulated flood
hazard area includes an evaluation of the maps as well as the particular study
data referenced in this section. Supporting study material for base flood
elevations takes precedence over any map illustrations, if it exists.
   (C)   The regulated flood hazard area boundary is delineated by the base
flood elevation. The physical field regulatory boundary of the regulated flood
hazard area is the actual intersection of the applicable study base flood
elevation with the existing adjacent terrain of the watercourse or drainway.
   (D)   The floodway boundary where identified within the floodplain is as
illustrated on the referenced maps and studies. Since the floodway boundary is
a study feature, the location of the boundary may be physically located by
referencing the study data to a ground feature. The Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of the boundary and decision may be appealed as set forth in §§
152.135 through
152.139.
   (E)   The Floodplain Administrator may request additional information
described below to determine whether or not the proposed development is within
the regulated flood hazard area:
      (1)   Where base flood elevations exist, the property owner may provide
additional information, which may include elevation information provided by an
engineer or land surveyor, in order to determine if the proposed development is
subject to these regulations.
      (2)   Where base flood elevations do not exist, the property owner may
provide additional information to be considered to determine the location of
the regulatory boundary or alternatively provide a computed base flood
elevation provided by an engineer.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator’s interpretation of the boundaries and
decision may be appealed as set forth in §§
152.135 through
152.139.
      (4)   The cost of such additional information is the responsibility of
the applicant.
   (F)   Any owner or lessee of property who believes his or her property has
been inadvertently included in the regulated flood hazard area including the
floodway or flood fringe may submit scientific and/or technical information to
the Floodplain Administrator for a determination if the property is
appropriately located. Scientific or technical information submitted to FEMA by
an owner to affect the insurance rating for insurance purposes may be
considered by the Floodplain Administrator. A determination by the Floodplain
Administrator is independent of any determination by FEMA for insurance
purposes.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM § 36.15.501(6)
§ 152.047 ALTERATION OF REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA.
   (A)   (1)   Revisions or updates to the specific maps and data that alter
the established floodplains or floodway of the regulated flood hazard area
requires DNRC approval pursuant to MCA § 75-5-203.
      (2)   An alteration of the regulated flood hazard area is a DNRC approved
amendment to the DNRC order that originally delineated and designated the 100-
year floodplain and is the basis of the regulated flood hazard area referenced
in §
152.045(B).
      (3)   A DNRC approved alteration consists of revisions or updates to the
specific maps and data of the referenced studies in this section and forms the
basis for an amendment to the regulated flood hazard area in these regulations.
   (B)   Any change to the regulated flood hazard area as a result of a DNRC
alteration is effective upon amendment to the regulated flood hazard area
described in §
152.045(A).
   (C)   Substantial natural physical change or new technical or scientific
flood data showing that the base flood elevation has or may be changed or was
erroneously established shall be brought to the attention of DNRC and FEMA.
   (D)   Any floodplain permit application for a proposed development or
artificial obstruction must be denied until a DNRC alteration pursuant to MCA §
76-5-203 is approved if it causes an increase of one- half feet or more to the
base flood elevation of a regulated flood hazard area without a floodway or an
increase of more than zero feet to the base flood elevation of a floodway.
   (E)   To propose an alteration a petition must be submitted to DNRC and must
include the following information:
      (1)   Certification that no buildings are located in the areas which
would be impacted by the increased base flood elevation;
      (2)   Evidence of notice to all property and land owners of the proposed
impacts to their properties explaining the proposed impact on their property;
      (3)   Information that demonstrates that alternatives are not feasible;
      (4)   Information that demonstrates that development is for a public use
or benefit; and
      (5)   Any other supporting information and data as needed for approvals.
   (F)   The Floodplain Administrator may represent the permit authority for
any necessary applications, approvals, or endorsements such as the FEMA
Community Acknowledgement Form to FEMA where affecting the FEMA special flood
hazard area.
   (G)   A determination by the Floodplain Administrator that land areas
located within the regulated flood hazard area are above the base flood
elevation, as proven by a certified elevation survey, does not constitute or
require an alteration or an amendment of the regulated flood hazard area and
may be maintained as a public record that more explicitly defines the regulated
flood hazard area boundary.
   (H)   Elevating with suitable fill, as permitted, does not alter the
regulated flood hazard area or remove the elevated area from the regulated
flood hazard area.
   (I)   A floodplain permit implementing the physical change cannot be
approved until a CLOMR has been issued by FEMA.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM §§ 36.15.505, 36.15.505(1)(a), and 36.15.505(2);
44 C.F.R. §§ 60.3(c)(10), 60.3(d)(3), 65.3, 65.7(b)(3), 65.12, 65.12(a)(3),
65.12(a)(5), and 65.12(2)
§ 152.048 USES ALLOWED WITHOUT A PERMIT WITHIN THE REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA.
   (A)   General. Existing artificial obstructions or nonconforming uses
established before land use regulations pursuant to MCA § 76-5-301 were
effective are allowed without a permit. However, alteration or substantial
improvement of an existing artificial obstruction or nonconforming use requires
a floodplain permit. Maintenance of an existing artificial obstruction or
nonconforming use does not require a floodplain permit if it does not cause an
alteration or substantial improvement.
   (B)   Open space uses. The following open space uses shall be allowed
without a permit in the regulated flood hazard area, provided that such uses
are not prohibited by any other regulation or statute, do not require
structures, and do not require fill, grading, excavation, or storage of
materials or equipment:
      (1)   Agricultural uses, not including related structures, such as
tilling, farming, irrigation, ranching, harvesting, grazing, and the like;
      (2)   Accessory uses, not including structures, such as loading and
parking areas, or emergency landing strips associated with industrial or
commercial facilities;
      (3)   Forestry, including processing of forest products with portable
equipment;
      (4)   Recreational vehicle use provided that the vehicle is on the site
for fewer than 180 consecutive days and the vehicle is fully licensed and ready
for highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on
its wheels or jacking system with wheels intact, is attached to the site only
by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently
attached additions;
      (5)   Residential uses such as lawns, gardens, parking areas, and play
areas;
      (6)   Maintenance of the existing state of an existing open space uses
including preventive maintenance activities, such as bridge deck rehabilitation
and roadway pavement preservation activities. Maintenance cannot increase the
external size or increase the hazard potential of the existing open space use;
      (7)   Public or private recreational uses not requiring structures such
as picnic grounds, swimming areas, boat ramps, parks, campgrounds, golf
courses, driving ranges, archery ranges, wildlife management and natural areas,
alternative livestock ranches (game farms), fish hatcheries, shooting
preserves, target ranges, trap and skeet ranges, hunting and fishing areas, and
hiking and horseback riding trails;
      (8)   Fences that have a low impact to the flow of water such as barbed
wire fences and wood rail fences, and not including permanent fences crossing
channels. Fences that have the potential to stop or impede flow or debris such
as a chain link or privacy fence requires a floodplain permit and meet the
requirements of §
152.070;
      (9)   Addition of highway guard rail, signing, and utility poles that
have a low impact to the flow of water along an existing roadway; and
      (10)   Irrigation and livestock supply wells, provided that they are
located at least 500 feet from domestic water supply wells and with the top of
casing 18 inches above the base flood elevation.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM §§
36.15.601, 36.21.647, and 36.15.701)(1); 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(c)(14); MCA §§ 76-5-
401, 76-5-401(1), 76-5-401(2), 76-5-404(3), 76-5-401(4), 76-5-401(5), 76-5-404
(3), and 76-5-404(3)(b)
§ 152.049 PROHIBITED USES, ACTIVITIES, AND STRUCTURES WITHIN THE REGULATED
FLOOD HAZARD AREA.
   (A)   Floodway. The following artificial obstructions and nonconforming uses
are prohibited in the floodway of the regulated flood hazard area, except for
those established before land use regulations pursuant to MCA § 76-5-301 have
been adopted:
      (1)   A building for residential or non-residential purposes;
      (2)   A structure, fill, or excavation that would cause water to be
diverted from the floodway, cause erosion, obstruct the natural flow of waters,
or reduce the carrying capacity of the floodway. Notwithstanding these
requirements, excavation or fill may be allowed when it is a component to a
permitted use allowed in these regulations;
      (3)   The construction or storage of an object (artificial obstruction)
subject to flotation or movement during flood level periods;
      (4)   Solid and hazardous waste disposal and individual and multiple
family sewage disposal systems unless the systems meet the local health and
sanitation regulations and when permitted pursuant to these regulations and are
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters and avoid
impairment or contamination;
      (5)   Storage of toxic, flammable, hazardous, or explosive materials; and
      (6)   Cemeteries, mausoleums, or any other burial grounds.
   (B)   Flood fringe or regulated flood hazard area without a floodway. The
following artificial obstructions and nonconforming uses are prohibited in the
flood fringe or regulated flood hazard area without a floodway, except for
those established before land use regulations have been adopted:
      (1)   Solid and hazardous waste disposal and individual and multiple
family sewage disposal systems unless the systems meet the local health and
sanitation regulations and, when permitted, pursuant to these regulations and
are designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters and avoid
impairment or contamination;
      (2)   Storage of toxic, flammable, hazardous, or explosive materials;
      (3)   Cemeteries, mausoleums, or any other burial grounds; and
      (4)   Critical facilities, including buildings and associated structures
that provide essential community care and emergency operation functions such as
schools, hospitals, nursing home facilities, fire stations, and police
stations.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM §§ 36-15-703(1), 36-15-703(2), 36.15.605)(1a),
36.15.605(1 )(c), 36.15.605(2b), 36-15-605(2c), 36.15.605(2d), and 36.15.605(2)
(a); (44 C.F.R. §§ 60.3(a)(3) and 60.22(a)(2); and MCA §§ 76-5-403(1), 76-5-403
(2)), 76-5-403(3), and 76-5-404(3)
DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS IN THE FLOODWAY
§ 152.060 USES REQUIRING PERMITS.
   Artificial obstructions, including alterations and substantial improvements
specifically listed in §§
152.062 through
152.074, may be allowed by permit within the floodway, provided the general
requirements in §
152.061 and the applicable requirements in §§
152.062 to
152.074 are met.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 152.061 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   An application for a permit shall meet the following requirements.
   (A)   All projects shall be designed and constructed to ensure that they do
not adversely affect the flood hazard on other properties and are reasonably
safe from flooding.
   (B)   All projects shall assure that the carrying capacity of the floodway
is not reduced. All projects in the floodway shall meet the following:
      (1)   Demonstrate that the project does not increase the base flood
elevation by conducting an encroachment analysis certified by an engineer. A
minimal or qualitative encroachment analysis may be accepted when the project
or development does not require a structure, alteration of the floodway,
involve fill, grading, excavation, or storage of materials or equipment but is
also certified by an engineer to not exceed the allowable encroachment to the
base flood elevation; and
      (2)   The allowable encroachment to the base flood elevation is zero
feet, and no significant increase to the velocity or flow of the stream or
water course unless approval of an alteration of the regulated flood hazard
area, pursuant to §
152.047, and an approved FEMA Conditional Letter of Map Revision occurs before
permit issuance.
   (C)   An application for a floodplain permit must also demonstrate the
following factors are considered and incorporated into the design of the use or
artificial obstruction in the floodway:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to backwater or diverted flow
caused by the obstruction or use;
      (2)   The danger that the obstruction or use may be swept downstream to
the injury of others;
      (3)   The availability of alternative locations;
      (4)   Construct or alter the obstruction or use in such manner as to
lessen the flooding danger;
      (5)   The permanence of the obstruction or use and is reasonably safe
from flooding;
      (6)   The anticipated development in the foreseeable future of the area
which may be affected by the obstruction or use;
      (7)   Relevant and related permits for the project have been obtained;
      (8)   Such other factors as are in harmony with the purposes of these
regulations, the state’s Floodplain and Floodway Management Act, and the
accompanying Administrative Rules of the state; and
      (9)   The safety of access to property in times of flooding for ordinary
and emergency services.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM §§ 36.15.216(2e), 36.15.216(2f), 36.15.216(2)
(a), 36.15.216(2)(b), 36.15.216(2)(c), 36.15.216(2)(d), 36.15.216(2)(g),
36.15.604, 36.15.505, and 36.15.605(b); 44 C.F.R. §§ 60.3(a)(2), 60.3(a)(3),
60.3(a)(4), 60.22 (c)(7), and 65.12(a); and MCA §§ 76-5-406(1), 76-5-406(2),
76-5-406(3), 76-5-406(4), 76-5-406(5), 76-5-406(6), and 76-5-406(7)
§ 152.062 MINING OF MATERIAL REQUIRING EXCAVATION FROM PITS OR POOLS.
   Provided, in addition to the requirements of §
152.061, that:
   (A)   A buffer strip of undisturbed land of sufficient width as determined
by an engineer to prevent flood flows from channeling into the excavation is
left between the edge of the channel and the edge of the excavation;
   (B)   The excavation meets all applicable laws and regulations of other
local and state agencies; and
   (C)   Excavated material may be processed on site but is stockpiled outside
the floodway.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM § 36.15.602(1)(a), (1)(b), and (1)(c)
§ 152.063 RAILROAD, HIGHWAY, AND STREET STREAM CROSSINGS.
   Including other transportation related crossings provided, in addition to
the requirements of §
152.061, that:
   (A)   Crossings are designed to offer minimal obstructions to the flood
flow;
   (B)   Where failure or interruption of public transportation facilities
would result in danger to public health or safety and where practicable and in
consideration of FHWA Federal-Aid Policy Guide 23 C.F.R. part 650A:
      (1)   Bridge lower chords shall have freeboard to at least two feet above
the base flood elevation to help pass ice flows, the base flood discharge, and
any debris associated with the discharge; and
      (2)   Culverts shall be designed to pass the base flood discharge and
maintain at least two feet freeboard on the crossing surface.
   (C)   Normal overflow channels, if possible, are preserved to allow passage
of sediments to prevent aggradations; and
   (D)   Mid stream supports for bridges, if necessary, have footings buried
below the maximum scour depth.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM § 36.15.602(2)
§ 152.064 LIMITED FILLING FOR ROAD AND RAILROAD EMBANKMENTS.
   Including other transportation related embankments not associated with
stream crossings and bridges provided, in addition to the requirements of §
152.061, that:
   (A)   The fill is suitable fill;
   (B)   Reasonable alternate transportation routes outside the floodway are
not available; and
   (C)   The encroachment is located as far from the stream channel as
possible.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM § 36.15.602(3)
§ 152.065 BURIED OR SUSPENDED UTILITY TRANSMISSION LINES.
   Provided, in addition to the requirements of §
152.061, that:
   (A)   Suspended utility transmission lines are designed such that the lowest
point of the suspended line is at least six feet higher than the base flood
elevation;
   (B)   Towers and other appurtenant structures are designed and placed to
withstand and offer minimal obstruction to flood flows;
   (C)   Alternatives such as alternative routes, directional drilling, and
aerial crossings are considered when technically feasible; and
   (D)   Utility transmission lines carrying toxic or flammable materials are
buried to a depth of at least twice the calculated maximum scour depth
determined by an engineer for the base flood.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM § 36.15.602(4)
§ 152.066 STORAGE OF MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT.
   Provided, in addition to the requirements of §
152.061, that:
   (A)   The material or equipment is not subject to major damage by flooding
and is properly anchored to prevent flotation or downstream movement; or
   (B)   The material or equipment is readily removable within the limited time
available after flood warning. Storage of flammable, toxic, or explosive
materials shall not be permitted.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM § 36.15.602(5)(a) and 36.15.602(5)(b)
§ 152.067 DOMESTIC WATER SUPPLY WELLS.
   Provided, in addition to the requirements of §
152.061, that:
   (A)   They are driven or drilled wells located on ground higher than
surrounding ground to assure positive drainage from the well;
   (B)   They require no other structures (e.g., a well house);
   (C)   Well casings are water tight to a distance of at least 25 feet below
the ground surface and the well casing height is a minimum of two feet above
the base flood elevation or capped with a watertight seal and vented two feet
above the base flood elevation;
   (D)   Water supply lines have a watertight seal where the lines enter the
casing;
   (E)   All pumps and electrical lines and equipment are either of the
submersible type or are adequately flood proofed; and
   (F)   Check valves are installed on main water lines at wells and at all
building entry locations.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM § 36.15.602(6) and 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(a)(5)
§ 152.068 BURIED AND SEALED VAULTS FOR SEWAGE DISPOSAL IN CAMPGROUNDS AND
RECREATIONAL AREAS.
   Provided, in addition to the requirements of §
152.061, demonstrate approval by the state’s Department of Environmental
Quality and local health and sanitation permits or approvals.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM § 36.15.602(7) and 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(a)(6)
§ 152.069 PUBLIC AND PRIVATE CAMPGROUNDS.
   Provided, in addition to the requirements of §
152.061, that:
   (A)   Access roads require only limited fill and do not obstruct or divert
floodwaters;
   (B)   The project meets the accessory structures requirements in this
section;
   (C)   No dwellings or permanent mobile homes are allowed;
   (D)   Recreational vehicles and travel trailers are ready for highway use
with wheels intact, with only quick disconnect type utilities and securing
devices, and have no permanently attached additions; and
   (E)   There is no large-scale clearing of riparian vegetation within 50 feet
of the mean annual high water mark (higher standard).
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015) Penalty, see §
152.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM § 36.15.602(8) and 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(c)(14)
§ 152.070 STRUCTURES ACCESSORY OR APPURTENANT.
   To permitted uses such as boat docks, loading and parking areas, marinas,
sheds, emergency airstrips, permanent fences crossing channels that may impede
or stop flows or debris, picnic shelters and tables, and lavatories, that are
incidental to a principal structure or use, provided in addition to the
requirements of §
152.061, that:
   (A)   The structures are not intended for human habitation or supportive of
human habitation;
   (B)   The structures will have low flood damage potential;
   (C)   The structures will, insofar as possible, be located on ground higher
than the surrounding ground and as far from the channel as possible;
   (D)   The structures will be constructed and placed so as to offer a minimal
obstruction to flood flows;
   (E)   Only those wastewater disposal systems that are approved under health
and sanitation regulations are allowed;
   (F)   Service facilities within these structures such as electrical,
heating, and plumbing are flood proofed according to the requirements in §§
152.085 through
152.088;
   (G)   The structures are firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
   (H)   The structures do not require fill and/or substantial excavation;
   (I)   The structures or use cannot be changed or altered without permit
approval; and
   (J)   There is no clearing of riparian vegetation within 50 feet of the mean
annual high water mark (higher standard).
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM § 36.15.602(9)
§ 152.071 CONSTRUCTION OF OR MODIFICATIONS TO SURFACE WATER DIVERSIONS.
   Provided, in addition to the requirements of §
152.061, that the design is reviewed and approved by an engineer and includes:
   (A)   Measures to minimize potential erosion from a base flood; and
   (B)   Designs and plans that demonstrate any permanent structure in the
stream is designed to safely withstand up to the base flood, considering the
forces associated with hydrodynamic and hydrostatic pressures including flood
depths, velocities, impact, ice buoyancy, and uplift forces associated with the
base flood.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM 36.15.603(3)(b) and (3)(c) and 44 C.F.R. § 60.3
(a)(3) and (d)(3)
§ 152.072 FLOOD CONTROL AND STREAM BANK STABILIZATION MEASURES.
   Provided, in addition to the requirements of §
152.061, that the design is reviewed and approved by an engineer and
constructed to substantially resist or withstand the forces associated with
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic pressures, including flood depths, velocities,
impact, ice, buoyancy, and uplift associated with the base flood. The design
must also show compliance with the following applicable criteria.
   (A)   Levee and floodwall construction or alteration.
      (1)   Must be designed and constructed with suitable fill and be designed
to safely convey a base flood;
      (2)   Must be constructed at least three feet higher than the elevation
of the base flood unless the levee or floodwall protects agricultural land
only;
      (3)   Must meet state and federal levee engineering and construction
standards and be publically owned and maintained if it protects structures of
more than one landowner; and
      (4)   For any increase in the elevation of the base flood, an alteration
of the regulated flood hazard area requires approvals, pursuant to §
152.047.
   (B)   Stream bank stabilization, pier, and abutment protection projects.
      (1)   Must be designed and constructed using methods and materials that
are the least environmentally damaging yet practicable, and should be designed
to withstand a base flood once the project’s vegetative components are mature
within a period of up to five years or other time as required by the Floodplain
Administrator. Once vegetation is mature and established, it should not require
substantial yearly maintenance after the initial period;
      (2)   Materials for the project may be designed to erode over time but
not fail catastrophically and impact others. Erosion, sedimentation, and
transport of the materials may be designed to be at least similar in amount and
rate of existing stable natural stream banks during the base flood;
      (3)   Must not increase erosion upstream, downstream, across from, or
adjacent to the site in excess of the existing stable natural stream bank
during the base flood; and
      (4)   Materials for the project may include, but are not limited to,
riprap, root wads, brush mattresses, willow wattles, natural woody debris, or
combinations of analogous materials.
   (C)   Channelization projects. Channelization projects where the excavation
and/or construction of an channel is for the purpose of diverting the entire or
a portion of the flow of a stream from its established course, the project
must:
      (1)   Not increase the magnitude, velocity, or elevation of the base
flood; and
      (2)   Meet the requirements of division (B) above.
   (D)   Dams. The design and construction shall be in accordance with the
state’s Dam Safety Act, being MCA §§ 85-15-101 et seq., and applicable safety
standards. The project shall not increase flood hazards downstream either
through operational procedures or improper hydrologic/hydraulic design.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM §§ 36.15.101(7), 36.15.505(1)(c)(ii) and (iii),
and 36.15.606; and 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(a)(3) and (d)(3)
§ 152.073 STREAM AND BANK RESTORATION.
   Projects intended to reestablish the terrestrial and aquatic attributes of a
natural stream and not for protection of a structure or development provided,
in addition to the requirements of §
152.061, that:
   (A)   The project will not increase velocity or erosion upstream,
downstream, across from, or adjacent to the site;
   (B)   Materials may include, but are not limited to, boulders, rock cobble,
gravel, native stream bed materials, root wads, brush mattresses, willow
wattles, natural woody debris, or combinations of analogous materials and that
reasonably replicates the bed and bank of the natural stream;
   (C)   Erosion, sedimentation, and transport of the materials are not more
than the amount and rate of existing natural stream banks during the base
flood; and
   (D)   The project may be designed to allow vegetative materials to mature
within a period up to five years or other time, as required by the Floodplain
Administrator. Once vegetation is mature and established, it should not require
substantial yearly maintenance after the initial period.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM § 36.15.606(1)(b)
§ 152.074 EXISTING RESIDENTIAL AND NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS.
   Any alteration or substantial improvement to an existing building must meet
the requirements of §
152.061 and the applicable requirements in §§
152.085 through
152.088 for residential or non-residential buildings.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see MCA § 76-5-404(3)(b)
DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS IN THE FLOOD FRINGE OR REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA
WITH NO FLOODWAY
§ 152.085 USES REQUIRING PERMITS.
   (A)   All uses allowed by permit in the floodway shall also be allowed by
permit within the flood fringe or regulated flood hazard area with no floodway.
Such uses are subject to the requirements in §§
152.060 through
152.074, with the exception of the encroachment limit of §
152.061(B). Instead, such uses are subject to the encroachment limits of §
152.086(I).
   (B)   Except for prohibited artificial obstructions in §
152.049(B), all other artificial obstructions including new construction,
substantial improvements, alterations to residential and nonresidential
structures including manufactured homes, and related suitable fill or
excavation shall be allowed by permit and are subject to the requirements in
this section and the general requirements of §
152.061, with the exception of the encroachment limit of §
152.061(B).
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM § 36.15.701(2)
§ 152.086 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   An application for a floodplain permit must demonstrate or meet the
following applicable requirements:
   (A)   Base flood elevation. Where necessary to meet the appropriate
elevation requirement in these regulations, the base flood elevation(s) must be
determined by an engineer and utilized in the design and layout of the project
demonstrating the design and construction criteria herein are met. For
regulated flood hazard areas that do not have computed and published base flood
elevations in the adopted flood hazard study referenced in §§
152.045 through
152.047, a base flood elevation must be determined or obtained from a reliable
source, utilizing appropriate engineering methods and analyses;
   (B)   Flood damage. Structures must be constructed by methods and practices
that minimize flood damage and structures must be reasonably safe from
flooding;
   (C)   Surface drainage. Adequate surface drainage must be provided around
structures;
   (D)   Materials. Structures must be constructed with materials resistant to
flood damage;
   (E)   Artificial obstructions. Structures, excavation, or fill must not be
prohibited by any other statute, regulation, ordinance, or resolution; and must
be compatible with subdivision, zoning, and any other land use regulations, if
any;
   (F)   Anchoring. All construction and substantial improvements must be
designed and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   (G)   Certification. Certification by an engineer, architect, land surveyor,
or other qualified person must accompany the application, where required,
including for an encroachment analysis, adequacy of structural elevations, base
flood elevation determinations, flood-proofing, enclosure flood openings, and
design and construction to withstand the hydrodynamic forces and hydrostatic
pressures of flood depths, velocities, impact, buoyancy, uplift forces
associated with the base flood, and surface drainage. A certification is not
intended to constitute a warranty or guarantee of performance, expressed or
implied;
   (H)   Access. Structures must have safe access during times of flooding up
to the base flood for ordinary and emergency services, provided there are no
reasonable alternate locations for structures;
   (I)   Encroachment analysis.
      (1)   All applications in the regulated flood hazard area without a
floodway must be supported by an encroachment analysis of the proposed use, a
thorough hydrologic and hydraulic analysis except as provided in division (I)
(4) below, prepared by an engineer to demonstrate the effect of the structure
on flood flows, velocities, and the base flood elevation;
      (2)   The maximum allowable encroachment is certified to be at or less
than one-half feet increase to the base flood elevation unless approval of an
alteration of the regulated flood hazard area pursuant to §§
152.045 and
152.047 and an approved FEMA Conditional Letter of Map Revision occurs before
permit issuance;
      (3)   An encroachment analysis is not required for any development in the
flood fringe where an accompanying floodway has been designated within the
regulated flood hazard area; and
      (4)   Although all other development standards herein apply, a minimal or
qualitative encroachment analysis may be accepted when the project or
development does not require a structure; alteration of the floodplain; involve
fill, grading, excavation, or storage of materials or equipment; and also is
certified by an engineer to not exceed the allowable encroachment.
   (J)   Electrical systems flood proofing. All electrical service materials,
equipment, and installation for uses in a regulated flood hazard area must be
certified to meet the following requirements:
      (1)   All incoming power service equipment, including all metering
equipment, control centers, transformers, distribution, and lighting panels and
all other stationary equipment must be located at least two feet above the base
flood elevation;
      (2)   Portable and movable electrical equipment may be placed below the
base flood elevation, provided that the equipment can be disconnected by a
single plug and socket assembly of the submersible type;
      (3)   The main power service lines must have automatically operated
electrical disconnect equipment or manually operated electrical disconnect
equipment located at an accessible remote location outside the regulated flood
hazard area or two feet above the base flood elevation; and
      (4)   All electrical wiring systems installed below the base flood
elevation must be suitable for continuous submergence and may not contain
fibrous components.
   (K)   Heating and cooling systems flood proofing. Heating and cooling
systems for uses in a regulated flood hazard area must be certified to meet the
following requirements:
      (1)   Float operated automatic control valves must be installed so that
fuel supply is automatically shut off when floodwaters reach the floor level
where the heating and cooling systems are located;
      (2)   Manually operated gate valves must be installed in gas supply
lines. The gate valves must be operable from a location above the base flood
elevation;
      (3)   Electrical systems flood proofing must be met; and
      (4)   Furnaces and cooling units must be installed at least two feet
above the base flood elevation and the ductwork installed above the base flood
elevation.
   (L)   Plumbing systems flood proofing. Plumbing systems for uses in the
regulated flood hazard area must be certified to meet the following
requirements:
      (1)   Sewer lines, except those to a buried and sealed vault, must have
check valves installed to prevent sewage backup into permitted structures; and
      (2)   All toilets, stools, sinks, urinals, vaults, and drains must be
located so the lowest point of possible flood water entry is at least two feet
above the base flood elevation.
   (M)   Structural fill flood proofing. Fill used to elevate structures,
including, but not limited to, residential and non-residential buildings must
be certified to meet the following requirements.
      (1)   The fill must be a minimum of one-half feet above the base flood
elevation and extend at least 15 feet beyond the structure in all directions.
      (2)   Fill material must be suitable fill that is stable, compacted, well
graded, and pervious, not adversely affected by water and frost, devoid of
trash or similar foreign matter, tree stumps or other organic material; and is
fitting for the purpose of supporting the intended use and/or permanent
structure.
      (3)   The fill must be compacted to minimize settlement and compacted to
95% of the maximum density. Compaction of earthen fill must be certified by a
engineer.
      (4)   No portion of the fill is allowed within the floodway.
      (4)   The fill slope must not be steeper than 1% horizontal to one
vertical unless substantiating data justifying a steeper slope is provided and
adequate erosion protection is provided for fill slopes exposed to floodwaters.
   (N)   Wet flood proofing. Building designs with an enclosure below the
lowest floor must be certified to meet the following:
      (1)   Materials used for walls and floors are resistant to flooding to an
elevation two feet or more above the base flood elevation; and
      (2)   The enclosure must be designed to equalize hydrostatic forces on
walls by allowing for entry and exit of floodwaters. Opening designs must
either be certified by an engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following:
         (a)   Automatically allow entry and exit of floodwaters through
screens, louvers, valves, and other coverings or devices;
         (b)   Have two or more openings with a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area below the lowest
floor, except if the enclosure is partially subgrade, a minimum of two openings
may be provided on a single wall; and
         (c)   Have the bottom of all openings no higher than one foot above
the higher of the exterior or interior adjacent grade or floor immediately
below the openings.
   (O)   Dry flood proofing. Building designs that do not allow internal
flooding must be certified according to these regulations to meet the
following:
      (1)   Building use must be for non-residential use only and does not
include mixed residential and non-residential use;
      (2)   Be flood proofed to an elevation no lower than two feet above the
base flood elevation;
      (3)   Be constructed of impermeable membranes or materials for floors and
walls and have water tight enclosures for all windows, doors, and other
openings; and
      (4)   Be designed to withstand the hydrostatic pressures and hydrodynamic
forces resulting from the base flood and the effects of buoyancy.
   (P)   Elevation of the lowest floor. Elevating the lowest floor may be by
either suitable fill, foundation wall enclosure, stem walls, pilings, posts,
piers, columns, or other acceptable means;
   (Q)   Crawl spaces.
      (1)   Crawl space foundation enclosures, including subgrade crawlspace
enclosures below the lowest floor, must meet the wet flood proofing
requirements and be designed so that the crawl space floor is at or above the
base flood elevation.
      (2)   Crawl space foundations must have an inside dimension of not more
than five feet from the ground to the top of the living floor level and a
subgrade crawlspace must also have the interior ground surface no more than two
feet below the exterior lowest adjacent ground surface on all sides. A subgrade
foundation exceeding either dimension is a basement.
   (R)   Manufactured home anchors. For new placement, substantial improvement,
or replacement of manufactured homes for residential or nonresidential use,
including additions, the chassis must be secure and must resist flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement by anchoring with anchoring components capable of
carrying a force of 4,800 pounds and as follows:
      (1)   For manufactured homes less than 50 feet long, over-the-top ties to
ground anchors are required at each of the four corners of the home, with two
additional ties per side at intermediate locations; or
      (2)   For manufactured homes more than 50 feet long, frame ties to ground
anchors are required at each comer of the home with five additional ties per
side at intermediate points; and
   (S)   Access. Access for emergency vehicles is provided.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM §§ 36.15.101(22), 36.15.505, 36.15.604,
36.15.606(1), 36.15.701(3)(a), 36.15.701(3)(b), 36.15.702(2)(a), 36.15.702(2)
(b), 36.15.702(2)(c), 36.15.801(3)(b), 36.15.901(1)(a), 36.15.901(1)(b),
36.15.901(1)(c), 36.15.901(1)(d), 36.15.902(1)(a), 36.15.902(1)(b), 36.15.902
(1)(c), 36.15.903(1)(a), and 36.15.903(1)(b); 44 C.F.R. §§ 60.3(a), 60.3(a)(3),
60.3(a)(3)(iii), 60.3(a)(3)(iv), 60.3(b)(8), 60.3(c)(3), 60.3(c)(4), 60.3(c)
(5), 60.3(c)(6), 60.3(c)(13), 60.3 (d)(3); NFIP Insurance Manual, Rev. April
2021; and MCA § 76-5-402(2)(b)
§ 152.087 RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, EXCEPTIONS, AND ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   New construction, alterations, and substantial improvements of residential
dwellings, manufactured homes, including replacement of manufactured homes,
must be constructed such that:
   (A)   Elevation of the lowest floor. The lowest floor of the building,
including an attached garage or basement, must be two feet or more above the
base flood elevation;
   (B)   Enclosure. Enclosures of elevated buildings cannot be dry flood
proofed. Use for an enclosure is limited to facilitating building component
access. The enclosure, including a crawlspace, must be wet flood proofed and
the enclosure floor must be at or above the base flood elevation. An attached
garage floor must be two or more feet above the base flood elevation; and
   (C)   Recreation vehicles. Recreational vehicles on site for more than 180
days or not ready for highway use must meet the requirements for manufactured
homes for residential use.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM § 36.15.701(3)
§ 152.088 NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING, EXCEPTIONS, AND ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   New construction, alterations, and substantial improvements of
nonresidential including agricultural, commercial and industrial buildings, and
residential and non-residential accessory buildings must be constructed such
that:
   (A)   Elevation of the lowest floor. The lowest floor of the building must
be elevated two feet above the base flood elevation or adequately dry flood
proofed, according to this section. The lowest floor may be wet proofed
provided the use is limited to only parking, loading, and storage of equipment
or materials not appreciably affected by floodwater;
   (B)   Enclosure. Enclosures below the lowest floor on elevated buildings
must be wet flood proofed and the use must be limited to parking, access, or
storage or must be adequately dry flood proofed according to this section;
   (C)   Manufactured homes. Manufactured homes proposed for use as non-
residential buildings cannot be dry flood proofed; and
   (D)   Agricultural structures. Agricultural structures not intended to be
insurable, used solely for agricultural purposes, having low flood damage
potential, used exclusively in connection with the production, harvesting,
storage, drying, or raising of agricultural commodities including raising of
livestock, and not intended for human habitation are exempt from the elevation
requirement, dry or wet flood proofing, but shall:
      (1)   Be located on higher ground and as far from the channel as
possible;
      (2)   Offer minimal obstruction to flood flows;
      (3)   Be adequately anchored to prevent flotation or collapse;
      (4)   Where electrical, heating and plumbing systems are installed, meet
the flood proofing requirements in §
152.086(J), (K), and (L); and
      (5)   Meet the elevation or dry flood proofing requirements if the
structure is an animal confinement facility.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM §§ 36.15.602(9), 36.15.701(3)(e), and 36.15.702
(2) and 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(c)(3), and (c)(4)
EMERGENCIES
§ 152.100 GENERAL.
   (A)   Emergency repair and replacement of severely damaged artificial
obstructions and development in the regulated flood hazard area, including
public transportation facilities, public water and sewer facilities, flood
control works, and private projects are subject to the permitting requirements
of these regulations.
   (B)   The provisions of these regulations are not intended to affect other
actions that are necessary to safeguard life or structures during periods of
emergency.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM § 36.15.217
§ 152.101 EMERGENCY NOTIFICATION AND APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The property owner and/or the person responsible for taking
emergency action must notify the Floodplain Administrator via email at
sqpianning@itstriangle.net or by leaving a message at 406-932-5470 prior to
initiating any emergency action in a regulated flood hazard area normally
requiring a floodplain permit.
      (2)   Any emergency notification form must be submitted to the floodplain
Administration (Planning Office) within 15 days of the action taken as a result
of an emergency.
   (B)   Emergency notification forms can be obtained from the Planning Office
or from the county website at: www.sweetgrasscountygov.com.
   (C)   Unless otherwise specified by the Floodplain Administrator, within 30
days of initiating the emergency action, a person who has undertaken an
emergency action must submit a floodplain permit application that describes
what action has taken place during the emergency and describe any additional
work that may be required to bring the project in compliance with these
regulations.
   (D)   A person who has undertaken an emergency action may be required to
modify or remove the project in order to meet the permit requirements.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
VARIANCES
§ 152.115 GENERAL.
   A variance from the minimum development standards of these regulations may
be allowed. An approved variance would permit construction in a manner
otherwise as required or prohibited by these regulations.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM § 36.15.218 and 44 C.F.R. § 59.1
§ 152.116 VARIANCE APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to any consideration of a variance from any development standard
in these regulations, a completed floodplain permit application and required
supporting material must be submitted.
   (B)   Additionally, supporting materials in a variance application specific
to the variance request, including facts and information addressing the
criteria in this section must be submitted.
   (C)   If the floodplain permit application and variance application is
deemed not correct and complete, the Floodplain Administrator shall notify the
applicant of deficiencies within a reasonable time not to exceed 30 days. Under
no circumstances should it be assumed that the variance is automatically
granted.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 152.117 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS FOR FLOODPLAIN VARIANCE APPLICATION.
   Public notice of the floodplain permit application and variance application
shall be given pursuant to §
152.033(B).
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 152.118 EVALUATION OF VARIANCE APPLICATION.
   (A)   A floodplain permit and variance shall only be issued upon a
determination that the variance is the minimum allowance necessary, considering
the flood hazard, to afford relief from these regulations and provided all of
the following criteria are met:
      (1)   There is a good and sufficient cause. Financial hardship is not a
good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   Failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship
to the applicant;
      (3)   Residential and nonresidential buildings are not in the floodway,
except for alterations or substantial improvement to existing buildings.
Residential dwellings including basements and attached garages do not have the
lowest floor elevation below the base flood elevation;
      (4)   Any enclosure, including a crawl space, must meet the requirements
of §
152.086(C) if the enclosure interior grade is at or below the base flood
elevation;
      (5)   Granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights
to existing buildings, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with other existing local laws or ordinances;
      (6)   The proposed use is adequately flood proofed;
      (7)   The variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood
hazard, to afford relief;
      (8)   Reasonable alternative locations are not available;
      (9)   An encroachment does not cause an increase to the base flood
elevation that is beyond that allowed in these regulations; and
      (10)   All other criteria for a floodplain permit besides the specific
development standard requested by variance are met.
   (B)   An exception to the variance criteria may be allowed as follows:
      (1)   For either new construction of a structure outside of the floodway
only or for substantial improvements or an alteration of a structure on a lot
of one-half acres or less that is contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the base flood elevation; or
      (2)   For historic structures, variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum relief
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure. The
historic nature of the building must be designated as a preliminary or historic
structure by U.S. Secretary of Interior or an approved state or local
government historic preservation program.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see ARM § 36.15.218(a), (b), (c), and (d); 44 C.F.R. §
60.6(a), (a)(1), (a)(3), and (a)(4); and MCA 76-5-406(3)
§ 152.119 DECISION.
   The City Council shall:
   (A)   Evaluate the floodplain permit application and variance application
using the criteria in §
152.118, and the application requirements and minimum development standards in
§§
152.060 through
152.074 and
152.085 through
152.088;
   (B)   Make findings and approve, conditionally approve, or deny a floodplain
permit and variance within 60 days of a complete application;
   (C)   If approved, attach conditions to the approval of floodplain permit
and variance including a project completion date and inspections during and
after construction;
   (D)   Notify the applicant that the issuance of a floodplain permit and
variance to construct a structure not meeting the minimum building requirements
in these regulations may result in increased premium rates for flood insurance
and that flood insurance premiums are determined by actuarial risk and will not
be modified by the granting of a variance; and
   (E)   Submit to the Floodplain Administrator a record of all actions
involving a floodplain permit and variance, including the findings and decision
and send a copy of each variance granted to DNRC.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.6(a) and 60.6(a)(6) and MCA § 76-5-
405
§ 152.120 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any person or persons aggrieved by the floodplain permit and variance
decision may appeal such decision in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS
§ 152.135 GENERAL.
   An administrative appeal may be brought before the City Council for review
of the Floodplain Administrator’s order, decision to grant, condition, or deny
a floodplain permit or interpretation of the regulated flood hazard area
boundary.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 152.136 APPEALS REQUIREMENTS.
   The following provisions apply to administrative appeals.
   (A)   An appeal shall include the basis of the appeal and supporting
information including specific findings and conclusions of the Floodplain
Administrator’s decision being appealed.
   (B)   An appeal may be submitted by an applicant and/or anyone who may be
aggrieved by the Floodplain Administrator’s decision or order.
   (C)   Appeals must be received within 30 days of the date of the decision or
order of the Floodplain Administrator.
   (D)   Additional information specific to the appeal request may be requested
by the review panel.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 152.137 NOTICE AND HEARING.
   (A)   Notice of the pending appeal and hearing shall be provided pursuant to
§
152.033(B). The Floodplain Administrator may notify DNRC and FEMA of pending
appeals.
   (B)   A public hearing on the appeal must be held within 30 days of the
notice unless set otherwise.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 152.138 DECISION.
   A judgment on an appeal shall be made within 30 days of the hearing unless
set otherwise. The decision may affirm, modify, or overturn the Floodplain
Administrator’s decision. A decision on an appeal of a permit cannot grant or
issue a variance. A decision may support, reverse, or remand an order or
determination of a boundary of the regulated flood hazard area by the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 152.139 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision on an administrative appeal
may appeal such decision in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.150 INVESTIGATION REQUEST.
   (A)   An investigation to determine compliance with these regulations for an
artificial obstruction or nonconforming use within the regulated flood hazard
area may be made either on the initiative of the Floodplain Administrator or on
the written request of three titleholders of land which may be affected by the
activity.
   (B)   The names and addresses of the persons requesting the investigation
shall be released if requested.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see MCA § 76-5-105)(2)
§ 152.151 NOTICES TO ENTER AND INVESTIGATE LANDS OR WATERS.
   The Floodplain Administrator may make reasonable entry upon any lands and
waters for the purpose of making an investigation, inspection, or survey to
verify compliance with these regulations.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall provide notice of entry by mail,
electronic mail, phone call, or personal delivery to the owner, owner’s agent,
lessee, or lessee’s agent whose lands will be entered.
   (B)   If none of these persons can be found, the Floodplain Administrator
shall affix a copy of the notice to one or more conspicuous places on the
property.
   (C)   If the owners do not respond, cannot be located, or refuse entry to
the Floodplain Administrator, the Floodplain Administrator may seek the
involvement of the City Attorney to initiate a search warrant.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see MCA § 76-5-105(1)
§ 152.152 NOTICE TO RESPOND AND ORDER TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   (A)   When the Floodplain Administrator determines that a violation may have
occurred, the Floodplain Administrator may issue written notice to the owner or
an agent of the owner, either personally or by certified mail.
   (B)   Such notice shall cite the regulatory offense and include an order to
take corrective action within a reasonable time or to respond by requesting an
administrative review by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 152.153 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
   The order to take corrective action is final, unless within five working
days or any granted extension, after the order is received, the owner submits a
written request for an administrative review by the Floodplain Administrator. A
request for an administrative review does not stay the order.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 152.154 APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION.
   Within ten working days or any granted extension of receipt of the
Floodplain Administrator’s decision concluding the administrative review, the
property owner or owner’s agent may appeal the decision pursuant to §§
152.135 through
152.139.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 152.155 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   If the owner fails to comply with the order for corrective action, remedies
may include administrative or legal actions or penalties through court.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 152.156 OTHER REMEDIES.
   This section does not prevent efforts to obtain voluntary compliance through
warning, conference, or any other appropriate means, at the discretion of the
Floodplain Administrator and the city. Action under this subchapter shall not
bar enforcement of these regulations by injunction or other appropriate remedy.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Misdemeanor.
      (1)   Violation of the provisions of these regulations or failure to
comply with any of the requirements, including failure to obtain permit
approval prior to development in the regulated flood hazard area except for an
emergency, shall constitute a misdemeanor and may be treated as a public
nuisance.
      (2)   Any person who violates these regulations or fails to comply with
any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than
$100 or imprisoned for not more than ten days or both. Each day’s continuance
of a violation shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   Declaration to the federal flood insurance administrator.
      (1)   Upon finding of a violation and failure of the owner to take
corrective action as ordered, the Floodplain Administrator may submit notice
and request a 1316 Violation Declaration to the Federal Insurance
Administrator. The Federal Insurance Administrator has the authority to deny
new and renewal flood insurance for a structure upon finding a valid violation
declaration.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator shall provide the Federal Insurance
Administrator the following:
         (a)   The name(s) of the property owner(s) and address or legal
description of the property sufficient to confirm its identity and location;
         (b)   A clear and unequivocal declaration that the property is in
violation of a cited state or local law, regulation, or ordinance;
         (c)   A clear statement that the public body making the declaration
has authority to do so and a citation to that authority;
         (d)   Evidence that the property owner has been provided notice of the
violation and the prospective denial of insurance; and
         (e)   A clear statement that the declaration is being submitted
pursuant to § 1316 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-20-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 44 C.F.R. § 73.3 and MCA § 76-5-110
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
153.01   Adoption
   
153.02   Amendment
   
153.03   Certificates of survey and amended plats
§ 153.01 ADOPTION.
   (A)   The 2020 county and city subdivision regulations are declared to be
the city subdivision regulations for the purpose of prescribing regulations
governing subdivision within the city.
   (B)   One full printed copy of the regulations are on file in the office of
the City Clerk/Treasurer. The aforesaid subdivision regulations for the city
are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter as fully, and
for all intents and purposes, as though set forth herein at length.
(2015 Code, § 10-1-1) (Res. 999, passed 4-19-2021)
§ 153.02 AMENDMENT.
   The aforesaid subdivision regulations are amended by the additions,
deletions, and modifications set forth within the regulations from time to
time.
(2015 Code, § 10-1-2) (Ord. 442, passed 10-3-1996)
§ 153.03 CERTIFICATES OF SURVEY AND AMENDED PLATS.
   (A)   Review by city. The city has authority to review certificates of
survey and amended plats to ensure that the affected real property has
sufficient access or easements to allow for the construction, placement,
repair, and maintenance of city utilities.
   (B)   Review by City-County Planning Office. All certificates of survey and
amended plats must first be presented to and considered by the City-County
Planning Office before filing with the County Clerk and Recorder.
(2015 Code, § 10-1-3) (Ord. 442, passed 10-3-1996)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Short title
   
154.002   Minimum requirements
   
154.003   Definitions
   
154.004   Application of district regulations
Zoning Maps and Districts
   
154.015   Official zoning map
   
154.016   Districts established
   
154.017   Certificate
   
154.018   Replacement of official zoning map
   
154.019   Interpretations of boundaries
   
154.020   Interpretation of uses
   
154.021   Map
R-S Rural Suburban District
   
154.035   Intent
   
154.036   Permitted uses
   
154.037   Permitted conditional uses
   
154.038   Lot area and width
   
154.039   Lot coverage and floor area
   
154.040   Yards
   
154.041   Building height
   
154.042   Off-street parking
   
154.043   Subject to supplemental regulations
R-1 Residential Low Density District
   
154.055   Intent
   
154.056   Permitted uses
   
154.057   Permitted conditional uses
   
154.058   Lot area and width
   
154.059   Lot coverage and floor area
   
154.060   Yards
   
154.061   Building height
   
154.062   Off-street parking
   
154.063   Landscaping
   
154.064   Subject to supplemental regulations
R-2 Residential Medium Density District
   
154.075   Intent
   
154.076   Permitted uses
   
154.077   Permitted conditional uses
   
154.078   Lot area and width   
   
154.079   Lot coverage and floor area
   
154.080   Yards
   
154.081   Building height
   
154.082   Off-street parking
   
154.083   Landscaping
   
154.084   Subject to supplemental regulations
R-3 Residential High Density District
   
154.095   Intent
   
154.096   Permitted uses
   
154.097   Permitted conditional uses
   
154.098   Lot area and width
   
154.099   Lot coverage and floor area
   
154.100   Yards
   
154.101   Building height
   
154.102   Off-street parking
   
154.103   Off-street loading
   
154.104   Landscaping
   
154.105   Subject to supplemental regulations
HB Highway Business District
   
154.120   Intent
   
154.121   Permitted uses
   
154.122   Conditional uses
   
154.123   Lot area and width
   
154.124   Lot coverage
   
154.125   Yards
   
154.126   Building height
   
154.127   Off-street parking
   
154.128   Off-street loading
   
154.129   Landscaping
   
154.130   Subject to supplemental regulations
ICC Interchange Commercial District
   
154.145   Intent
   
154.146   Permitted uses
   
154.147   Conditional uses
   
154.148   Lot area and width
   
154.149   Lot coverage
   
154.150   Yards
   
154.151   Building height
   
154.152   Off-street parking
   
154.153   Off-street loading
   
154.154   Landscaping
   
154.155   Subject to supplemental regulations
CBD Central Business District
   
154.170   Intent
   
154.171   Permitted uses
   
154.172   Permitted conditional uses
   
154.173   Lot area and width
   
154.174   Lot coverage
   
154.175   Yards
   
154.176   Building height
   
154.177   Off-street parking
   
154.178   Off-street loading
   
154.179   Landscaping
   
154.180   Subject to supplemental regulations
M-I Manufacturing and Industrial District
   
154.195   Intent
   
154.196   Permitted uses
   
154.197   Permitted conditional uses
   
154.198   Lot area and width
   
154.199   Lot coverage
   
154.200   Yards
   
154.201   Building height
   
154.202   Landscaping
   
154.203   Off-street parking
   
154.204   Off-street loading
PLI Public Lands and Institutions District
   
154.215   Intent
   
154.216   Permitted uses
   
154.217   Permitted conditional uses
   
154.218   Lot area and width
   
154.219   Lot coverage
   
154.220   Yards
   
154.221   Building height
   
154.222   Off-street parking
   
154.223   Off-street loading
   
154.224   Landscaping
   
154.225   Subject to supplemental regulations
Supplemental Regulations
   
154.240   Intent
   
154.241   Visibility at intersections
   
154.242   Accessory buildings
   
154.243   Principal structures
   
154.244   Exceptions to height regulations
   
154.245   Zero lot line
   
154.246   Home occupations
   
154.247   Structures to have access
   
154.248   Temporary uses
   
154.249   Outdoor lighting
   
154.250   Outside storage; enclosure required
   
154.251   Corner lots
   
154.252   Protection of street right-of-way
   
154.253   Fences and walls
   
154.254   Swimming pools
   
154.255   Lots in two zones
   
154.256   Yard encroachments
   
154.257   Stop order
   
154.258   Signs in residential districts
   
154.259   Moved-on structure
   
154.260   Satellite dishes
Conditional Use Permits
   
154.275   Intent
   
154.276   Conditional use requirements
   
154.277   Conditional use permit procedure
   
154.278   Conditional approval
   
154.279   Expiration of conditional use permits
   
154.280   Permitted conditional uses
   
154.281   Revocation of conditional use permit
   
154.282   Conditional use permits filed
Manufactured Home Parks
   
154.295   Intent
   
154.296   Definitions
   
154.297   Permitted uses
   
154.298   Other laws
   
154.299   Permits
   
154.300   Design standards
   
154.301   Approval
Recreation Vehicle Parks
   
154.315   Intent
   
154.316   Definition
   
154.317   Permitted uses
   
154.318   Conflicts with other laws
   
154.319   Permits
   
154.320   Design standards
   
154.321   Approval
Townhouses
   
154.335   Intent
   
154.336   Development criteria
   
154.337   Setbacks and yards
   
154.338   Open space
   
154.339   Supplemental regulations
   
154.340   Application and submittal requirements
   
154.341   Approval
Planned Unit Development (PUD)
   
154.355   Intent
   
154.356   Definition
   
154.357   Application and uses
   
154.358   Development procedure
   
154.359   Design standards
   
154.360   Common property
   
154.361   Open space
   
154.362   Setbacks
Off-Street Parking
   
154.375   Intent
   
154.376   Design
   
154.377   Combined occupancies
   
154.378   Joint use
   
154.379   Spaces required
Off-Street Loading
   
154.390   Intent
   
154.391   Design of loading berths
   
154.392   Berths required
Nonconforming Uses, Lots, and Structures
   
154.405   Intent
   
154.406   Nonconforming lots of record
   
154.407   Nonconforming uses of land
   
154.408   Nonconforming structures
   
154.409   Nonconforming uses of structures
   
154.410   Repairs and maintenance
   
154.411   Conditional use
Land Use Permits
   
154.425   Administration and enforcement
   
154.426   Duties of Zoning Officer
   
154.427   Uses not requiring permits
   
154.428   Uses requiring permits
   
154.429   Conformance
   
154.430   Expiration of permits
   
154.431   Schedule of fees, charges, and expenses
Board of Adjustment
   
154.445   Creation
   
154.446   Offices
   
154.447   Powers and duties
   
154.448   Procedure
   
154.449   Public hearing and notice
   
154.450   Approval
   
154.451   Conditions of approval
   
154.452   Appeals to Board of Adjustment
   
154.453   Appeals from Board of Adjustment
   
154.454   Time decision effective
Amendments and Changes
   
154.465   Intent
   
154.466   Application procedures
   
154.467   Investigation of amendment
   
154.468   Hearing for amendment
   
154.469   Approval
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “zoning ordinance of the city
of Big Timber” and referred to as the “zoning title of the city code,” or “this
chapter.”
(2015 Code, § 11-1-1) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.002 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the
health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the community. Wherever the
requirements of this chapter are at variance with the requirements of any other
lawfully adopted rules and regulations, the most restrictive, or that imposing
the higher standards, shall govern.
(2015 Code, § 11-1-2) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The word
BUILDING includes STRUCTURE, and STRUCTURE includes BUILDING; the words USED or
OCCUPIED shall include within their meaning INTENDED, ARRANGED, OR DESIGNED TO
BE USED OR OCCUPIED. The word PERSON shall include corporation, partnership, or
other legal entity. Where other definitions are necessary and are not defined
herein, the City Council may define such terms.
(2015 Code, § 11-2-1)
   ABANDONMENT. The relinquishment of property, or a cessation of the use of
the property, by the owner or lessee without any intention of transferring
rights to the property to another owner or of resuming the use of the property.
   ACCESS or DRIVEWAY. A way or means of approach to provide vehicular or
pedestrian physical entrance to a property.
   ACCESSORY APARTMENT. A dwelling unit that has been added onto, or created
within, a single-family house.
   ACCESSORY USE OR BUILDING. The use of land or a subordinate building or a
portion of a main building, such use being secondary to or incidental to the
principal use or structure. This does not include separate, additional dwelling
units.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT. An establishment consisting of, including, or having
the characteristics of any or all of the following.
      (1)   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having as a substantial or
significant portion of its stock-in-trade books, magazines, publications,
tapes, or films that are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing, or relating to sexual activities or anatomical
genital areas.
      (2)   ADULT CABARET.
         (a)   An establishment devoted to adult entertainment, either with or
without a liquor license, presenting material distinguished or characterized by
an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to sexual activities
or anatomical genital areas; and
         (b)   A cabaret that features topless dancers, go-go dancers,
strippers, male or female impersonators, or similar entertainers for
observation by patrons.
      (3)   ADULT MINI MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building with a
capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
sexual activities or anatomical genital areas.
      (4)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building with a capacity
for 50 or more persons used for presenting material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
sexual activities or anatomical genital areas.
   AGRICULTURE. The tilling of soil, the raising of crops, horticulture,
apiculture, gardening, dairying, or animal husbandry, including all uses
customarily incidental thereto, but not including any agriculture industry or
business such as fruit packing plants, fur farms, animal hospitals, commercial
feed lots, or similar use.
   APARTMENTS. A building or portion thereof designed with more than four
individual dwelling units.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR. Establishments primarily engaged in furnishing automotive
repair, rental, leasing, and parking services to the general public.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. Any building, land area, or other premises, or
portion thereof, used for the retail dispensing or sales of vehicular fuels;
servicing and repair of automobiles; and including as an accessory use the sale
and installation of lubricants, tires, batteries, and similar vehicle
accessories.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING. The dismantling or wrecking of used motor vehicles or
trailers or the storage, sale, or dumping of dismantled or partially dismantled
obsolete or wrecked vehicles or other parts.
   BARS, TAVERNS, and COCKTAIL LOUNGES. Premises used primarily for the sale or
dispensing of liquor by the drink for on-site consumption and where food or
packaged liquors may be served or sold only as accessory to the primary use.
   BASEMENT. A space having one-half or more of its floor-to-ceiling height
below the average level of the adjoining ground and with a floor-to-ceiling
height of not less than six and one-half feet.
   BED AND BREAKFAST INNS. Overnight accommodations and a morning meal in a
dwelling unit provided to transients for compensation. The facility must be
owner occupied.
   BLOCK. A unit of land bounded by streets or by a combination of streets and
public land, railroad rights-of-way, waterways, or any other barrier to the
continuity of development.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. An officially constituted body whose principal duties
are to hear appeals and, where appropriate, grant variances from the strict
application of this chapter.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling unit or part thereof in which, for compensation,
lodging and meals are provided; personal and financial services may be offered
as well.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for support, shelter, or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattels, or property of any kind.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the average elevation of the
proposed finished grade at the front of a building to the highest point of a
flat roof, the deck line of a mansard roof and the mean height between eaves
and ridge for gable, hip, and gambrel roofs.
   BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to the street line touching that part of a
building closest to the street.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. An area in which the purchase, sale, offering for sale,
or other transaction is conducted. Business involves the handling or
disposition of any article, service, substance, or commodity for livelihood or
profit; or the management or occupancy of the office buildings, offices,
recreational or amusement enterprises; or the maintenance and use of buildings,
offices, structures, or premises by professions and trades or persons rendering
services.
   CAMPGROUND, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE. Any area or tract or land used or designed to
accommodate two or more camping parties, including cabins, tents, trailers, or
other camping outfits.
   CARETAKER’S RESIDENCE. A single-family dwelling located in conjunction with
a residential, commercial, or industrial land use that requires 24-hour care in
order to protect or operate the use.
   CASINO.
      (1)   An establishment, whose primary use of activity is gambling, either
in the form of gambling machines (video poker, keno, and the like), card games,
or other licensed gambling activity. A CASINO will normally have beverage and
restaurant facilities as ancillary uses. In all instances, an establishment
will be considered a CASINO for the purpose of these regulations if any of the
following characteristics apply:
         (a)   The establishment is referenced as a CASINO by signage or by
name;
         (b)   More than one card table is on the premises;
         (c)   Fifteen or more gambling machines are on the premises; or
         (d)   The predominant source of income is from gambling revenue.
      (2)   Generally, an establishment will not be considered a CASINO when
the premises contains no live card games, or has less than six gambling devices
that are clearly incidental to the primary use of the establishment.
   CHILD. A person under 12 years of age.
   CHILDCARE FACILITY.
      (1)   DAYCARE CENTER. An out-of-home place in which supplemental care
and/or adult supervision is provided to 13 or more children on a regular basis
and which may include nursery schools, private kindergartens, or after school
care and supervision.
      (2)   FAMILY DAYCARE HOME. A private residence in which supplemental
parental daycare is provided to three to six children from separate families on
a regular basis. Such CHILDCARE FACILITY shall be licensed by the state’s
Department of Social and Rehabilitation Services as required by law.
      (3)   GROUP DAYCARE HOME. A private residence or other structure in which
supplemental parental daycare is provided for seven to 12 children on a regular
basis and which is licensed by the state’s Department of Social and
Rehabilitation Services as required by law.
   CHURCH. A building designed for public worship by any religious body.
   CLINIC. A place used for the care, diagnosis, and treatment of sick, ailing,
infirm, or injured persons and those who are in need of medical or surgical
attention, but who are not provided with board and room or kept overnight on
the premises.
   CLUBS (FRATERNAL LODGES). Buildings and facilities owned and operated by a
corporation, association, person, or persons for a social, educational, or
recreational purpose, but not primarily for profit.
   CLUSTER. A development design technique that concentrates buildings on a
part of the site to allow the remaining land to be used for recreation, common
open space, and preservation of environmentally sensitive features.
   COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL FACILITY.
      (1)   ADULT FOSTER FAMILY CARE HOME. A private home licensed by the
state’s Department of Social and Rehabilitation Services operated by one or
more persons 18 years of age or older that offers light personal care or
custodial care to a total of no more than four disabled adults or aged persons
who are not related to the operator by blood or marriage.
      (2)   COMMUNITY GROUP HOME. A family oriented residence or home licensed
by the state’s Department of Social and Rehabilitation Services or the state’s
Department of Health and Environmental Sciences designed to provide residential
services and facilities for physically, developmentally, or mentally disabled
persons, but does not provide skilled or intermediate nursing care.
      (3)   YOUTH FOSTER CARE FACILITY. A youth care facility licensed by the
state’s Department of Social and Rehabilitation Services in which substitute
care is provided on a 24-hour a day basis for seven or more foster children or
youth to whom the foster parents are not related by blood, marriage, adoption,
or wardship. A YOUTH FOSTER CARE HOME II consists of a total of seven or more
children, including both the foster children and the foster parents’ own
children, stepchildren, or wards.
      (4)   YOUTH FOSTER HOME. A youth care facility licensed by the state’s
Department of Social and Rehabilitation Services in which substitute care is
provided on a 24-hour a day basis for one to six foster children or youth to
whom the foster parents are not related by blood, marriage, adoption, or
wardship. A YOUTH FOSTER CARE HOME consists of a total of no more than six
children, including both the foster children and the foster parents’ own
children, stepchildren, or wards.
      (5)   YOUTH GROUP HOME. A youth care facility licensed by the state’s
Department of Social and Rehabilitation Services in which substitute care is
provided on a 24-hour a day basis for seven to 12 children or youth.
   CONDITIONAL USE. See definition of USE, CONDITIONAL.
   CONDOMINIUM. A building, or group of buildings, in which dwelling units,
offices, or floor area are owned individually, and the structure, common areas,
and facilities are owned by all the owners on a proportional, undivided basis.
   CONTRACTOR’S YARD. Open spaces used for the storage of machinery, equipment,
materials, and supplies used by the contractor in the pursuit of his or her
business. This is intended to be a yard owned or leased by a contractor engaged
in some kind of construction work.
   DAIRY. Any premises where three or more cows, three or more goats, or any
combination thereof are kept, milked, or maintained.
   DECK. A platform or floor attached to a building.
   DENSITY. The total number of dwelling units allowed per gross acre.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof designed with living quarters for
occupancy by one or more families.
   DWELLING, DUPLEX. A building containing two single-family dwelling units
totally separated from each other by an unpierced wall extending from ground to
roof.
   DWELLING, GROUP. In general, a building in which several unrelated
individuals or families permanently reside but in which individual cooking
facilities are not provided for the individual persons or families.
Specifically, GROUP DWELLING shall include rooming house, fraternity house,
sorority house, and private club in which one or more members have a permanent
residence. GROUP DWELLING shall not be deemed to include a hotel, motel,
tourist home, manufactured home park, or any use included in the “health-
medical group.”
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building designed with two to four dwelling units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed with accommodations for and
occupied by one family only.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building or portion thereof providing separate cooking,
eating, sleeping, and living facilities for one family and its resident
domestic employees.
   EASEMENT. A grant of one or more of the property rights by the property
owner to and/or for use by the public, a corporation, or another person or
entity.
   ELDERLY HOUSING. Multi-family housing designed for older people.
   ESTABLISHED GRADE. The sidewalk line grade at the front lot line or as
established by an engineer for the city’s Public Works Department.
   FAMILY. Any individual, two or more persons related by blood or marriage, or
a group of not more than four persons (excluding servants) who need not be
related by blood or marriage, living together as a single, nonprofit
housekeeping unit.
   FENCE. An artificially constructed barrier of any material or combination of
materials erected to enclose, screen, or separate areas.
   FLOODPLAIN, 100-YEAR. The channel and the relatively flat area adjoining the
channel of a natural stream or river that has been or may be covered by flood
water, officially designated by FEMA.
   FLOODPLAIN ZONE. A separate and distinct portion of the floodplain maps and
regulations governing those lands affected by a 100-year floodplain
classification.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a natural stream or river and portions of the
floodplain adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to carry and
discharge the flood water or flow of any natural stream or river.
   FLOOR AREA. The total number of square feet of floor space within the
exterior walls of a building (floor areas of basements shall not apply as a
part of the required minimum floor area of buildings).
   FOUNDATION. The support structure for buildings, including footings,
installed below frost line, foundation walls, or piers.
   FRONTAGE. That side of a lot abutting on a street; the front lot line.
   GARAGE. A deck, building, or parking structure or part thereof, used or
intended to be used for the parking and storage of vehicles.
   GARAGE, AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR. Any building or premises used for major repair of
vehicles, but not including auto wrecking or storage of wrecked cars. Repair
activity shall be conducted in enclosed places or screened from public view.
   GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS. Any building or portion thereof and the land upon
which it is situated, used for supplying fuel, and/or oil for motor vehicles at
retail direct to the consumer and/or making minor vehicle repairs.
   HEIGHT. See definition of BUILDING HEIGHT.
   HOME OCCUPATION. The use of a portion of a dwelling as an office, studio, or
workroom for occupations at home by one or more persons residing in the
dwelling unit. No HOME OCCUPATION shall occupy more than 20% of the gross floor
area or more than 400 square feet of gross floor area. The activity must be
clearly incidental to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes, shall not
change the character or appearance thereof, and shall not produce any offensive
noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odor, heat, or glare. No parking of customers’
vehicles shall be permitted in a manner or frequency so as to cause a
disturbance or inconvenience to neighboring residents. No exterior display
occupation sign shall be permitted except that one nameplate or home occupation
sign shall be permitted; however, the sign shall not exceed two square feet in
area and shall not exceed 24 inches in length. Such sign or nameplate shall not
be illuminated and shall be placed flat against the dwelling unit or suspended
in a window.
   HOSPITAL. An institute providing health services, primarily for inpatients
and medical or surgical care of the sick or injured, including outpatient
departments, training facilities, central service facilities, and staff
offices.
   HOTEL. A building containing six or more rooms designed and rented out for
sleeping purposes for transients, and where only a general kitchen and dining
room are provided in the building or in an accessory building.
   INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT. Any light industrial or heavy industrial districts.
   INDUSTRY. Those fields of economic activity including forestry, fishing,
hunting, and trapping; mining; construction; manufacturing; transportation,
communication, electric, gas, and sanitary services; and wholesale trade.
   INSTITUTION. A building occupied by a nonprofit corporation or nonprofit
establishment for public or semipublic use.
   JUNKYARD. Primary or accessory use of a parcel of land for the storage,
dismantling, or selling of cast-off salvage material of any sort in any other
than the original form in which it was manufactured and/or assembled; thus, not
including reconditioned, secondhand furniture, fixtures, or antiques sold from
within a walled building.
   JURISDICTIONAL AREA. The area included within the incorporated area, and a
distance up to four and one-half miles in all directions from the city limits.
   LABORATORY. A place devoted to experimental study such as testing and
analyzing. Manufacturing of a product or products is not included in this
definition.
   LANDSCAPING. The placement of ornamental fixtures such as fountains,
ornamental walls, fences, benches, along with vegetative planting of trees,
shrubs, grass, flowers, and the like. This definition shall also include the
designing of the placement of such materials.
   LOADING BERTH, OFF-STREET. An off-street space or berth on the same lot with
a principal building for the parking of a commercial vehicle while loading or
unloading merchandise and which has direct access from a public street or
alley.
   LOT. A parcel or plot of land shown as an individual unit of ownership on
the most recent plat or record of subdivision. Different lot types are shown in
Figure 1 below.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated on the junction of or abutting on two or more
streets.
   LOT, COVERAGE. The total area of a lot covered by the principal and
accessory buildings.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean distance between the front and rear lot lines.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot with only one frontage on a street.
   LOT LINES. The lines bounding a LOT as defined herein.
   LOT WIDTH. The width of a lot along a line parallel to the frontage thereof
and lying a distance back from the frontage equal to the required front yard
setback on such lot.
Figure 1: Lot Dimensions and Lot Types
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a52809125f51a3c182b0fcc83d98e95a23fa0d19/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1515.png]
   MANUFACTURED HOMES. The following definitions apply to MANUFACTURED HOMES in
this chapter.
      (1)   MANUFACTURED HOME, CLASS A. A manufactured home constructed after
July 1, 1976, that meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the
time of construction and that satisfies each of the following additional
criteria:
         (a)   The home has a length not exceeding four times its width;
         (b)   The pitch of the home’s roof has a minimum vertical rise of one
foot for each five feet of horizontal run, and the roof is finished with a type
of shingle that is commonly used in standard residential construction;
         (c)   The exterior siding consists of wood, hardboard, or aluminum
(vinyl covered or painted, but in no case exceeding the reflectivity of gloss
white paint) comparable in composition, appearance, and durability to the
exterior siding commonly used in standard residential construction;
         (d)   A continuous, permanent foundation, unpierced except for
required ventilation and access, is installed under the home; and the tongue,
axles, transporting lights, and removable towing apparatus are removed after
placement on the lot and before occupancy.
         (e)   All CLASS A MANUFACTURED HOMES constructed after June 15, 1976,
are required to have a red HUD sticker on the structure.
      (2)   MANUFACTURED HOME, CLASS B. A manufactured home , constructed after
July 1, 1976, that meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the
time of construction but that does not meet the definitional criteria of a
Class A manufactured home. All MANUFACTURED CLASS B HOMES constructed after
June 15, 1976, are also required to have a red HUD sticker on the structure.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A parcel of land that has been planned and improved
for the placement of two or more mobile homes for residential use.
   MASTER PLAN (GROWTH POLICY PLAN). Includes any document or portion of any
document duly adopted by the City Council, which is intended to guide the
growth and development of the area.
   MOBILE HOME. See definition of MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   MODULAR HOME. A dwelling unit constructed in accordance with the standards
set forth in the uniform building code, applicable to site-built homes, and
composed of components substantially assembled in a manufacturing plant and
transported to the building site for final assembly on a permanent foundation.
Among other possibilities, a MODULAR HOME may consist of two sections
transported to the site in a manner similar to a manufactured home (except that
the MODULAR HOME meets the uniform building code standards applicable to site-
built homes), or a series of panels or room sections transported on a truck and
erected or joined together on the site. A MODULAR HOME shall be considered a
“dwelling” under this chapter.
   MORTUARY. A place for the storage of human bodies prior to their burial or
cremation.
   MOTEL. An establishment providing sleeping accommodations with a majority of
all rooms having direct access to the outside without the necessity of passing
through the main lobby of the building.
   MOVED-ON STRUCTURE. Any building or structure, other than a manufactured
home as defined herein, in excess of 144 square feet that has been moved off
its foundation in order to be placed on another foundation in a different
location.
   NONCONFORMING USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or activity, structure, or building
that was lawful prior to the adoption, revision, or amendment of the zoning
ordinance but that fails by reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment to
conform to the present requirements of the zoning district.
   NURSING HOME. A building or portion thereof used for the housing of and
caring for the nonambulatory, aged, or infirm by professional staff.
   PARK. A tract of land, designated and used by the public for active and/or
passive recreation.
   PARKING LOTS. A structure or an area, other than a public street or alley,
designed or used for the temporary parking of motor vehicles and available for
public use whether free, for compensation, or an accommodation for customers or
clients.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. A space located off any public right of way which
is at least nine feet by 20 feet in size for parking of any motor vehicles,
with room to get out of either side of the vehicle, with adequate maneuvering
space, and with access to public streets or alleys.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. An area of a minimum contiguous size, as specified
by ordinance, to be planned, developed, operated, and maintained as a single
entity and containing one or more residential clusters; appropriate commercial,
public, or quasi-public uses may be included if such uses are primarily for the
benefit of the residential development.
   PLANNING BOARD. The duly designated Planning Board of the city-county
jurisdiction.
   PLAYGROUNDS. An active recreational area with a variety of facilities,
including equipment for younger children as well as court and field games.
   PORCH. A roofed open area, which may be screened, usually attached to or
part of and with direct access to or from a building.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE. A building in which is conducted the principal use of
the lot on which it is located.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary or predominant use of any lot or parcel.
   PROFESSIONAL (BUSINESS) OFFICES. Offices to be occupied by accountants,
architects, planners, dentists, doctors, engineers, lawyers, insurance agents,
real estate agents, or other professionals which are of a similar nature.
   PROHIBITED USE. A use that is not permitted in a zone district.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. A closely regulated enterprise with a franchise for
providing to the public a utility service deemed necessary for the public
health, safety, and welfare.
   RECREATION VEHICLE. A vehicular-type portable structure without permanent
foundation that can be towed, hauled, or driven, and primarily designed as a
temporary living accommodation for recreational, camping, and travel use and
including, but not limited to, travel trailers, truck campers, camping
trailers, and self-propelled motor homes.
   RECREATION VEHICLE PARK. Any lot or parcel of land upon which two or more
recreational vehicle sites are located, established, or maintained for
occupancy by recreational vehicles of the general public as temporary living
quarters for recreation or vacation purposes.
   RECREATIONAL AREA, COMMERCIAL AND NONCOMMERCIAL.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL RECREATIONAL AREA. An area operated for profit and
devoted to facilities and equipment for recreational purposes, including
swimming pools, tennis courts, skiing, horseback riding, playgrounds, and other
similar uses, whether the use of such area is limited to private membership or
whether open to the public upon the payment of a fee or service charge.
      (2)   NONCOMMERCIAL. An area devoted to facilities and equipment for
recreational purposes, swimming pools, tennis courts, playgrounds, community
clubs, and other similar uses maintained and operated by a nonprofit club,
homeowner’s association, or other corporate structure and whose membership is
limited to the residents within the area.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. Any residential single-family, multi-family, or
manufactured home.
   RESTAURANT. A public eating house which does not provide curbside or
automobile service.
   RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN. A public eating house which provides curbside or
automobile service.
   RETAIL SALES. An establishment selling goods, wares, or merchandise directly
to the ultimate consumer.
   SATELLITE DISH. A parabolic or dish-shaped antenna or any other apparatus or
device that is designed for the purpose of receiving radio waves.
   SCHOOL, COMMERCIAL. A building where instruction is given to pupils in arts,
crafts, or trades, and operated as a commercial enterprise as distinguished
from schools endowed and/or supported by taxation.
   SCHOOL, ELEMENTARY, JUNIOR, OR SENIOR (PUBLIC OR PRIVATE). Any building or
part thereof which is designed, constructed, or used for education or
instruction in any branch of knowledge.
   SCREENED. Concealed or cut off from direct visual contact.
   SECONDHAND STORE. A retail establishment in which the principal portion of
the articles, commodities, or merchandise handled, offered for sale, or sold on
the premises is used or not new.
   SETBACK. The horizontal distance required between any structure and a lot
line. This distance to be measured at right angles to the lot line. The SETBACK
line shall be parallel with the lot line.
   SHOPPING CENTER. One or more buildings containing at least three separate
retail businesses planned, developed, and managed as a unit, with off-street
parking provided on the property.
   SIGN. Any face of any lettered or pictorial device and/or structure designed
to inform or attract attention.
   STREET. Any vehicular way that is:
      (1)   An existing state, county, or municipal roadway;
      (2)   Shown upon a plat approved pursuant to law;
      (3)   Approved by other official action; or
      (4)   Shown on a plat duly filed and recorded in the office of the County
Clerk and Recorder prior to the appointment of a planning board and the grant
to such board of the power to review plats; includes the land between the
street lines, whether improved or unimproved.
   STREET EDGE. The line between the usable street and the adjoining lawn,
sidewalk, or gutter as sighted the length of the block in question.
   STREET, FRONT. A street abutting the predominantly narrow sides of the lots
within a block. This is the street that homes within a block shall normally
face and shall be the street that addresses are normally assigned to.
   STREET, SIDE. A street paralleling or nearly paralleling the predominantly
long sides of the lots within a block and intersecting at right angles or
nearly right angles the front street. Addresses are not normally assigned along
a SIDE STREET.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any
kind or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined
together in some definite manner.
   STRUCTURE ALTERATION. Any change in the shape or size of any portion of a
building or of the supporting members of the girders, floor joists, or roof
joists.
   SWIMMING POOL. A water-filled enclosure, permanently constructed or
portable, having a depth of more than 18 inches below the level of the
surrounding land, or an above-surface pool, having a depth of more than 30
inches, designed, used, and maintained for swimming and bathing.
   TOWNHOUSE. A one-family dwelling in a row of at least three such units in
which each unit has its own front and rear access to the outside, no unit is
located over another unit, and each unit is separated from any other unit by
one or more vertical common fire-resistant walls.
   TRUCK STOP. Any building, premises, or land in which or upon which a
business, service, or industry involving the maintenance, servicing, storage,
or repair of commercial vehicles is conducted or rendered, including the
dispensing of motor fuel or other petroleum products directly into motor
vehicles and the sale of accessories or equipment for trucks and similar
commercial vehicles. A TRUCK STOP also may include overnight accommodations and
restaurant facilities primarily for the use of truck crews.
   UNIT, EFFICIENCY. An efficiency unit is an apartment unit with unseparated
areas for sleeping and/or cooking.
   UNIT, ROOMING. A space for human occupancy lacking private bath and/or
kitchen facilities.
   USE. Any purpose for which a building or other structure or a tract of land
may be designed, arranged, intended, maintained, or occupied or any activity,
occupation, business, or operation carried on or intended to be carried on in a
building or other structure or on a tract of land.
   USE, CONDITIONAL. Uses, other than permitted uses, that may be allowed in a
specific district, but requiring additional safeguards to maintain and assure
the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the community and to
maintain the character of the district.
   VARIANCE. The relaxation of the strict application of the terms of this
title with respect to mechanical requirements such as setback requirements,
yard requirements, area requirements, building height, parking and loading
space requirements, and the like, where specific physical conditions unique to
the site of the lot create an unreasonable burden by making its development for
permitted uses difficult or impossible.
   WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment for the sale of goods and
merchandise for resale instead of direct consumption.
   YARD. An open space that lies between the principal building or buildings
and the nearest lot line. The minimum required YARD, as set forth in this
chapter, shall remain unoccupied except for accessory buildings, swimming pools
(rear and side YARDS only), patios, driveways, parking areas, and fences.
Additional YARD encroachments are listed in §§
154.240 through
154.260. Figure 2 below illustrates the location of required yards.
   YARD, FRONT. An open space extending across the full width of the lot
between the front building line of the principal building and the front lot
lines.
   YARD, REAR. An open space extending across the full width of the lot between
the rear building line of the principal building and the rear lot line.
   YARD, SIDE. An open space extending from the side building line to a side
line running from the front to the rear of the lot. (See Figure 2.)
Figure 2: Required Yard Examples
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a52809125f51a3c182b0fcc83d98e95a23fa0d19/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1517.png]
   ZERO LOT LINE. The relaxation of the strict application of side yard
requirements where two adjoining lot owners agree to the side yard reduction.
   ZONING COMMISSION.
      (1)   The ZONING COMMISSION is appointed by the City Council to recommend
the boundaries of the various districts and appropriate regulations to be
enforced therein.
      (2)   The City-County Planning Board functions as the ZONING COMMISSION
in accordance with the provisions of MCA § 76-1-108.
   ZONING OFFICER. That official designated by the City Council as the official
responsible for accepting, reviewing, and approving or rejecting plans for
buildings and applications for building and land use permits and for
interpretation and enforcement of zoning ordinances related thereto.
(2015 Code, § 11-2-2) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.004 APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   Except as herein provided in §§
154.240 through
154.260,
154.275 through
154.282,
154.405 through
154.411, and
154.445 through
154.454, with respect to supplementary regulations, conditional uses,
nonconforming uses, and nonconforming buildings and variances, the regulations
as categorized shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or land
and, particularly:
   (A)   No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied,
and no building, structure, or part thereof shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered, unless it is in
conformance with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in
which it is located;
   (B)   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered
to:
      (1)   Exceed the height or bulk;
      (2)   Accommodate or house a greater number of families;
      (3)   Occupy a greater percentage of lot area; and
      (4)   Have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards, or
other open spaces than is allowed by the regulations herein specified for the
district in which it is located.
   (C)   No part of any yard or other open space or off-street parking or
loading space required about or in connection with any building for the purpose
of complying with this chapter, shall be included as part of a yard, open
space, or off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any other
building;
   (D)   (1)   No yard or lot existing at the time of adoption of this chapter
shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth
herein.
      (2)   Yards or lots created after the effective date hereof shall meet at
least the minimum requirements established by this chapter; and
   (E)   (1)   (a)   All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the city
or the city’s extraterritorial limits shall be considered to be in a similar or
nearest classification district as designated by any county zoning ordinance.
         (b)   However, the City Council shall determine the appropriate zoning
for any and all area to be annexed to the city or to be annexed to the city’s
extraterritorial limits, but shall request a recommendation from the City-
County Planning Board, and shall take into consideration the area growth policy
plan.
      (2)   When such zoning of annexed territory is to be effective at the
time of such annexation, the Planning Board shall have held a public hearing in
order that the City Council may determine the proper zoning by an amendment to
be effective upon the effective date of such annexation.
(2015 Code, § 11-4-1) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
ZONING MAPS AND DISTRICTS
§ 154.015 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   The city and portions of the extraterritorial limits surrounding the city
are hereby divided into zones or districts, as shown on the official zoning map
which, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted,
referenced, and declared to be a part of this chapter.
(2015 Code, § 11-3-1) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.016 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the city, and portions of its
extraterritory, are hereby divided and classified into the following:
   (A)   R-S Rural Suburban;
   (B)   R-1 Residential Low Density;
   (C)   R-2 Residential Medium Density;
   (D)   R-3 Residential High Density;
   (E)   HB Highway Business;
   (F)   ICC Interchange Commercial;
   (G)   CBD Central Business;
   (H)   M-l Manufacturing and Industrial; and
   (I)   PLI Public Lands and Institutions.
(2015 Code, § 11-3-2) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.017 CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   (1)   The official map shall be available at City Hall and shall bear
certificates with the signature of the Mayor, attested by the City Clerk/
Treasurer, and the date of adoption of this chapter.
      (2)   Copies of the official map shall be available at the City-County
Planning Office.
      (3)   A reduced copy of the official zoning map is located in §
154.021.
   (B)   The certificate should read as follows:
 
This is to certify that this is an Official Zoning Map referred to in Section
11-3-1 of Ordinance Number 454 of the City of Big Timber, Montana.
 
Date: ______________________________________________________
MAYOR
ATTEST:
_____________________
CITY CLERK/TREASURER
 
(2015 Code, § 11-3-3) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.018 REPLACEMENT OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   Amendments. If any changes to the map are made by amendments of this
chapter, such changes shall be made to official zoning map and signed, dated,
and certified upon the map or upon the material attached thereto.
   (B)   Final authority. Regardless of the existence of purported copies of
the official zoning map, which may from time to time be made or published, the
official zoning map, kept in City Hall, shall be the final authority as to the
current zoning status of land and water area, buildings, and other structures
in the city and extraterritorial area.
   (C)   Adoption and certification of new map.
      (1)   In the event that the official zoning map becomes damaged,
destroyed, lost, or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of
changes and additions thereto, the City Council may adopt and certify a new
official zoning map.
      (2)   The new official zoning map may correct drafting or other errors or
omissions in the prior map, but no such corrections shall have the effect of
amending the original official zoning map or any subsequent amendment thereof.
   (D)   Certificate. The new official zoning map shall be identified by
signature of the Mayor, attested by the City Clerk/Treasurer, and dated. The
certificate should read as follows:
 
This is to certify that this is an official replacement map of the Official
Zoning Map referred to in Section 11-3-1 of the Official Zoning Code of the
City of Big Timber, Montana.
 
Date: ______________________________________________________
MAYOR
ATTEST:
_____________________
CITY CLERK/TREASURER
 
(2015 Code, § 11-3-4) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.019 INTERPRETATIONS OF BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
official zoning map, the boundaries shall be interpreted as following the
nearest logical line to that shown, where:
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center line of
streets, highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow such center lines;
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following city limits shall be
construed as following such city limits;
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines;
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the main track(s);
   (E)   Boundaries indicated as following the center line of streams, rivers,
canals, or ditches shall be construed to follow such center lines;
   (F)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated on the official zoning map shall be determined by the scale of the
map; and
   (G)   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the official zoning map or where circumstances or
controversy arise over district boundaries, the City Council shall interpret
the district boundary.
(2015 Code, § 11-3-5) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.020 INTERPRETATION OF USES.
   (A)   If questions arise concerning the appropriate classification of a
particular use or if the specific use is not listed, the City Council shall
determine the appropriate classification for that use.
   (B)   In interpreting use classification, the City Council shall determine:
      (1)   The use and its operation are compatible with the uses permitted in
the district wherein the use is proposed to be located;
      (2)   The use is similar to one or more uses permitted in the district
wherein it is proposed to be located;
      (3)   The use will not cause substantial injury to values of property in
the neighborhood or district wherein it is proposed to be located; and
      (4)   The neither the intent of the chapter nor the intent of the
district will be abrogated by such classification.
(2015 Code, § 11-3-6) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.021 MAP.
   See the following for the official zoning map of the city.
Figure 3. Official Zoning Map
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a52809125f51a3c182b0fcc83d98e95a23fa0d19/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1519.png]
(2015 Code, § 11-3-7)
R-S RURAL SUBURBAN DISTRICT
§ 154.035 INTENT.
   (A)   The intent of this district is to provide for low density, single-
family development and small scale agricultural uses in areas not served by
city sewer and water or areas with physical limitations.
   (B)   This district allows for higher density development (clustering, PUDs)
when average density and open space requirements are met.
(2015 Code, § 11-5-1) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.036 PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted uses include:
   (A)   Accessory uses;
   (B)   Bed and breakfast inns;
   (C)   Childcare facilities;
   (D)   Home occupations;
   (E)   Manufactured homes, Class A; located in a manufactured home park;
   (F)   Modular homes;
   (G)   Single-family dwellings; and
   (H)   Temporary buildings for and during construction only.
(2015 Code, § 11-5-2) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.037 PERMITTED CONDITIONAL USES.
   Permitted conditional uses include:
   (A)   Agriculture uses;
   (B)   Barns and animal shelters; setbacks: except for pastures, any stables,
barn, hutch, pen, shed, or other such structures built to enclose or house
animals or fowl shall not be less than 25 feet from any structure used for
human occupancy, and shall be set back not less than ten feet from any property
line;
   (C)   Churches;
   (D)   Clustered developments;
   (E)   Condominiums;
   (F)   Golf courses and country clubs;
   (G)   Manufactured home parks;
   (H)   Nursing homes;
   (I)   Planned unit developments;
   (J)   Public and private parks, playgrounds, and open space;
   (K)   Recreation vehicle parks;
   (L)   Schools;
   (M)   Townhouses; and
   (N)   Veterinary clinics.
(2015 Code, § 11-5-3) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.038 LOT AREA AND WIDTH.
   The minimum lot area shall be one acre with a lot width not less than 125
feet. Planned unit developments, manufactured home parks, and clustered
developments with central sewer and water shall average a minimum of one
dwelling unit per acre. The average density shall be determined by subtracting
the total land area within the road or street rights-of-way from the gross
acreage divided by the number of lots, spaces, or dwelling units. No lots or
spaces will have an average depth greater than three times its average width.
(2015 Code, § 11-5-4) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.039 LOT COVERAGE AND FLOOR AREA.
   Not more than 15% of the lot area shall be occupied by the principal and
accessory buildings. Each dwelling unit shall have a minimum of 1,000 square
feet of floor area.
(2015 Code, § 11-5-5) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.040 YARDS.
   Every lot shall have the following yards:
   (A)   Front yard: 25 feet;
   (B)   Rear yard:
      (1)   Twenty feet behind principal structures; and
      (2)   Ten feet behind accessory structures.
   (C)   Side yards: eight feet each side.
(2015 Code, § 11-5-6) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.041 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   Maximum building height in this district shall be 28 feet.
(2015 Code, § 11-5-7) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.042 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit. Off-
street parking for nonresidential uses shall be provided as specified in §§
154.375 through
154.379.
(2015 Code, § 11-5-8) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.043 SUBJECT TO SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   All principal and accessory buildings and principal and accessory uses are
subject to the supplemental regulations provided in §§
154.375 through
154.379.
(2015 Code, § 11-5-9) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
R-1 RESIDENTIAL LOW DENSITY DISTRICT
§ 154.055 INTENT.
   The intent of this district is to provide for low density, single-family
residential development and to provide for such community facilities and
services as will serve the area residents while protecting the residential
character and quality of the area.
(2015 Code, § 11-6-1) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.056 PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted uses include:
   (A)   One single-family dwelling only;
   (B)   Accessory uses or buildings;
   (C)   Family daycare homes;
   (D)   Home occupations;
   (E)   Modular homes; and
   (F)   Temporary buildings for and during construction only.
(2015 Code, § 11-6-2) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.057 PERMITTED CONDITIONAL USES.
   Permitted conditional uses includes:
   (A)   Accessory apartments;
   (B)   Bed and breakfast inns;
   (C)   Childcare facilities, except as permitted in §
154.056;
   (D)   Churches;
   (E)   Community residential facilities;
   (F)   Nursing homes, elderly housing;
   (G)   Parks, playgrounds, and open space; and
   (H)   Schools.
(2015 Code, § 11-6-3) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.058 LOT AREA AND WIDTH.
    Lot area for any use in this district shall be no less than 8,400 square
feet and lot width shall be not less than 60 feet.
(2015 Code, § 11-6-4) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.059 LOT COVERAGE AND FLOOR AREA.
   Not more than 30% of the lot area shall be occupied by the principal and
accessory buildings. Each dwelling unit shall have a minimum of 700 square feet
of floor area.
(2015 Code, § 11-6-5) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.060 YARDS.
   Every lot shall have the following minimum yards:
   (A)   Front yard: 20 feet;
   (B)   Rear yard:
      (1)   Twenty feet behind principal structure;
      (2)   Ten feet behind garage that opens toward alley;
      (3)   Two feet behind garage that opens toward street or side yard; and
      (4)   Two feet behind storage shed not greater than 144 square feet.
   (C)   Side yards:
      (1)   Eight feet next to principal structures;
      (2)   Five feet next to storage sheds not greater than 144 square feet;
and
      (3)   Twenty feet next to garage that opens toward street.
   (D)   Corner lot: see §§
154.240 through
154.260 for corner lot setbacks.
(2015 Code, § 11-6-6) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.061 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   Maximum building height in this district shall be 28 feet.
(2015 Code, § 11-6-7) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.062 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit. Off-
street parking for nonresidential uses shall be provided as specified in §§
154.375 through
154.379.
(2015 Code, § 11-6-8) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.063 LANDSCAPING.
   Not less than 75% of all required yards and side yards on abutting streets
or avenues, excluding driveways and parking facilities on improved lots shall
be landscaped and maintained.
(2015 Code, § 11-6-9) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.064 SUBJECT TO SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   All principal and accessory buildings and principal and accessory uses are
subject to the supplemental regulations provided in §§
154.240 through
154.260.
(2015 Code, § 11-6-10) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
R-2 RESIDENTIAL MEDIUM DENSITY DISTRICT
§ 154.075 INTENT.
   The intent of this district is to provide for the development of one to four
family residential structures and community service facilities. It should
provide for changing patterns of residential areas where facilities can be
provided to serve the residents and for a variety of housing types to serve the
varied needs of families of different size, age, and character, while reducing
the adverse effects of nonresidential uses.
(2015 Code, § 11-7-1) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.076 PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted uses include:
   (A)   One single-family dwelling only;
   (B)   Accessory uses or buildings;
   (C)   Family daycare and group daycare homes;
   (D)   Home occupations;
   (E)   Manufactured homes, Class A; manufactured homes, Class B shall only be
permitted in manufactured home parks;
   (F)   Modular homes;
   (G)   Multi-family dwellings;
   (H)   Parks, playgrounds, and open space; and
   (I)   Temporary buildings for and during construction only.
(2015 Code, § 11-7-2) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.077 PERMITTED CONDITIONAL USES.
   Permitted conditional uses includes:
   (A)   Accessory apartments;
   (B)   Bed and breakfast inns;
   (C)   Childcare center, except as permitted in §
154.076;
   (D)   Churches;
   (E)   Clinics and hospitals;
   (F)   Community residential facilities;
   (G)   Custom art and framing shops;
   (H)   Manufactured home parks;
   (I)   Multiple single-family dwellings;
   (J)   Nursing homes; and
   (K)   Schools.
(2015 Code, § 11-7-3) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000; Ord. 471, passed 6-1-2009)
§ 154.078 LOT AREA AND WIDTH.
   (A)   Minimum lot area for single-family units shall be 6,300 square feet
per dwelling with a minimum lot width of at least 45 feet.
   (B)   Minimum lot area for attached multi-family units shall be 6,300 square
feet for the first unit, plus 1,000 square feet for any additional unit with a
lot width of at least 60 feet.
(2015 Code, § 11-7-4) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.079 LOT COVERAGE AND FLOOR AREA.
   The principal and accessory buildings shall occupy not more than 40% of the
lot. Single-family and multi-family dwelling units shall have a minimum of 700
square feet of floor area per unit.
(2015 Code, § 11-7-5) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.080 YARDS.
   Every lot shall have the following minimum yards:
   (A)   Front yard: 20 feet;
   (B)   Rear yard:
      (1)   Twenty feet behind principal structure;
      (2)   Ten feet behind garage that opens toward alley;
      (3)   Two feet behind garage that opens toward street or side yard; and
      (4)   Two feet behind storage shed not greater than 144 square feet.
   (C)   Side yards:
      (1)   Eight feet next to principal structures;
      (2)   Five feet next to storage sheds not greater than 144 square feet;
and
      (3)   Twenty feet next to garage that opens toward street.
   (D)   Corner lot: see §§
154.240 through
154.260 for corner lot setbacks.
(2015 Code, § 11-7-6) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.081 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   Maximum building height shall be 28 feet.
(2015 Code, § 11-7-7) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.082 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit
or as otherwise specified in §§
154.375 through
154.379.
   (B)   Off-street parking for nonresidential uses shall be provided as
specified in §§
154.375 through
154.379.
(2015 Code, § 11-7-8) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.083 LANDSCAPING.
   Not less than 75% of all yards abutting streets or avenues, excluding
driveways and parking facilities, on improved lots shall be landscaped and
maintained.
(2015 Code, § 11-7-9) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.084 SUBJECT TO SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   All principal and accessory buildings and principal and accessory uses are
subject to the supplemental regulations provided in §§
154.240 through
154.260.
(2015 Code, § 11-7-10) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
R-3 RESIDENTIAL HIGH DENSITY DISTRICT
§ 154.095 INTENT.
   (A)   The intent of this district is to provide for the development of
single-family to four-family residences and medium and high density apartments.
   (B)   This district should provide a variety of housing types to serve the
varied housing needs of area residents.
(2015 Code, § 11-8-1) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.096 PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted uses includes:
   (A)   One single-family dwelling;
   (B)   Accessory apartments and efficiency units;
   (C)   Accessory uses or buildings;
   (D)   Apartments;
   (E)   Childcare facilities;
   (F)   Community residential facilities;
   (G)   Condominiums;
   (H)   Home occupations;
   (I)   Manufactured homes, Class A; manufactured homes, Class B shall only be
permitted in manufactured home parks;
   (J)   Modular homes;
   (K)   Multi-family dwellings;
   (L)   Parks, playgrounds, and open space;
   (M)   Temporary buildings for and during construction only; and
   (N)   Townhouses.
(2015 Code, § 11-8-2) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.097 PERMITTED CONDITIONAL USES.
   Permitted conditional uses includes:
   (A)   Bed and breakfast inns;
   (B)   Churches;
   (C)   Clinics and hospitals;
   (D)   Manufactured home parks;
   (E)   Mortuaries;
   (F)   Multiple single-family dwellings;
   (G)   Museums, libraries, and galleries (noncommercial);
   (H)   Nursing homes;
   (I)   Planned unit developments;
   (J)   Post offices;
   (K)   Professional offices;
   (L)   Public buildings and uses;
   (M)   Rental storage units;
   (N)   Rooming and boarding houses; and
   (O)   Schools.
(2015 Code, § 11-8-3) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.098 LOT AREA AND WIDTH.
   (A)   Minimum lot area for single-family units shall be 6,300 square feet
and a minimum lot width of 45 feet.
   (B)   Minimum lot area for attached multi-family units shall be 6,300 square
feet for the first unit, plus 700 square feet for any additional unit.
   (C)   The minimum lot area for apartment units shall be 8,400 square feet.
   (D)   The minimum lot width shall be 60 feet.
(2015 Code, § 11-8-4) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.099 LOT COVERAGE AND FLOOR AREA.
   Not more than 50% of the lot area shall be occupied by the principal and
accessory buildings. Each dwelling unit shall have a minimum of 500 square feet
of floor area in its living quarters.
(2015 Code, § 11-8-5)(Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.100 YARDS.
   Every lot shall have the following yards:
   (A)   Front yard:
      (1)   Twenty feet with front yard parking; and
      (2)   Fifteen feet without front yard parking.
   (B)   Rear yard:
      (1)   Twenty feet behind principal structure;
      (2)   Ten feet behind garage that opens toward alley;
      (3)   Two feet behind garage that opens toward street or side yard; and
      (4)   Two feet behind storage shed not greater than 144 square feet.
   (C)   Side yards:
      (1)   Eight feet next to principal structures;
      (2)   Five feet next to storage sheds not greater than 144 square feet;
and
      (3)   Ten feet next to garage that opens toward street.
   (D)   Corner lot: see §§
154.240 through
154.260 for corner lot setbacks.
(2015 Code, § 11-8-6) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.101 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   Maximum building height shall be 30 feet.
(2015 Code, § 11-8-7) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.102 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of
§§
154.375 through
154.379.
(2015 Code, § 11-8-8) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.103 OFF-STREET LOADING.
   Off-street loading shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of
§§
154.390 through
154.392.
(2015 Code, § 11-8-9) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.104 LANDSCAPING.
   Not less than 75% of all required yards and side yards on abutting streets
or avenues on improved lots shall be landscaped.
(2015 Code, § 11-8-10) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.105 SUBJECT TO SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   All principal and accessory buildings and principal and accessory uses are
subject to the supplemental regulations provided in §§
154.240 through
154.260.
(2015 Code, § 11-8-11) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
HB HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 154.120 INTENT.
   This district is intended to accommodate a broad range of retail and service
functions especially those operations that benefit from access to the U.S.
Highway 10, U.S. Highway 191, and Interstate 90.
(2015 Code, § 11-9-1) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.121 PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted uses includes:
   (A)   Accessory uses;
   (B)   Antique shops;
   (C)   Art and music supply stores;
   (D)   Automobile body shops;
   (E)   Automobile service and repair;
   (F)   Bakeries;
   (G)   Barber and beauty shops;
   (H)   Bars, taverns, and cocktail lounges;
   (I)   Bowling alleys;
   (J)   Building equipment and materials, including storage yards;
   (K)   Cabinet shops;
   (L)   Car dealers;
   (M)   Car washes;
   (N)   Clinics and hospitals;
   (O)   Equipment sales and service;
   (P)   Financial institutions;
   (Q)   Florists, nurseries, and greenhouses;
   (R)   Food and drug stores;
   (S)   Frozen food storage and locker rental;
   (T)   Furniture stores;
   (U)   Gift shops;
   (V)   Hardware stores;
   (W)   Hotels and motels;
   (X)   Insurance agencies;
   (Y)   Jewelry stores;
   (Z)   Laundromats and dry cleaning establishments;
   (AA)   Liquor stores;
   (BB)   Mortuaries;
   (CC)   Museums, libraries, and galleries;
   (DD)   Newspaper and printing offices;
   (EE)   Paint shops;
   (FF)   Parking lots;
   (GG)   Parks and playgrounds;
   (HH)   Post offices;
   (II)   Professional and business offices;
   (JJ)   Public buildings and uses;
   (KK)   Real estate offices;
   (LL)   Rental storage units;
   (MM)   Repair services for small consumer items;
   (NN)   Research and development institutions;
   (OO)   Restaurants, cafes, and drive-in eating establishments;
   (PP)   Secondhand stores;
   (QQ)   Signs;
   (RR)   Sporting goods stores;
   (SS)   Taxidermy;
   (TT)   Temporary buildings for and during construction only;
   (UU)   Theaters;
   (VV)   Vehicle and boat sales, showrooms, and service areas;
   (WW)   Veterinary clinics: small animal hospitals;
   (XX)   Wholesale outlets; and
   (YY)   Woodworking shops.
(2015 Code, § 11-9-2) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.122 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Conditional uses include:
   (A)   Amusement and recreation facilities;
   (B)   Casinos;
   (C)   Contractor’s yard;
   (D)   Food processing plant;
   (E)   Metalworking shops;
   (F)   Outside storage;
   (G)   Recreation vehicle parks;
   (H)   Retail uses in addition to those permitted;
   (I)   Seasonal employee housing;
   (J)   Shopping centers;
   (K)   Temporary commercial uses;
   (L)   Transportation and utility stations; and
   (M)   Warehousing and enclosed storage.
(2015 Code, § 11-9-3) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000; Ord. 461, passed 6-16-2003;
Ord. 491, 8-15-2022)
§ 154.123 LOT AREA AND WIDTH.
   Lot area for this district shall not be less than 6,300 square feet, and no
lot width shall be less than 45 feet.
(2015 Code, § 11-9-4) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.124 LOT COVERAGE.
   The principal and accessory buildings may occupy the entire lot, exclusive
of required yards and parking.
(2015 Code, § 11-9-5) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.125 YARDS.
   Every lot shall have the following minimum yard:
   (A)   Front yard: 20 feet;
   (B)   Rear yard: ten feet; and
   (C)   Side yards: eight feet on each side.
(2015 Code, § 11-9-6) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.126 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   Maximum building height in this district shall be 30 feet.
(2015 Code, § 11-9-7) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.127 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with §§
154.375 through
154.379.
(2015 Code, § 11-9-8) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.128 OFF-STREET LOADING.
   Off street loading shall be provided in accordance with §§
154.390 through
154.392.
(2015 Code, § 11-9-9) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.129 LANDSCAPING.
   Not less than 75% of all required yards and side yards on abutting streets
or avenues on improved lots shall be landscaped with the exception of parking
lots.
(2015 Code, § 11-9-10) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.130 SUBJECT TO SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   All principal and accessory buildings and principal and accessory uses are
subject to the supplemental regulations provided in §§
154.240 through
154.260.
(2015 Code, § 11-9-11) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
ICC INTERCHANGE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.145 INTENT.
   This district is intended to accommodate the type of retail and service that
will benefit from access to Interstate 90 without competing with business
located in the highway business and central business districts.
(2015 Code, § 11-10-1) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.146 PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted uses include:
   (A)   Accessory uses;
   (B)   Automobile service and repair;
   (C)   Car dealers;
   (D)   Equipment sales and service;
   (E)   Hotels and motels;
   (F)   Parking lots;
   (G)   Parks and playgrounds;
   (H)   Rental storage units;
   (I)   Research and development institutions;
   (J)   Restaurants, cafes, and drive-in eating establishments;
   (K)   Signs;
   (L)   Temporary buildings for and during construction only; and
   (M)   Vehicle and boat sales, showrooms, and service areas.
(2015 Code, § 11-10-2) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.147 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Conditional uses include:
   (A)   Amusement and recreation facilities;
   (B)   Recreation vehicle parks;
   (C)   Seasonal employee housing;
   (D)   Transportation and utility stations; and
   (E)   Warehousing and enclosed storage.
(2015 Code, § 11-10-3) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000; Ord. 461, passed 6-16-2003)
§ 154.148 LOT AREA AND WIDTH.
   Lot area for this district shall not be less than 6,300 square feet, and no
lot width shall be less than 45 feet.
(2015 Code, § 11-10-4) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.149 LOT COVERAGE.
   The principal and accessory buildings may occupy the entire lot, exclusive
of required yards and parking.
(2015 Code, § 11-10-5) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.150 YARDS.
   Every lot shall have the following minimum yard:
   (A)   Front yard: 20 feet;
   (B)   Rear yard: Ten feet; and
   (C)   Side yards: Eight feet on each side.
(2015 Code, § 11-10-6) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.151 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   Maximum building height in this district shall be 30 feet.
(2015 Code, § 11-10-7) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.152 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with §§
154.375 through
154.379.
(2015 Code, § 11-10-8) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.153 OFF-STREET LOADING.
   Off-street loading shall be provided in accordance with §§
154.390 through
154.392.
(2015 Code, § 11-10-9) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.154 LANDSCAPING.
   Not less than 75% of all required yards and side yards on abutting streets
or avenues on improved lots shall be landscaped with the exception of parking
lots.
(2015 Code, § 11-10-10) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.155 SUBJECT TO SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   All principal and accessory buildings and principal and accessory uses are
subject to the supplemental regulations provided in §§
154.240 through
154.260.
(2015 Code, § 11-10-11) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
CBD CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 154.170 INTENT.
   The intent of this district is to provide a central area for the community’s
business, government, service, and cultural activities. Uses within this
district should be appropriate to a high density, intensively developed
commercial center. Appropriate areas should be provided for the logical and
planned expansion of the present district.
(2015 Code, § 11-11-1) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.171 PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted uses include:
   (A)   Accessory uses;
   (B)   Antique shops;
   (C)   Art and music stores;
   (D)   Automobile service and repair;
   (E)   Bakeries;
   (F)   Barber and beauty shops;
   (G)   Bars, taverns, and cocktail lounges;
   (H)   Bowling alleys;
   (I)   Cabinet shops;
   (J)   Car dealers;
   (K)   Churches;
   (L)   Clinics;
   (M)   Clubs (fraternal lodges);
   (N)   Commercial schools such as aerobics, dance, business, secretarial, and
technical, but not private or public elementary or secondary schools;
   (O)   Financial institutions;
   (P)   Florists, nurseries, and greenhouses;
   (Q)   Food and drug stores;
   (R)   Furniture stores;
   (S)   Gift shops;
   (T)   Hardware stores;
   (U)   Hotels and motels;
   (V)   Insurance agencies;
   (W)   Jewelry stores;
   (X)   Laundromats and dry cleaning;
   (Y)   Liquor stores;
   (Z)   Museums, libraries, and galleries;
   (AA)   Newspaper and printing offices;
   (BB)   Paint shops;
   (CC)   Parking lots;
   (DD)   Pawn shops and second hand stores;
   (EE)   Professional and business offices;
   (FF)   Public buildings and uses;
   (GG)   Real estate offices;
   (HH)   Repair services for clothes, dolls, small appliances, watches,
glasses, and such other items;
   (II)   Restaurants and cafés;
   (JJ)   Retail businesses or services whose activities are primarily
conducted within an enclosed building;
   (KK)   Senior citizens centers;
   (LL)   Signs;
   (MM)   Sporting goods stores;
   (NN)   Temporary buildings for and during construction only;
   (OO)   Theaters;
   (PP)   Uses customarily accessory to those listed; and
   (QQ)   Wholesale establishments that use samples, but do not store stock on
premises.
(2015 Code, § 11-11-2) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.172 PERMITTED CONDITIONAL USES.
   Permitted conditional uses includes:
   (A)   Amusement and recreational activities;
   (B)   Apartments;
   (C)   Auction rooms;
   (D)   Automobile body shops;
   (E)   Casinos;
   (F)   Drive-in banks;
   (G)   Rental storage units;
   (H)   Retail uses in addition to those permitted uses; and
   (I)   Transportation and utility stations.
(2015 Code, § 11-11-3) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.173 LOT AREA AND WIDTH.
   No minimum lot area or width prescribed.
(2015 Code, § 11-11-4) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.174 LOT COVERAGE.
   Buildings may cover entire lot, providing other requirements are met.
(2015 Code, § 11-11-5) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.175 YARDS.
   No minimum yards prescribed.
(2015 Code, § 11-11-6) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.176 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   Maximum building height in this district shall be 30 feet.
(2015 Code, § 11-11-7) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.177 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with §§
154.375 through
154.379, except:
   (A)   Commercial uses. Commercial uses shall provide two spaces per 1,000
square feet of commercial floor space, unless a lesser amount is required under
§§
154.375 through
154.379, in which case the lesser amount will apply; and
   (B)   Commercial and retail uses. Commercial and retail uses in existing
structures may change from one permitted use to another without providing
additional parking.
(2015 Code, § 11-11-8) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.178 OFF-STREET LOADING.
   Off-street loading shall be provided in accordance with §§
154.390 through
154.392.
(2015 Code, § 11-11-9) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.179 LANDSCAPING.
   Not less than 75% of all required yards and side yards on abutting streets
or avenues on improved lots shall be landscaped with the exception of parking
lots.
(2015 Code, § 11-11-10) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.180 SUBJECT TO SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   All principal and accessory buildings and principal and accessory uses are
subject to the supplemental regulations provided in §§
154.240 through
154.260.
(2015 Code, § 11-11-11) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
M-I MANUFACTURING AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.195 INTENT.
   (A)   Provide needs. The intent of this district is to provide for the
community’s needs for wholesale trade, storage and warehousing, trucking and
transportation terminals, light and heavy manufacturing, and similar
activities. This district should be oriented to major transportation facilities
yet arranged to minimize adverse effects on residential developments;
therefore, some type of screening may be necessary.
   (B)   Prohibited use. Residences shall not be permitted in this district.
(2015 Code, § 11-12-1) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.196 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Permitted uses include:
      (1)   Accessory uses;
      (2)   Automobile body shops;
      (3)   Automobile service and repair;
      (4)   Bars, taverns, and cocktail lounges;
      (5)   Building contractor establishments;
      (6)   Building materials sales;
      (7)   Cabinet shops;
      (8)   Casinos;
      (9)   Equipment/implement sales;
      (10)   Flour and feed mills;
      (11)   Food processing plants;
      (12)   Frozen food storage;
      (13)   Grain elevators;
      (14)   Grain houses;
      (15)   Machine and metalworking shops;
      (16)   Manufacturing of light consumer goods (i.e., electronic equipment,
appliances, furniture, beverages);
      (17)   Outside storage if accessory to permitted use and if screened from
street;
      (18)   Paint shops;
      (19)   Professional and business offices;
      (20)   Public buildings and uses;
      (21)   Repair and service establishments for light consumer goods (i.e.,
automobiles, appliances, furniture);
      (22)   Retail associated with permitted uses;
      (23)   Sign shops;
      (24)   Signs;
      (25)   Solid waste transfer sites;
      (26)   Taxidermy;
      (27)   Temporary buildings for and during construction only;
      (28)   Truck and rail terminal facilities;
      (29)   Vehicle and boat sales;
      (30)   Veterinary clinics;
      (31)   Warehousing and enclosed storage;
      (32)   Wholesale establishments; and
      (33)   Woodworking shops.
   (B)   (1)   No use shall be permitted which causes excessive noise,
vibration, smoke, dust, or other articulate matter; toxic or noxious matter;
humidity; heat; or glare which extend beyond the lot boundaries of the specific
use.
      (2)   EXCESSIVE is defined for these purposes as a degree that could be
observed and agreed upon by the majority of the City Council and determined to
be offensive or a degree deemed by the state or local Health Department to be
injurious to the public health, safety, or welfare of the residents of the
area.
(2015 Code, § 11-12-2) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.197 PERMITTED CONDITIONAL USES.
   Permitted conditional uses include:
   (A)   Adult entertainment. Not to be located within 300 feet of the
following uses: churches; schools, public or private; residential; public park;
   (B)   Caretaker’s residence;
   (C)   Equipment salvage yards;
   (D)   Kennels;
   (E)   Sawmills;
   (F)   Seasonal employee housing; and
   (G)   Vehicle salvage yards.
(2015 Code, § 11-12-3) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000; Ord. 461, passed 6-16-2003)
§ 154.198 LOT AREA AND WIDTH.
   Lot area for this district shall be not less than 8,400 square feet, and no
lot width shall be less than 60 feet.
(2015 Code, § 11-12-4) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.199 LOT COVERAGE.
   The entire lot, exclusive of required yards and parking, may be occupied by
the principal and accessory buildings.
(2015 Code, § 11-12-5) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.200 YARDS.
   (A)   Every lot shall have the following minimum yard:
      (1)   Front yard: 20 feet;
      (2)   Rear yard: none; and
      (3)   Side yards: none.
   (B)   Note: When a lot adjoins or faces upon another district, the yards
shall meet the requirements of the adjoining district on that side. When a lot
abuts a street or alley on either side or to the rear, a yard of at least 15
feet shall be provided on the street or alley side.
(2015 Code, § 11-12-6) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see MCA § 75-10-520
§ 154.201 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   Maximum building height in this district shall be 30 feet for two or more
story structures or 60 feet for single-story structures.
(2015 Code, § 11-12-7) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.202 LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Salvage yards and open storage shall be screened. Junk vehicle yards
must comply with state law that requires a fence or manmade barrier in excess
of 12 feet.
   (B)   Not less than 75% of all visible, required yards on improved lots
shall be landscaped with the exception of parking lots.
(MCA § 75-10-520) (2015 Code, § 11-12-8) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.203 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with §§
154.375 through
154.379.
(2015 Code, § 11-12-9) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.204 OFF-STREET LOADING.
   Off-street loading shall be provided in accordance with §§
154.390 through
154.392.
(2015 Code, § 11-12-10) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
PLI PUBLIC LANDS AND INSTITUTIONS DISTRICT
§ 154.215 INTENT.
   The intent of this district is to provide for major public and quasi-public
uses outside of other districts in order to preserve and provide adequate land
for a variety of community facilities that serve the public health, safety, and
welfare. Not all public and quasi-public uses need be classified PLI; some may
fit within another district. However, the larger areas should be distinguished
PLI.
(2015 Code, § 11-13-1) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.216 PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted uses include:
   (A)   Accessory buildings;
   (B)   Airports and customary accessory uses required for operation of
airports;
   (C)   Broadcast stations;
   (D)   Cemeteries;
   (E)   Emergency services;
   (F)   Fairgrounds;
   (G)   Museums, zoos, historic and cultural exhibits;
   (H)   Public and nonprofit, quasi-public institutions, including schools,
hospitals, clinics;
   (I)   Publicly-owned land used for parks, playgrounds, and open space;
   (J)   Publicly-owned or government operated buildings and uses;
   (K)   Solid waste transfer sites;
   (L)   Temporary buildings for and during construction only;
   (M)   Utility stations;
   (N)   Wastewater lift stations; and
   (O)   Water pumping stations.
(2015 Code, § 11-13-2) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.217 PERMITTED CONDITIONAL USES.
   Permitted conditional uses includes:
   (A)   Landfills;
   (B)   Pipeline and distribution systems (oil and gas); and
   (C)   Wastewater lagoons.
(2015 Code, § 11-13-3) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.218 LOT AREA AND WIDTH.
   No requirement.
(2015 Code, § 11-13-4) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.219 LOT COVERAGE.
   The entire lot, exclusive of required yards and parking, may be occupied by
the principal and accessory buildings.
(2015 Code, § 11-13-5) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.220 YARDS.
   No requirement, except when a lot is adjoining another district. The yards
then shall be the same as the adjoining district.
(2015 Code, § 11-13-6) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.221 BUILDING HEIGHT.
    Maximum building height in this district shall be 30 feet.
(2015 Code, § 11-13-7) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.222 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Off-street parking for this district shall be provided in accordance with §§
154.375 through
154.379.
(2015 Code, § 11-13-8) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.223 OFF-STREET LOADING.
   Off-street loading for this district shall be provided in accordance with §§
154.390 through
154.392.
(2015 Code, § 11-13-9) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.224 LANDSCAPING.
   Not less than 75% of all required yards on improved lots shall be landscaped
with the exception of parking lots.
(2015 Code, § 11-13-10) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.225 SUBJECT TO SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   All principal and accessory buildings and principal and accessory uses are
subject to the supplemental regulations provided in §§
154.240 through
154.260.
(2015 Code, § 11-13-11) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
§ 154.240 INTENT.
   Supplemental district regulations are intended to govern miscellaneous
issues related to uses or conditions that occur in more than one zoning
district.
(2015 Code, § 11-14-1) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.241 VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Commercial or industrial district. On a corner lot in any commercial
or industrial district, for a distance of ten feet from the point of
intersection along each street edge, nothing may be erected, placed, planted,
or allowed to grow in a manner that would impede visibility of vehicles
entering the intersection between two and one-half feet and eight feet from
grade except a column or post.
   (B)   Residential district. On a corner lot in any residential district, for
a distance of 30 feet from
the point of intersection along each street edge, nothing may be erected,
placed, planted, or allowed to grow in a manner that would impede visibility of
vehicles entering the intersection between two and one-half feet and eight feet
from grade. (See Figure 4 below.)
Figure 4: Visibility at Intersections-Residential
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a52809125f51a3c182b0fcc83d98e95a23fa0d19/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1521.png]
   (B)   Commercial or industrial district. On a corner lot in any commercial
or industrial district, for a distance of ten feet from the point of
intersection along each street edge, nothing may be erected, placed, planted,
or allowed to grow in a manner that would impede visibility of vehicles
entering the intersection between two and one-half feet and eight feet from
grade except a column or post.
(2015 Code, § 11-14-2) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.242 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Front yard. No accessory building shall be erected in any required
front yard.
   (B)   Rear yard. An accessory building, not to exceed one story or 14 feet
in height, including heating and cooling units, may occupy not more than 25% of
the area of the required rear yard; provided that any such accessory building
wall shall be at least ten feet from the nearest point of the main building
wall, excluding eaves overhang, eight feet from the side property lines and ten
feet from the rear property line.
(2015 Code, § 11-14-3) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.243 PRINCIPAL STRUCTURES.
   In any district, more than one structure housing a permitted and customary
accessory use may be erected on a single lot or tract of land, provided that
setback, height, and yard requirements of this chapter shall be met for each
structure.
(2015 Code, § 11-14-4) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.244 EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The height restrictions contained in any district do not apply to
spires, belfries, cupolas, towers, chimneys, water tanks, ventilators, elevator
housing, antennas, satellite dishes less than 30 inches in diameter, or other
appurtenances not intended for human occupancy and usually required to be
placed above the roof level.
   (B)   Grain elevators or other tall structures not intended for residential
use that exceed height restrictions in any district must obtain a conditional
use permit.
(2015 Code, § 11-14-5) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.245 ZERO LOT LINE.
   Where an individual owns two adjoining lots, or where the owners of two
adjoining lots make written agreement, a zero lot line may be used for single-
family dwelling or for commercial buildings in the HB zone, but only so as to
create a zero lot line on one side of any lot.
(2015 Code, § 11-14-6) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.246 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Home occupations are permitted uses in zones R-S, R-1, R-2, and R-3 if they
conform to the following regulations.
   (A)   Incidental and subordinate. The use of the dwelling for the home
occupation clearly must be incidental and subordinate to its use for
residential purposes.
   (B)   Outside appearance. There shall be no structural alteration or change
in outside appearance of the primary or accessory structures.
   (C)   Name plate or sign. A nameplate or nonilluminating sign not to exceed
two square feet that is placed flat against dwelling unit or suspended in a
window may advertise the home occupation.
   (D)   Vehicles. No vehicles, except those normally used as passenger
vehicles, may be kept on premises. Only one vehicle (not to exceed the size of
a one-ton pickup truck) related to the occupation is permitted.
   (E)   Equipment or materials. No equipment or materials shall be used in a
home occupation that creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or
electronic interference detectable by normal senses off the lot.
(2015 Code, § 11-14-7) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.247 STRUCTURES TO HAVE ACCESS.
   Every principal building erected or placed on a lot shall have access to a
public street, other than an alley, or an approved private street, and all
structures shall be so located on lots as to provide safe, convenient access
for servicing, fire protection, and required off-street parking.
(2015 Code, § 11-14-8) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.248 TEMPORARY USES.
   The temporary commercial use of public right-of-way and other public
property must comply with §§
154.275 through
154.282. Temporary uses in other zone districts shall comply with the
provisions of §§
154.275 through
154.282, unless the temporary use is specifically listed as a permitted use.
(2015 Code, § 11-14-9) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.249 OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   Outdoor lighting of trees, bushes, fountains, swimming pools, structures,
parking areas, or grounds shall not directly illuminate any adjacent property.
(2015 Code, § 11-14-10) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.250 OUTSIDE STORAGE; ENCLOSURE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Salvage material. All persons accumulating, depositing, or storing
salvage material within the zoning jurisdiction shall fence surrounding salvage
materials with a solid fence at least six feet high, or sufficient to enclose
the salvaged materials from public view from outside the enclosure.
   (B)   Recreation vehicles; motor homes; manufactured homes. Campers, camping
trailers, motor homes, manufactured homes (not exceeding eight feet in width
and 27 feet in length), recreation vehicles, snowmobiles, and boats may be
parked and stored in rear yards without fencing; however, it shall be unlawful
to occupy such vehicles for living or sleeping purposes for more than seven
consecutive days.
   (C)   Junk vehicles. No more than one automotive vehicle without current
license plates (junk vehicle) may be parked or stored on any residentially
zoned property, except those in completely enclosed buildings.
(2015 Code, § 11-14-11) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.251 CORNER LOTS.
   When a rectangular lot faces more than one street, the street front and
street side yard setbacks shall be no less than the yard setbacks established
by adjacent structures on the same block, in the same zone district as the
corner lot. (See Figure 5 below.) Otherwise, the front yard setbacks shall
apply to the side with the shorter lot boundary along the street. Side yard
setbacks shall apply to the longer lot boundary. (See Figure 6 below.)
Triangular lots shall conform with the yard setbacks shown in Figure 2 in §
154.003.
(2015 Code, § 11-14-12)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a52809125f51a3c182b0fcc83d98e95a23fa0d19/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1523.png]
Figure 5: Established Setbacks         Figure 6: Setbacks by Lot Boundary
§ 154.252 PROTECTION OF STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   No land use permit shall be issued or use allowed in any street right of way
or in any proposed street right-of-way as shown in the city growth policy plan.
(2015 Code, § 11-14-13) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.253 FENCES AND WALLS.
   (A)   Location; maximum height. Fences and walls in any district may be
located on lot lines, provided written consent is obtained from adjacent
neighbors; otherwise, such fences and walls shall be located inside property
lines. Fences and walls may not exceed eight feet in height in commercial and
industrial zones and six feet in all other zones. However, no fences or walls
shall exceed three feet in any “front yard,” as defined by this chapter. Fences
used to retain stock animals shall be excepted.
   (B)   Barbed wire; electric or sharp fencing materials. Except in the R-
S districts, no barbed wire or other sharp fencing materials and no
electronically charged fence shall be erected or maintained in any district
created by this chapter. When electronically charged fences are used in the R-
S districts, such fences shall be posted with warning signs at intervals not to
exceed 150 feet where such fences are adjacent to public rights-of-way.
   (C)   Retaining wall. In case of a fence erected on top of a retaining wall,
the height shall be measured from the grade of the high side of the wall.
   (D)   Construction. All fences permitted under this section shall be
constructed so that the frame or supporting members of the fence face into the
property and so the finishing side faces outward from the property being
fenced.
(2015 Code, § 11-14-14) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.254 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Location; fence required.
      (1)   No public or private swimming pool in any district shall be located
in any required front yard. All swimming pools shall be enclosed in an area
with a fence or wall not less than 42 inches in height and no opening, therein,
other than doors or gates, larger than four inches in any direction.
      (2)   A structure of any type may be used as part of such enclosure. All
gates and doors opening through such enclosure shall be kept equipped with
self-closing and self-latching devices for keeping the gates or doors securely
closed at all times when not in actual use, except that the door of any
dwelling which forms a part of the enclosure for private residential pools need
not be so equipped.
   (B)   Modifications. The Zoning Officer may make modifications in individual
cases, upon a showing of good cause with respect to the height, nature, or
location of the fence, wall, gates, or latches, or the necessity thereof,
provided the protection as sought hereunder is not reduced thereby.
(2015 Code, § 11-14-15) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.255 LOTS IN TWO ZONES.
   Where a district boundary line, as established in this chapter, divides a
lot which was of single ownership and of record at the time of the passage
hereof, the use thereon and the district requirements applying to the least
restricted portion of such lot under this chapter shall be considered as
extending to the entire lot, provided the more restricted portion of such lot
is entirely within 20 feet of the dividing line, the use so extended shall be
deemed to be conforming.
(2015 Code, § 11-14-16) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.256 YARD ENCROACHMENTS.
   Every part of a required yard or court shall be open and unobstructed by any
building or structure from its lowest point upward, except as follows.
   (A)   Cornices, chimneys, canopies, eaves, balconies, or other similar
features may extend into a required yard space not more than three feet.
   (B)   Open, unwalled, uncovered steps, handicap ramps, and entrance lands
may extend into a required yard space not more than five feet.
   (C)   Driveways and off-street parking areas may be included in the required
yard space. Parking areas must not block front door access in residential
areas.
(2015 Code, § 11-14-17) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.257 STOP ORDER.
   Whenever any building work is being done contrary to provisions of this
chapter, the Zoning Officer shall order the work stopped by notice, in writing,
served on any person engaged in doing or causing such work to be done, and any
such person shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the Zoning
Officer to proceed with the work.
(2015 Code, § 11-14-18) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.258 SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   No signs shall be permitted in any residential district, except:
   (A)   Name plates not exceeding one square foot in area and further, not
exceeding 24 inches in length;
   (B)   Signs pertaining to the lease or sale of the building or premises not
exceeding four square feet in area;
   (C)   Signs or nameplates for a home occupation as allowed and set forth in
§
154.246;
   (D)   Political advocacy signs;
   (E)   Public hearing signs; and
   (F)   Signs identifying churches, not to exceed 25 square feet in area.
(2015 Code, § 11-14-19) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.259 MOVED-ON STRUCTURES.
   No moved-on structure or building shall be placed on any property within the
city or in the zoned extraterritory of the city without first obtaining a
conditional use permit as required in §§
154.275 through
154.282.
(2015 Code, § 11-14-20) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.260 SATELLITE DISHES.
   Satellite dishes larger than 30 inches in diameter are not permitted in
residential zones. Satellite dishes less than 30 inches may be placed on roofs
in accordance with §
154.244.
(2015 Code, § 11-14-21) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
§ 154.275 INTENT.
   (A)   The intent of conditional use permits is to provide for specific uses,
other than those specifically permitted in each district, which may be
appropriate in the district under certain safeguards or conditions.
   (B)   The conditional use permitting process is intended to provide a
detailed and comprehensive review of proposed developments that potentially
could have significant adverse effects on the community.
(2015 Code, § 11-15-1) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.276 CONDITIONAL USE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No structure or land may be used for any purpose, in any district,
where such use is not permitted, unless such use is listed as a conditional use
within that district, and approval for that use is obtained through the proper
procedures.
   (B)   Conditional use permits shall be granted only by the City Council when
its findings are that:
      (1)   The use will not adversely affect public health, safety, and
general welfare of the community, and that use conforms to the goals and
objectives of the master plan (growth policy plan) and the intent of this
chapter;
      (2)   Such use will not adversely affect nearby properties or their
occupants;
      (3)   Such use meets density, coverage, yard, height, and all other
regulations of the district in which it is to be located, unless otherwise
provided for in this chapter; and
      (4)   A public hearing has been held, after the required legal notice has
been given, and the public has been given a chance to be heard upon the matter.
(2015 Code, § 11-15-2) (Ord. 454, passed6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.277 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application.
      (1)   The applicant must submit a conditional use permit application form
to the Zoning Officer. All applications for conditional use permit must be
accompanied by plans drawn to exact scale, showing the exact dimensions and
shape of the lot to be built upon, the exact sizes and locations on the lot of
existing buildings, if any, the exact location and dimensions of the proposed
buildings or alterations, and information that states how the conditional use
requirements listed in §
154.276 will be met.
      (2)   Applications shall be accompanied with a fee as set forth in §
154.431 to cover associated administrative and review costs. The property owner
and applicant must sign all applications.
   (B)   Investigation. The Zoning Officer shall investigate the facts bearing
on the application as will provide necessary information to assure that the
action on each application is consistent with the intent and purpose of this
chapter.
   (C)   Recommendation of Zoning Officer.  The Zoning Officer shall forward to
the City-County Planning Board a recommendation on the application with any and
all pertinent facts. The applicant will also be given a copy of the Zoning
Officer’s recommendation to the City-County Planning Board meeting.
   (D)   Public hearing; notice. 
      (1)   Upon receipt of the Zoning Officer’s recommendation, the City-
County Planning Board shall hold a public hearing on said application at which
time the Zoning Officer’s recommendation shall be read and additional testimony
may be taken from interested parties.
      (2)   At least ten days’ notice of time and place of such hearing shall
be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, and at least 14
days’ notice of time and place of such hearing shall be posted by the applicant
on the property in question in such a manner as may be prescribed by the Zoning
Officer.
      (3)   After the hearing, the City-County Planning Board shall recommend
to the City Council to either approve or deny the application. If the
application is recommended for denial, reasons for denial should be given.
   (E)   City Council action. The Planning Board’s recommendation shall be
forwarded to the City Council for final action within ten days of the public
hearing. The City Council, at a regular City Council meeting, shall either
approve or deny the application. If the application is denied, reasons for
denial should be given. If approved, the Zoning Officer shall issue a
conditional use permit along with attached conditions to the applicant.
(2015 Code, § 11-15-3) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.278 CONDITIONAL APPROVAL.
   In approving applications of conditional use, the Zoning Officer and City-
County Planning Board shall recommend, and the City Council may approve, such
lawful conditions which will secure substantial protection for the public
health, safety, and general welfare related to the following:
   (A)   Ingress and egress. Adequate ingress and egress to property and
proposed structures with particular concern for automotive and pedestrian
safety and convenience, traffic flow and control, and access in case of fire or
other emergency;
   (B)   Off-street parking. Adequate off-street parking and loading areas,
where required, with particular attention to access, traffic flow, and
vehicular and pedestrian safety;
   (C)   Garbage. Location of garbage containers and garbage pickup with
respect to traffic flow and access, odor, and vehicular and pedestrian safety;
   (D)   Utilities. Availability and compatibility of utilities in suitable
locations;
   (E)   Screening and buffering. Adequate screening and buffering, with
attention to type, dimensions, and character;
   (F)   Signs. Signs, with attention to preventing glare and promoting traffic
safety and harmony with adjacent properties;
   (G)   Yards. Required yards, screening, buffering, and open space; and
   (H)   Compatibility. General compatibility with adjacent and other
properties.
(2015 Code, § 11-15-4) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.279 EXPIRATION OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   Conditional use permits issued by the Zoning Officer, and approved by City
Council, shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the building or
work authorized by such permit has not commenced within 180 days from the date
of such permit or if the building, work, or use authorized by such permit is
suspended or abandoned at any time after the work is commenced for a period of
120 days. Before such work or use can recommence, a new conditional use permit
shall first be obtained.
(2015 Code, § 11-15-5) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.280 PERMITTED CONDITIONAL USES.
   Permitted conditional uses for each zoning district are listed in the
appropriate section for each zoning district.
(2015 Code, § 11-15-6) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.281 REVOCATION OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   Failure of any person or persons who holds a conditional use permit issued
by the Zoning Officer to abide by all of the restrictions and conditions of the
conditional use permit shall be adequate grounds for the City Council to revoke
such conditional use permit and order that the conditional use shall be
discontinued within 30 days of the revocation of the conditional use permit.
(2015 Code, § 11-15-7) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.282 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS FAILED.
   The Zoning Officer shall cause the original conditional use permits to be
filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer. The Zoning Officer shall maintain a
duplicate file of conditional use permits.
(2015 Code, § 11-15-8) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS
§ 154.295 INTENT.
   The intent of this subchapter is to provide for manufactured home park
development at appropriate locations (which is deemed to be in the R-S, R-2,
and R-3 districts) and to establish standards for development in order to
integrate manufactured homes into an area without adversely affecting
surrounding properties and to provide safeguards for residents of manufactured
homes.
(2015 Code, § 11-16-1) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.296 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, definitions in §
154.003 shall apply, except for the following.
   DENSITY. The number of manufactured home units per acre.
   LOT. The total area reserved within a manufactured home park for the
placement of one manufactured home and exclusive use of its occupants.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PAD. The part of an individual lot which has been reserved
for the placement of a manufactured home, appurtenant structures, or additions.
   RECREATION AREA. An area including open space and playgrounds and building
and apparatus designed for recreational activities set aside for the use of the
manufactured home park residents.
   SITE. The entire gross area of the manufactured home park.
(2015 Code, § 11-16-2) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.297 PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted uses include:
   (A)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental thereto. No part
of any park shall be used for nonresidential purposes, except such uses that
are required for direct servicing and well-being of park residents and for
management and maintenance of the park. Nothing in this section shall be deemed
as prohibiting the sale of a manufactured home located on a manufactured home
pad and connected to the pertinent utilities;
   (B)   Manufactured homes; and
   (C)   Signs as follows:
      (1)   One entry and one exit sign at each access drive onto public right-
of-way. In no case shall the sign be larger than two square feet in surface
area, nor have any moving parts.
      (2)   One identification sign on each major street frontage, approved in
conjunction with the final site plan on the manufactured home park. In no case
shall such a sign be larger than 32 square feet in surface, nor have any moving
parts or flashing lights, nor pad higher than the height limitation within the
district of the proposed location of the manufactured home park. Such sign
shall be no closer to the public right-of-way line than 20 feet.
(2015 Code, § 11-16-3) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.298 OTHER LAWS.
   The regulations in this district shall not be interpreted so as to supercede
or amend any state or federal regulations pertaining to manufactured home park
development. These regulations are intended to be supplemental to other
established manufactured home park regulations and their amendments. When the
standards and regulations in this subchapter are more restrictive than other
established standards and regulations, the more restrictive shall apply.
(2015 Code, § 11-16-4) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.299 PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, alter, or extend any
manufactured home park, unless a valid license has been issued by the County
Sanitarian and the state’s Department of Environmental Quality.
(2015 Code, § 11-16-5) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.300 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Rules and regulations; additional standards. Any person desiring to
enlarge or establish a manufactured home park shall submit a preliminary plat
for approval by the City-County Planning Board and City Council, and shall meet
or exceed the county and the city subdivision regulations and the state’s
Department of Environmental Quality Rules and Regulations. Additionally, the
following design standards are required.
      (1)   Walkways, sidewalks. Safe, convenient, all-season walks, minimum
width of four feet, shall be provided in locations where pedestrian traffic is
concentrated.
      (2)   Landscaping. Landscaping may be required to provide a buffer
between manufactured home parks and adjacent properties in other district
classifications.
   (B)   Examples. Examples of what may be required are:
      (1)   Greenbelt. 
         (a)   A greenbelt planting strip of not less than 20 feet in width
along the perimeter of the manufactured home park where it abuts public right-
of-way or an area zoned in any other district classification.
         (b)   The greenbelt shall be developed with a mixture of hardy
deciduous and coniferous plant material, grass, or ground clover, and
maintained thereafter in a neat and orderly manner; and
      (2)   Ornamental wall. A continuous ornamental wall six feet in height
above grade, erected one foot off property line abutting property of another
district classification and six feet from public right-of- way. Such wall shall
be landscaped with suitable plant materials along both sides of the wall,
except where prohibited in this chapter.
(2015 Code, § 11-16-6) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.301 APPROVAL.
   (A)   Manufactured home park applicant must receive a conditional use permit
as specified in §§
154.275 through
154.282 and subdivision approval as specified in the county and city
subdivision regulations, if necessary.
   (B)   The City Council may require other standards and safeguards as
specific locations and circumstances dictate, and as provided under §§
154.240 through
154.260.
(2015 Code, § 11-16-7) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
RECREATION VEHICLE PARKS
§ 154.315 INTENT.
   The intent of this subchapter is to provide for recreation vehicle park
development at appropriate locations and to establish standards for development
in order to integrate recreation vehicle parks into certain areas of the
community (deemed to be in the HB district) without adversely affecting
surrounding properties.
(2015 Code, § 11-17-1) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.316 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this section, definitions in §
154.003 shall apply, except for the following term.
   SITE. The entire gross area of the recreation vehicle park.
(2015 Code, § 11-17-2) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.317 PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted uses include:
   (A)   Accessory uses related to park management and occupant need and
enjoyment, and according to the following schedule: management headquarters,
recreational facilities, gift and souvenir shops, and other uses and structures
customarily incidental to operation of recreation vehicle parks;
   (B)   Other uses maybe allowed when approved by the City Council and in
conformity to the following limitations:
      (1)   That such other uses, including parking areas for such other uses,
occupy not more than 10% of the total park area;
      (2)   That such use shall be restricted in use to occupants of the park
or so located so they will not interfere with the park use; and
      (3)   That the use is permitted in the district in which the park is to
be located.
   (C)   Recreation vehicle parks may be used for: recreation vehicles,
equipment facilities in or on automotive vehicles, tents, or other short-term
recreational shelter arrangements on a temporary basis only.
(2015 Code, § 11-17-3) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.318 CONFLICTS WITH OTHER LAWS.
   If there appears to be a conflict between the regulations and standards in
this section with any other local, state, or federal regulation for recreation
vehicle parks, the more restrictive regulation shall be followed.
(2015 Code, § 11-17-4) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.319 PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, alter, or extend any
manufactured home park unless a valid license has been issued by the County
Sanitarian and the state’s Department of Environmental Quality.
(2015 Code, § 11-17-5) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.320 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Any person desiring to enlarge or establish a recreation vehicle park
shall submit to the Zoning Officer a preliminary plat for approval by the City
Council and shall meet or exceed the county and city subdivision regulations
and the state’s Department of Environmental Quality Rules and Regulations.
   (B)   Additionally, the following design standards are required:
      (1)   Service areas. Service areas shall be provided in the following
manner:
         (a)   At least one service building containing necessary toilet and
other plumbing fixtures specified shall be provided in the park. Service
buildings shall be conveniently located within a radius of approximately 300
feet to all spaces served. Laundry facilities shall be required in addition to
the following if commercial laundry facilities are conveniently located to the
trailer park, the laundry facility requirement may be considered for waiver by
the City Council. (See the following chart.)
No. of Dependent Parking Toilets   Urinals Lavatories Showers   Other Fixtures
Spaces                   Men Women Men     Men Women  Men Women
No. of Dependent Toilets   Urinals Lavatories Showers   Other Fixtures
Parking Spaces   Men Women Men     Men Women  Men Women
1 - 15           1   1     1       1   1      1   1
16 - 30          1   2     1       2   1      1   1
31 - 45          2   2     1       3   3      1   1     At least 1 janitor sink
46 - 60          2   3     2       3   3      2   2     per building
61 - 80          3   4     2       4   4      2   2
81 - 100         3   4     2       4   4      3   3
 
         (b)   Facilities for storage and disposal of trash and garbage in a
sanitary manner shall be provided in each park.
         (c)   Street and yard lights, attached to standards approved by the
city, shall be provided in sufficient number and intensity to permit safe
movement of vehicles and pedestrians at night and shall be effectively related
to buildings, trees, walks, steps, and ramps.
      (2)   Parking. Parking for all uses within the recreation vehicle park
shall be provided in accordance with §§
154.375 through
154.379.
(2015 Code, § 11-17-6) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.321 APPROVAL.
   Recreation vehicle park applicants must receive a conditional use permit as
specified in §§
154.275 through
154.282 and subdivision approval as specified in the county and city
subdivision regulations, if necessary. The City Council may require other
standards and safeguards as specific locations and circumstances dictate, and
as provided in §§
154.240 through
154.260.
(2015 Code, § 11-17-7) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
TOWNHOUSES
§ 154.335 INTENT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. It is the purpose and intent of this subchapter to
provide for the design and development of innovative housing forms, which
incorporate a higher density living situation and at the same time preserve the
desirability of an individually owned housing unit. The efficient use of
buildable space within a given area allows reduced lot sizes as well as lot
widths and compensates for the reduction by incorporating open spaces, scenic
and recreational areas, and other amenities.
   (B)   Standards. The standards included in this subchapter apply to a
variety of attached and semi-attached housing forms including, but not limited
to, townhouses. Specifically, this subchapter is formulated to allow the
grouping of separately owned single-family dwelling units into a group of
attached and semi-attached housing forms that will be both aesthetically
pleasing and conscientiously designed as well as preserve the health, welfare,
safety, and convenience of the surrounding neighborhood.
(2015 Code, § 11-18-1) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.336 DEVELOPMENT CRITERIA.
   (A)   Density. Overall density in a particular townhouse project shall not
exceed the maximum density allowed within the zoning district for which it is
located, except when designed and developed as a planned unit development under
provisions set forth in §§
154.355 through
154.362.
   (B)   Lot area. No townhouse lot shall contain an area of less than 1,600
square feet and a minimum lot and building width of 20 feet. The remaining lot
area that would normally be required in the zoning district, per dwelling unit,
shall be incorporated into usable and accessible open space and/or private or
common vehicular access or parking area for the townhouse project site.
   (C)   Location. Townhouse developments are permitted in the R-3 zoning
district and may be permitted as a conditional use in the R-S zoning district.
   (D)   Unit size. Every townhouse dwelling unit shall have a minimum gross
floor area equal to that required in the specific zoning district in which the
townhouse is proposed.
   (E)   Height of structure. Maximum height for any townhouse structure shall
not be greater than 28 feet.
   (F)   Building coverage. In no event shall a townhouse or condominium,
including any accessory buildings, cover more than 45% of the individual lot
area.
   (G)   Street frontage. Each townhouse project site shall border on a public
street; except provided that it faces private or common open areas as set forth
in this subchapter.
(2015 Code, § 11-18-2) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.337 SETBACKS AND YARDS.
   (A)   Right-of-way setback. No townhouse unit shall be located closer than
25 feet from any public right-of-way or within 15 feet of a private drive,
access road, or common parking area, to the front or rear of such dwelling.
   (B)   Yard requirements. Each individual townhouse lot shall have a minimum
front and rear yard of 20 feet. The minimum side yard requirements shall be
eight feet from any adjoining property line of the townhouse project site.
   (C)   Setback variation. No more than two abutting townhouses or townhouse
groupings within the townhouse project site shall have a common front building
setback. Variations in the setback of front building faces shall be at least
three feet. Height variations shall also be incorporated, if feasible, in
townhouse designs.
   (D)   Distances between townhouse groups. Townhouse groups shall be
separated by at least 16 feet.
(2015 Code, § 11-18-3) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.338 OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Open space required. Open space is required for each proposed
townhouse lot. Such open space must be equal to a minimum of 30% of the site to
be developed.
   (B)   Maintenance of common areas.
      (1)   All common areas and facilities including, but not limited to,
recreational facilities, off-street parking, and common open space shall be
maintained in a satisfactory manner without expense to the general taxpayers in
the zoning jurisdiction.
      (2)   In order to ensure the maintenance of and the payment of taxes on
the commonly held nonpublic property, a mandatory homeowner’s association shall
be created and be recorded in the public records of the county.
(2015 Code, § 11-18-4) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.339 SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Conversion. Conversion of existing structures to a townhouse project
is prohibited unless all townhouse development standards, as outlined in this
subchapter, can be satisfied.
   (B)   Subdivision before conditional use permit. A legal subdivision plat
shall be placed on the public records of the county prior to the issuance of
any conditional use permit within a townhouse development.
   (C)   Landscaping. Not less than 75% of each yard and common space shall be
landscaped. Plans for such landscaping shall be submitted as a part of the
application for zoning conditional use permit and installed in accordance with
a time schedule established by the Zoning Officer.
   (D)   Building standards. All townhouse developments shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with the state laws or regulations that are
applicable.
(2015 Code, § 11-18-5) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.340 APPLICATION AND SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Applications and submittal requirements shall be those set forth in
the planned unit developments in the county and city subdivision regulations.
   (B)   Townhouse developments comprised of five or fewer lots can be
submitted for minor subdivision review as set forth in
Chapter 153.
(2015 Code, § 11-18-6) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.341 APPROVAL.
   Approval of a townhouse development shall be obtained through conditional
use permit procedures as specified in §§
154.275 through
154.282 and by
Chapter 153.
(2015 Code, § 11-18-7) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD)
§ 154.355 INTENT.
   The intent of this subchapter is to allow, with adequate review, flexibility
in design of developments that do at least several of the following:
   (A)   Encourage development with mixed uses, particularly a variety of
housing types and densities;
   (B)   Create or preserve usable open space and recreation areas;
   (C)   Preserve the natural characteristics of the land including topography,
native vegetation, and scenic view;
   (D)   Avoid construction in unsuitable areas;
   (E)   Encourage creativity in design, including flexibility in residential
siting to achieve energy conservation;
   (F)   Allow efficient provision of streets, utilities, and other services;
and
   (G)   Provide lower-cost housing affordable to low- and moderate-income
families and individuals.
(2015 Code, § 11-19-1) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.356 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A land development project designed and
planned as a single entity under a plan that offers a variety of land uses,
housing types and densities, and design features in addition to those allowed
by right or as a conditional use in the zoning district.
(2015 Code, § 11-19-2) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.357 APPLICATION AND USES.
   (A)   A PUD may be applied to any development having one or more principal
uses or structures on a single parcel or contiguous parcels of land. Any use or
combination of uses may be allowed in a PUD provided such uses are consistent
with the city growth policy plan.
   (B)   Any PUD shall be considered as a conditional use within the zoning
district in which it is to be located.
(2015 Code, § 11-19-3) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.358 DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Concept plan review. Any person requesting approval of a PUD shall
submit an application for conditional use under the provisions of §§
154.275 through
154.282. The application shall be accompanied by the required review fees and a
PUD plan, described below:
      (1)   A conceptual plan of the proposed PUD, including pertinent
information on location, approximate tract and lot boundaries, description of
general terrain, natural features, existing and proposed structures and
improvements, and proposed public improvements;
      (2)   A site plan showing the proposed location and use of lots and
structures, and the location and number of parking spaces, if appropriate;
      (3)   A description of open space, recreational facilities, roads, and
other facilities proposed to be under common ownership;
      (4)   Proposed restrictive covenants;
      (5)   A description of proposed forms of property ownership within the
development;
      (6)   A statement describing measures to be taken to assure permanence
and maintenance of open space and other facilities to be held in common
ownership;
      (7)   A schedule showing street and utility improvement completion dates;
      (8)   A preliminary subdivision plat and plat supplements, if required;
and
      (9)   Any reasonable information that the Zoning Officer may require.
   (B)   Review and approval.
      (1)   A PUD shall be reviewed and approved under the procedures for
conditional uses pursuant to §§
154.275 through
154.282.
      (2)   Where the proposed PUD is subject to review as a subdivision under
the state’s Subdivision and Platting Act, the Planning Board shall hold joint
and concurrent review, including a joint public hearing.
      (3)   Notice of each hearing shall be given in the manner prescribed by
this chapter and the county and city subdivision regulations.
(2015 Code, § 11-19-4) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.359 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   All PUDs shall consist of harmonious arrangement of uses, building, parking
areas, circulation, and open spaces. All PUDs shall be designed as an
integrated unit, in such a manner as to constitute a safe, efficient, and
convenient development. The design shall meet the intent of this subchapter and
include provisions for mixed uses and/or a variety of housing types and
densities. The PUD shall also provide for efficient traffic circulation,
adequate light, air, and open space. The open space element of the design shall
preserve the natural characteristics of the land, including topography, native
vegetation, and scenic views.
   (A)   Minimum area. Three contiguous acres of land; less acreage may be
accepted where the applicant can demonstrate that a smaller parcel will meet
the objectives of this subchapter.
   (B)   Location. Any district where the applicant can demonstrate the PUD
proposal will meet the objectives of this subchapter and not create any
detrimental effects to that area.
   (C)   Density. The City Council shall determine, in each case, the
appropriate land use and dwelling unit density for individual projects. The
determination of land use or dwelling unit densities shall be completely
documented, including all facts, opinions, and judgments justifying the
selection of the rating or density. Permitted densities of existing zoning
shall be used as guidelines.
   (D)   Height. All buildings and structures shall conform to the height
regulations of the zone in which the planned unit development is located.
   (E)   Pedestrian access. Any building or any dwelling unit that is located
more than 100 feet from a public or private street or other vehicular way shall
have pedestrian access thereto capable of accommodating emergency and service
vehicles.
(2015 Code, § 11-19-5) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.360 COMMON PROPERTY.
   (A)   When common property exists (open space, recreational facilities, and
the like), the ownership of such common property may be either public or
private.
   (B)   Satisfactory arrangements shall be made with the City Council for the
improvement, operation, and maintenance of such common property and facilities
including private streets, driveways, service, and parking areas and
recreational open space areas.
(2015 Code, § 11-19-6) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.361 OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Amount required. Required open space shall comprise at least one-ninth
of the total area of PUD. Land occupied by buildings, streets, driveways,
parking spaces, or parking areas may not be counted in satisfying this open
space requirement.
   (B)   Improvements.
      (1)   At least one-half of the required open space shall have an overall
finished grade not to exceed 10% and shall be suitably improved for its
intended purposes.
      (2)   All of the open space that has been graded or disturbed will be
landscaped.
      (3)   All lawn and landscaped areas reserved for common use shall be
provided with a permanent watering system adequate to maintain such areas.
   (C)   Natural state. The remaining one-half of the required open space may
also be improved, or may be left in its natural state, particularly if natural
features worthy of preservation exist on site. Open space left in its natural
state shall be kept free of litter and shall at no time constitute a health,
safety, fire, or flood hazard.
   (D)   Staged development. If the development is to be accomplished in
stages, the development plan shall coordinate improvement of the open space,
the construction of buildings, structures, and improvements and the
construction of dwelling units in order that each development stage achieves a
proportionate quantity of the total planned development.
(2015 Code, § 11-19-7) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.362 SETBACKS.
   (A)   Building location.
      (1)   No building, except as hereafter provided, shall be located closer
than eight feet from any interior vehicular or pedestrianway, court, plaza,
open parking areas, or any other surfaced area reserved for public use in
common by residents of the PUD.
      (2)   Such setback shall generally be measured from the nearest edge of a
surfaced area; provided, however, that where no sidewalk exists in conjunction
with a public or private street, such setback shall be measured from the
nearest edge of the street right-of-way or private road easement.
   (B)   Spacing. Spacing between buildings shall be at least 16 feet.
   (C)   Open space. Each building shall be surrounded on all sides by relative
level open space having a slope no greater than 10% and extending a minimum
distance of ten feet in all directions measured from the furthest projection of
the external walls of the building.
   (D)   Required setback. A setback of not less than 15 feet shall be
maintained by any building or structure, except a wall or fence, from any
street along an exterior boundary of the development.
(2015 Code, § 11-19-8) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
OFF-STREET PARKING
§ 154.375 INTENT.
   The intent of the off-street parking requirements is to provide convenient
and safe access to property, reduce the need for on-street parking and thus
congestion on streets, alleviate hazards associated with access to traffic
generating business and industrial uses, provide adequate and safe parking for
residents and business customers, protect residential uses from the undesirable
effects of abutting traffic, and maintain the traffic carrying capacity of the
road system serving the jurisdiction.
(2015 Code, § 11-20-1) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.376 DESIGN.
   Required off-street parking for specified uses shall be used only by
vehicles of employees, customers, and residents of the activity served.
   (A)   Location. Off-street parking, as required by this chapter, shall be
located as follows:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings: on the same lot with the dwelling they are
required to serve;
      (2)   Multi-family dwellings: on the same lot with the dwelling they are
required to serve;
      (3)   Hospitals, sanitariums, apartments, rooming and boarding houses,
fraternity and sorority houses: within 100 feet of the use they are required to
serve; and
      (4)   Commercial and industrial zones: within 300 of the use they are
required to serve.
   (B)   Accessibility. Off-site parking areas must be accessible by a public
street or alley.
   (C)   Ownership. Off-site parking areas shall be owned or leased by the
owner or lessee of the building being served by such parking.
   (D)   Recorded land covenant. Off-site parking areas shall have a recorded
land covenant requiring such land to be maintained as a parking lot so long as
the building and/or use served is in operation or another suitable parking area
is established to the satisfaction of the Zoning Officer.
   (E)   Size of parking spaces. Off-street parking spaces shall be at least
nine feet wide and 18 feet if measured from a curb on the inside edge of the
stall or 20 feet if measured from a painted line on the inside edge of the
stall, exclusive of access drives, yards, or ramps. Such spaces shall have a
vertical clearance of at least seven feet.
   (F)   Parking areas. Parking areas of three to ten spaces shall be arranged
according to one of the four designs shown in Figure 7 below. Where more than
ten off-street parking spaces are required, the parking area shall be designed
by a licensed landscape architect or registered engineer.
   (G)   Plan of proposed facility. A plan of the proposed off-street parking
facility shall be submitted along with the application for a land use permit
for the building the off-street parking is required to serve. Said plan shall
clearly indicate curb cuts, lighting, landscaping, construction details,
fencing, and other features which may be required by the Zoning Officer. (See
Figure 7 below.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a52809125f51a3c182b0fcc83d98e95a23fa0d19/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1525.png]
Figure 7: Parking Area Design for Three to Ten Spaces
   (H)   Handicapped parking. Accessible (handicapped) parked spaces, 12.5 feet
wide, and 20 feet long shall be provided according to the table below.
Handicapped parking spaces shall be clearly identified with a sign bearing the
international handicapped accessible symbol and marked “reserved for
handicapped.”
 
Total Spaces in Lot Minimum Number of Accessible Spaces
4 - 25              1
26 - 50             2
51 - 75             3
76 - 100            4
>100                2% of total
 
   (I)   Multi-family residential developments. Off-street parking areas
serving multi-family residential developments of more than ten units,
commercial, industrial, or institutional uses must comply with the following
provisions:
      (1)   Grading and drainage. Parking areas shall be graded and drainage
facilities installed to remove or retain surface runoff in a manner that does
not adversely affect adjacent properties, public streets, or surface waters.
      (2)   Surfacing. Parking areas shall be surfaced with gravel or
equivalent material three-fourths to eleven-halves. Parking areas containing 20
or more spaces shall be surfaced with asphalt, concrete, or other hard surface.
      (3)   Screening. Where an off-street parking area abuts a residential use
or zoning district, the parking areas shall be effectively screened at the
property line(s) by an acceptably designed sight-obscuring wall, fence, or
planting screen.
      (4)   Striping. Stalls in paved parking areas shall be marked with
painted lines not less than four inches wide.
      (5)   Landscaping. Any use having more than 3,500 square feet of required
permanent parking shall have 5% of the gross parking area landscaped with
suitable trees and/or shrubs having a low profile. Such landscaping shall be in
place before occupancy of the building or use being served.
   (J)   Lighting. Lighting used to illuminate a parking area shall be arranged
in such a manner that it will not be a hazard to passing motorists or
constitute a nuisance of any kind. Where said parking area is within 150 feet
of any property classified as residential by this chapter, and where the
parking area is directly visible by the residents within 150 feet, illuminating
devices shall be shaded in a manner that would direct the light away from the
residential property.
   (K)   Measurement of distance. Where a distance is specified, such distance
shall be measured by a straight line from the nearest point of the building the
parking area is required to serve.
(2015 Code, § 11-20-2) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.377 COMBINED OCCUPANCIES.
   Where two or more uses are combined in one development, the total parking
spaces shall be the sum total of the spaces required for each individual use.
Off-street parking for one use shall not be considered for joint use as
hereinafter specified.
(2015 Code, § 11-20-3) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.378 JOINT USE.
   (A)   Power to authorize. The City Council may authorize the joint use of
off-street parking facilities for the following uses or activities under the
conditions specified:
      (1)   Up to 50% of the required off-street parking for primarily
“nighttime” uses, such as theaters, bowling alleys, bars, supper clubs, may be
supplied by the parking requirement for primarily “daytime” uses such as banks,
offices, retail, and personal service establishments;
      (2)   Division (A)(1) above may be reversed so that parking for “daytime”
uses may be used for “nighttime” activities; and
      (3)   Up to 50% of the parking facilities required by this section for
churches or auditoriums may be supplied by the parking facilities provided for
uses primarily of a “daytime” nature.
   (B)   Application for joint use. Where joint use is desired, an application
shall be made to the City Council. Said application shall be signed by both
parties, and contain proof that there will be no substantial conflict in the
principal operating hours of the two buildings or uses for which the joint use
is proposed, and that all other conditions of this subchapter are met.
(2015 Code, § 11-20-4) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.379 SPACES REQUIRED.
   The following number of off-street parking spaces per use are required:
Type of Use Parking Spaces Required
Type of Use                             Parking Spaces Required
Residential uses:
Apartments, townhouses efficiency       1.5 spaces per dwelling unit
apartments
Bed and breakfast inns                  1.0 space per guest room
Community residential facilities        1.0 space per guest room
Elderly housing                         1.0 space per unit
                                        1.5 spaces per dwelling unit
Multi-family                            *Where the total quota results in a
                                        fraction, the next highest full unit
                                        shall be provided
Single-family                           2.0 spaces per dwelling unit
Commercial uses:
Automobile and boat showroom, machinery 1.0 space per 1,000 square feet of
sales and service                       floor area
Bowling alley                           5.0 spaces per alley
Business and professional offices,      1.0 space per 300 square feet of floor
banks                                   area
Churches and other places of worship    1.0 space per 4 seats
Community or recreation center          1.0 space per 200 square feet of floor
                                        area
Convenience stores/gas station          4.0 spaces minimum
combination
Dancehall, skating rinks, court clubs   1.0 space per 200 square feet of floor
                                        area
Daycare center                          1.0 space per 200 square feet of floor
                                        area
Furniture, appliance, households, and   3.0 spaces per 1,000 square feet of
equipment sales                         floor area
                                        1.0 space per 100 square feet of main
Golf courses                            building floor area, plus 1.0 space for
                                        every 2 practice tees, plus 2.0 spaces
                                        per each green in the playing area
                                        1.0 space per bed, plus 1.0 space per
                                        doctor, plus 0.5 space per employee
Hospitals                               *Where the total quota results in a
                                        fraction, the next highest full unit
                                        shall be provided
Libraries and museums                   1.0 space per 1,000 square feet of
                                        floor area
                                        1.0 space per 1,000 square feet or 0.75
                                        space per employee
Manufacturing and industrial uses       *Where the total quota results in a
                                        fraction, the next highest full unit
                                        shall be provided
                                        1.0 space per 250 square feet, or 4.0
Medical and dental offices              spaces for doctor or dentist, plus 1.0
                                        space per employee
                                        1.1 space per each guest room, plus 1.0
                                        space per employee on maximum shift
Motels and hotels                       *Where the total quota results in a
                                        fraction, the next highest full unit
                                        shall be provided
Mortuaries and funeral homes            1.0 space per 4 seats
Nursing, convalescent, and rest homes   1.0 space per 3 beds, plus 1.0 space
                                        per employee on maximum shift
Open sales area, trailers sales and     1.0 space per 1,500 square feet of
rental                                  floor area
Restaurants and bars                    1.0 space per 100 square feet
Restaurants; fast-food                  1.0 space per 100 square feet, plus 1.0
                                        space per employee on maximum shift
Retail stores                           1.0 space per 300 square feet
Schools; elementary, middle             1.0 space per employee, plus 1.0 space
                                        per 2 classrooms
Schools: high school                    1.0 space per employee, plus 1.0 space
                                        per 5 students
Service stations, automobile repair and 1.0 space per 600 square feet
services
Theaters, auditoriums, assembly halls   1.0 space per 4 seats
with fixed seats
Warehousing or storage buildings,       1.0 space per 1,000 square feet of
freight terminals                       sales floor area, plus 1.0 space per
                                        300 feet of office floor area
 
(2015 Code, § 11-20-5) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
OFF-STREET LOADING
§ 154.390 INTENT.
   The intent of off-street loading requirements is to avoid traffic hazards
and minimize congestion of streets by requiring that off-street loading areas
be provided on the same lot as the building served by delivery trucks, and that
such areas be adequate in size and number to provide the service needed without
affecting adjacent properties.
(2015 Code, § 11-21-1) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.391 DESIGN OF LOADING BERTHS.
   (A)   Off-street loading berths shall be provided on the same lot as the use
they serve and shall not occupy the front yard of the lot.
   (B)   No loading berth shall be located within 50 feet of a residential
zoned lot, unless enclosed by a wall or solid fence not less than six feet in
height, in which case the loading berth may be located within 30 feet of a lot
zoned residential.
   (C)   Each loading berth shall be designed with access to a public street or
alley and so designed as not to interfere with normal traffic movement.
   (D)   Each berth shall be at least 12 feet by 35 feet in size with a height
clearance of 18 feet.
   (E)   Loading berths shall not be considered as off-street parking spaces.
   (F)   All or part of the required loading berths may be within buildings.
(2015 Code, § 11-21-2) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.392 BERTHS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Number required. Off-street loading berths shall be provided in
accordance with the table below. If more than one use is combined in one
building, the number of berths can be reduced as determined by the Zoning
Officer. Where uses are not specifically mentioned, the number of berths shall
be determined by the Zoning Officer, using as a guide the most similar use
listed below:
Use Gross Floor Area (Square Feet) Number of Berths Required
Use                         Gross Floor Area (Square Number of Berths Required
                            Feet)
Department stores and other 5,000 - 14,000           1
retail shops, restaurants,  14,000 - 40,000          2
funeral homes               40,000 - 80,000          3
                            Each additional 50,000   1
Hospitals, clinics jails    10,000 - 100,000         1
                            Each additional 100,000  1
Industrial plant,           10,000 - 40,000          1
manufacturing or wholesale  40,000 - 65,000          2
equipment                   65,000 - 100,000         3
                            Each additional 50,000   1
Multiple dwelling with over NA                       1
16 units
                            20,000 - 50,000          1
Schools, auditoriums,       50,000 - 150,000         2
meeting halls               150,000 - 300,000        3
                            Each additional 150,000  1
 
   (B)   CBD zone. Buildings in the CBD zone, without off-street loading
berths, may be changed from one permitted use to another permitted use without
compliance of this subchapter.
(2015 Code, § 11-21-3) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
NONCONFORMING USES, LOTS, AND STRUCTURES
§ 154.405 INTENT.
   (A)   Existing nonconformities. Within the districts established by this
chapter or amendments thereto, there exist lots, structures, uses of land, and
structures, and characteristics of use which were lawful before this chapter
was adopted or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted
under the terms of this chapter or future amendments. It is the intent of this
chapter to permit these nonconformities to continue until they are removed, but
not to encourage their survival. It is further the intent of this chapter that
nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded, or extended, nor be used
as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same
district.
   (B)   Declared incompatible.
      (1)   Nonconforming uses are declared by this chapter to be incompatible
with permitted uses in the district involved. However, to avoid undue hardship,
nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to require a change in the plans,
construction, or designated use of any building on which actual construction
lawfully began prior to the effective date of adoption or amendment hereof, and
which actual building construction has been carried on diligently.
      (2)   ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION is hereby defined to include the placing of
construction materials in permanent position and fastened in a permanent
manner. Where excavation or demolition or removal of an existing building has
been substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding, such excavation or
demolition or removal be deemed to be actual construction, provided that work
shall be carried on diligently.
(2015 Code, § 11-22-1) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.406 NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   Single lot. In any district, notwithstanding other limitations imposed
by this chapter, structures permitted in said district may be erected on any
single lot of record on the effective date hereof. Such lot must be in a
separate ownership and not of continuous frontage with other lots of the same
ownership. A lot of record that does not meet lot area or lot width
requirements must still meet other requirements of the district.
   (B)   Two or more lots. If two or more lots or combinations of lots and
portions of lots with continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at
the time of adoption or amendment hereof, and, if all or part of the lots do
not meet the requirements established for lot width and area, the lands
involved shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this
chapter. Where lots are larger than required by this chapter, said lots may be
subdivided into smaller lots, except no parcel may be divided so as to create a
lot smaller in lot width or lot area than required by this chapter.
(2015 Code, § 11-22-2) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.407 NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND.
   (A)   Continuation. Where, at the time of passage hereof, lawful use of land
exists which would not be permitted by the regulations imposed by this chapter,
the use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, provided:
      (1)   Enlarged, increased, or extended. No such nonconforming use shall
be enlarged or increased, nor extended to occupy a greater area of land than
was occupied at the effective date of adoption or amendment hereof;
      (2)   Moved. No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part
to any portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such use at the
effective date of adoption or amendment hereof;
      (3)   Use ceases; abandonment. If any such nonconforming use of land
ceases for any reason for a period of more than 90 days or is legally
abandoned, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to the regulations
specified by this chapter for the district in which such land is located;
      (4)   Replacement of manufactured home. Any manufactured home within any
city zoning district at the time of passage hereof may be replaced by another
manufactured home upon issuance of a land use permit. However, no permit may be
issued unless such replacement manufactured home meets all setback requirements
of the zone or does not infringe upon the setbacks of the original manufactured
home; and
      (5)   Additional nonconforming structures. No additional nonconforming
structure in connection with the requirements of this chapter shall be erected
in connection with such nonconforming uses of land.
   (B)   Off-street parking and loading. For the purpose of this subchapter,
the lack of required off-street parking per §§
154.375 through
154.379 and the lack of off-street loading per §§
154.390 through
154.392, as applied to the CBD district shall not render structures as
nonconforming.
(2015 Code, § 11-22-3) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.408 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or
amendment hereof that could not be built under the terms of this chapter by
reason of restriction on lot area, lot coverage, height, yards, its location on
the lot, or other requirements concerning the structure, such structure may be
continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions.
   (A)   Increase in nonconformity. No such nonconforming structure may be
altered or enlarged in any way which increases its nonconformity, but any
structure or portion thereof may be altered to decrease its nonconformity.
   (B)   Destruction. Should such nonconforming structure or nonconforming
portion of a structure be destroyed by any means, it shall not be reconstructed
except in a way that will not increase the preexisting nonconformity.
   (C)   Moved. Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved.
(2015 Code, § 11-22-4) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.409 NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES.
   If lawful use of the structure or of structures and premises existing at the
effective date of adoption or amendment hereof that would not be allowed in the
district under the terms of this chapter, the lawful use may be continued so
long as it remains otherwise lawful, provided that:
   (A)   Enlarged, extended, or altered. No existing structure devoted to a
nonconforming use shall be enlarged, extended, constructed, or structurally
altered unless the use is changed to a permitted use;
   (B)   Extension of use in same building. Any nonconforming use may be
extended to any other part of a building designed for such use, but no such use
may be extended in any way to occupy land outside the building;
   (C)   Change to other nonconforming use. Nonconforming use of building,
structures, or premises may be changed to another nonconforming use provided
that a conditional use permit is obtained from the City Council. In determining
whether or not to grant the conditional use permit, the City Council, after
recommendation from the Planning Board, shall determine that the proposed use
is equally appropriate or more appropriate to the district than the existing
nonconforming use;
   (D)   Additional conditions or safeguards. In permitting such use, the City
Council may require appropriate conditions or safeguards;
   (E)   Superseded by permitted use. Any structure or structure and land in or
on which a nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use shall thereafter
conform to the regulations of the district in which it is located and the
nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed;
   (F)   Cease in use. Whenever a nonconforming use of a structure or premises
ceases for 90 days, the structure or premises shall not thereafter be used
except in conformance with the regulations of the district in which it is
located. The term CEASE, as used in this section, shall mean that the activity
in question has not been in operation for a period of 90 days; and
   (G)   Removal or destruction. Where nonconforming use status applies to both
structures and land, the removal or destruction of the structure shall
eliminate the nonconforming status of the land.
(2015 Code, § 11-22-5) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.410 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   On any nonconforming structure or portion of the structure containing
a nonconforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs and fixtures, wiring,
plumbing, or repair or replacement of nonbearing walls, to an extent not
exceeding 25% of the assessed value of the building in any one year, provided
that such work does not increase the volume of the building.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening
or restoring to a safe condition of any building or portion thereof declared to
be unsafe by an official charged with protecting the public safety upon order
of such official.
(2015 Code, § 11-22-6) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.411 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Conditional uses provided for under §§
154.275 through
154.282 shall not be deemed nonconforming uses in the district in which it is
permitted.
(2015 Code, § 11-22-7) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
LAND USE PERMITS
§ 154.425 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Zoning Officer. The Zoning Officer, as designated by the City Council,
shall administer and enforce this chapter. The Zoning Officer may be provided
with the assistance of such other persons as the City Council may direct, and
those assistants shall have essentially the same responsibilities as directed
by the Zoning Officer.
   (B)   Violations.
      (1)   If the Zoning Officer finds that any of the provisions of this
chapter are being violated, he or she shall notify, in writing, the person
responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering the action necessary to correct it.
      (2)   The Zoning Officer shall order discontinuance of illegal use of
land, buildings, illegal additions, alterations, or structural changes;
discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall take any other action
authorized by this chapter to ensure compliance with or prevent violation of
its provisions.
      (3)   If no corrective action is taken by the violator, the Zoning
Officer shall notify the City Attorney with the facts concerning the violation
and steps taken to correct it.
(2015 Code, § 11-23-1) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.426 DUTIES OF ZONING OFFICER.
   (A)   Check for compliance. It is the intent of this title that the Zoning
Officer shall check all plans and applications for permits for compliance with
this title, both before and during construction.
   (B)   Noncompliance. If, during this procedure, the Zoning Officer deems
that the proposed plan or construction does not comply with this chapter, he or
she shall inform the applicant of the infraction and shall stop all
construction of the project until such time as the applicant, builder, or
principal revises his or her plan to conform to this title or obtains a
variance, conditional use permit, or zone change as set forth herein.
   (C)   Occupancy permit. If, upon inspection of the construction, the Zoning
Officer deems that the structure does comply with this chaper, the Zoning
Officer shall issue an occupancy permit. A copy of the occupancy permit shall
be posted at the construction site.
(2015 Code, § 11-23-2) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.427 USES NOT REQUIRING PERMITS.
   (A)   No land use permit shall be required for any alteration or
modification to an existing structure if:
      (1)   The existing footprint and roofline of the structure will not be
altered; and
      (2)   The existing roofline of the structure will be altered but the new
height will not exceed the height requirement for the specified zone.
   (B)   In either case, the use of the structure must be a permitted use for
the district in which the structure is located.
(2015 Code, § 11-23-3) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.428 USES REQUIRING PERMITS.
   (A)   Land use permit required. Buildings or other structures to be erected,
moved, added to, or structurally altered, except those that do not require
permits according to §
154.427, must be properly permitted. No land use shall be changed without a
valid land use permit.
   (B)   Application. Said land use permit shall be obtained by application to
the Zoning Officer. Application shall be accompanied by plans, drawn to scale,
showing the actual dimensions and shape of the lot to be built upon, the legal
description of the parcel, the exact sizes and location of the lot(s) or
buildings already existing, if any, and the location and dimensions of the
proposed buildings or alterations, including height.
   (C)   Additional information. The application shall include such other
information as lawfully may be required by the Zoning Officer, including
existing or proposed building and land; the number of families, housing units,
or rental units the building is designed to accommodate; conditions existing on
the lot; and such other matters as may be necessary to determine conformance
with and provide for the enforcement of this chapter.
   (D)   Distribution of copies. One copy of the application and plans shall be
returned to the applicant by the Zoning Officer after he or she has marked such
copy either approved or disapproved and attested to same by his or her
signature. The second copy similarly marked shall be retained by the Zoning
Officer.
   (E)   Forms available. Land use permit applications are available from the
Zoning Officer at the City-County Planning Office.
(2015 Code, § 11-23-4) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.429 CONFORMANCE.
   (A)   Required. No permit of any type shall be issued unless it conforms
with the regulations contained within this chapter. Permits issued on the basis
of plans and applications approved by the Zoning Officer authorize only the
use, arrangement, and construction set forth in such approved plans and
applications, and any other use, arrangement, or construction at variance with
that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter, punishable as
provided in §
154.999.
   (B)   Conditional uses and variances. Conditional use permits approved by
the City Council and variances granted by the Board of Adjustment shall be
deemed in conformance with the terms of this chapter. However, land use permits
shall be issued only in accordance with the terms set forth in the conditional
use permit and variance sections of this chapter.
(2015 Code, § 11-23-5) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.430 EXPIRATION OF PERMITS.
   Every land use permit issued by the Zoning Officer, under the provisions of
this chapter, shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the
building or work authorized by such permit has not commenced within 180 days
from the date of such permit or if the building, work, or use authorized by
such permit is suspended or abandoned any time after the work is commenced for
a period of 120 days. Before such work or use can recommence, a new permit
shall first be obtained.
(2015 Code, § 11-23-6) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.431 SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES, AND EXPENSES.
   (A)   Fees established. The City Council shall establish a schedule of fees,
charges, and expenses and a collection procedure for land use permits,
conditional use permits, variances, and zoning amendments. The schedule of
fees, listed in the table below, shall be posted in the City-County Planning
Office and may be altered or amended only by the City Council.
 
City Zoning Ordinance Fee Schedule
Conditional use permit $100
Land use permit        $10
Variance request       $50
Zone change/amendment  $150
The fees are based on two objectives:
1. Covering actual costs of processing applications, including staff review
time, holding hearings, and making on-site inspections.
2. Keeping fees low enough to promote affordable housing.
 
   (B)   Payment required. Until all applicable fees and charges have been paid
in full, no action may be taken on any application or appeal.
(2015 Code, § 11-23-7) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 154.445 CREATION.
   The Board of Adjustment is hereby established to act on variance
applications as herein detailed. Said Board shall consist of five members
appointed by the Mayor for three-year terms (with staggering terms), and
subject to confirmation by the City Council.
(2015 Code, § 11-24-1) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.446 OFFICES.
   At the first meeting each year, the Board shall appoint one of its members
to serve as Chairperson and one member to serve as Vice Chairperson. The Zoning
Officer shall be at the disposal of the Board to receive the process
applications of appeal and to give advice to said Board. The Board’s office
shall be at City Hall and all files of said Board shall be kept there.
(2015 Code, § 11-24-2) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.447 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall set its operating rules in accordance with MCA §§ 76-2-321
through 76-3-328, as amended, and shall have the following powers:
   (A)   Hear and decide appeals. To hear and decide appeals where it is
alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination
made by an administrative official in the enforcement of this act or of any
ordinance adopted pursuant thereto;
   (B)   Variances.
      (1)   Power to authorize. To authorize upon appeal in specific cases such
variance from the terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public
interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter will result in unnecessary hardship, and so that the
spirit of this chapter shall be observed and substantial justice done.
      (2)   Requirements allowed modification. More specifically, the Board
may, after public notice and hearing, conditionally approve, deny, or approve
any request to modify the following requirements of this chapter:
         (a)   Setback requirements;
         (b)   Yard requirements;
         (c)   Area requirements;
         (d)   Height requirements;
         (e)   Parking requirements; and
         (f)   Loading requirements.
   (C)   Vote. The concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of any
administrative official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter
upon which it is required to pass under this chapter or to affect any variation
of this chapter; and
   (D)   Meetings. All Board of Adjustment meetings shall be open to the
public. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of
each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official
actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the Board and
shall be a public record.
(2015 Code, § 11-24-3) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.448 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application for variance. After the Zoning Officer has determined that
the application for land use permit does not comply with this chapter, the
applicant may submit an application for variance from one or more of the
requirements listed in §
154.447(B)(2). An application for variance shall be submitted to the Zoning
Officer. No application will be regarded as filed unless it is complete and
until the required fee has been paid.
   (B)   Investigation. The Board shall cause to be made such investigation of
facts bearing on the application as will provide necessary information to
assure that the action on each such application is consistent with the intent
and purpose of this chapter. During the time of appeal, all construction shall
cease and shall not commence until such time of approval by the Board of
Adjustment.
(2015 Code, § 11-24-4) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.449 PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE.
   (A)   There shall be a public hearing for each application of variance. The
Zoning Officer shall post notice of hearing on the property in question at
least seven days prior to the hearing date. Notice shall be published once in a
newspaper of general circulation at least seven days prior to the hearing date.
   (B)   The Planning Office is responsible for paying the cost of the notice.
The Board shall take testimony from persons interested in said application.
(2015 Code, § 11-24-5) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.450 APPROVAL.
   In approving applications of appeal or modifications, the Board shall
designate such lawful conditions as will secure substantial protection for the
public health, safety, and general welfare; and shall find as follows:
   (A)   Consistent with intent and purpose. Such modifications will be
consistent with the intent and purpose of this chapter and/or any adopted
growth policy;
   (B)   Unnecessary hardship. Strict compliance with the provisions of this
chapter would create unnecessary hardship or unreasonable situation on a
particular property due to unusual or extreme topography, unusual shape of the
property, or the prevalence of similar conditions in the immediate vicinity of
the property;
   (C)   Minimal adverse effect. Such modifications will have minimal adverse
effects on abutting properties or the permitted uses thereof; and
   (D)   Additional conditions for approval. The lawful conditions stated in
the approval are deemed necessary to protect the public health, safety, and
general welfare, which provisions may include:
      (1)   A time period within which the proposed structures shall be
erected;
      (2)   Requiring landscaping and maintenance thereof;
      (3)   Requiring the surfacing and marking of off-street parking and
loading areas; and
      (4)   Any other conditions as will make possible the development of the
city in an orderly and efficient manner and in conformity with the intent and
purpose set forth in this subchapter.
(2015 Code, § 11-24-6) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.451 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
   Any approval under this subchapter shall be subject to the terms of the
conditions designated in connection therein.
(2015 Code, § 11-24-7) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.452 APPEALS TO BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Right to appeal. Any officer, department, board, or bureau of the
municipality, or any person aggrieved or affected by any decision of the Zoning
Officer, may take appeals to the Board of Adjustment. Such appeal shall be
taken within a reasonable time by filing with the Board of Adjustment a notice
of appeal specifying the reasons for such appeal, and transmitting all papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed was taken.
   (B)   Hearing; notice; Board’s decision. The Board of Adjustment shall fix a
reasonable time for the hearing of appeal not to exceed 30 days, publish notice
once in a newspaper of general circulation at least seven days prior to the
hearing date, as well as due notice to the parties in interest. The Board shall
render a decision within a reasonable time not to exceed ten days thereafter.
At the hearing, any party may appear in person or by attorney.
   (C)   Stay of proceedings.
      (1)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed, unless the applicant certifies to the Board of Adjustment after the
notice of appeal shall have been filed that, by reason of facts stated in the
certificate, a stay would cause imminent peril to life or property.
      (2)   In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a
restraining order, which may be granted by the Board of Adjustment or by a
court of record on application. The applicant must be notified of the
restraining order and due cause must be shown.
   (D)   Power of Board. In exercising the above mentioned powers, the Board of
Adjustment may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the order,
requirement, decision, or determination brought up for appeal.
(2015 Code, § 11-24-8) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.453 APPEALS FROM BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Any person or persons jointly or severally aggrieved by any decision
of the Board of Adjustment or any taxpayer, officer, department, board, or
bureau of the municipality may present to a court of record a petition, duly
verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal in whole or in part
specifying the grounds of the illegality.
   (B)   Such petition shall be presented to the court within 30 days after the
filing of the decision in the office of the Board.
(2015 Code, § 11-24-9) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.454 TIME DECISION EFFECTIVE.
   The decision of the Board of Adjustment shall be final except as provided
for in this subchapter and, if a land use permit is not obtained for the
subject property within six months from the date of the Board’s decision, the
variance shall be automatically cancelled and become null and void.
(2015 Code, § 11-24-10) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES
§ 154.465 INTENT.
   The intent of this subchapter is to provide a procedure for processing
applications or petitions for zone changes and amendments. The City-County
Planning Board may make recommendations and the City Council may amend,
supplement, or change this subchapter, regulations, and map pertaining hereto.
(2015 Code, § 11-25-1) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.466 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   Written applications for zone changes or amendments shall be submitted,
signed, and filed with the Zoning Officer. No application will be regarded as
having been filed unless it is complete and until the required fee has been
paid.
   (A)   Required information. The application for a zone change shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   A description of the present and proposed zoning;
      (2)   A legal description and general location of the tract upon which
the zone change is sought;
      (3)   The area and dimensions of the parcel;
      (4)   Covenants or deed restrictions on the property, if any, must be
provided with the application; and
      (5)   The name, address, and phone number of the owner(s) of the land and
agent(s), if any. Applications must be signed by the owner(s).
   (B)   List of property owners. A list of all property owners of lots 150
feet from a lot included in a proposed change, their mailing address, and legal
description of their property. The County Clerk and Recorder or a title
abstractor must certify the list.
   (C)   Map. A map showing the present and proposed zone change in relation to
zoning of properties within 150 feet of the property.
   (D)   Deadline for submission. The application must be submitted at least 15
days prior to a meeting of a regularly scheduled meeting of the City-County
Planning Board.
   (E)   Fees. The application must be accompanied by the payment of applicable
fees as set forth in §§
154.425 through
154.431 for the purpose of defraying expenses related to the proceedings. No
application will be regarded as having been filed until such fee has been paid.
   (F)   Withdrawal or amendment. The application may be withdrawn or amended
by the applicant prior to the legal advertising as required by this subchapter
if the request is submitted in writing and signed by the owner(s).
(2015 Code, § 11-25-2) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.467 INVESTIGATION OF AMENDMENT.
   (A)   Zoning Officer to investigate. Upon initiation of an amendment by the
City Council or the City-County Planning Board, or upon petition from a
property owner, the Zoning Officer shall investigate facts bearing on such
initiation or petition and will prepare a report that:
      (1)   Evaluates whether the zone change or amendment is consistent with
the intent and purpose of this chapter;
      (2)   Evaluates the impact of the proposed zone change or amendment on
public facilities and services; and
      (3)   Assesses whether the zone change or amendment is in compliance with
the city growth policy plan, as amended.
   (B)   Additional duties of Zoning Officer. Additionally, the Zoning Officer
shall:
      (1)   Place a notice of the time, date, and place for a public hearing in
a newspaper of general circulation at least 15 days prior to the public
hearing;
      (2)   Notify the owner(s) of the property, or the agent, of the time,
date, and place of the public hearing at least 15 days prior to the public
hearing;
      (3)   Notify the property owners, by mail, of lots 150 feet from a lot
included in the proposed change of the time, date, and place of the public
hearing and proposed use at least 15 days prior to the public hearing. The
Zoning Officer may notify property owners of lots beyond 150 feet if the
officer determines that the proposed use of the property would likely have a
substantial impact on the surrounding land uses; and
      (4)   Post a notice of the time, date, and place of the public hearing on
the property 15 days prior to the public hearing.
(2015 Code, § 11-25-3) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.468 HEARING FOR AMENDMENT.
   (A)   Public hearing required. The City-County Planning Board shall hold a
public hearing on the zone change or amendment at which parties in interest and
citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard. At least 15 days’ notice of
time and place of such hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation. In addition, the Zoning Officer shall post a notice of time and
place of such hearing at least 15 days’ prior to the hearing on the affected
property. All property of lots 150 feet from a lot included in the proposed
change shall be notified of the proposed change by U.S. mail at least 15 days
in advance of the hearing.
   (B)   Board reports and recommendations. After such hearing or hearings, the
City-County Planning Board will make reports and recommendations on said
petition or initiation to the City Council. The recommendation shall address:
      (1)   Whether the zone change or amendment is consistent with the intent
and purpose of this chapter;
      (2)   What impacts the proposed zone change or amendment will have on
public facilities and services;
      (3)   What impacts the proposed zone change or amendment will have on
abutting properties or the permitted uses thereof; and
      (4)   Whether the zone change or amendment is in compliance with the city
growth policy plan, as amended.
(2015 Code, § 11-25-4) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.469 APPROVAL.
   (A)   Basis for approval or denial. The City Council approves such lawful
zone changes or amendments that are not detrimental to substantial protection
of public health, safety, and general welfare. The City Council will base its
final approval or denial on the following criteria:
      (1)   Consistency with the intent and purpose of this subchapter;
      (2)   Compliance with the city growth policy plan, as amended;
      (3)   Impacts to abutting properties or the permitted uses thereof; and
      (4)   Compatibility with prevailing uses in the area. No zone change will
result in spot zoning.
   (B)   Protest. A zone change or amendment may not become effective except
upon a favorable vote of two-thirds of the present and voting members of the
City Council if a protest against a change is signed by the owners of 25% or
more of:
      (1)   The area of lots included in any proposed change; or
      (2)   Those lots 150 feet from a lot included in a proposed change.
(2015 Code, § 11-25-5) (Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a written complaint. Such complaint shall state
fully the causes and basis thereof, and shall be filed with the Zoning Officer.
He or she shall record properly such complaint and immediately investigate and
take action thereon as provided by this chapter.
(2015 Code, § 11-26-1)
   (B)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements, including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with the grant of variances or conditional uses or
any of the requirements for conditions imposed by the City Council, shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than six months or both; and, in
addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense and punishable as
such.
(2015 Code, § 11-26-2)
(Ord. 454, passed 6-19-2000)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
      
II.   FUNDS
      
III.   BONDS
      
IV.   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
      
V.   ABANDONED ALLEYS
TABLE I: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
 
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
R. 916        1-16-2012   Granting a nonexclusive natural gas utility franchise
                          to NorthWestern Corporation.
                         
 
TABLE II: FUNDS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
R. 946        9-6-2016    Fire trucks and fire equipment.
R. 947        9-6-2016    Public works vehicles and equipment.
                         
 
TABLE III: BONDS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
R. 934        4-21-2014   Tax compliance procedures relating to tax-exempt
                          bonds.
                         
 
TABLE IV: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
R. 932        2-18-2014   Workers’ Compensation Program.
                         
 
TABLE V: ABANDONED ALLEYS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Abandonment of the portion of the alley from Big
R. 945        4-18-2016   Timber Loop Road to the east-west alley bisecting
                          Block 18 of the original townsite.
                          Abandonment of Walnut Street to the east-west alley
R. 971        11-29-2018  bisecting Big Timber Loop Road on Block 3 of the
                          Yellowstone Addition.
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Montana Code Annotated
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MONTANA CODE ANNOTATED
MCA Cites Code Section
MCA Cites                    Code Section
                             30.17,
Title 7                      30.39,
                             31.21
7-3-4101                     30.17,
                             30.39
7-3-4102                     30.17
7-4-4303                     30.17
7-4-4305                     30.17
7-4-4306                     30.17
7-5-4103                     30.37,
                             30.38
7-5-4104                     Chapter 90
7-5-4110                     30.41
7-5-4112                     30.42
7-5-4121(2)                  30.37
7-5-4122                     30.17
7-5-4205                     30.17
7-5-4206                     30.17
7-5-4301                     30.43
7-6-616                      33.01
7-14-4102                    71.04
7-14-4103                    71.04
7-21-4201                    Chapter 112
7-21-4207                    Chapter 112
7-21-4208                    Chapter 112
Title 7, Chapter 1, part 41  30.01
Title 70, Chapter 30         30.40
Title 70, Chapter 31         30.40
7-32-4301                    30.44
Title 16, Chapter 3          Chapter 113
Title 16, Chapter 4          Chapter 113
Title 16, Chapter 4, part 2  130.18
16-4-101 et seq.             113.05,
                             113.06
Title 16, Chapter 12         116.03
Title 16, Chapter 12, part 5 116.10
16-12-102                    116.02
16-12-102(10)                116.10
16-12-106                    116.01
16-12-108                    116.01
16-12-501 et seq.            116.01
16-12-503                    116.10
Title 22, Chapter 1, part 7  33.02
22-1-303                     33.02
22-1-305                     33.02
22-1-308                     33.02
22-1-309                     33.02
Title 23, Chapter 5          115.01
27-30-101 et seq.            Chapter 90
27-30-201 et seq.            Chapter 90
45-8-111 et seq.             Chapter 90
Title 50, Chapter 37         94.06
50-46-301 et seq.            132.01
Title 61, Chapter 8          70.01,
                             70.02
61-8-310(1)(d)               Chapter 74, Schedule I
Title 61, Chapter 9          70.01,
                             70.02
69-7-101 et seq.             52.14
75-5-203                     152.047
75-10-520                    154.200,
                             154.202
76-1-108                     154.003
76-2-310(1)                  151.04
76-2-321 through 76-3-328    154.447
Title 76, Chapter 5          152.002,
                             152.003
Title 76, Chapter 5, part 2  152.018
76-5-101 through 76-5-406    152.018
76-5-102                     152.005
76-5-103(1)                  152.018
76-5-103(2)                  152.018
76-5-103(4)                  152.018
76-5-103(5)                  152.018
76-5-103(7)                  152.018
76-5-103(9)                  152.018
76-5-103(10)                 152.018
76-5-103(11)                 152.018
76-5-103(13)                 152.018
76-5-105(1)                  152.151
76-5-105(2)                  152.150
76-5-108                     152.033
76-5-110                     152.999
                             152.003,
76-5-201 et seq.             152.006,
                             152.045
76-5-203                     152.047
                             152.002,
76-5-301                     152.048,
                             152.049
76-5-301(1)                  152.018
76-5-302                     152.003
76-5-401                     152.048
76-5-401(1)                  152.048
76-5-401(2)                  152.048
76-5-401(4)                  152.048
76-5-401(5)                  152.048
76-5-402(2)(b)               152.086
76-5-403(1)                  152.049
76-5-403(2)                  152.049
76-5-403(3)                  152.049
76-5-404                     152.032
                             152.018,
76-5-404(3)                  152.048,
                             152.049
                             152.017,
76-5-404(3)(b)               152.048,
                             152.074
76-5-405                     152.032,
                             152.119
76-5-405(2)                  152.033
76-5-406                     152.033
76-5-406(1)                  152.061
76-5-406(2)                  152.061
76-5-406(3)                  152.061,
                             152.118
76-5-406(4)                  152.061
76-5-406(5)                  152.061
76-5-406(6)                  152.061
76-5-406(7)                  152.061
85-15-101 et seq.            152.072
                             
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2022 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2022 Code Section
1-3-2              10.05
1-4-1              11.01
1-4-2              10.99
1-4-3              10.99
1-5-1              30.15
1-5-2              30.16
1-5-3              30.17
1-5-4              30.18
1-6-1              30.30
1-6-2              30.31
1-6-3              30.32
1-6-4              30.33
1-6-5              30.34
1-6-6              30.35
1-6-7              30.36
1-6-8              30.37
1-6-9              30.38
1-6-10             30.39
1-6-11             30.40
1-6-12             30.41
1-6-13             30.42
1-6-14             30.43
1-6-15             30.44
1-6-16             30.45
1-7-1              31.15
1-7-2              31.16
1-7-3              31.17
1-7-4              31.18
1-7-5              31.19
1-7-6              31.20
1-7-7              31.21
1-7A-1             31.35
1-7A-2             31.36
1-7A-3             31.37
1-7A-4             31.38
1-7B-1             32.15
1-7B-2             32.16
1-7B-3             32.17
1-7B-4             32.18
1-7B-5             32.19
1-7B-6             32.20
1-7B-7             32.21
1-7C-1             32.35
1-7C-2             32.36
1-7C-3             32.37
1-7C-4             32.38
1-7C-5             32.39
1-7C-6             32.40
1-7C-7             32.41
1-7C-8             32.42
1-7C-9             32.43
1-7C-10            32.44
1-7C-11            32.45
1-7C-12            32.46
1-8-1              11.02
1-8-2              30.01
1-8-3              11.03 
1-9-1              31.01
1-9-2              31.02
1-10-1             33.01
2-1-1              110.01
2-1-2              110.02
2-1-3              110.03
2-1-4              110.04
2-1-5              110.05
2-1-6              110.06
2-1-7              110.07
2-1-8              110.08
2-1-9              110.09
2-1-10             110.10
2-1-11             110.11
2-1-12             110.12
2-1-13             110.13
2-1-14             110.14
2-1-15             110.15
2-1-16             110.99
2-2-1              113.01
2-2-2              113.02
2-2-3              113.03
2-2-4              113.04
2-2-5              113.05
2-2-6              113.06
2-2-7              113.99
2-3-1              112.20
2-3-2              112.21
2-3-3              112.22
2-3-4              112.23
2-3-5              112.24
2-3-6              112.25
2-3-7              112.26
2-3-8              112.27
2-3-9              112.99
2-4-1              112.40
2-4-2              112.41
2-4-3              112.42
2-4-4              112.43
2-4-5              112.44
2-4-6              112.99
2-5-1              112.01
2-5-2              112.02
2-5-3              112.03
2-5-4              112.04
2-5-5              112.05
2-5-6              112.06
2-5-7              112.99
2-6-1              114.01
2-6-2              114.02
2-6-3              114.03
2-6-4              114.04
2-6-5              114.05
2-6-6              114.06
2-6-7              114.99
2-7-1              115.20
2-7-2              115.21
2-7-3              115.01
2-7-4              115.22
2-7-5              115.23
2-7-6              115.24
2-7-7              115.25
2-7-8              115.26
2-7-9              115.27
2-7-10             115.28
2-7-11             115.02
2-7-12             115.03
2-7-13             115.29
2-7-14             115.30
2-7-15             115.04
2-7-16             115.31
2-7-17             115.32
2-7-18             115.33
2-7-19             115.34
2-7-20             115.35
2-7-21             115.05
2-7-22             115.36
2-7-23             115.99
3-1-1              90.01
3-1-2              90.02
3-1-3              90.03
3-1-4              90.04
3-1-5              91.07
3-1-6              90.05
3-1-7              90.99
3-2-1              52.01
3-2-2              52.02
3-2-3              52.03
3-2-4              52.04
3-2-5              52.05
3-2-6              52.99
3-3-1              52.01
3-3-2              52.06
3-3-3              52.07
3-3-4              52.08
3-3-5              52.09
3-3-6              52.10
3-3-7              52.11
3-3-8              52.12
3-3-9              52.13
3-4-1              90.20
3-4-2              90.21
3-4-3              90.22
3-4-4              90.23
3-4-5              90.24
3-4-6              90.35
3-4-7              90.36
3-4-8              90.37
3-4-9              90.38
3-4-10             90.39
3-4-11             90.40
3-4-12             90.41
3-4-13             52.99,
                   90.99
3-5-1              132.02
3-5-2              132.03
3-5-3              132.04
3-5-4              132.05
3-5-5              132.99
4-1-1              32.02
4-2-1              130.01
4-3A-1             91.01
4-3A-2             91.05,
                   91.99
4-3A-3             91.06
4-3B-1             91.01
4-3B-2             91.02
4-3B-3             91.03
4-3B-4-1           91.25
4-3B-4-2           91.26
4-3B-4-3           91.27
4-3B-4-4           91.28
4-3B-5             91.08
4-3B-6-1           91.09,
                   91.99
4-3B-6-2           91.10,
                   91.99
4-3B-6-3           91.11,
                   91.99
4-3B-7-1           91.40
4-3B-7-2           91.41
4-3B-7-3           91.42
4-3B-7-4           91.43
4-3B-7-5           91.44
4-3B-8             91.04,
                   91.99
4-3B-9             91.99
4-4-1              131.01
4-4-2              131.02
                   130.15,
4-5-1              130.16,
                   130.17,
                   130.99
4-5-2              130.18,
                   130.99
5-1-1              70.01
5-1-2              70.02
5-2-1              Chapter 74, Schedule III
5-2-2              71.01
5-2-3              71.99
5-3-1              Chapter 74, Schedule I
5-3-2              Chapter 74, Schedule I
5-3-3              Chapter 74, Schedule I
5-3-4              Chapter 74, Schedule I
5-3-5              Chapter 74, Schedule I
5-3-6              71.02,
                   71.03
5-4-1              72.01
5-4-2              72.02
5-4-3              73.99
5-4-4              72.03
5-4-5              Chapter 74, Schedule I
5-4-6              72.04
5-4-7              72.05
5-4-8              72.99
5-5-1              73.15
5-5-2              73.16
5-5-3              73.17
5-5-4              73.18
5-5-5              73.19
5-5-6              73.01
5-5-7              73.99
5-6-1              73.30
                   73.31,
5-6-2              73.32,
                   73.33,
                   Chapter 74, Schedule II
5-6-3              73.34
5-6-4              73.99
6-1-1              92.15
6-1-2              92.16
6-1-3              92.17
6-1-4              92.18
6-2-1              92.30
6-2-2              92.31
6-2-3              92.32
6-2-4              92.33
6-2-5              92.34
6-2-6              92.35
6-2-7              92.36
6-2-8              92.99
6-2-9              92.37
6-3-1              92.03
6-3-2              92.99
6-4-1              92.01
6-4-2              92.99
6-5-1              92.02
6-5-2              92.99
6-6-1              93.20
6-6-2              93.21
6-6-3              93.22
6-6-4              93.23
6-6-5              93.99
6-7-1              93.01,
                   93.02
                   93.03,
6-7-2              93.04,
                   93.05
7-1-1              32.01
7-2-1              94.01
7-2-2              94.99
7-3-1              94.02
7-3-2              94.03
7-3-3              94.04
7-3-4              94.05
7-3-5              94.06
7-3-6              94.99
7-3-7              94.07
8-1-1              151.01
8-1-2              151.02
8-1-3              151.03
8-1-4              151.04
8-1-5              151.05
8-1-6              151.06
8-1-7              151.07
8-1-8              151.08
8-1-9              151.09
8-1-10             151.10
8-1-11             151.11
8-1-12             151.12
8-1-13             151.13
8-1-14             151.14
8-1-15             151.15
8-1-16             151.99
8-2-1              150.01
8-2-2              150.02
8-2-3              150.03
8-2-4              150.04
8-2-5              150.05
8-2-6              150.99
9-1-1              51.01
9-2-1              50.01
10-1-1             153.01
10-1-2             153.02
10-1-3             153.03
11-1-1             154.001
11-1-2             154.002
11-2-1             154.003
11-2-2             154.003
11-3-1             154.015
11-3-2             154.016
11-3-3             154.017
11-3-4             154.018
11-3-5             154.019
11-3-6             154.020
11-3-7             154.021
11-4-1             154.004
11-5-1             154.035
11-5-2             154.036
11-5-3             154.037
11-5-4             154.038
11-5-5             154.039
11-5-6             154.040
11-5-7             154.041
11-5-8             154.042
11-5-9             154.043
11-6-1             154.055
11-6-2             154.056
11-6-3             154.057
11-6-4             154.058
11-6-5             154.059
11-6-6             154.060
11-6-7             154.061
11-6-8             154.062
11-6-9             154.063
11-6-10            154.064
11-7-1             154.075
11-7-2             154.076
11-7-3             154.077
11-7-4             154.078
11-7-5             154.079
11-7-6             154.080
11-7-7             154.081
11-7-8             154.082
11-7-9             154.083
11-7-10            154.084
11-8-1             154.095
11-8-2             154.096
11-8-3             154.097
11-8-4             154.098
11-8-5             154.099
11-8-6             154.100
11-8-7             154.101
11-8-8             154.102
11-8-9             154.103
11-8-10            154.104
11-8-11            154.105
11-9-1             154.120
11-9-2             154.121
11-9-3             154.122
11-9-4             154.123
11-9-5             154.124
11-9-6             154.125
11-9-7             154.126
11-9-8             154.127
11-9-9             154.128
11-9-10            154.129
11-9-11            154.130
11-10-1            154.145
11-10-2            154.146
11-10-3            154.147
11-10-4            154.148
11-10-5            154.149
11-10-6            154.150
11-10-7            154.151
11-10-8            154.152
11-10-9            154.153
11-10-10           154.154
11-10-11           154.155
11-11-1            154.170
11-11-2            154.171
11-11-3            154.172
11-11-4            154.173
11-11-5            154.174
11-11-6            154.175
11-11-7            154.176
11-11-8            154.177
11-11-9            154.178
11-11-10           154.179
11-11-11           154.180
11-12-1            154.195
11-12-2            154.196
11-12-3            154.197
11-12-4            154.198
11-12-5            154.199
11-12-6            154.200
11-12-7            154.201
11-12-8            154.202
11-12-9            154.203
11-12-10           154.204
11-13-1            154.215
11-13-2            154.216
11-13-3            154.217
11-13-4            154.218
11-13-5            154.219
11-13-6            154.220
11-13-7            154.221
11-13-8            154.222
11-13-9            154.223
11-13-10           154.224
11-13-11           154.225
11-14-1            154.240
11-14-2            154.241
11-14-3            154.242
11-14-4            154.243
11-14-5            154.244
11-14-6            154.245
11-14-7            154.246
11-14-8            154.247
11-14-9            154.248
11-14-10           154.249
11-14-11           154.250
11-14-12           154.251
11-14-13           154.252
11-14-14           154.253
11-14-15           154.254
11-14-16           154.255
11-14-17           154.256
11-14-18           154.257
11-14-19           154.258
11-14-20           154.259
11-14-21           154.260
11-15-1            154.275
11-15-2            154.276
11-15-3            154.277
11-15-4            154.278
11-15-5            154.279
11-15-6            154.280
11-15-7            154.281
11-15-8            154.282
11-16-1            154.295
11-16-2            154.296
11-16-3            154.297
11-16-4            154.298
11-16-5            154.299
11-16-6            154.300
11-16-7            154.301
11-17-1            154.315
11-17-2            154.316
11-17-3            154.317
11-17-4            154.318
11-17-5            154.319
11-17-6            154.320
11-17-7            154.321
11-18-1            154.335
11-18-2            154.336
11-18-3            154.337
11-18-4            154.338
11-18-5            154.339
11-18-6            154.340
11-18-7            154.341
11-19-1            154.355
11-19-2            154.356
11-19-3            154.357
11-19-4            154.358
11-19-5            154.359
11-19-6            154.360
11-19-7            154.361
11-19-8            154.362
11-20-1            154.375
11-20-2            154.376
11-20-3            154.377
11-20-4            154.378
11-20-5            154.379
11-21-1            154.390
11-21-2            154.391
11-21-3            154.392
11-22-1            154.405
11-22-2            154.406
11-22-3            154.407
11-22-4            154.408
11-22-5            154.409
11-22-6            154.410
11-22-7            154.411
11-23-1            154.425
11-23-2            154.426
11-23-3            154.427
11-23-4            154.428
11-23-5            154.429
11-23-6            154.430
11-23-7            154.431
11-24-1            154.445
11-24-2            154.446
11-24-3            154.447
11-24-4            154.448
11-24-5            154.449
11-24-6            154.450
11-24-7            154.451
11-24-8            154.452
11-24-9            154.453
11-24-10           154.454
11-25-1            154.465
11-25-2            154.466
11-25-3            154.467
11-25-4            154.468
11-25-5            154.469
11-26-1            154.999
11-26-2            154.999
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
821      6-21-1999   91.26,
                     91.28
909      6-27-2011   33.15,
                     33.16
911      8-1-2011    31.03
912      8-15-2011   34.01
913      8-15-2011   31.04
914      8-15-2011   34.02,
                     34.03
916      1-16-2012   TSO Table I
932      2-18-2014   TSO Table IV
934      4-21-2014   TSO Table III
945      4-18-2016   TSO Table V
946      9-6-2016    TSO Table II
947      9-6-2016    TSO Table II
                     50.02,
                     50.03,
                     50.04,
                     50.05,
956      5-15-2017   50.06,
                     50.07,
                     50.08,
                     50.09,
                     50.10
                     51.02,
                     51.03,
                     51.04,
957      5-15-2017   51.05,
                     51.06,
                     51.07,
                     51.08,
                     51.09
971      11-29-2018  TSO Table V
973      5-5-2019    33.02
975      5-6-2019    91.04,
                     91.99
984      9-16-2019   52.14
986      11-18-2019  91.04,
                     91.99
998      11-2-2020   33.03
999      4-19-2021   153.01
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed             Description
426      11-21-1992              72.04,
                                 72.05
442      10-3-1996               153.02,
                                 153.03
444      6-4-1997                30.31
447      12-21-1998              31.20
448      3-20-2000               151.04,
                                 151.09
450      5-15-2000               72.02
451      5-15-2000               72.01
                                 154.001 -
                                 154.004,
                                 154.015 -
                                 154.020,
                                 154.035 -
                                 154.043,
                                 154.055 -
                                 154.064,
                                 154.075 -
                                 154.084,
                                 154.095 -
                                 154.105,
                                 154.120 -
                                 154.130,
                                 154.145 -
                                 154.155,
                                 154.170 -
                                 154.180,
                                 154.195 -
                                 154.204,
                                 154.215 -
                                 154.225,
                                 154.240 -
                                 154.260,
454      6-19-2000               154.275 -
                                 154.282,
                                 154.295 -
                                 154.298,
                                 154.300,
                                 154.301,
                                 154.315 -
                                 154.321,
                                 154.335 -
                                 154.341,
                                 154.355 -
                                 154.362,
                                 154.375 -
                                 154.379,
                                 154.390 -
                                 154.392,
                                 154.405 -
                                 154.411,
                                 154.425 -
                                 154.431,
                                 154.445 -
                                 154.454,
                                 154.465 -
                                 154.469,
                                 154.999
455      8-21-2000               130.01
457      9-5-2000                72.03
458      9-5-2000                Chapter 75, Schedule I
449      5-1-2001                11.01
460      9-3-2002                72.99
                                 154.122,
461      6-16-2003               154.147,
                                 154.197
                                 151.11,
462      6-16-2003               151.12,
                                 151.13
463      11-3-2003               94.07
464      3-1-2004                Chapter 75, Schedule I
465      12-20-2004              Chapter 75, Schedule I
466      7-5-2005                91.26
469      8-20-2007               94.06
471      6-1-2009                154.077
                                 52.99,
                                 90.21,
                                 90.22,
                                 90.23,
                                 90.24,
                                 90.35,
472      11-16-2009              90.36,
                                 90.37,
                                 90.38,
                                 90.39,
                                 90.40,
                                 90.41,
                                 90.99
-        11-16-2009              90.20
                                 132.02,
                                 132.03,
474      1-4-2010                132.04,
                                 132.05,
                                 132.99
478      - -2011                 132.01
480      8-1-2011                91.06
481      6-4-2012                94.02
483      6-16-2014               91.05,
                                 91.99
                                 152.001,
                                 152.002,
                                 152.003,
                                 152.004,
                                 152.005,
                                 152.006,
                                 152.007,
                                 152.008,
                                 152.009,
                                 152.010,
                                 152.011,
                                 152.012,
                                 152.013,
                                 152.014,
                                 152.015,
                                 152.016,
                                 152.017,
                                 152.018,
                                 152.030,
                                 152.031,
                                 152.032,
                                 152.033,
                                 152.045,
                                 152.046,
                                 152.047,
                                 152.048,
                                 152.049,
                                 152.060,
                                 152.061,
                                 152.062,
                                 152.063,
                                 152.064,
                                 152.065,
484      4-20-2015               152.066,
                                 152.067,
                                 152.068,
                                 152.069,
                                 152.070,
                                 152.071,
                                 152.072,
                                 152.073,
                                 152.074,
                                 152.085,
                                 152.086,
                                 152.087,
                                 152.088,
                                 152.100,
                                 152.101,
                                 152.115,
                                 152.116,
                                 152.117,
                                 152.118,
                                 152.119,
                                 152.120,
                                 152.135,
                                 152.136,
                                 152.137,
                                 152.138,
                                 152.139,
                                 152.150,
                                 152.151,
                                 152.152,
                                 152.153,
                                 152.154,
                                 152.155,
                                 152.156,
                                 152.999
485      8-1-2016                94.06,
                                 94.99
                                 131.01,
486      12-4-2017               131.03,
                                 131.99
                                 111.01,
                                 111.02,
                                 111.03,
                                 111.04,
                                 111.05,
487      5-4-2020                111.06,
                                 111.07,
                                 111.08,
                                 111.09,
                                 111.10,
                                 111.11,
                                 111.99
488      9-7-2021                71.04,
                                 71.99
490      3-21-2022               Adopting Ordinance
491      8-15-2022               154.122
                                 116.01 -
489      12-6-2021 amd. 6-6-2022 116.03,
                                 116.10 -
                                 116.12
                                 116.01 -
493      1-16-2023               116.03,
                                 116.10 -
                                 116.12
495      11-22-2023              34.04
496      5-19-2025               11.02
                                
 
