TOWN CODE
of
CHESTER, MONTANA
2014
Code current through:
Ord. 189-2014, passed 9-10-2014
Published by:
STERLING CODIFIERS
an
American Legal Publishing Company
525 Vine Street  *  Suite 310  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the Town of Chester, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including Ordinance 189-2014, passed September 10, 2019.  Ordinances of the
Town adopted after said resolution supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Town
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
Sterling Codifiers
Cincinnati, Ohio
PENDING ORDINANCES
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
CHESTER TOWN CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the town council, this code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official town code of Chester. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the CHESTER TOWN CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the town council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the town as provided in section 1-1-
3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained herein
shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2014 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the town of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section 1-2-1 of this title. (2014 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and such ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in its
proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(2014 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
town council. The town clerk-treasurer shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk-
treasurer. Any person having custody of a copy of this code shall make every
effort to maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances passed.
Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages
when such are delivered or made available to such person through the office of
the town clerk-treasurer. Such code books, while in actual possession of
officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the
town and shall be returned to the office of the town clerk-treasurer when
directed so to do by order of the council. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the town passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances vacating
streets, alleys or other public places; improvement ordinances; bond
ordinances; ordinances relating to elections; ordinances relating to the
transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the town; and all special
ordinances. (2014 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2014 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Currently Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the town herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the town under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2014 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The council hereby declares that it would have
passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this code by words importing the singular number only,
or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the opposite
gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided, that
these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this code
which contains any express provision excluding such construction or where the
subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the town has been
changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection", or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the town ordinances is not meant to amend passage
and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2014 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CODE: The municipal code of the town of Chester.
COUNCIL: The town council of the town of Chester.
COUNTY: The county of Liberty, state of Montana.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a town employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the town of
Chester".
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MCA: Montana Code Annotated, as amended.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the town, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the town.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a town officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the town of
Chester".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Shall extend and be applied to associations, clubs, societies, firms,
partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Montana.
STREET: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with others.
TOWN: The town of Chester, county of Liberty, state of Montana.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person or, in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2014 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Execution On Fine
1-4-3: Acts Punishable Under Different Sections
1-4-4: Liability Of Officers And Employees
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1
:
   A.   Penalty: Whenever in any provision of this code or other ordinance of
the town any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful, a
misdemeanor or an offense, or whenever in any such provision or ordinance the
doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful, where no specific penalty is otherwise provided therefor, any person,
upon conviction for the violation of any such provision of this code or
ordinances, shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each such offense.
   B.   Limitation; Compliance With Statute: The provisions of subsection A of
this section notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than or less than
that established by state statute for the same offense; nor shall terms of
imprisonment be greater than that established by state statute for the same
offense.
   C.   Separate Offense For Each Day: Unless specifically provided otherwise,
or the context thereof so dictates, each day any violation of any provision of
this code or any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(2014 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA §§ 7-5-109, 7-5-4207.
1-4-2: EXECUTION ON FINE:
If the judgment is for a fine alone, execution may issue thereon as on a
judgment in a civil case. (2014 Code)
1-4-3: ACTS PUNISHABLE UNDER DIFFERENT SECTIONS:
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may proceed
under both, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the same person
for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit
shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty
being enforced. (2014 Code)
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any town officer or
employee shall be so construed so as to make such officer or employee liable
for any fine or penalty provided in this code for a failure to perform such
duty, unless the intention of the town council to impose such a fine or penalty
on such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the
section creating the duty. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Mayor
1-5-2: Town Council
1-5-3: Meetings
1-5-4: Vacancies In Office
1-5-5: Duties Generally
1-5-1: MAYOR:
   A.   Qualifications: No person shall be eligible for the office of mayor
unless such person is a citizen of the United States, is at least twenty one
(21) years of age, has been a resident of the state for at least three (3)
years and a resident of the town or area which has been annexed by the town for
a period of two (2) years next preceding his election.
   B.   Term Of Office: The mayor shall serve for a term of four (4) years.
   C.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The mayor shall have those powers and duties established by state
statute. (2014 Code)
      2.   The mayor is the chief executive officer of the town, and has the
power to:
         a.   Nominate and, with the consent of the council, to appoint all
nonelective officers of the town provided for by the council, except as
provided in this title;
         b.   Suspend and, with the consent of the council, to remove any
nonelective officers, stating in the suspension or removal the cause thereof;
         c.   Cause the ordinances of the town to be executed, and to supervise
the discharge of official duty by all subordinate officers;
         d.   Communicate to the council, at the beginning of every session and
oftener if necessary, a statement of the affairs of the town, with such
recommendations as the mayor may deem proper;
         e.   Recommend to the council such measures connected with the public
health, cleanliness and ornament of the town, and the improvement of the
government and finances, as the mayor deems expedient;
         f.   Approve all ordinances and resolutions of the council adopted by
it, and, in case the same do not meet his approbation, to return the same to
the next regular meeting of the council, with his objections in writing, and no
ordinance or resolution so vetoed by the mayor must go into effect unless the
same is afterwards passed by two-thirds (2/3) vote of the whole number of
members of the council;
         g.   Veto any objectionable part of a resolution or ordinance and
approve the other parts. If the mayor fails to return any resolution or
ordinance as aforesaid, the same takes effect without further action;
         h.   Call special meetings of the council, and when so called he must
state by message the object of the meeting, and the business of the meeting
must be restricted to the object stated;
         i.   Cause to be presented, once in three (3) months, a full and
complete statement of the financial condition of the town;
         j.   Bid in for the town any property sold at a tax or judicial sale,
where the town is a party or interested;
         k.   Procure and have a seal of the town, which shall be in the
possession of the town clerk-treasurer;
         l.   Take and administer oaths; (1969 Code §2.12.010)
         m.   Call on citizens of the town, over the age of eighteen (18)
years, to aid in the enforcement of the laws and ordinances in case of riots;
to call out the militia to aid him in suppressing the same or other disorderly
conduct, preventing and extinguishing fires, for securing the peace and safety
of the town, or for carrying into effect any law or ordinances; and any person
who does not obey such call forfeits to the town a fine not exceeding twenty
five dollars ($25.00); (1969 Code §2.12.010; amd. 2014 Code)
         n.   Require of any of the officers of the town an exhibit of his
books and papers;
         o.   Grant pardons and remit fines and forfeitures for offenses
against the town ordinances, when, in his judgment, public justice would be
thereby subserved; but he must report all pardons granted, with the reasons
therefor, to the next council;
         p.   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by law or by
resolution or ordinance of the council.
      3.   The mayor has such power as may be vested in him by ordinances of
the town, in and over all places within five (5) miles of the boundaries of the
town, for the purposes of enforcing the health and quarantine ordinances and
regulations thereof.
      4.   The mayor is the presiding officer of the council, must sign the
journals thereof and all warrants on the town clerk- treasurer, and decide by
his vote all ties and has no other vote. (1969 Code §2.12.010)
1-5-2: TOWN COUNCIL:
   A.   Composition And Term: There shall be two (2) council members
representing each ward of the town. At each town election hereafter, one
council member shall be elected from each town ward, as described in section 1-
8-2 of this title, for a term of four (4) years or until his successor is
elected and qualified.
   B.   President Of Council: At the time of taking office, the town council
shall elect one of the members of the council who shall be styled president of
the council and who shall preside at all meetings of the council in the absence
of the mayor and, in the absence of the president of the council, shall elect
one of their own body to occupy his place temporarily, who shall be styled
acting president of the council, and the president and acting president, when
occupying the place of mayor, shall have the same privileges as other members
of the council, and all acts of the president and acting president, while so
acting, shall be binding upon the council and upon the town as if done by the
mayor. (2014 Code)
   C.   Rules Of Order:
      1.   Order Of Business: At the hour appointed for the meeting of the
council, the mayor shall take the chair and direct a call of the members by the
town clerk-treasurer, who shall note the absents. Upon appearance of a quorum,
the mayor shall call to order and proceed with the order of business: a)
reading and approving minutes of last meeting; b) communications and reports of
officers; c) petitions, remonstrances and miscellaneous communications; d)
reading ordinances and referring to committees; e) reports of committees; f)
reports of special committees; g) unfinished business; h) adjournment. The
order of business shall not be changed unless by unanimous vote of all present.
(1969 Code §2.04.010)
      2.   Duties Of Presiding Officer: The presiding officer shall possess the
power and perform the duties as hereinafter preserved:
         a.   Shall preserve order;
         b.   Shall decide all questions of order, subject to appeal to the
council; on every appeal he shall have the right in his place to assign his
reasons for his division and any member may state his grounds for appeal;
         c.   Shall appoint all committees. (1969 Code §2.04.020)
      3.   Calling Member To Order: Any member may be called to order, in which
case the member must sit down. The point of order shall be stated, at the
request of the presiding officer, by the member raising it and shall be decided
without debate. (1969 Code §2.04.030)
      4.   Voting Procedure: Every member shall vote when a question is stated
from the chair, unless excused by the council, and every member when voting
shall be in his place. (1969 Code §2.04.040)
      5.   Presentation Of Petitions: Petitions and other papers may be
presented by the presiding officer or any member. (1969 Code §2.04.050)
      6.   Seconding Motion: No motion shall be debated, or put until seconded,
and no member shall make or second a motion unless he rises, and then seconds.
The motion shall be stated by the presiding officer before being put on debate
and shall be reduced to writing by any member making it, upon the request of
any member or the presiding officer. It may be withdrawn at any time before
decision by unanimous consent. (1969 Code §2.04.060)
      7.   Votes Entered In Minutes: If any two (2) members require it, the
yeas and nays upon any question shall be taken and entered on the minutes of
the council. (1969 Code §2.04.070)
      8.   Motions Allowed When Question Pending: When a question is pending,
no motion will be entertained except as hereinafter specified:
         a.   For adjournment;
         b.   To lay on table;
         c.   To postpone indefinitely;
         d.   To postpone to a certain day;
         e.   To refer to a standing committee;
         f.   To refer to a special committee;
         g.   To amend. (1969 Code §2.04.080)
      9.   Motion To Adjourn Or Postpone: A motion to adjourn or lay on the
table shall be decided without debate and the several motions to postpone shall
preclude debate. (1969 Code §2.04.090)
      10.   Reconsideration Of Question: When a question has been once put and
decided, it will be permissible that any member who voted in the majority may
move for reconsideration of the question. (1969 Code §2.04.100)
      11.   Receipt Of Report: No report shall be received unless the committee
shall have considered the report. (1969 Code §2.04.110)
      12.   Standing Committees: The following standing committees shall be
appointed by the mayor as soon as possible and practicable:
         a.   Water, sewer, garbage;
         b.   Streets;
         c.   Administration;
         d.   Equipment;
         e.   Public safety (fire, police, lights, ordinance reviews);
         f.   Long term planning;
         g.   Parks and recreation. (1969 Code §2.04.120; amd. 2014 Code)
      13.   Amendments: No standing rule or order of the council shall be
repealed, changed or suspended, except by a vote of five (5) members, and the
same applies in adding and amending rules. (1969 Code §2.04.130)
1-5-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   Specified: The regular meetings of the council shall be held on the
second Wednesday of each month at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. Special meetings
may be called by the mayor or any two (2) council members. The town clerk-
treasurer, upon their request, shall give notice of the same. (1969 Code
§2.04.140; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Attendance: It shall be the duty of the members to attend every meeting
and remain until the same is closed. (1969 Code §2.04.150; amd. 2014 Code)
1-5-4: VACANCIES IN OFFICE:
   A.   When a vacancy occurs in any elective office, this position is
considered open and subject to nomination and election at the next general
municipal election in the same manner as the election of any other person
holding the same office, except the term of office is limited to the unexpired
term of the person who originally created the vacancy. Pending an election and
qualification, the council shall, by a majority vote of the members, appoint a
person within thirty (30) days of the vacancy to hold the office until a
successor is elected and qualified.
   B.   If all council positions become vacant at one time, the board of county
commissioners shall appoint persons within five (5) days to hold office as a
town council member. The appointed town council member shall then appoint
persons to any other vacant elective offices.
   C.   A vacancy in the office of town council member must be filled from the
ward in which the vacancy exists. (2014 Code)
1-5-5: DUTIES GENERALLY:
Members of the town council, the legislative and policy making branch of the
government of the town, shall devote so much of their time to the duties of
their office as an efficient and faithful discharge thereof may require. They
shall attend all meetings of the council, unless lawfully excused therefrom,
and perform all duties which by the nature of their office they would
reasonably perform, such as the passing of ordinances and resolutions, and the
investigation and study of work done for the town according to the character of
committee upon which they may severally be appointed. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 6
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Residency Requirements
1-6-2: Clerical And Administrative Assistance
1-6-3: Town Judge
1-6-4: Public Works Director
1-6-5: Town Clerk-Treasurer
1-6-6: Salaries
1-6-1: RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All employees of the town are required to maintain residency within the
town limits or within a twenty (20) minute response time to their place of
employment. In establishing and verifying the twenty (20) minute response time,
the public works director shall have full discretion.
   B.   All employees desiring to live outside of the town limits shall:
      1.   Obtain written permission from his or her respective department head
and the public works director.
      2.   Provide a personal, one party line telephone connection to his or
her place of residency or have cellular service available to be contacted on
the town cellphone. (2014 Code)
1-6-2: CLERICAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANCE:
The town council may approve payment of claims submitted by clerical and
administrative help in conjunction with the preparation and work involved in
the necessary undertaking relevant to the financial system of the town where
such assistance is necessary during periods of time in the year when a peak
volume of work shall be performed. (2014 Code)
1-6-3: TOWN JUDGE:
   A.   The office of town judge of the town court shall be filled by
appointment by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the town council.
   B.   To be eligible for appointment as town court judge, a person must meet
all requirements set forth in state statutes for qualifications of a justice of
the peace, be a resident of Liberty County for at least one year and, after
appointment, meet all other qualifications required by law. Any person so
appointed shall, in addition, be required to provide a personal, one party line
telephone connection to his or her place of residency or have cellular service
available to be contacted on the town cellphone. (2014 Code)
1-6-4: PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR:
   A.   Definition:
      1.   As used in this code and in the ordinances of the town, the term
"public works director" means any employee or agent of the town who is
designated as public works director. The term "public works director" also
means and includes each of the following, and where each of the following terms
is used in this code and in the ordinances of the town, said term includes the
term "public works director":
   Street supervisor
   Superintendent of department of sanitation
   Supervisor of waterworks
      2.   The public works director is supervisor of all daily public works
operations.
   B.   Duties: The public works director is hereby empowered, authorized and
directed to perform all of the acts and duties of all of the persons or
officers designated in subsection A of this section. (2014 Code)
1-6-5: TOWN CLERK-TREASURER:
The town clerk-treasurer shall perform all duties prescribed by the statutes of
the state and the ordinances of this town. At the first meeting of the council
in each month, the town clerk shall present to the council a report in writing
giving a statement of all warrants drawn during the preceding month and the
funds upon which they were drawn. (1969 Code §2.08.030; amd. 2014 Code)
1-6-6: SALARIES:
The monthly salaries of the respective employees shall be fixed by the council
at the beginning of each fiscal year. (1969 Code §2.08.020; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 7
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Corporate Seal
1-7-1: CORPORATE SEAL:
The official corporate seal of the town is a seal, circular in form, with the
words "Town of Chester, Montana" in the outer circle, and in the inner circle
the words "Liberty County", and the same shall be used in all cases when
necessary to use the corporate seal of the town. (1969 Code §1.08.010)
CHAPTER 8
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Election Procedure
1-8-2: Ward Boundaries
1-8-1: ELECTION PROCEDURE:
The procedure for holding town elections shall be as provided by state law.
(2014 Code)
1-8-2: WARD BOUNDARIES:
The boundaries of the wards for election and other purposes within the town are
as follows:
   A.   Ward 1:
      Entire Taylor addition to the townsite of Chester.
      Entire Spangler's third addition to the townsite of Chester.
      Entire Weldy-Taylor addition to the townsite of Chester.
      Entire Swank's first addition to the townsite of Chester.
      Entire Swank's second addition to the townsite of Chester.
      School addition to the townsite of Chester, portions of block 1 lying
east of the north-south alley, being lots 4, 5, 6 & 7 and all of block 2.
      Original townsite of Chester, block 1, lots 9-18; block 5, lots 12-21;
all of blocks 2, 3, 4, 6, 7 & 8.
      Spangler's first addition to the townsite of Chester, block 1, lots 14-
19; block 5, lots 16-21; block 9, lots 9 and 10; all of blocks 2, 3, 4, 6, 7,
8, 10, 11, 12.
   B.   Ward 2:
      Original townsite of Chester, block 1, lots 1-8; block 5, lots 1-11.
      Spangler's first addition to the townsite of Chester, block 1, lots 1-13;
block 5, lots 1-15; block 9, lots 1-8.
      School addition to the townsite of Chester, block 1, the three lots lying
west of the north-south alley, being lots 1, 2 & 3.
      Kolstad addition to the townsite of Chester, lot 1.
      Snyder addition to the townsite of Chester.
      Spangler's second addition to the townsite of Chester, blocks 3 and 4.
      Hamilton addition to the townsite of Chester, blocks 6, 7, 10, 13, 14, 17
& 18.
      All of the Chester Square Park.
      Eversmeyer's addition to the townsite of Chester, blocks 3, 4, 7, 8, 11,
12, 15 & 16.
   C.   Ward 3:
      Spangler's second addition to the townsite of Chester, blocks 1 & 2.
      Hamilton addition to the townsite of Chester, blocks 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, 9,
11, 12, 15 & 16.
      Eversmeyer's addition to the townsite of Chester, blocks 1, 2, 5, 6, 9,
10, 13 & 14.
      Entire Gagnon addition to the townsite of Chester. (2014 Code)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
RESERVED
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definition
3-1-2: State Provisions Adopted By Reference; Compliance Required
3-1-3: License Required; Fees
3-1-4: Application For License
3-1-5: Issuance Of License; Records Kept
3-1-6: Term Of License; Expiration
3-1-7: Transfer Of License
3-1-8: Display Of License
3-1-9: Days And Hours Of Sales; Business Restrictions
3-1-10: Underage Persons
3-1-11: Prohibited Acts
3-1-12: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
3-1-13: Administration And Enforcement
3-1-14: Violation; Penalty
3-1-15: Convictions Reported To State
3-1-1: DEFINITION:
The phrase "Montana alcoholic beverage code", as used in this chapter, is
defined as Montana Code Annotated title 16, chapters 1 through 6. (2014 Code)
3-1-2: STATE PROVISIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Statute Sections Adopted: The following sections of the Montana
alcoholic beverage code are hereby incorporated by reference and adopted as
part of this chapter: 16-1-101, 16-1-106, 16-3-101, 16-3-103, 16-3-105, 16-3-
106, 16-3-201, 16-3-301 through 16-3-311, inclusive, 16-4-101 through 16-4-106,
inclusive, 16-4-201 through 16-4-207, inclusive, 16-4-301, 16-4-402(1) and (3),
16-4-407, 16-4-501 through 16-4-503, inclusive, 16-6-301, 16-6-305, 16-6-310,
and 16-6-311.
   B.   Compliance: The town hereby recognizes its power to enforce the Montana
alcoholic beverage code in full concurrence with state law. To that end,
whenever the state legislature amends or repeals the Montana alcoholic beverage
code, the amendments or repeals shall automatically take effect in this code.
Whenever the Montana department of revenue amends or repeals any regulation, or
makes any new or supplementary regulations under the Montana alcoholic beverage
code or any act amendatory or supplementary thereto, then the amendments or
repeals shall automatically take effect in this code. Nothing in this
subsection shall be construed as an abrogation on the part of the town of any
of the state's powers to apply and enforce the Montana alcoholic beverage code.
(2014 Code)
3-1-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES:
   A.   License Required; Fees Established: Any person, firm or corporation who
desires to sell alcoholic beverages in the town shall first obtain a license
from the Montana department of revenue. Each seller of alcoholic beverages
shall pay license fees to the state as provided in Montana Code Annotated
section 16-4-501. Each seller of alcoholic beverages shall also pay license
fees to the town as provided in subsection C of this section.
   B.   Town May Issue And Modify Fees By Resolution: The town reserves the
right to issue and modify town license fees by resolution of the town council.
   C.   Town License Fees: Each seller of alcoholic beverages, whether for
consumption on or off premises, shall pay the license fees by June 30 of each
year in accordance with the fee schedule appendix on file in the town office.
(2014 Code)
3-1-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Every person required by this chapter to obtain a license shall follow the
application procedures required by the Montana department of revenue. The
application shall be accompanied by the license fee as required in section 3-1-
3 of this chapter, and if the applicant is an agent, such applicant shall
accompany the application with principal's acknowledgment of such agency. (2014
Code)
3-1-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; RECORDS KEPT:
Upon approval of an applicant's license by the Montana department of revenue,
and timely payment of all state and town licensing fees, the town shall issue
to the applicant a receipt acknowledging payment of all town fees, which shall
constitute a town license. The town clerk-treasurer shall keep a copy of this
chapter in his or her office, and shall keep appropriate records of town
licenses issued, including the date filed, name of applicant, character and
location of the business, and reference to the file number, if any. (2014 Code)
3-1-6: TERM OF LICENSE; EXPIRATION:
Each license shall be issued for a one year period to begin on July 1 and to
expire at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight of June 30 of each succeeding year.
All licenses issued in any year shall expire at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
of June 30 following the date of issuance of such license. (2014 Code)
3-1-7: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
Before a transfer of any license may be made, an application to the town,
accompanied by satisfactory evidence of an approval of the transfer of the
license issued by the Montana department of revenue, shall be provided. (2014
Code)
3-1-8: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Any and all licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be, at
all times, prominently displayed in the place of business of such licensee.
(2014 Code)
3-1-9: DAYS AND HOURS OF SALES; BUSINESS RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Days And Hours Established: All licensed establishments wherein
alcoholic beverages are sold, offered for sale or given away at retail shall be
closed on any day between two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
   B.   Presence On Premises: During such hours, all persons except the
alcoholic beverage licensee and employees of such licensed establishment shall
be excluded from the licensed premises.
   C.   Sales Prohibited; Certain Businesses Exempt From Closing Hours: During
the hours when the licensed establishments where alcoholic beverages are sold
at retail are required by this chapter to be closed, it shall be unlawful to
sell, offer for sale, give away, consume or allow the consumption of alcoholic
beverages. When an establishment licensed to sell alcoholic beverages is
operated in conjunction with a hotel, restaurant, bus depot, railway terminal,
grocery store, pharmacy or other lawful business other than that of the sale of
alcoholic beverages, then such other lawful business need not be closed.
   D.   Consumption Prohibited: No alcoholic beverages shall be consumed or
allowed to be consumed upon or in any premises licensed to sell beer or liquor
at retail during the hours set out in subsection A of this section.
   E.   Violation; Penalties: A violation of any of the provisions of this
section shall be deemed a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, the offender shall
be subject to penalty as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code; the persons
acting as servants, employees or agents shall be severally liable in the same
manner as their employer or principals. (2014 Code)
3-1-10: UNDERAGE PERSONS:
   A.   Possession Of Alcoholic Beverages:
      1.   A person who has not reached the age of twenty one (21) years
commits the offense of possession of an alcoholic beverage if he or she
knowingly has in his or her possession an alcoholic beverage, as defined by
Montana Code Annotated, except a person who has not reached the age of twenty
one (21) years does not commit the offense of possession of an intoxicating
substance when in the course of his or her employment, he or she bags, carries
or transports beer for customers at a grocery store.
      2.   A person convicted of the offense of possession of an alcoholic
beverage shall be subject to penalty as provided in Montana Code Annotated
section 45-5-624.
   B.   Sales Prohibited:
      1.   Prohibitions:
         a.   Except in the case of an alcoholic beverage provided in a
nonintoxicating quantity to a person under twenty one (21) years of age by his
parent or guardian, physician or dentist for medicinal purposes, a licensed
pharmacist upon the prescription of a physician, or an ordained minister or
priest in connection with a religious observance, a person may not sell or
otherwise provide an alcoholic beverage to a person under twenty one (21) years
of age.
         b.   A parent, guardian or other person may not knowingly sell or
otherwise provide an alcoholic beverage in an intoxicating quantity to a person
under twenty one (21) years of age.
         c.   For the purposes of this subsection, "intoxicating quantity"
means a quantity of an alcoholic beverage that is sufficient to produce:
            (1)   A blood, breath or urine alcohol concentration in excess of
0.05; or
            (2)   Substantial or visible mental or physical impairment.
      2.   Violation: A person convicted of a violation of this subsection B
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code. (2014
Code)
3-1-11: PROHIBITED ACTS:
All acts or omissions which are prohibited or declared unlawful by the portions
of the Montana alcoholic beverage code herein adopted by reference, or by such
regulations as may be made by the Montana department of revenue which shall
have the full force and effect of law, are hereby prohibited and declared
unlawful. (2014 Code)
3-1-12: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
If any license issued by the Montana department of revenue, under the
provisions of the Montana alcoholic beverage code, becomes revoked or suspended
under the provisions of said code, the companion license issued under the
provisions of this chapter shall be automatically revoked or suspended for the
same period, and in the event such action by the Montana department of revenue
shall, on appeal, be modified or set aside, the suspension or revocation of the
license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall likewise be
automatically affected. (2014 Code)
3-1-13: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Duties Of Town Clerk-Treasurer: The town clerk-treasurer shall be
charged with the collection of license fees. The town clerk- treasurer shall
prepare and keep appropriate records as provided in section 3-1-5 of this
chapter. All expenses in connection with the administration of this chapter
shall, so far as possible, be charged against the funds collected under this
chapter.
   B.   Enforcement:
      1.   Every person, firm, association or corporation licensed under the
provisions of this chapter shall be subject to regulation, inspection, control
and supervision under the general police power of the town, and all of the
ordinances now in force, or which may hereafter be adopted in aid of such
police power and regulation, and every such license shall be subject to
suspension and revocation as hereinbefore provided.
      2.   The town recognizes the right, among others, reserved by the Montana
alcoholic beverage code to the town, to enact ordinances for the enforcement of
said code. To that end, the penal provisions of the Montana alcoholic beverage
code are hereby adopted as the law of the town, and the town court is hereby
vested with the jurisdiction, and the duty is hereby imposed upon the town
attorney, county sheriff and town court judge to enforce the same. (2014 Code)
3-1-14: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
In addition to the revocation or suspension of license as provided in section
3-1-12 of this chapter, any person who shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
unless otherwise provided in this chapter, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section 1-4-1 of this code. (2014 Code)
3-1-15: CONVICTIONS REPORTED TO STATE:
In case of the conviction of any licensee hereunder of any violation of this
chapter in the town court, the town judge shall, within ten (10) days
thereafter, whether or not an appeal has been taken from the judgment or
conviction, transmit to the Montana department of revenue a certified copy of
the record of conviction. (2014 Code)
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND SANITATION
Nuisances   1
Weeds; Hay   2
Littering   3
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Enumeration Of Nuisance Conditions
4-1-2: Examination Of Premises
4-1-3: Notice Of Nuisance Condition; Abatement
4-1-4: Nuisance On Unoccupied Premises; Abatement By Town
4-1-5: Dangerous Nuisances; Immediate Abatement By Town
4-1-6: Liability For Abatement Costs
4-1-7: Judgment Against Violator; Penalty
4-1-1: ENUMERATION OF NUISANCE CONDITIONS:
   A.   Offensive Premises: Any person who shall suffer or permit any drain,
sewer, yard, grounds or premises belonging to or controlled by him, as agent,
tenant or otherwise, either within the town or within three (3) miles thereof,
to become nauseous, foul, offensive or injurious to the public health, or
unpleasant and disagreeable to adjacent residents or persons passing by, shall
be deemed guilty of committing a nuisance.
   B.   Burial Of Human Bodies: Any person who arranges burial of or buries the
body of a deceased person shall bury the body only within property designated
by the town council as a cemetery. Any person who buries a dead human body in
any property within the town not designated as a cemetery by the town council
is guilty of committing a nuisance.
   C.   Manure Or Garbage Piles; Permit For Burning: Any person who throws out,
piles or deposits any waste or refuse materials within the town limits shall
follow the rules and regulations prescribed by the county sheriff, unless such
materials are piled or deposited for immediate removal. Any person who burns
any straw, hay, paper, wood, boards, boxes, manure or other substance or
material in any street or alley in the town, shall obtain a permit from the
county sheriff. Any person who fails to abide by the rules and regulations
prescribed by the county sheriff or who fails to obtain a burning permit from
the county sheriff shall be guilty of committing a misdemeanor.
   D.   Offensive Substances Or Businesses:
      1.   Any person who conducts any business or occupation that is dangerous
or hazardous to public health within three (3) miles of the town is guilty of
maintaining a nuisance. Such businesses or occupations that are dangerous or
hazardous to public health include businesses or occupations that:
         a.   Agitate or expose any lime, ashes, coal, dry sand, hair,
feathers, or other substance or material that is liable to be blown by the wind
in the town; or
         b.   Boil any offal, swill, bones or fat in the town in ordinary
cooking; or
         c.   Conduct the business of bone crushing, bone boiling, frying or
rendering the lard or tallow, gut cleaning or making other products from dead
animals.
      2.   Any person violating this subsection D, upon conviction thereof,
shall be deemed guilty of maintaining a public nuisance.
   E.   Obstructing Flow Of Water: Any person who places or deposits any dirt,
soil, or other material into or upon any streets or alleys of the town in such
manner, place or quantity as to obstruct the free flow of water along the
natural or established grade of said street or alley, or who refuses or
neglects to remove the same within twenty four (24) hours after notice, either
oral or written, by the public works director, is guilty of committing a
nuisance.
   F.   Killing Or Slaughtering Animals: It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation to kill or slaughter any animals within the town limits or
within three (3) miles thereof, or use or occupy any building for such purpose
without a special permit from the town council and under such rules and
regulations as the county board of health may provide.
   G.   Water Flowing From Premises: Any person who throws, allows or permits
any water or other liquid to run or flow from or off of any premises owned,
occupied or controlled by such person, except the lawful sprinkling of lawns or
streets, into or upon any sidewalks or streets or alleys, or adjacent premises,
shall be deemed guilty of committing a nuisance.
   H.   Accumulation Of Junk Items And Rubbish:
      1.   Prohibited; Nuisance Declared: It shall be unlawful for any person
or corporation to allow, suffer or permit the accumulation of old discarded
automobile bodies, old discarded furniture, old discarded appliances, old
lumber, old paper and other rubbish upon any property owned, occupied or
controlled by such person or corporation within the town limits, and
accumulation of materials and rubbish above named, shall be deemed a nuisance.
      2.   Penalty; Abatement By Town: Any person who refuses or fails to
remove all nuisance materials and remedy any nuisances within thirty (30) days
of receiving notice as provided in section 4-1-3 of this chapter from any
property owned, occupied or controlled by him, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section 4-1-7 of
this chapter. As an additional and concurrent remedy, the town may remove the
nuisance materials and assess the cost of such removal against the property, to
be added to the next annual assessment roll and paid as other taxes and
assessments. (2014 Code)
4-1-2: EXAMINATION OF PREMISES:
For the purpose of carrying the provisions of this chapter into effect, it
shall be the duty of the county board of health, county sheriff or public works
director to make, from time to time, a thorough and systematic examination of
the town, under the rules adopted or to be adopted by the county board of
health, and ascertain and report to the proper authority for prosecution all
violations of this chapter, and for such purpose, said officers shall be
permitted during reasonable hours to visit and enter into and upon any
building, lot, ground or premises within the jurisdiction of the town to make
an investigation and examination thereof. (2014 Code)
4-1-3: NOTICE OF NUISANCE CONDITION; ABATEMENT:
   A.   Issuance Of Notices: In all cases wherein no specific provision is set
out in this code defining what are nuisances and how the removal of the same
may be effected, abated or prevented, in addition to what is declared to be
such herein, those offenses known to the common law of the land as nuisances
may, in the event that the same exist within the town or within three (3) miles
thereof, be considered and treated as nuisances and proceeded against as in
this chapter provided. It shall be the duty of the county board of health,
county sheriff or public works director, or a member of the town council, when
so required, to notify the author of any nuisance within the town limits or
within three (3) miles thereof, either by verbal or written notice, to abate
and remove such nuisance, provided such notice shall be required preliminary to
the commencement of the prosecution of same.
   B.   Failure To Abate; Filing Of Complaint: If such nuisance is not abated
within twenty four (24) hours after the notice aforesaid, then it shall be the
duty of the county sheriff, county board of health or public works director to
forthwith file a complaint under oath, before the town judge, setting forth the
facts constituting the nuisance, to abate or remove the nuisance and enforce
the provisions and penalties herein contained. (2014 Code)
4-1-4: NUISANCE ON UNOCCUPIED PREMISES; ABATEMENT BY TOWN:
In the event that there is any nuisance upon, in or about any unoccupied lot or
premises within the jurisdiction of the town, such lot or premises being owned
by an unknown or absent person, or by a person whom the officers cannot find,
the county board of health, county sheriff or public works director may cause
such nuisance to be removed or abated, the same to be done at the expense of
the owner. If suit for the recovery of costs for abating or removing such
nuisance against the owner of the property or authority of the nuisance, the
town council may, by proper action and procedure, assess such costs to the
property, and such costs shall be lien against the property and collected as a
tax. (2014 Code)
4-1-5: DANGEROUS NUISANCES; IMMEDIATE ABATEMENT BY TOWN:
When any nuisance is dangerous to the health or safety of persons or the
community, and the continuance thereof is likely to result in expense to the
town, and the same is so situated that it may be abated or removed without
injury to private property, it shall be the duty of the county sheriff, public
works director or county board of health to abate and remove the same without
waiting for the conviction of the author thereof from liability as herein
provided. (2014 Code)
4-1-6: LIABILITY FOR ABATEMENT COSTS:
Any person found guilty of keeping, maintaining, permitting or allowing any
nuisance shall be liable for all costs and expense of abating or removing the
same, and such costs and expense shall be taxed as a part of the costs in any
prosecution of the party liable therefor upon his conviction thereof. (2014
Code)
4-1-7: JUDGMENT AGAINST VIOLATOR; PENALTY:
   A.   Judgment; Failure To Abate: When judgment shall be rendered against any
person for creating, maintaining, permitting or keeping any nuisance, it shall
be the duty of the court rendering judgment to order the defendant to forthwith
abate and remove such nuisance within twenty four (24) hours, this penalty to
be in addition to other penalties herein provided. In the event that the
defendant fails to remove or abate said nuisance within twenty four (24) hours,
said defendant may be adjudged by the town judge to be in contempt of court and
may be subject to penalty as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code, and it
shall be the duty of the town or county board of health to abate the nuisance
and charge the same to the owner of the property or author of the nuisance as
herein provided.
   B.   Separate Offense For Each Day: Any person having been found guilty of
maintaining, creating, permitting or keeping any nuisance, who shall fail or
neglect to remove the same within twenty four (24) hours next after judgment of
conviction, shall, for each additional twenty four (24) hours thereafter while
such nuisance continues, be subject to a like penalty for a separate offense as
herein provided.
   C.   General Penalty: Every person convicted of an offense under any section
or subsection of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in section 1-4-
1 of this code. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 2
WEEDS; HAY
SECTION:
4-2-1: Nuisance Weeds Defined
4-2-2: Growth Of Noxious Weeds A Nuisance
4-2-3: Stacking Hay, Grain Or Straw; Permit
4-2-4: Enforcement Of Provisions
4-2-5: Enforced Removal Of Nuisance Weeds From Premises
4-2-6: Penalty
4-2-1: NUISANCE WEEDS DEFINED:
All weeds, grass, and other wild and uncared for vegetation growing to a height
in excess of eight inches (8") on premises located within the town are hereby
declared and determined to be "nuisance weeds". (2014 Code)
4-2-2: GROWTH OF NOXIOUS WEEDS A NUISANCE:
It shall be a public offense, punishable as hereinafter provided, and it is
hereby declared to be a nuisance for any owner, owner's representative,
contract purchaser, or any occupant of real property within the town, to
maintain, cause, permit or suffer any growth of "nuisance weeds", as defined in
section 4-2-1 of this chapter, to exist in or upon any premises in the town
owned by or occupied by such owner, owner's representative, contract purchaser
or occupant, or upon the boulevards or one-half (1/2) of any public roads,
streets and alleys adjacent thereto. (2014 Code)
4-2-3: STACKING HAY, GRAIN OR STRAW; PERMIT:
No person shall be permitted to stack hay, grain or straw within the town
limits without a permit from the chief of the fire department, and when permits
are granted, said person shall protect said stacks of hay, grain or straw from
fire by sheds or coverings, to be built and constructed as the chief of the
fire department and fire committees shall direct. (2014 Code)
4-2-4: ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
It shall be the duty of the county sheriff, or such other person as the town
council may from time to time direct, to enforce the provisions of this chapter
and, upon a determination that a violation of this chapter exists, shall
ascertain the name and mailing address of the owner, owner's representative,
contract purchaser or the occupant of the premises, and the description of the
premises where the violation exists. The name and mailing address of the owner
may be obtained from the current assessment list maintained by the office of
the county assessor. (2014 Code)
4-2-5: ENFORCED REMOVAL OF NUISANCE WEEDS FROM PREMISES:
The following provisions shall apply in cases where removal of nuisance weeds
from a premises is sought in addition to, or in place of, prosecution for
violation of section 4-2-2 of this chapter:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Written notice of violation shall be served upon
the owner, owner's representative, contract purchaser or occupant, directing
that said nuisance weeds shall be cut and removed from the premises within ten
(10) days, or the town will cause said nuisance weeds to be removed, with cost
thereof to be charged against owner, owner's representative, contract purchaser
or occupant. Notice of violation shall be made by posting a copy of said notice
on the premises and by mailing a copy of said notice to the owner, owner's
representative, contract purchaser or occupant by first class United States
mail. Said notice shall be deemed complete on the day the notice is posted or
mailed.
   B.   Action Upon Noncompliance:
1. Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any owner, owner's representative,
contract purchaser or occupant to exterminate or remove such nuisance weeds
growing, lying or located upon the property or upon one-half (1/2) of any road,
street or alley lying next to the lands, or any boulevard abutting thereon,
before the date specified in the notice described in subsection A of this
section, or at any time after the specified date that such weeds reach a height
of eight inches (8") and remain in that manner for a period of seven (7) days,
the town is hereby authorized to exterminate or remove such nuisance weeds. A
fee as provided in the fee schedule appendix on file in the town office shall
be charged for nuisance weed extermination work performed by the town. If the
cost of such extermination and removal are not paid forthwith, then the total
costs shall be assessed against the lot or parcel of land from which or
adjoining which the nuisance weeds shall have been exterminated or removed.
      2.   Each year, the town clerk-treasurer shall prepare a resolution
containing a list of all lots and parcels of land in the town from which, and
adjacent to which, the weeds were exterminated or removed, which list shall
contain opposite the number of such lots or description of such parcels of
land, the name of the owner or owners, if known, and the amount of the costs as
reported to the clerk-treasurer for exterminating or removing such nuisance
weeds. The town clerk-treasurer shall present a resolution to the town council
with the vouchers in support of each removal or extermination, and when the
same is passed by the council and approved by the mayor in the same manner as
other resolutions or special assessments, the assessments therein provided
shall be a lien upon and against the lots or parcels of land. A copy of the
resolution shall be certified to the county treasurer by the town clerk-
treasurer for collection in the same manner as other taxes.
   C.   Access To Premises: Any and all officers charged with enforcement of
this chapter may go upon the lands infested with nuisance weeds, or suspected
thereof, for any purposes necessary to such enforcement.
   D.   Penalty Enforcement: The removal of said nuisance weeds and the
assessment of the costs thereof as provided in this section shall not prevent
the enforcement of the penalties provided in section 4-2-6 of this chapter.
(2014 Code)
4-2-6: PENALTY:
   A.   Any owner, representative, contract purchaser or occupant of the
property violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section 1-4-1 of this code. The imposition of one penalty for any
violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue, and all such
persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violation within a
reasonable time.
   B.   Each seven (7) days that prohibited conditions are maintained shall
constitute a separate offense.
   C.   The enforcement of the penalty provided in this section shall not
prevent the enforced removal of the nuisance weeds and assessment of the costs
thereof as provided in section 4-2-5 of this chapter. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 3
LITTERING
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Prohibited Acts And Regulated Activities
4-3-3: Sweeping Or Depositing Litter Prohibited
4-3-4: Permitting Accumulation Of Uncontainerized Litter Prohibited
4-3-5: Litter From Construction Sites Prohibited
4-3-6: Litter From Loading Or Unloading Operation Prohibited
4-3-7: Violation; Penalty
4-3-8: Enforcement
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
LITTER: Any quantity of uncontainerized garbage, trash, refuse, rubbish, debris
or other waste material, including, but not limited to, cans, bottles, jars,
treated or untreated paper, wrappings, ashes, cigarettes, cardboard, rags, yard
clippings, leaves, grass, wood, glass, dead animals or parts thereof, scrap
metal, salvaged metal, motor vehicle parts including bodies, discarded
furniture, used appliances, or any other matter which constitutes a threat to
public health or safety.
This is not to preclude persons who compost materials described above such as
leaves, grass or wood chips from doing so in a manner not constituting a threat
to public health or safety. A person may also leave grass clippings or leaves
in their yards as a means of protecting gardens or flowerbeds over the course
of a winter when it is their intent to properly dispose or incorporate these
materials the following spring and not to create a public health or safety
concern. A person may also recycle metal so long as it is not done in a manner
creating a public health or safety issue by drawing in insects, such as
creating breeding places for mosquitoes, attracting rodents or vermin, such as
skunks, or otherwise creating a public health concern. However, this is
intended to allow a private citizen the ability to recycle materials on an
occasional basis and is not meant to allow a permanent recycling business in
any residential area of the town. A person may also have woodpiles for burning
as firewood but such should be neatly stacked and not scattered about the yard
or area so as to be unduly unsightly or creating a public health or safety
concern including, but not limited to, creating a fire hazard.
LITTER RECEPTACLE: A container designed for and suitable for the depositing of
litter.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, company, partnership, firm, association or
organization subject to the jurisdiction of the town of Chester as it now
exists or as it may exist subsequent to annexation or addition or by
jurisdictional extension properly adopted by the town council of the town of
Chester.
The town of Chester recognizes that certain businesses within the business or
industrial areas operate businesses which as a necessary part of their business
involve the collecting of scrap metal, used appliances, motor vehicles or
parts, salvaged metal, paper or cardboard, and other such materials defined as
"litter" hereinabove, that these businesses, so long as they continue
operations in a manner not creating either public health or safety issues or
creating an unsightly or disorganized mess, may continue to operate their
business pursuant to appropriate industry standards of that type of business.
(2014 Code)
4-3-2: PROHIBITED ACTS AND REGULATED ACTIVITIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit litter in or
upon any street, sidewalk, or other public place, or any private property,
except in public or private containers designed and intended for the collection
of litter. Persons placing litter in containers shall do so in such a manner as
to prevent it from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any streets,
sidewalks or other public or private property.
   B.   No person shall drive or move any truck or other motor vehicle unless
such vehicle is so constructed or loaded so as to prevent any load, contents or
litter from falling, being blown or otherwise being deposited upon any streets,
alleys or other public places, or any private property.
   C.   In any prosecution for violation of this chapter involving a motor
vehicle, proof that a particular vehicle was the origin of the litter, together
with proof that the defendant was at the time of the alleged violation the
registered owner of the motor vehicle, shall constitute in evidence a
rebuttable presumption that the registered owner was the person who committed
the violation. If a law enforcement officer has the ability to charge a
violation of this chapter to a particular person other than the owner, then the
registered owner shall not be charged. (2014 Code)
4-3-3: SWEEPING OR DEPOSITING LITTER PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall sweep into and leave or deposit in any gutter, alley,
street or other public place within the town any accumulation of litter from
any building or lot, or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway.
   B.   Every person owning or occupying property shall keep the sidewalks and
alleys abutting such property free of litter.
   C.   It is the duty of every person distributing or causing to be
distributed commercial handbills, leaflets, fliers, yard sale notices or other
such advertising to take reasonable measures to ensure such materials are
handled so as to prevent them from littering any public or private property.
All such materials must be removed and properly disposed of within twenty four
(24) hours of the end of the sale or event. (2014 Code)
4-3-4: PERMITTING ACCUMULATION OF UNCONTAINERIZED LITTER PROHIBITED:
Any person being the owner, tenant, or person in control of private property
shall at all times within reason and in a timely manner maintain the premises
free of any uncontainerized litter. Any person who shall suffer or permit any
yard, grounds or premises (including parking lots) belonging to or controlled
by him as agent, tenant or otherwise, within the town limits, to become
nauseous, foul, offensive or injurious to the public health, or unpleasant and
disagreeable to adjacent residents or persons passing by, shall be guilty of
committing a nuisance. (2014 Code)
4-3-5: LITTER FROM CONSTRUCTION SITES PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person being the owner or person in charge of any property upon
which a structure is being constructed or demolished shall permit the
accumulation of uncontainerized litter upon such property or permit litter
therefrom to become blown or scattered upon such property or any other property
or public place.
   B.   No person being the owner or person in charge of any property upon
which a structure is being constructed or demolished shall fail to provide
adequate containers to hold all litter upon such property or otherwise being
produced by the construction or demolition. All containers shall be utilized to
prevent any litter from being blown or otherwise scattered upon the property or
any other property nearby.
   C.   It is the duty of the owner, agent, contractor or any other person in
charge of any property involving either construction or demolition of any
structure to cause, maintain, permit or allow any accumulation of litter or
rubbish on the site before, during and after the completion of the construction
or demolition project. A further part of this duty is to make appropriate
arrangements for the disposal of this litter and rubbish at facilities
authorized for final disposition. All such litter and rubbish shall be
containerized by the end of each day or more often if weather conditions
require more frequent collection prior to being blown or scattered. (2014 Code)
4-3-6: LITTER FROM LOADING OR UNLOADING OPERATION PROHIBITED:
No person owning or having charge of any premises or business upon which
objects or materials are being loaded or unloaded from any motor vehicle or
other device of conveyance shall permit any uncontainerized litter resulting
from such loading or unloading to accumulate upon such property or to be blown
or scattered upon any other property or public place. (2014 Code)
4-3-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
It is a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to do any
act required by this chapter. Every person convicted of a violation of any
provision of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first
conviction. A second offense shall be punished by a fine of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00). A third
or subsequent offense shall be punished by a fine of three hundred dollars
($300.00). (2014 Code)
4-3-8: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   This chapter may be enforced by the county sheriff or public works
director.
   B.   A private citizen who observes another person littering may file a
written, signed and dated statement with the county sheriff or the town office.
The county sheriff or town shall investigate the matter and determine if
further prosecution for violation of this chapter is warranted. (2014 Code)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
Civil Defense Plan   1
Volunteer Fire Department   2
Regulations And Restrictions During Fires   2A
Animal Control   3
Animal Control Generally   3A
Dog Licenses And Regulations   3B
Impoundment Of Animals   3C
Curfew For Minors   4
Fireworks   5
Excess Noise And Disturbing The Peace   6
CHAPTER 1
CIVIL DEFENSE PLAN
SECTION:
5-1-1: Civil Defense Plan Adopted
5-1-2: Administrative Authority
5-1-1: CIVIL DEFENSE PLAN ADOPTED:
The county of Liberty and town of Chester civil defense plan is approved. This
plan provides for an integrated city-county organization for civil defense and
for operations during periods of emergency, and thereby constitutes the most
effective and efficient means of meeting the civil defense needs of the town
and its citizens, by making maximum use of the existing agencies and
capabilities of local government within Liberty County, supported by volunteers
and nongovernmental personnel and resources, to prevent or minimize loss of
life and property that could be caused by enemy attack or other catastrophe or
disaster affecting the town. The mayor is authorized to approve such revisions
of the civil defense plan as may be made, from time to time, if he deems the
revisions to be reasonably necessary to meet the civil defense needs of the
town and its citizens. (1969 Code §2.32.010)
5-1-2: ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY:
The mayor and the board of county commissioners shall, during periods of
emergency caused by enemy attack or other catastrophe or disaster affecting the
town, jointly direct and control the operations of the city-county organization
for civil defense established in the civil defense plan. The mayor is
authorized and directed to take, during such periods of emergency, such actions
as are reasonably necessary to prevent or minimize loss of life and property,
in cooperation with the board of county commissioners and the civil defense
director of Liberty County. (1969 Code §2.32.020)
CHAPTER 2
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-2-1: Organization
5-2-2: Composition
5-2-3: Chief Of Fire Department
5-2-4: Appointment Of Assistant
5-2-5: Duties Of Fire Chief And Assistant
5-2-6: Refusal To Assist; Penalty
5-2-1: ORGANIZATION:
Permission is hereby granted for the organization of a volunteer fire
department in the town, such organization to be made under the provisions of
this chapter and of the state statutes in such case made and provided. (1969
Code §2.16.010)
5-2-2: COMPOSITION:
The volunteer fire department of the town shall consist of one chief of the
fire department, one assistant to the chief, and not to exceed twenty six (26)
firefighters in addition to the chief and his assistant. (1969 Code §2.16.020)
5-2-3: CHIEF OF FIRE DEPARTMENT:
The chief of the fire department shall be a member in good standing of the
department, who has been elected by the members of the department at a regular
meeting of the department at such time during the month of February of each
year as they may provide in their bylaws and whose election shall have been
reported to the town council at the first meeting of the town council
following, and whose election shall have been confirmed by the town council at
such meeting. The chief of the fire department shall serve for one year, or
until his successor is elected and qualified. (1969 Code §2.16.040)
5-2-4: APPOINTMENT OF ASSISTANT:
The chief of the fire department shall appoint the assistant chief from the
regular members of the department, and such assistant chief shall serve during
the chief's pleasure. (1969 Code §2.16.050)
5-2-5: DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF AND ASSISTANT:
The chief of the fire department shall have the sole command and control over
all persons connected with the fire department, shall have charge of and be
responsible for all apparatus which the town furnished the fire department and
see that they are at all times ready for use in the extinguishing of fires. The
assistant chief shall aid the chief in the work of the department and in his
absence shall perform his duties. (1969 Code §2.16.070)
5-2-6: REFUSAL TO ASSIST; PENALTY:
The chief of the fire department and in his absence the assistant chief, when
in the discharge of their duties in extinguishing or fighting fires, shall have
the authority to command any able bodied citizen of the town to assist the
department and any person so ordered by the chief or an assistant chief who
refuses to obey such order shall, upon complaint and conviction thereof, be
fined not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than ten dollars ($10.00),
and all monies collected from such fine shall be credited by the town clerk-
treasurer to the fire fund. (1969 Code §2.16.090)
ARTICLE A.REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS DURING FIRES
SECTION:
5-2A-1: Command At Fires
5-2A-2: Order Closure Of Businesses
5-2A-3: Right Of Way Of Emergency Vehicles
5-2A-4: Following Fire Apparatus; Stopping Near Fire
5-2A-5: Violations; Penalties
5-2A-6: State Law Controlling
5-2A-1:   COMMAND AT FIRES:
The chief of the fire department, and in his absence, the assistant chief of
the fire department, shall have sole and absolute control and command over all
other members of the department and all other persons present at fires and the
movement of all persons or property within the streets in the area threatened
by fire. The firefighter or officer of the fire department who first arrives at
a fire shall be the officer in command until the chief or assistant chief of
the fire department arrives. (2014 Code)
5-2A-2:   ORDER CLOSURE OF BUSINESSES:
The chief of the fire department, or in his absence, the assistant chief of the
fire department, shall have power during any fire, and while the fire
department is engaged in putting out any fire or caring for property at any
fire, to order any place of business in the vicinity of said fire closed for
such length of time as deemed necessary, and any person refusing to comply with
such order shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
fined as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code. (2014 Code)
5-2A-3:   RIGHT OF WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   "Authorized emergency vehicles", by which term is meant fire apparatus
and fire vehicles, vehicles of the police department and ambulances and any
other vehicle deemed an "authorized emergency vehicle" by the state, shall have
the right of way over other vehicles.
   B.   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of Montana Code
Annotated section 61-9-402 or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making
use of an audible signal only, the operator of every other vehicle shall yield
the right of way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as
close as possible to, the right hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any
intersection and shall stop and remain in that position until the authorized
emergency vehicle or police vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed
by a police officer or highway patrol officer.
   C.   Upon approaching a stationary authorized emergency vehicle or police
vehicle that is displaying visible signals of flashing or rotating amber, blue,
red or green lights, the operator of the approaching vehicle shall:
      1.   Reduce the vehicle's speed, proceed with caution, and, if possible,
considering safety and traffic conditions, move to a lane that is not adjacent
to the lane in which the authorized emergency vehicle or police vehicle is
located, or move as far away from the authorized emergency vehicle or police
vehicle as possible; or
      2.   If changing lanes is not possible or is determined to be unsafe,
reduce the vehicle's speed, proceed with caution, and maintain a reduced speed,
appropriate to the road and the conditions, through the area where the
authorized emergency vehicle or police vehicle is stopped. (2014 Code)
5-2A-4:   FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS; STOPPING NEAR FIRE:
The operator of a vehicle, other than one on official business, may not follow
a fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire call closer than five hundred
feet (500') or drive into or stop the vehicle within five hundred feet (500')
of where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire call. (2014 Code)
5-2A-5:   VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Violation Of Provisions; Penalties:
      1.   It is a misdemeanor for a person to violate any of the provisions of
this article unless the violation is declared to be a felony.
      2.   Each person convicted of a misdemeanor for a violation of any of the
provisions of this article for which another penalty is not provided shall be
subject to penalty pursuant to Montana Code Annotated section 61-8-711.
      3.   Except as provided in subsection A4 of this section, failure to pay
a fine imposed under this chapter is a civil contempt of the court. On failure
of payment of a fine, the court may:
         a.   Order enforcement of the fine by execution in the manner provided
in Montana Code Annotated section 25-13-204 and under the provisions of Montana
Code Annotated title 25, chapter 13; or
         b.   If the court finds that the person is unable to pay, order the
person to perform community service.
      4.   If property is not found in an amount necessary to satisfy the
unpaid portion of the fine and if the court makes a written finding that
community service is inappropriate, the person shall be imprisoned in the
county jail and the imprisonment shall be the number of days that the fine is
divisible by the dollar amount of the incarceration credit contained in Montana
Code Annotated section 46-18-403.
      5.   Upon conviction, the court costs or any part of the court costs may
be assessed against the defendant in the discretion of the court.
   B.   Offenses Committed By Underage Persons: A person under eighteen (18)
years of age who is convicted of an offense under this article shall not be
punished by incarceration, but shall be punished by:
      1.   A fine not to exceed the fine that could be imposed on him if he
were an adult; provided, that such person may not be imprisoned for failure to
pay such fine;
      2.   Revocation of his driver's license by the court or suspension of the
license for a period set by the court, not less than thirty (30) days;
      3.   Impoundment, by a law enforcement officer designated by the court,
of the motor vehicle operated by the person for a period of time not exceeding
sixty (60) days if the court finds that he either owns the vehicle or is the
only person who uses the vehicle; or
      4.   Any combination of subsections B1 through B3 of this section. (2014
Code)
5-2A-6:   STATE LAW CONTROLLING:
Nothing in this article shall be construed as conflicting with state law. Any
part of this article that conflicts with state law shall be null and void; the
remaining parts of this article not in conflict with state law shall remain in
full force and effect. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE A.ANIMAL CONTROL GENERALLY
SECTION:
X: Definitions
5-3A-2: Keeping Of Animals
5-3A-3: Cruelty To Animals
5-3A-4: Animals At Large; Prohibited Animals
5-3A-1:   DEFINITIONS:
When used in this article, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
AT LARGE: An animal off the premises of the owner and not under control of the
owner or any other person by leash or chain.
KEEPING: Owning, maintaining, sheltering, harboring or otherwise retaining
control over or possession of an animal.
OWNER: Any person keeping an animal. (2014 Code)
5-3A-2:   KEEPING OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Prohibited Animals: The keeping of goats, swine, horses, sheep, cattle
and any other animal within the limits of the town is prohibited.
   B.   Fowl: The keeping of all outdoor fowl, including chickens, turkeys,
peafowl and bantams, within the limits of the town is prohibited.
   C.   Household Pets: Household pets, including dogs and cats, are permitted;
provided, that they are confined within the owner's or tenant's property,
either by fence or leash.
   D.   Number Permitted: The keeping of more than three (3) permitted animals
is prohibited, except when an increase results from birth. The owner shall have
ninety (90) days to wean such animals and reduce the excess to the number
permitted. (2014 Code)
5-3A-3:   CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
It is prohibited for any person to wilfully or cruelly inflict pain upon or
injure any animals. (2014 Code)
5-3A-4:   ANIMALS AT LARGE; PROHIBITED ANIMALS:
   A.   It is unlawful for the owner of any dog, cat or other animal to permit
the same to be "at large", as defined in section 5-3A-1 of this article.
   B.   It is unlawful for the owner of any horse, cow, sheep, goat, pig,
chicken or other animals or fowl to house, harbor, keep or maintain the same
within the town limits. (1969 Code §8.04.050; amd. 2014 Code)
ARTICLE B.DOG LICENSES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-3B-1: License And Collar Required
5-3B-2: Licensing Procedures
5-3B-3: Tag Requirements
5-3B-4: Nuisance Conditions
5-3B-5: Vicious Dogs
5-3B-1:   LICENSE AND COLLAR REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to keep any dog over the age of six (6) months,
unless the dog has attached to its neck a substantial collar on which a valid
license tag issued by the town is fastened. (2014 Code)
5-3B-2:   LICENSING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Dog licenses shall be obtained at the office of the town clerk-
treasurer.
   B.   The owner of the dog shall pay the license fee as set forth by the town
council and on record with the town clerk- treasurer, and shall present a
certificate from a licensed veterinarian showing that the dog has received a
rabies vaccination, which will remain viable for the period of the license.
   C.   Licenses shall be issued for the period of one year, commencing January
1 of each calendar year, and shall be renewable for additional periods of one
year each January 1. All licenses shall be purchased by January 31 each
calendar year.
   D.   For the purposes of determining the license fee, the owner of a spayed
or neutered dog shall present a certificate from a licensed veterinarian
showing that the dog has been spayed or neutered.
   E.   Renewal licenses may be issued to spayed or neutered dogs without the
presentation of a certificate showing that the dog has been spayed or neutered.
(2014 Code)
5-3B-3:   TAG REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Upon licensing or renewal, the town clerk-treasurer shall deliver to
the dog owner a tag of metal or other permanent substance, to be fastened to
the dog collar.
   B.   The tag shall state the year of the license, and shall bear a unique
serial number. The serial number of the tag and the owner's name and address
shall be recorded together in a registry of dogs to be maintained by the town
clerk-treasurer. (2014 Code)
5-3B-4:   NUISANCE CONDITIONS:
It is unlawful to keep or permit to run at large a dog which:
   A.   Causes injury to other persons or property;
   B.   Chases persons or vehicles not trespassing on the owner's property;
   C.   Unreasonably disturbs the peace of the town by undue howling or
barking. (2014 Code)
5-3B-5:   VICIOUS DOGS:
It is unlawful to keep a dog of a vicious nature. The mayor and county sheriff
is empowered to restrain, control, kill or quarantine any vicious dog, whether
such dog be licensed or unlicensed. A "vicious dog" is defined as one which
bites or attempts to bite any human being without provocation or which
harasses, chases, bites or attempts to bite any other animal. The term "animal"
shall include domestic pets. (2014 Code)
ARTICLE C.IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS
SECTION:
5-3C-1: Authority
5-3C-2: Notice Of Impoundment
5-3C-3: Redemption Of Impounded Animals
5-3C-4: Disposition Of Unclaimed Animals
5-3C-5: Records Maintained
5-3C-6: Emergency Requiring Quarantine Or Muzzling
5-3C-1:   AUTHORITY:
Any animal kept or allowed to run at large in violation of the provisions of
this chapter may be seized and impounded by any law enforcement officer. (2014
Code)
5-3C-2:   NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT:
The impounding official shall give notice of the impoundment of any animal by
causing personal service on the owner, or on some responsible person at the
owner's residence or place of business. If such person cannot be found, notice
shall be given by detention of the animal and by posting the information of
impoundment in two (2) separate places in the town. (2014 Code)
5-3C-3:   REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
   A.   Time Limit: The owner must redeem the impounded animal within four (4)
days after the giving of notice, or it shall be subject to disposal under the
provisions of this article.
   B.   Fees: At the time of redemption, the owner shall pay a per day
impounding fee, a dog license if needed, plus redemption fees as specified in
the fee schedule appendix on file in the town office.
   C.   Vicious Dogs: The fee for impoundment, euthanasia, restitution to the
victim, plus any other expenses incurred by the town to control or incarcerate
a vicious dog, plus a minimum fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00), shall be
paid. (2014 Code)
5-3C-4:   DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED ANIMALS:
   A.   The refusal or failure of the owner to redeem the animal and pay the
impounding fees shall be held to be an abandonment of the animal by the owner.
   B.   The town may offer the animal for sale. The sale and certificate of
sale shall confer title and ownership of the animal free of all claims and
interest of the previous owner, provided the purchaser pays any outstanding
impoundment fees, plus licensing fees.
   C.   In the event that the animal is not purchased or redeemed, it may be
disposed of in a humane manner by any law enforcement officer or veterinarian.
   D.   Whenever an animal is to be disposed of under this section, any person
may apply to the town for permission to remove the animal permanently from the
municipality. Upon such person filing with the town his written agreement to
remove the animal from the municipality, pay any outstanding impoundment fees,
and be responsible for it remaining out permanently, the mayor may, in his
discretion, make an order allowing the animal to be removed from the
municipality instead of being put to death. (2014 Code)
5-3C-5:   RECORDS MAINTAINED:
The town shall maintain a record of the disposition of all impounded animals,
including the date of impoundment, notice given, redemption or disposition and
date of redemption or disposition. (2014 Code)
5-3C-6:   EMERGENCY REQUIRING QUARANTINE OR MUZZLING:
Whenever danger to the public safety is imminent, the mayor may require that
all dogs be quarantined on the premises of their owner, or that they be
securely muzzled. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 4
CURFEW FOR MINORS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Curfew Hours Specified
5-4-2: Custody Of Minor
5-4-3: Parental Responsibility
5-4-1: CURFEW HOURS SPECIFIED:
It is unlawful for any child up to the age of seventeen (17) years to wander
about the streets of the town in the nighttime after ten thirty o'clock (10:30)
P.M.; provided, however, that this chapter does not apply to any said child who
is going or returning from some errand for his or her parents or guardian, or
such other person as may have the control or management of him or her, nor
shall it apply to any said child who is returning home from any school
function, work, recreational activity or properly supervised recreation, and
who does not linger or loiter on the way. (1969 Code §9.04.010)
5-4-2: CUSTODY OF MINOR:
It is hereby made the duty of the county sheriff to take into custody any child
of the age of up to seventeen (17) years found wandering, without lawful
business, about the streets of the town in the nighttime after ten thirty
o'clock (10:30) P.M., and deliver the same to its parent or parents, legal
guardian or other person or persons entitled to the custody thereof. (1969 Code
§9.04.020)
5-4-3: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
Any parent or parents, legal guardian or other person, who shall encourage,
wilfully cause or contribute to, or through negligence in the care, custody,
guidance or direction of any child of the age of up to seventeen (17) years,
shall cause or permit such child to wander about the streets of the town
without being on lawful business or occupation, after the hour of ten thirty
o'clock (10:30) P.M., shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to the penalties as prescribed by section
1-4-1 of this code. (1969 Code §9.04.030)
CHAPTER 5
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Fireworks Prohibited
5-5-2: Permissible Fireworks
5-5-3: Public Displays Permitted
5-5-4: Sale Of Fireworks
5-5-5: Use Of Fireworks
5-5-6: Unlawful Usage Of Fireworks
5-5-7: Violations; Penalty
5-5-1: FIREWORKS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to possess, offer for sale, expose for sale, sell, use or
explode any fireworks within the town limits, except as hereinafter provided.
Furthermore, it shall be unlawful to explode fireworks in town parks or on
streets, except as provided in section 5-5-3 of this chapter. (2014 Code)
5-5-2: PERMISSIBLE FIREWORKS:
Permissible fireworks shall be those not prohibited by state law. (2014 Code)
5-5-3: PUBLIC DISPLAYS PERMITTED:
The mayor or town council may permit the public display of fireworks to be
handled by a competent operator to be approved by the state fire marshal or by
the town council, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
chief of the fire department, after proper inspection, shall not be hazardous
to property or endanger any person or persons. Applications for such permits
shall be made in writing at least fifteen (15) days in advance of the date of
the display. (2014 Code)
5-5-4: SALE OF FIREWORKS:
It shall be unlawful to offer for sale at retail within the town, fireworks of
any description before June 24 or after July 5. It shall be unlawful for any
person under the age of eighteen (18) years to sell or offer to sell fireworks.
(2014 Code)
5-5-5: USE OF FIREWORKS:
It shall be unlawful to use or explode any fireworks within the town limits,
except as provided in section 5-5-3 of this chapter, before June 24 or after
July 5; or between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. of any day between June 24 and July 5, inclusive, except that on July
3 and 4, such use is permitted until the hour of twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight. In addition, it shall be lawful to use fireworks at twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight on New Year's Eve from twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on the
evening of December 31 through to the following thirty (30) minutes into the
early morning of January 1. (2014 Code)
5-5-6: UNLAWFUL USAGE OF FIREWORKS:
It shall be unlawful to throw firecrackers or other fireworks into any public
streets or alleys, into, at or from automobiles or other conveyances, at or on
persons or domestic animals, or to handle or use such fireworks in such a
manner as to injure or damage persons or property of others. (2014 Code)
5-5-7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punishable as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code.
(2014 Code)
CHAPTER 6
EXCESS NOISE AND DISTURBING THE PEACE
SECTION:
5-6-1: Unlawful To Create Noises
5-6-2: Unlawful Noises Described
5-6-1: UNLAWFUL TO CREATE NOISES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make or cause to be made any excessive
or unusually loud noise or any noise measured or unmeasured which either
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or
safety of any person within the limits of the town. (Ord. 188-2014, 9-10-2014)
5-6-2: UNLAWFUL NOISES DESCRIBED:
It shall be unlawful to perform any of the following acts within the town:
   A.   Horns, Signaling Devices: Sounding any horn or signaling device on any
truck, automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle on any street or public place of
the town except as a warning signal.
   B.   Sound Amplifying Equipment: Using, operating or permitting the use of
any radio receiving set, musical instrument, television, phonograph or other
machine or device for the production or reproduction of sound in such a manner
as to disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any person.
   C.   Yelling, Shouting: Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing on
the public streets, alleys or parks at any time so as to annoy or disturb the
quiet, comfort or repose of any person.
   D.   Animals: Owning, keeping, having in possession or harboring any animals
which, by frequent or habitual howling, barking, meowing squawking or other
noise to disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any person.
   E.   Exhausts: Discharging into the open air the exhaust of any steam
engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat or motor vehicle
except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent load or
explosive noises therefrom. Modifying any noise abatement device on any motor
vehicle or engine in a manner so that the noise emitted by such vehicle or
engine as originally manufactured shall be in violation of this section.
   F.   Defect in Vehicle or Load: Operating any truck, trailer, automobile,
motorcycle or vehicle so out of repair or so loaded in such a manner as to
create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or noise.
   G.   Loading, Unloading, Opening Containers: Loading, unloading, opening or
otherwise handling boxes, crates, containers, garbage containers or other
objects in such a manner as to disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any
person.
   H.   Construction Projects Or Repair of Buildings: Operating equipment or
performing any construction or repair work on buildings, structures or projects
or operating any pile driver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or
electric hoist, or other construction type device in such a manner as to
unnecessarily disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any person.
   I.   Fireworks and Explosives: The use of fireworks and/or other explosives
so as to disturb the quiet, comfort and repose of any person except for those
permitted in section
5-5-5.
   J.   Exception Clause: Any of the above acts performed for emergency work
for the safety, welfare and public health of the citizens of Chester will not
be in violation of this chapter. "Emergency work" is work made necessary to
restore property to a safe condition following a public calamity or work
required to protect persons or property from exposure to danger or potential
danger. (Ord. 188-2014, 9-10-2014)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
State Traffic Laws; Administration   1
General Vehicle And Traffic Provisions   2
Parking Regulations   3
Abandoned Vehicles   4
Traffic Laws Enforcement; Penalties   5
CHAPTER 1
STATE TRAFFIC LAWS; ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
6-1-1: State Traffic Laws Adopted
6-1-2: Authority
6-1-3: Unlawful Operation Of Vehicles By Children
6-1-1: STATE TRAFFIC LAWS ADOPTED:
All of the sections in the uniform act regulating traffic on highways found in
Montana Code Annotated title 61, chapters 1 through 13, in its entirety, and
any and all acts supplementary thereto and amendatory thereof, are hereby
adopted in their entirety as traffic ordinances of the town. (2014 Code)
6-1-2: AUTHORITY:
The county sheriff is hereby authorized and directed to direct traffic within
the town, and to make and enforce any regulations necessary to facilitate the
unhampered and unimpaired flow of traffic in the town. (2014 Code)
6-1-3: UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF VEHICLES BY CHILDREN:
   A.   Original Jurisdiction Of Town Court: The town court is hereby vested
with original jurisdiction in all proceedings concerning the unlawful operation
of motor vehicles by children under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   B.   Summons: Whenever any child under the age of eighteen (18) years shall
unlawfully operate a motor vehicle in the presence of any officer, such officer
may deliver to said child a form of summons describing the nature of the
offense, with instructions thereof to report to the town court; and the court
shall be informed thereof by the delivery of a copy of said summons to the
probation officer of the county, who shall in turn deliver the same to the
judge of said court. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL VEHICLE AND TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: One-Way, Two-Way Streets
6-2-3: Posting Of Signs
6-2-4: Speed Limits
6-2-5: Truck Regulations
6-2-6: Driving Over Fire Hose
6-2-7: Lugs On Wheels Prohibited
6-2-8: Sound Amplification Systems In Vehicles
6-2-9: Display Unofficial Sign, Signal Or Device
6-2-10: Defacing Or Interfering With Signs Or Barricades
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this title shall have the following
meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
MOTOR VEHICLE: A. Includes:
1.A vehicle propelled by its own power and designed or used to transport
persons or property upon the streets, avenues, alleys and highways within the
town, including trailers, semitrailers and house trailers;
2.A quadricycle if it is equipped for use on the highways as prescribed in
Montana Code Annotated title 61, chapter 9; and
3.A golf cart only if it is equipped for use on the highways as prescribed in
Montana Code Annotated title 61, chapter 9, and is operated pursuant to Montana
Code Annotated section 61-8-391 or by a person with a low speed restricted
driver's license.
B.The term does not include a bicycle, as defined in Montana Code Annotated
section 61-8-102, an electric personal assistive mobility device, a motorized
nonstandard vehicle, or a motorized wheelchair or other low powered,
mechanically propelled vehicle that is designed specifically for use by a
physically disabled person and that is used as a means of mobility for that
person.
VEHICLE: A.Includes:
1.A device in, upon or by which any person or property may be transported or
drawn upon a public highway, except devices moved by animal power or used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks;
2.With regard to driving under the influence of drugs or alcohol, a
"snowmobile" in accordance with Montana Code Annotated section 61-8-401 et
seq., except sections 61-8-400 through 61-8-442.
B.The term does not include a manually or mechanically propelled wheelchair or
other low powered, mechanically propelled vehicle that is designed specifically
for use by a physically disabled person and that is used as a means of mobility
for that person. (2014 Code)
6-2-2: ONE-WAY, TWO-WAY STREETS:
   A.   First Street East: First Street East running south from U.S. Highway 2
to Jefferson Avenue shall be a one-way street with the direction of traffic
moving in a southerly direction. From Jefferson Avenue to School Drive, First
Street East shall be a two-way street. (1969 Code §10.16.010; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Two-Way Streets: All streets and avenues running from east to west and
west to east; north to south and south to north, other than streets and avenues
designated in subsection A of this section, shall be two-way streets. (1969
Code §10.16.020)
6-2-3: POSTING OF SIGNS:
Intersections shall be posted with stop or yield right of way signs made
according to the size and specifications established by the laws of the state
and the rules and regulations of the state department of transportation. (2014
Code)
6-2-4: SPEED LIMITS:
Any person driving a vehicle on the streets and avenues of the town shall drive
the same at a careful and prudent speed not greater than is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic surface and other conditions then
existing, and no person shall drive any vehicle at such a speed as to endanger
the life, limb or property of other persons. Except in those instances where a
lower speed is specified in this chapter, it shall be prima facie lawful for
the driver of a vehicle to drive the same at a speed not exceeding the
following, but in any case when such speed would be unsafe it shall not be
lawful:
   A.   School: Fifteen (15) miles per hour when traveling on any street or
avenue in the same block in which a school is located.
   B.   Park: Fifteen (15) miles per hour when traveling on any street or
avenue in the same block in which a park is located.
   C.   Driver's View Obstructed: Fifteen (15) miles an hour when approaching
within fifty feet (50') and in traversing an intersection of streets and
avenues when the driver's view is obstructed. A driver's view shall be deemed
to be obstructed when, at any time during the last fifty feet (50') of his
approach to such intersection, he does not have a clear and uninterrupted view
of such intersection, and of the traffic upon all of the streets and avenues
entering such an intersection, for a distance of two hundred feet (200') from
such intersection. For vehicles traveling upon a properly designated through or
arterial street, this speed limitation shall not apply.
   D.   Curves Or Grades: Fifteen (15) miles an hour in traversing or going
around curves or traversing a grade, when the driver's view is obstructed
within a distance of one hundred feet (100') along such street or avenue in the
direction in which he is proceeding.
   E.   Business And Residential Areas; Trailer Courts: Twenty five (25) miles
an hour on streets and avenues in the business and residential areas; except,
that the speed limit shall be fifteen (15) miles an hour within the confines of
any trailer court within the town. (2014 Code)
6-2-5: TRUCK REGULATIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Vehicles:
      1.   Definition: "Prohibited vehicle" means any truck or tractor trailer
greater than one ton with a load or partial load.
      2.   Restriction On Travel:
         a.   No prohibited vehicle shall be allowed on any paved streets in
the town, unless actively loading or unloading.
         b.   This restriction shall not apply to prohibited vehicles while
making deliveries of personal property to, or picking up personal property
from, businesses or residences located in the town.
   B.   Width And Length Of Loads: Trucks or other vehicles having loads
extending more than four feet (4') to the rear of said vehicle or having loads
or cross arms wider than eight feet (8') are required to hang a red flag or
other signs of warning at the extreme width of load as well as rear, and at
night provide warning lights so that traffic can easily tell the extreme limit
of space required for vehicles. (2014 Code)
6-2-6: DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE:
No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the fire department
when laid down on any street or avenue, alley or private or public driveway, to
be used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the fire
department official in command. (2014 Code)
6-2-7: LUGS ON WHEELS PROHIBITED:
All person owning, operating or managing steam engines, gas engines and
tractors are required, in moving the same along the streets and alleys of the
town, to remove all lugs from wheels. (2014 Code)
6-2-8: SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEMS IN VEHICLES:
   A.   Definitions: Unless the context requires otherwise, the following
definitions apply:
PLAINLY AUDIBLE: Any sound produced by a sound amplification system, either on
or from within a motor vehicle, which can clearly be heard at a distance of
fifty feet (50') or more. Measurement standards shall be by the auditory
senses, based upon direct line of sight. Words or phrases need not be
discernable and bass reverberations are included.
SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM: Any device, instrument or system, whether
electrical, mechanical or otherwise, for amplifying sound or for producing or
reproducing sound, including, but not limited to, any radio, stereo, musical
instrument, phonograph, tape player, compact disc player, boom box, loudspeaker
or sound or musical recorder or player, or any other such electronic device
used for the amplification of noise.
   B.   Use Of Loud Amplification Systems Prohibited: No driver or occupant of
a motor vehicle on any public or private property located within the boundaries
of the town shall operate or permit the operation of a sound amplification
system from either on or within a motor vehicle so that the sound is plainly
audible at a distance of fifty feet (50') or more from the motor vehicle.
   C.   Exemptions: Exemptions include:
      1.   A system being operated to request assistance of an emergency nature
or to warn of a hazardous situation; or
      2.   A system being operated on a motor vehicle belonging to a railroad,
gas, electric, communications or water utility company or governmental entity
when engaged in official business only; or
      3.   An authorized emergency vehicle, such as an ambulance or firetruck;
or
      4.   Audio alarm systems installed in motor vehicles; or
      5.   Any system granted written permission by the town council after the
owner or operator has requested said exemption be used for legitimate business
needs or purposes which outweigh the public right to be free from unnecessary
noise or disturbance of the peace. (2014 Code)
6-2-9: DISPLAY UNOFFICIAL SIGN, SIGNAL OR DEVICE:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place or maintain
or to display upon, or in view of, any street, any unofficial sign, signal or
device which purports to be, or is, an imitation of, or which resembles an
official traffic sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of
traffic, or which hides from view an official traffic sign or signal. Every
such prohibitive sign, signal or device is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance, and the county sheriff is hereby empowered to remove the same, or to
cause the same to be removed without notice. (2014 Code)
6-2-10: DEFACING OR INTERFERING WITH SIGNS OR BARRICADES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully deface, injure, move, obstruct
or interfere with any official traffic sign, signal or barricade. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
6-3-3: Certain Time And Purpose Restrictions
6-3-4: Manner Of Parking
6-3-5: Vehicles Transporting Explosives, Poisonous Materials
6-3-6: Emergency Parking Prohibitions And Vehicle Removal
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever in this chapter the following terms are used, they shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, unless otherwise herein provided:
PROHIBITED VEHICLE: Any loaded or partially loaded truck.
TRAILER: Every vehicle, with or without motor power, designed to carry property
or passengers and to be drawn by a motor vehicle, including a house trailer and
semitrailer.
TRUCK: Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for
transportation of property. (2014 Code)
6-3-2: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
It shall be unlawful for any owner, driver, operator or person in charge of any
vehicle to stop or allow to stop, stand or allow to stand, or park or allow to
park, such vehicle at any of the following places, except where necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic, or except in compliance with directions of a
peace officer:
   A.   Sidewalk: On a sidewalk.
   B.   Driveway: In front of a public or private driveway.
   C.   Intersection: Within an intersection.
   D.   Fire Hydrant: Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
   E.   Crosswalk:
      1.   On a crosswalk.
      2.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
   F.   Approach To Traffic Signal: Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach
to any flashing beacon, stop sign or traffic control signal located at the side
of a roadway.
   G.   Safety Zone: Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within
thirty feet (30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of the
safety zone, unless the local authorities indicate a different length by signs
or markings.
   H.   Railway Crossing: Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a
railway crossing.
   I.   Fire Station: Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any
fire station and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire
station within seventy five feet (75') of said entrance when properly posted.
   J.   Street Excavation: Alongside or opposite any street excavation or
obstruction when stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
   K.   Double Parking: On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at
the edge or curb of a street.
   L.   Bridge: Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel.
   M.   Official Signs: At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   N.   Loading Zone: In front of an area designated as a loading zone.
   O.   Temporarily Posted Areas: Within any temporarily posted area, so posted
for emergency purposes, or so posted for snow removal or street sweeping
purposes.
   P.   Handicapped Parking: Within the boundaries of the town when any such
parking space has been appropriately marked or signed as a designated handicap
parking spot pursuant to resolution of the town council and approval of the
mayor, except when such vehicle conveying a handicapped person properly
displays a handicap license plate or decal properly issued by the state or
other license plate or vehicle registration authority.
   Q.   Boats, Trailers, Campers: No person shall be allowed to park a boat,
trailer, camper or other motor vehicle on any of the streets within the town at
any time for a period of more than five (5) days continuously.
   R.   Disabled, Unregistered Vehicles: Any disabled vehicle or unregistered
vehicle is prohibited from parking on any street within the town limits.
   S.   Recreational Vehicles During Snow Season: During each calendar from
December 1 until March 1, no person shall stand or park any recreational
vehicle on any street or alley for any purpose or period of time other than for
the expeditious loading or unloading of such vehicle. The term "recreational
vehicle" includes, but is not limited to, motor homes, campers, boat trailers
and utility trailers. (2014 Code)
6-3-3: CERTAIN TIME AND PURPOSE RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any owner, driver, operator or person in charge of any
vehicle to stop or allow to stop, stand or allow to stand, or park or allow to
park, such vehicle on any street, avenue or alley within the following areas,
except for the time and purpose so designated:
   A.   Loading Or Unloading:
      1.   In front of any building or location, when so posted, except for the
purpose of loading or unloading, for a period of time not to exceed the time
indicated on the sign governing that location.
      2.   In any alley, except for loading and unloading, and only during the
time the actual loading or unloading is taking place.
   B.   Trucks: It shall be unlawful for the driver of any truck of a size or
load with a carrying capacity greater than one ton to park at any time, except
while actually engaged in loading or unloading.
   C.   Vehicles For Sale: It shall be unlawful for any automobile or implement
dealer to park either new or used automobiles or other motor vehicles being
held for sale upon the public streets of the town, at any time, except on days
when such new or used automobiles or motor vehicles are in actual use by the
owner thereof or his employees or members of his family. This does not apply to
an individual who is not a car dealer, and who has his own personal car for
sale. (2014 Code)
6-3-4: MANNER OF PARKING:
It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle or other vehicle on any street
or avenue within the town, except in the following manner:
   A.   Parallel Parking; Exceptions: All vehicles shall be parked with the
right side of the vehicle next to the curb and parallel thereto, with the right
side wheels of said vehicle at a distance of not greater than eighteen inches
(18") from such curb, and said vehicle at least three feet (3') from any other
vehicle standing on such street or avenue. Exceptions include First Street East
(one-way) and north side of hospital.
   B.   Parking During Church Functions:
      1.   Automobiles may be angle parked during all church functions and
during regular hours of worship, and at all other times parallel parking shall
be required.
      2.   Residents of the areas designated in subsection B1 of this section
whose automobiles have been parked parallel prior to or during church functions
shall not be held in violation of this section.
   C.   Physicians Parking In Prohibited Areas: Any regularly licensed and
practicing physician, surgeon or physician's assistant may, in cases of
emergency, park any vehicle operated by such person or under such person's
direction and control in prohibited areas; provided, however, that such vehicle
will be removed at the earliest possible moment.
   D.   One-Way Streets: Those persons parked on one-way streets shall park
their vehicles in the direction of allowed travel at or next to the curb, at a
distance not greater than eighteen inches (18") from said curb on either side
of the street.
   E.   Handicapped Parking Area: The authorized driver of a properly
identified vehicle may park in a designated and posted handicapped parking
area. (2014 Code)
6-3-5: VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES, POISONOUS MATERIALS:
   A.   Definitions:
      1.   Terms Defined: Unless the context requires otherwise, the following
definitions apply:
EXPLOSIVES: Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly used
or intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains any
oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities or packing that an ignition by fire, friction, concussion,
percussion or detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause such
sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects or of
destroying life or limb.
FLAMMABLE LIQUID: Any liquid which has a flashpoint of seventy degrees
Fahrenheit (70°F) or less, as determined by Tagliabue or equivalent closed cup
test device.
POISON: A substance which, when introduced into the system, either directly or
by absorption, produces violent, morbid or fatal changes or which destroys
living tissue with which it comes in contact.
      2.   Other Terms: In addition to the foregoing, in interpreting and
enforcing the terms of this section, all other definitions set out in Montana
Code Annotated shall govern and apply.
   B.   Prohibited Parking:
      1.   Explosives: No person shall stand or park any motor vehicle, truck
or other vehicle containing, carrying or transporting explosives in any alley
or on any of the streets or avenues in the town at any time.
      2.   Flammable Liquids: No person shall stand or park any motor vehicle,
truck or other vehicle containing, carrying or transporting a tank or other
container capable of containing in excess of six hundred (600) U.S. gallons of
flammable liquids in any alley or on any of the streets or avenues in the town.
      3.   Poison: No person shall stand or park any motor vehicle, truck or
other vehicle containing, carrying or transporting poison in any alley or on
any of the streets or avenues in the town at any time. (2014 Code)
6-3-6: EMERGENCY PARKING PROHIBITIONS AND VEHICLE REMOVAL:
   A.   Emergency Declared:
      1.   Whenever the mayor determines that parking motor vehicles on town
streets should be prohibited or restricted for street cleaning, snowplowing,
snow removal, construction or other emergency purposes, the mayor shall put
into effect a parking prohibition on designated streets as necessary by
declaring it in a manner prescribed by this section. The prohibition or
restriction shall remain in effect until terminated by announcement by the
mayor in accordance with this section, or as may be set forth in any notice
given hereunder, except that any street area which has been cleared of snow,
ice or other debris for the length of an entire block shall be automatically
excluded therefrom.
      2.   While the prohibition or restriction is in effect, no person shall
park any motor vehicle, or allow any motor vehicle to remain parked, on any
street to which the prohibition or restriction applies. (1969 Code §10.14.010)
   B.   Notice, Record Required:
      1.   The mayor shall cause each declaration made by him pursuant to this
section to be publicly announced by means of radio broadcasts or telecasts from
stations with a normal operating range covering the town, by posting of public
notices, or he may cause such declaration to be further announced in a
newspaper of general circulation in the town when feasible. Each announcement
shall describe the action taken by the mayor, including the time it became or
will become effective, and shall specify the streets or areas affected. A
parking prohibition shall not go into effect until at least eight (8) hours
after notice thereof has been first announced or the first publication thereof
has been made in a newspaper of general circulation in the town, except in
emergencies when advance notice is absolutely impossible.
      2.   The mayor shall make or cause to be made a record of each time and
date when any such declaration or notice is announced or given to the public in
accordance with this section. (1969 Code §10.14.020)
   C.   Termination Of Parking Restriction: Whenever the mayor shall find that
some or all of the conditions which give rise to a parking prohibition in
effect pursuant to this section no longer exists, he may declare the
prohibition terminated. (1969 Code §10.14.030)
   D.   Precedence; Exception: Any provision of this section which becomes
effective by declaration of the mayor shall, while temporarily in effect, take
precedence over other conflicting provisions of law normally in effect, except
that it shall not take precedence over provisions of law relating to traffic
accidents, emergency travel of authorized emergency vehicles, or emergency
traffic directions by a law enforcement officer. (1969 Code §10.14.040)
   E.   Citation: Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked
or left in violation of any provision of this section, and is not removed and
impounded as provided hereafter, the law enforcement officer finding such motor
vehicle shall take its registration or license number and any other information
displayed on the vehicle which may identify its user or owner, and shall
conspicuously affix to such motor vehicle a traffic citation for the driver to
answer to the charge against him within the time and at the place provided for
in the citation. In any prosecution with regard to a vehicle parked or left in
place or in a condition in violation of any provision of this section, together
with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was, at the time of the
violation, the registered owner of such motor vehicle, shall constitute prima
facie evidence that the defendant was the person who parked or left the vehicle
in violation of this section. (1969 Code §10.14.050; amd. 2014 Code)
   F.   Authority To Impound Vehicles:
      1.   Members of the county sheriff's department or public works director
are hereby authorized to remove a vehicle from a street, highway or public
parking lot to the nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a garage
designated or maintained by the town under the circumstances hereinafter
enumerated: (1969 Code §10.14.060; amd. 2014 Code)
         a.   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any bridge, viaduct or
causeway where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic;
         b.   When a vehicle upon a street or highway is so disabled as to
constitute an obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the
vehicle are, by reason of physical injury, incapacitated to such an extent as
to be unable to provide for its custody or removal;
         c.   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street or highway and
is so parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic;
         d.   When any vehicle is parked or left in violation of the provisions
of this section.
      2.   Prior to removal, the law enforcement officer, in his discretion,
and as he sees fit in view of the circumstances, shall make a reasonable effort
to determine the vehicle owner, to notify the same of the impending removal and
give the same an opportunity to remove the vehicle before impoundment.
      3.   Whenever a law enforcement officer removes a vehicle from a street
or other locality as authorized in this section and the officer knows, or is
able to ascertain from the registration records in the vehicle, the name and
address of the owner thereof, the officer shall, within a reasonable time, make
every reasonable effort to ascertain the identity of and to locate the owner of
the vehicle and to give, or cause to be given, notice in writing to the owner
of the fact of such removal and the reasons therefor, and of the place to which
said vehicle has been removed. In the event any such vehicle is stored in a
public garage, a copy of such notice shall be given to the proprietor of such
garage.
      4.   Whenever a law enforcement officer removes a vehicle from a street
or other locality under authority of this section and does not know and is not
able to ascertain the name of the owner, or for any other reason is unable to
give the notice to the owner as hereinbefore required, and in the event the
vehicle is not returned to the owner within a period of three (3) days, then
and in that event the officer shall immediately send, or cause to be sent,
written report of such removal by mail to the state department, whose duty it
is to register motor vehicles, and shall file a copy of such notice with the
proprietor of any public garage in which the vehicle may be stored. Such notice
shall include a complete description of the vehicle, the date, time and place
from which removed, the reasons for such removal, and name of the garage or
place where the vehicle is stored.
      5.   Before the owner or person entitled to possession of any vehicle
removed and impounded, as provided herein, shall be permitted to remove the
same from the custody of the town, he shall furnish evidence of his identity
and ownership of the vehicle, or right of possession thereto, shall sign a
receipt for the vehicle, and shall pay any towing charges incurred by the town
in towing said vehicle, and shall pay such charges for the storage of the
vehicle as shall have been incurred by the town.
      6.   The payment of such fees and charges, as provided herein, shall not
operate to relieve the owner or operator of such vehicle from liability from
any fine or penalty for the violation of any law or ordinance on account of
which such vehicle was removed and impounded. (1969 Code §10.14.060)
      7.   Any vehicle not claimed within thirty (30) days may be sold in
accordance with Montana Code Annotated section 61-12-404, as amended. (1969
Code §10.14.060; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ABANDONED VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Department Defined
6-4-2: Impoundment Of Vehicle
6-4-3: Notice To Owner
6-4-4: Junk Vehicles; Release For Disposal
6-4-5: Reclamation Of Vehicle
6-4-6: Sale Of Unclaimed Vehicle
6-4-1: DEPARTMENT DEFINED:
For the purpose of this chapter, the term "department" shall mean the
department of justice of the state of Montana, acting directly or through its
duly authorized officers or agents. (2014 Code)
6-4-2: IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLE:
   A.   Impoundment Of Certain Vehicles: The county sheriff or the town may
take into custody:
      1.   Any vehicle found abandoned for a period of forty eight (48) hours
or more on any public highway within the town, or for a period of five (5) days
or more on any town street, public property or private property.
      2.   Any vehicle abandoned on private property, at the request of the
owner or person in lawful possession or control of the private property.
      3.   Any vehicle otherwise coming into the possession of the county
sheriff or the town which is unclaimed by its true owner.
   B.   Impoundment: The county sheriff or the town may use its personnel,
equipment and facilities for the removal and storage of the vehicle, or may
hire other personnel, equipment and facilities for this purpose. (2014 Code)
6-4-3: NOTICE TO OWNER:
   A.   Notify Owner Of Vehicle Location: Within seventy two (72) hours after
any vehicle is removed and held, the county sheriff or the town shall make
reasonable efforts to ascertain the name and address of the owner, lienholder
or person entitled to possession of the vehicle taken into custody. If such
name and address are ascertained, the county sheriff or the town shall notify
such owner and lienholder or person of the location of the vehicle.
   B.   Registered Or Certified Letter: If the vehicle is registered in the
office of the department, notice shall be deemed given when a registered or
certified letter addressed to the registered owner of the vehicle and
lienholder, if any, at the latest address shown by the records in the office of
the department, return receipt requested and postage prepaid thereon, is mailed
at least thirty (30) days before the vehicle is sold as hereinafter provided.
   C.   Publication Of Notice In Newspaper: If the identity of the last
registered owner cannot be determined, or if the registration contains no
address for the owner, or if it is impossible to determine with reasonable
certainty the identity and addresses of all lienholders, notice by one
publication in one newspaper of general circulation in the county shall be
sufficient to meet all requirements of notice. Such notice by publication may
contain multiple listings of abandoned vehicles. Any such notice shall be
provided in the same manner as prescribed in Montana Code Annotated section 25-
13-701(1)(b). (2014 Code)
6-4-4: JUNK VEHICLES; RELEASE FOR DISPOSAL:
A vehicle found by law enforcement officials or the town to be a "junk
vehicle", as defined by Montana Code Annotated section 75-10-501, and certified
as having an appraised value of five hundred dollars ($500.00) or less, may be
directly submitted for disposal in accordance with the provisions of Montana
Code Annotated title 75, chapter 10, part 5, upon a release given by the county
sheriff. In the release, the county sheriff shall include a description of the
vehicle, including year, make, model, serial number and license number if
available. If the vehicle is being stored by a motor vehicle wrecking facility,
the county sheriff shall transmit the release to the motor vehicle wrecking
facility, and the facility shall consider the release to meet the requirements
for records under Montana Code Annotated sections 75-10-512 and 75-10-513. If
the vehicle is being stored by a "qualified tow truck operator", as defined in
Montana Code Annotated section 61-8-903, the county sheriff shall transmit the
release to the operator. Vehicles described in this section may be submitted
for disposal without notice and without a required holding period. A licensed
vehicle that otherwise meets the definition of a "junk vehicle", as defined in
Montana Code Annotated section 75-10-501, and that has a value of five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or less, may be directly submitted for disposal as provided
in this section. (2014 Code)
6-4-5: RECLAMATION OF VEHICLE:
The owner, lienholder or person entitled to possession of the vehicle may
reclaim it at any time after it is taken into custody and before it is sold.
Such person shall present to the county sheriff or the town satisfactory proof
of ownership or right to possession, and pay the costs and expenses incurred in
the removal, storage and custody of the vehicle. Such person shall not be
required to pay storage charges for a period longer than ninety (90) days.
(2014 Code)
6-4-6: SALE OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE:
   A.   Sale If Not Reclaimed:
      1.   If a vehicle is not reclaimed as provided in section 6-4-5 of this
chapter within thirty (30) days after notification by registered mail or
prescribed publication, the county sheriff or the town may sell it at public
auction in the manner provided in Montana Code Annotated sections 25-13-701
through 25-13-709.
      2.   After any vehicle has been so sold, the former owner or person
entitled to possession has no further right, title, claim or interest in or to
the vehicle.
   B.   Certificate Of Sale:
      1.   When any vehicle is so sold, the county sheriff, at the time of the
payment of the purchase price, shall execute a certificate of sale in duplicate
and shall deliver the original certificate to the purchaser and retain the
copy.
      2.   The certificate of sale shall contain the name and address of the
purchaser, the date of sale, the consideration paid, a description of the
vehicle, and a stipulation that no warranty is made as to the condition or
title of the vehicle.
   C.   Issuance Of Certificate Of Ownership: The department shall issue a
certificate of title upon presentation by the purchaser of the certificate of
sale and payment of the fees required by law.
   D.   Transmitting Return Of Sale And Balance Of Proceeds:
      1.   When any vehicle is sold as provided in subsection A of this
section, the county sheriff or the town shall transmit to the department and to
the town clerk-treasurer, respectively, a return of sale setting forth a
description of the vehicle, the purchase price, the name and address of the
purchaser, the costs incurred in the sale, and the costs and expenses incurred
in the removal, storage, and custody of the vehicle.
      2.   With the return of sale, the county sheriff or the town shall
transmit to the town clerk-treasurer the balance of the proceeds of the sale
after deducting the costs incurred in the sale and the costs and expenses
incurred in the removal, storage, and custody of the vehicle.
      3.   Upon receipt of the return of sale and such balance from the county
sheriff or the town, the town clerk-treasurer shall file the return in his
office and deposit the balance in the town street fund on all vehicles seized
by the county sheriff.
   E.   Determination Of Costs And Expenses: The costs incurred in the sale,
and the costs and expenses incurred in the removal, storage and custody of the
vehicle shall be the amount thereof actually incurred. If the vehicle is stored
in or on town property, a charge as provided in the fee schedule appendix, on
file in the town office, for such storage shall be made. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 5
TRAFFIC LAWS ENFORCEMENT; PENALTIES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Violation Of Traffic Provisions
6-5-2: Parking Violations
6-5-1: VIOLATION OF TRAFFIC PROVISIONS:
   A.   It is a misdemeanor for a person to violate any of the provisions of
this title unless the violation is declared to be a felony.
   B.   Each person convicted of a misdemeanor for a violation of any of the
provisions of this title for which another penalty is not provided shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code.
   C.   Except as provided in subsection D of this section, failure to pay a
fine imposed under this section is a civil contempt of the court. Upon failure
of payment of a fine, the court may:
      1.   Order enforcement of the fine by execution in the manner provided in
Montana Code Annotated section 25-13-204 and under the provisions of Montana
Code Annotated title 25, chapter 13; or
      2.   If the court finds that the person is unable to pay, order the
person to perform community service.
   D.   If property is not found in an amount necessary to satisfy the unpaid
portion of the fine and if the court makes a written finding that community
service is inappropriate, the person shall be imprisoned in the county jail and
the imprisonment shall be the number of days that the fine is divisible by the
dollar amount of the incarceration credit contained in Montana Code Annotated
section 46-18-403. (2014 Code)
6-5-2: PARKING VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Issuance Of Warning Tickets: The county sheriff, by and through its
officers, is hereby authorized and directed to issue warning tickets within the
town for any violations of chapter 3 of this title.
   B.   Deferral Or Suspension Not Allowed: Upon conviction or entry of plea of
guilty, the town court may not defer imposition or suspend any part of the fine
imposed as sentencing for parking violations. (2014 Code)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Sidewalk Regulations And Construction   1
Widths And General Regulations   1A
Construction Standards For Sidewalks And Curbs   1B
Sidewalks And Curbs   1C
Excavations   2
Municipal Parks And Playgrounds   3
Maintenance Of Boulevards   4
Encroachments   5
CHAPTER 1
SIDEWALK REGULATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
7-1-1: Protection Of Sidewalks From Vehicles
7-1-2: Removal Of Snow And Ice From Adjacent Sidewalks
7-1-1: PROTECTION OF SIDEWALKS FROM VEHICLES:
   A.   Prohibited Vehicles: It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any
person or persons, firm or corporation, to drive or cause to be driven, or
operate, any wheel tractor, caterpillar tractor, or steam or traction engine,
when operated by its own power or when drawn by any other power or means, upon,
along or across any of the sidewalks or street crossings within the town,
except with the consent of and under the direction of the town. (1969 Code
§12.12.010; amd. 2014 Code)
   B.   Exceptions: This section shall not be deemed to prevent tractors having
wheels, around the periphery of which are pneumatic rubber tires, from crossing
street crossings without permission to first do so. (1969 Code §12.12.020)
   C.   Protection Required: It shall be the duty of the town to compel any
person or persons, firm or corporation, driving or causing to be driven, or
moving, any tractor or steam or traction engine upon or across any sidewalk or
street crossing to provide planks or other suitable material and to place the
same in proper position to protect such sidewalk or crossing while driving over
the same, when such tractor or steam or traction engine shall be of the kind
prohibited under this section. (1969 Code §12.12.030)
   D.   Penalty: Any person or persons violating the provisions of this section
shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to the penalties as prescribed by
section 1-4-1 of this code. (1969 Code §12.12.040)
7-1-2: REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE FROM ADJACENT SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Removal Required: It shall be the duty of the owner and tenant of any
premises within the limits of the town to keep the sidewalk in front of and
adjoining his premises free and safe for pedestrians and, with all possible
dispatch, to remove snow, ice, slush, mud and other impediments to safe and
convenient foot travel, and prevent the continuance and accumulation of the
same upon such sidewalk.
   B.   Dumping In Streets Restricted: In no case in the business areas of the
town shall the snow, ice, slush, mud and other material removed from such
sidewalks be dumped or deposited within the adjoining streets, avenues or
alleys within two feet (2') of the curb line.
   C.   Time Limit For Removal: Sidewalks shall in all cases be freed from the
night accumulation of snow, water or slush, mud or other like impediments
before nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. on the following morning.
   D.   Dangerous Conditions: When, from freezing snow, water or slush thereon,
or by reason of the smoothness resulting from the wear of foot travel or from
any cause whatsoever, sidewalks are rendered dangerous, unsafe or difficult to
the free passage of pedestrians, it shall be the duty of the aforesaid owners
and tenants of the premises in front of which said sidewalks have been
constructed to sprinkle sand or ashes on said sidewalk; and in cases of
permanent polish or smoothness as aforesaid, the owners shall remove the same
in accordance with the directions of the town council. (2014 Code)
ARTICLE A.WIDTHS AND GENERAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-1A-1: Washington Avenue
7-1A-2: First Street East
7-1A-3: Second Street East
7-1A-4: Main Street
7-1A-5: Other Streets
7-1A-6: Gutters
7-1A-7: Curb Lines
7-1A-8: Grade
7-1A-9: Conformance To Regulations
7-1A-10: Assessment Of Cost
7-1A-11: Uniform Placement
7-1A-1:   WASHINGTON AVENUE:
All sidewalks which may hereafter be built on Washington Avenue within the
limits of First Street West and Third Street East shall be twelve feet (12') in
width. (1969 Code §12.08.010)
7-1A-2:   FIRST STREET EAST:
All sidewalks which may hereafter be built on First Street East between the
intersection of Washington Avenue and First Street East and the intersection of
First Street East and Jefferson Avenue shall be eight feet (8') in width. (1969
Code §12.08.020)
7-1A-3:   SECOND STREET EAST:
All sidewalks which may hereafter be built on Second Street East between the
intersection of Second Street East and Washington Avenue and the intersection
of Second Street East and Jefferson Avenue shall be eight feet (8') in width.
(1969 Code §12.08.030)
7-1A-4:   MAIN STREET:
All sidewalks which may hereafter be constructed on Main Street between the
intersection of Main Street and Washington Avenue and the intersection of Main
Street and Jefferson Avenue shall be eight feet (8') in width. (1969 Code
§12.08.040)
7-1A-5:   OTHER STREETS:
All sidewalks which may hereafter be constructed on any streets and avenues not
named in this article shall be four feet (4') in width. (1969 Code §12.08.050)
7-1A-6:   GUTTERS:
The bottom of the gutter in any street or avenue shall be eight inches (8")
lower than the established grade of the street or avenue in front of the
gutter. (1969 Code §12.08.060)
7-1A-7:   CURB LINES:
The curb line on all streets or avenues used in business streets or avenues
shall be at the edge of the sidewalk in the street or avenue, and in all other
cases the curb line shall be eight feet (8') from the line of lot. (1969 Code
§12.08.070)
7-1A-8:   GRADE:
All sidewalks shall have a grade of one-eighth inch (1/8") per foot toward the
gutter. (1969 Code §12.08.080)
7-1A-9:   CONFORMANCE TO REGULATIONS:
Any sidewalks which may be hereafter constructed that do not conform to the
aforesaid requirements of this article shall be made to conform to the same
within thirty (30) days from the date of notice being served on the person or
persons owning the property on which the sidewalk is in front of, by the town
clerk-treasurer. (1969 Code §12.08.090)
7-1A-10:   ASSESSMENT OF COST:
In case the property owner or owners shall refuse or fail to comply with the
terms of this article within the time specified, the town is hereby authorized
to provide for the construction of the sidewalk on the proper grade and
specification, and shall keep a record of the cost of the same, which cost
shall be collected from the owner or owners of the property as an assessment
thereon, to be collected in the same manner as taxes. (1969 Code §12.08.100;
amd. 2014 Code)
7-1A-11:   UNIFORM PLACEMENT:
All sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete as provided in article B of this
chapter, and other relevant sections. All sidewalks shall be constructed next
to the curb unless the town council, upon request, provides otherwise in
situations where to require the sidewalk to be built next to the curb would be
inconsistent with existing sidewalks, or for other reasonable reasons. (1969
Code §12.08.110)
ARTICLE B.CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS FOR SIDEWALKS AND CURBS
SECTION:
7-1B-1: Order Of Town Council To Construct
7-1B-2: Construction Specifications
7-1B-1:   ORDER OF TOWN COUNCIL TO CONSTRUCT:
Whenever it is deemed necessary to construct any sidewalk or curb in the town,
the town council may, by an order duly made and entered upon its minutes, order
the construction of such sidewalk or curb, specifying in such order the name of
the street along which, and the number of the lot or lots and blocks in front
of which, such sidewalk or curb is to be constructed. (1969 Code §12.08.120)
7-1B-2:   CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Adopted: All concrete sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with
standard specifications for the public works construction as published by the
American Public Works Association, specifications C1-54 (1954), and curb or
curb and gutter shall be constructed in accordance with standard specifications
for the public works construction as published by the American Public Works
Association C2-54 (1954). (1969 Code §12.08.320)
   B.   Use Of Batch Mixer Permitted: With the general specifications adopted
by reference in subsection A of this section, nothing contained in such section
shall be construed to prevent the use at a job site of either a stationary or
portable batch mixer, meeting Associated General Contractors rating standards;
provided, that proper safeguards are in use. (1969 Code §12.08.330)
ARTICLE C.SIDEWALKS AND CURBS
SECTION:
7-1C-1: Duty Of Property Owners To Keep Repaired
7-1C-2: Defective Sidewalks Or Curbs; Failure To Repair
7-1C-1:   DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNERS TO KEEP REPAIRED:
It is the duty of the owners of any real property within the town to keep the
sidewalks and curbs located on town owned property that adjoins their property
in a state of good, safe and substantial condition and repair. The property
owner shall see to it that all breaks and unsoundness, whether the result of
natural deterioration, or from any other cause, are repaired within six (6)
months after being served with written notice directing the repair of the
sidewalk or curbs. If the repairs result in damage to yards and/or boulevards,
including irrigation systems, trees, etc., the property owner will be solely
responsible for repair of that damage. (2014 Code)
7-1C-2:   DEFECTIVE SIDEWALKS OR CURBS; FAILURE TO REPAIR:
When the town has given notice to the owner of any property that repairs are to
be made to such sidewalks or curbs, and upon the failure, refusal or neglect of
the owner to make necessary repairs to such sidewalks or curbs within the time
specified herein and in the notice, the town, its employees, agents or
contractors may thereupon proceed to repair such sidewalks or curbs and the
full cost of such repairs shall be assessed against and become a lien upon the
property, in accordance with Montana Code Annotated section 7-14-4122. (2014
Code)
CHAPTER 2
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Compliance With Chapter
7-2-2: Exception; Town Contracts
7-2-3: Application For Permission
7-2-4: Consent For Excavating Required
7-2-1: COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to cut through or tear
open any surface of any street, alley or other roadway within the town without
first complying with the conditions set forth in this chapter. (2014 Code)
7-2-2: EXCEPTION; TOWN CONTRACTS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not be applicable to any person, firm or
corporation operating under a formal written contract with the town, which
contract involves the opening of a street, alley or public way. (2014 Code)
7-2-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMISSION:
Any person, firm or corporation desiring to cut through or tear open the
surface of any street, alley or other roadway within the town shall first file
a written application with the town. Said application shall state the object
sought, the purpose for which said street is to be cut through or broken open,
the proposed area of such opening, and the exact location thereof. (2014 Code)
7-2-4: CONSENT FOR EXCAVATING REQUIRED:
The consent for excavating on town owned property form must be completed and
signed by the property owner and contractor prior to the town authorizing any
work to commence. The intent of the form is to be certain the property owner
and the contractor hired understand the requirements for working on town owned
property. The form is available and on file in the town office. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Glass Or Similar Containers Prohibited
7-3-1: GLASS OR SIMILAR CONTAINERS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definition: "Municipal park or playground" means any park or playground
owned, operated or controlled by the town.
   B.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   No person, while present in any municipal park or playground, shall
have in his possession, or under his control, any container or other object
which is made of glass or of any other similar material which will break or
shatter.
      2.   No person shall take into any municipal park or playground, or in
any other way cause to be placed therein or thereon, any container or other
object which is made of glass or of any other similar material which will break
or shatter.
   C.   Violations; Penalties: It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to
violate any of the provisions of this section. Every person convicted of a
violation of this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-4-1 of
this code. Upon conviction, the court costs, or any part thereof, may also be
assessed against the defendant in the discretion of the court. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 4
MAINTENANCE OF BOULEVARDS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Owner Duty To Maintain
7-4-2: Penalty
7-4-1: OWNER DUTY TO MAINTAIN:
It shall be the duty of the occupant or owner of any premises in the town to
keep all boulevards in a safe and clean condition. It shall also be the duty of
the occupant or owner of any premises in the town to keep all trees, bushes,
shrubs, fences or other fixtures in a trimmed and safe condition so as to
render the sidewalks safe for travel of persons or safe for travel in the
streets, whether in vehicles or equipment. (1969 Code §12.28.010)
7-4-2: PENALTY:
Every person failing to comply with this chapter shall, after being notified
and required by the town clerk-treasurer, or other duly authorized
representative, to forthwith maintain the boulevard or to trim the trees,
bushes, shrubs, fences or other fixtures, shall be guilty of allowing a
nuisance to exist and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to the
penalties as prescribed by section 1-4-1 of this code. (1969 Code §12.28.020)
CHAPTER 5
ENCROACHMENTS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Title
7-5-2: Purpose And Scope
7-5-3: Definitions
7-5-4: Regulation
7-5-5: Projection And Clearance
7-5-6: Enforcement
7-5-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the CHESTER TOWN RIGHT OF WAY ENCROACHMENT CODE.
(1969 Code §12.20.010)
7-5-2: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to provide standards for the regulation
and control of encroachments and private use of public rights of way within the
incorporated limits of this municipality. This chapter will ensure full
compliance by this incorporated municipality with all applicable federal, state
and local laws, in the interest of public safety and the free and safe flow of
traffic. (1969 Code §12.20.020)
   B.   It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to provide minimum
standards to safeguard life, health, property and public welfare by regulating
and controlling the placement of all signs and sign structures within the
unincorporated limits so as to prevent the obstruction of view of any official
traffic sign, signal or device. (1969 Code §12.20.060)
7-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
CURB LINE: The line at the face of the curb nearest to the street or roadway.
In the absence of a curb, the curb shall be established by the town officials
or Montana state highway personnel.
ENCROACHMENTS: Includes all private devices placed upon the public right of
way, including devices which overhang or underlie the right of way. (1969 Code
§12.20.030)
7-5-4: REGULATION:
No private signs, eaves, marquees or similar devices will be allowed to
encroach on the public rights of way of this municipality within the
incorporated limits, except as provided herein and then only by agreement
issued by the proper authorities and revocable on thirty (30) days' written
notice to the applicant. No gainful private or commercial use of the public
right of way will be allowed. Examples include nonemergency servicing of
vehicles, parking or placing of portable advertising devices on the public
right of way. (1969 Code §12.20.040)
7-5-5: PROJECTION AND CLEARANCE:
The outermost portion of an overhanging device should be at least two feet (2')
behind the face of the curb, or where there is no curb, from the established
curb line, and the lowest portion of an overhanging device should be at least
seven and one-half feet (71/2') above the top of the curb, sidewalk or roadway
shoulder elevation. (1969 Code §12.20.050)
7-5-6: ENFORCEMENT:
Authorized town and county officials are directed to enforce all of the
provisions of this chapter as provided herein and in accordance with the
provisions of state law. Any person, firm or corporation violating the
provisions of this chapter shall be, in addition to the penalties provided by
state law, punishable by a fine not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00).
(1969 Code §12.20.070; amd. 2014 Code)
TITLE 8
UTILITIES
Utility Regulations Generally   1
Water System Regulations   2
Water Main Line Construction Specifications   3
Public And Private Sewers   4
Sewer Line Construction Specifications   5
Solid Waste Collection And Disposal   6
Water Conservation Plan   7
CHAPTER 1
UTILITY REGULATIONS GENERALLY
SECTION:
8-1-1: Use, Service And Rate Regulations
8-1-2: Mandatory Connection To Public Water And Sewer
8-1-3: Annexation As Requirement For Water Service
8-1-4: Late Payment Fees For Delinquent Bills
8-1-5: Prohibited Placement Of Water And Sewer Lines
8-1-6: Thawing Water Lines With Welding Machines
8-1-1: USE, SERVICE AND RATE REGULATIONS:
The town council shall by resolution provide for user charges, the
classification of users, applications for service, and use of the service for
all municipal utilities providing service within the town. The resolutions will
outline the utility's procedure for discontinuance of service, reestablishment
of service, and the extension of service to users within and outside town
limits. At no time may rate increases for comparable classifications and zones
outside the town limits exceed those set within the town limits as per Montana
Code Annotated section 69-7-201. (2014 Code)
8-1-2: MANDATORY CONNECTION TO PUBLIC WATER AND SEWER:
   A.   Water And Sewer Connection By Residences: All dwelling houses or
apartment houses, or cabins, or any buildings used as dwelling places by human
beings, shall have running water and be connected to the town water mains; and
sinks, washbowls, bathing facilities and toilets therein shall be connected to
the town public sanitary sewer in all blocks and at all places where public
lateral sanitary sewers have been constructed at the effective date hereof.
   B.   Sewer Connections:
      1.   Owner Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for any person, whether
owner, tenant under lease, tenant at will, tenant by sufferance, or occupant,
to use or occupy any dwelling house, apartment house, cabin or any kind of
building used as a dwelling place by human beings, unless the sinks, washbowls,
bathing facilities and toilets therein are connected to the town sanitary
sewers, in all blocks where the public lateral sanitary sewers have been
constructed at the effective date hereof.
      2.   Tenant Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for any person to rent
or let for hire to another person, or to allow another person to use rent free,
any dwelling house, apartment house, cabin or any kind of building used as a
dwelling house by human beings unless the sinks, washbowls, bathing facilities
and toilets therein be connected to the town sanitary sewer, in all blocks
where the public sanitary sewers have been constructed at the effective date
hereof.
      3.   Exception Where Public Sewer Not Available: As to these blocks,
railroad rights of way and other places where no public lateral sanitary sewers
have been constructed at the effective date hereof, this section shall not
apply until public lateral sanitary sewers have been constructed and in
operation for six (6) months. This section shall apply to all persons and
property within such blocks, railroad rights of way and other places the same
as though the sewers had been constructed and in operation at the time of the
effective date hereof.
   C.   Use Of Privies, Septic Tanks Restricted: It shall be unlawful for any
person, whether owner, tenant under lease, tenant at will, tenant by sufferance
or occupant, of any building whether used as a dwelling place by human beings,
place for conducting and carrying on any kind of business, or for any use
whatever, if located within any block where the public lateral sanitary sewers
have been constructed at the effective date hereof, to use any cesspool, septic
tank or outhouse or privy.
   D.   Properties Not Connected Declared Nuisance: All places, premises and
properties which are not connected to the town water mains and public lateral
sanitary sewer lines, as required by this section, shall be deemed to
constitute a nuisance.
   E.   Penalty: Any person or corporation violating the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code. (2014 Code)
8-1-3: ANNEXATION AS REQUIREMENT FOR WATER SERVICE:
   A.   Authority: This section is adopted pursuant to the authority granted
the town council in Montana Code Annotated section 7-13-4314 concerning
annexation as a requirement for receiving service, and pursuant to the
authority granted the town council in Montana Code Annotated section 69-7-201
regarding adoption of rules and regulations for the municipal water utility,
and, finally, pursuant to the general authority granted to the town council
pursuant to Montana Code Annotated sections 7-1-4123 and 7-1-4124 regarding
legislative powers.
   B.   Annexation Prior To Initiation Of Service: It shall be the policy of
the town and the municipal water utility, at the sole option of the town
council, to require any person, firm or corporation who desires to become a
user of the municipal water supply that, prior to initiation of service, the
council may require the person, firm or corporation to agree to petition to be
annexed into the municipal boundaries. Said annexation shall be accomplished by
petition pursuant to those statutes contained in Montana Code Annotated title
7, chapter 2, part 46.
   C.   Annexation Subsequent To Initiation Of Service:
      1.   The town council, in conjunction with the municipal water utility,
does hereby require any person, firm or corporation receiving town water to
petition for annexation to be included within the municipal boundaries as a
condition to continuing to receive town water services.
      2.   The town council does hereby reserve their right to notify any
person, firm or corporation who is presently receiving municipal water services
that the town may discontinue said water service absent said person, firm or
corporation petitioning the town to be annexed, and that said service may not
be restored absent such a petition, as provided in Montana Code Annotated title
7, chapter 2, part 46.
   D.   Violations; Penalties: Any person, firm or corporation residing either
inside or outside of the corporate limits of the town, which town owns the
municipal water system and furnishes water services as a public utility, who
shall wilfully turn on the water line after the same has been shut off by, or
under the direction of, the town council for noncompliance with this section,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, subject to
penalty as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code. (2014 Code)
8-1-4: LATE PAYMENT FEES FOR DELINQUENT BILLS:
When a citizen of the town receives his monthly bill for town utilities, which
includes water, sewer and garbage, and the same has not been paid by five
o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the twenty fifth of the month or five o'clock (5:00)
P.M. on the following working day if the twenty fifth falls on a Saturday,
Sunday or holiday, the new bill will include a late charge as provided in the
fee schedule appendix on file in the town office; provided, that the amount due
exceeds twenty dollars ($20.00). Once a late charge has been assessed, said
late charge becomes part of the unpaid principal balance and is included in the
bill for purposes of determining whether or not the unpaid balance exceeds
twenty dollars ($20.00) and is, therefore, subject to another late charge the
following month. (2014 Code)
8-1-5: PROHIBITED PLACEMENT OF WATER AND SEWER LINES:
   A.   Placement In Ditches:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for anyone to place a water main in a sewer
ditch or vice versa.
      2.   Ditches for the sewer shall be at least ten feet (10') from those of
the water pipes, or vice versa.
   B.   Penalty: Anyone violating any of the provisions of this section shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code. (2014 Code)
8-1-6: THAWING WATER LINES WITH WELDING MACHINES:
The use of welding machines to thaw water lines and mains is hereby prohibited
within the town. Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 2
WATER SYSTEM REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Authority
8-2-2: Request For Service Connection; Fee
8-2-3: Activation, Disconnection Or Reconnection; Fee
8-2-4: Meters
8-2-5: Rate Schedule
8-2-6: Collection Of Water Charges
8-2-7: Adjustments For Mechanical Malfunctions
8-2-8: Adequate Plumbing Required
8-2-9: Pipes And Plumbing Kept In Good Repair
8-2-10: Resale Of Water
8-2-11: One Connection Per Building
8-2-12: Turning On Water By Authorized Personnel
8-2-13: Fire Hydrant Usage And Metering
8-2-14: Bulk Water Station And Use
8-2-1: AUTHORITY:
The following regulations governing the water system of the town have been
adopted by the town council pursuant to the authority granted by Montana Code
Annotated section 69-7-201 and this chapter. (2014 Code)
8-2-2: REQUEST FOR SERVICE CONNECTION; FEE:
   A.   Request For New Service: Any person desiring a new water service for a
property within the service area of the town water system shall make the
request at the town office.
   B.   Connection Fee: Connection fees shall be as provided in the fee
schedule appendix on file in the town office. The fee must be paid in full
before water will be connected. Once water service is activated, the property
owner will be billed for water, sewer (if applicable), garbage and mosquito
charges. (2014 Code)
8-2-3: ACTIVATION, DISCONNECTION OR RECONNECTION; FEE:
Requests for water service activation or disconnection may only be made by the
property owner. A reconnection fee as provided in the fee schedule appendix on
file in the town office will be assessed on the first billing after
reconnection is made. No person, other than an authorized individual from the
town, shall turn water valves on or off. If a reconnection is requested on a
weekend or evening, an additional fee as provided in the fee schedule appendix
will be assessed. (2014 Code)
8-2-4: METERS:
   A.   Meter Required: All properties to which town water is supplied shall be
equipped with an operating water meter. The town will furnish a five-eighths
inch by three-fourths inch (5/8"x 3/4") meter, which shall remain the property
of the town after installation. If a larger meter is required, the town will
contribute the amount equal to a five-eighths inch by three-fourths inch (5/8"x
3/4") meter, and the property owner will contribute the difference. A separate
meter is required for each individual residence and each individual business,
but combined residences and businesses occupying the same building may be
served by a single meter. The meter must be installed within seventy feet (70')
of the main or a meter pit is required. If service extends to a second building
on the premises, such as a shop or garage, the line must be plumbed after the
meter or a second meter must be purchased and will incur only water use
charges.
   B.   Installation Of Meter: The town will install the meters or the property
owner can have the meter installed. All meters shall be installed in a dry
frost free environment. If a meter pit is required, the meter will be installed
at the property owner's expense. The property owner is responsible for the
maintenance of the meter pit.
   C.   Reading Meters: A town employee will read meters. A touch pad or drive
by reader will be installed at the time of meter installation and the employee
must have access to the touch pad located on an exterior wall.
   D.   Testing Meters: Any municipal water meter shall be taken out and tested
upon complaint of the consumer, upon payment of a fee as provided in the fee
schedule appendix on file in the town office. If upon test the meter is not
within three percent (3%) of being accurate, it shall be repaired or replaced
and the fee returned to the consumer.
   E.   Meter Reading Unavailable: Whenever meter readings for any billing
period are unavailable, whether due to meter malfunction, weather conditions or
other cause, water bills shall be calculated on the basis of an average monthly
seasonal consumption rate for the premises. If such average rate is unavailable
or is not reasonably applicable, the billing shall be estimated from a
comparison with similar households or businesses in the community. At such time
as normal monthly readings can be obtained, the actual metered rate will be
reinstated. (2014 Code)
8-2-5: RATE SCHEDULE:
   A.   Water Service Schedule: The schedule of rates based on meter readings
shall be charged for town water service as provided in the fee schedule
appendix on file in the town office.
   B.   Modification Of Rate Schedule: The rate schedule may be amended from
time to time by resolution of the town council in accordance with this code and
the laws of the state. Any such resolution modifying the rate schedule shall
also provide for amendment of these regulations to reflect the new rate
schedule. (2014 Code)
8-2-6: COLLECTION OF WATER CHARGES:
   A.   Billing Cycle: Water meters shall be read monthly on or about the
twenty fifth day of each month and bills for water used shall be issued by the
town on or about the last day of each month for payment on or before the twenty
fifth day of the following month.
   B.   Party Responsible For Payment: The owner of the property shall be
responsible to pay bills for services provided to the premises. Bills may be
put in renter's name with a signed approval of the property owner, but the
owner is ultimately responsible. Service that has been disconnected will not be
restored until delinquent charges have been paid in full. Delinquent charges
stay with the property, not with the individual.
C. Notice Of Delinquent Water Bills: Past due notices are sent by mail on or
about the middle of the month after an account is more than thirty (30) days
past due. The owner of a rental that is delinquent is notified by mail at that
time as well. The notice will state a disconnection date (normally between 11/
2 to 2 weeks' notice). If payment is not received, a certified letter will be
sent with a final warning of disconnect in two (2) to four (4) days, depending
on how the weekend falls. The cost of the certified letter (between $5.00 and
$6.00) will be added to the delinquent account. If no payment or arrangements
are made, the service will be disconnected and will not be reconnected until
all delinquent charges and a reconnection fee as specified in the fee schedule
appendix on file in the town office is paid in full. The owner of a rental will
have the opportunity to pay the renter's delinquent charges before
disconnection is made and avoiding the reconnection fee.
   D.   Council Authority To Defer Payment: The town council shall have the
authority to continue providing water service and to defer the payment of
delinquent water bills after notice of delinquency is sent as hereinabove
provided, if, in the council's judgment, good cause exists for such deferment.
(2014 Code)
8-2-7: ADJUSTMENTS FOR MECHANICAL MALFUNCTIONS:
If there was extraordinary water consumption on any premises by reason of
broken pipes, faulty toilet seals or other similar cause and that the excessive
water use was unknown to the consumer and was promptly corrected upon
discovery, the town council may adjust the water bill for said billing period
if the property owner asks for such leniency. (2014 Code)
8-2-8: ADEQUATE PLUMBING REQUIRED:
Residential properties may not install a service line larger than one inch (1")
for water service. Businesses requiring a service line greater than one inch
(1") must request permission from town authorities. All services are required
to have a main shutoff valve that is accessible and in good working order.
Water service may be shut off at the discretion of the town in cases where the
plumbing or associated improvements have become inadequate through time or
neglect. Service will be restored when the problem is taken care of. (2014
Code)
8-2-9: PIPES AND PLUMBING KEPT IN GOOD REPAIR:
Owners of properties served shall keep the pipes and plumbing upon their
premises in good repair and prevent the waste or leakage of water, and shall be
held liable for all damage to the town for their failure to do so. All repairs
for service pipes and plumbing systems of premises shall be made by and at the
expense of the owner of the premises served. The water department will turn
water service off and on for maintenance and repairs during regular department
hours. Call outs after hours will be charged a minimum of fifty dollars
($50.00). No one other than town personnel are to attempt to turn water off or
on at the curb stop. A fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) may be
implemented against the offender. (2014 Code)
8-2-10: RESALE OF WATER:
Water from the town water system may not be resold by users to any
organization, company or individual. Water hoses may not service another
neighboring residence with water unless authorized by the town during an
emergency. (2014 Code)
8-2-11: ONE CONNECTION PER BUILDING:
It shall be unlawful for any owner, agent or tenant to supply or permit to be
supplied any water to two (2) or more buildings through one and the same
connection, except on special contract with the town. (1969 Code §15.08.060)
8-2-12: TURNING ON WATER BY AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL:
Water may be turned on at the curb cock only by an authorized employee of the
town, and, if turned on by another person, a penalty of five hundred dollars
($500.00) shall be assessed against the property and, in addition thereto, the
unauthorized person so turning on the water shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(2014 Code)
8-2-13: FIRE HYDRANT USAGE AND METERING:
   A.   Hydrant Use: No one may open a fire hydrant except for town personnel
and members of the volunteer fire department. Anyone caught opening or
tampering with a fire hydrant without permission will be fined five hundred
dollars ($500.00).
   B.   Hydrant Meter: A meter for fire hydrant use is available upon request.
There is a base rate for the installation of the meter, plus a fee for per
gallons used as provided in the fee schedule appendix on file in the town
office. (2014 Code)
8-2-14: BULK WATER STATION AND USE:
   A.   Connections: All bulk water users must provide their own connections to
the system.
   B.   Chemicals: No chemicals are allowed on any truck filling at the bulk
station.
   C.   Fees: Fees shall be as provided in the fee schedule appendix on file in
the town office. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 3
WATER MAIN LINE CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Compliance With Regulations
8-3-2: Plan And Construction Requirements; State Approval
8-3-3: Materials Required
8-3-4: Method Of Construction
8-3-5: Special Conditions, Water Line Near Sewer Line
8-3-6: Application To Public Water Lines Only
8-3-7: Violations; Penalties
8-3-1: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
A person desiring to construct a water line extension within the corporate
limits of the town, which water line will be turned over to the town for
operation and maintenance upon completion, shall be required to construct said
water line in accordance with the specifications set forth in this chapter.
(2014 Code)
8-3-2: PLAN AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS; STATE APPROVAL:
   A.   Plan Required; Specifications:
      1.   Before any water main is constructed in the town, a plan and profile
of the proposed installation shall be submitted to the town council for their
consideration.
      2.   The plan will show the location of the water line in relation to the
centerlines of the streets, location of all valves and the location of fire
hydrants. The location of valves and fire hydrants shall be dimensioned from
property lines of the block or centerlines of the streets. The profile shall
show the grade to which it is proposed to place a line below the streets. All
water lines shall be placed sufficiently deep so that a minimum of six feet
(6') of cover from the finished grade of the street is obtained. Should the
street in which the line is being laid not be to proper grade at the time of
construction, it will be required to obtain from the town the finished grade of
the street and the water line shall be laid sufficiently deep so that a six
foot (6') minimum cover is obtained after the street has been brought to proper
grade.
   B.   Plan Submitted To State; Approval Required: The plan and profile shall
be complete enough so that it can be submitted to the state department of
public health and human services for their approval prior to construction. In
no case will construction be started before written approval is obtained from
the state department of public health and human services and the town council.
   C.   Supervision; Inspection:
      1.   Any water main construction made in the town shall be under the
supervision of the town. The town shall approve the layout of the work and
shall be responsible to see that the water line is being laid to the grades
specified on the plans.
      2.   The town shall be authorized to inspect all work done and all
materials furnished. Such inspection may extend to all or any part of the work
and to the preparation, fabrication or manufacture of the materials to be used.
The town will not be authorized to revoke, alter or waive any requirements of
the specifications; however, the town is authorized to call attention to any
failure of the work or materials to conform to these specifications. The town
shall have the authority to revoke materials or suspend the work until any
question at issue can be referred to and decided by the town. The cost of
employing the inspector shall be borne by the person making said improvements.
   D.   Pressure Test: After the water line has been laid and partially
backfilled, all joints, fittings and valves shall be subjected to a hydrostatic
pressure test of fifty percent (50%) above the normal operating pressure. The
"normal operating pressure" is defined as the maximum pressure in the water
system in the town. All such tests shall be conducted in the presence of the
town.
   E.   As Constructed Drawings: Before the water line will be accepted by the
town council, "as constructed drawings" shall be submitted to the town council.
These drawings shall be prepared on regular plate A4x20 plan and profile paper
and shall be prepared in india ink to serve as a permanent record for the town.
These final drawings shall show the final grade and alignment of the water line
as constructed and the final location of all valves in relation to property
lines or street intersection. (2014 Code)
8-3-3: MATERIALS REQUIRED:
   A.   Pipe: Any pipe installed in the town shall be PVC or HDPE, or
equivalent, and shall conform in regard to dimensions, weights and tolerances
to federal specifications for pipe, water, cast iron (bell and spigot) no. WW-
P-421. The mechanical joint and accessories shall conform in regard to
dimensions, weights and tolerances to American standard specification A21.11.
   B.   Fittings: All pipe fittings installed in the town shall be class 250
and conform in regard to dimensions, weight and tolerances to American standard
specifications A21.10 for short body cast iron fittings.
   C.   Valves And Valve Boxes:
      1.   Any gate valves installed in the town shall be iron body, full
bronze mounted, parallel seat, double gate valves of some standard make. Valves
shall be thoroughly tested to three hundred (300) pounds' psi and shall be
suitable for working pressure of not less than one hundred fifty (150) pounds'
psi. There shall be no iron against iron construction in the wedging mechanism
or the moving parts of the valve when closed. They shall be of a design that
will ensure, in closing, a perfect contact between the gates and the seats and
shall be easily operated by hand. Each valve shall have gates moving parallel
to their respective seats with a bronze or noncorrodible metal wedging device
between them, so arranged that it acts upon gates equally.
      2.   Names of the manufacturer of the valves being furnished shall be
submitted to the town for approval.
      3.   Any valve boxes installed in the town shall be cast iron adjustable
(screw type) valve boxes with a minimum four inch (4") diameter shaft. The
valve boxes shall be of sufficient length to allow adjustment to the finished
surface grade of the street. The covers furnished on the boxes shall have the
word "Water" cast on them.
   D.   Hydrants:
      1.   Hydrants installed in any water line in the town shall be Corey type
as manufactured by Pacific States Cast Iron Pipe Company, Provo, Utah.
      2.   Hydrants installed on six inch (6") or larger water lines shall be
provided with two inch (2") hose connections and one 6-inch steamer connection.
      3.   The hydrants shall be so constructed that all the working parts may
be removed through the head without the use of special wrenches.
      4.   All hydrants furnished shall be provided with a sidewalk breaking
flange using drilled steel bits of a proper size to allow for easy shearing and
optimum holding. The hydrant shall be of sufficient length that the sidewalk
breaking flange is just above the surface of the ground. The operating nut
shall be pentagon (5 sided) in shape and shall be finished with a slight taper
to one and one-half inches (11/2") from point to flat. (2014 Code)
8-3-4: METHOD OF CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Trenches: Trenches shall be excavated sufficiently wide to allow for
placing and working around the pipe. No trench shall be less than two feet (2')
in width. On larger diameter pipe, the trench width shall be sufficient to
allow at least six inches (6") between the bell and the trench walls. Trenches
shall be excavated to the lines and grades approved by the town council. When
rock is encountered in the trench bottom, it shall be excavated to sufficient
depth to admit refilling under the body and bell of the pipe with at least
three inches (3") of fine dry earth or sand, which shall be carefully tamped so
as to firmly fit the under half of the pipe. When quicksand or other unsuitable
material is encountered in the bottom of the trench, it shall be excavated at
least six inches (6") below the grade and a solid foundation built with gravel,
broken stone or concrete, all in such a manner as the town shall direct.
   B.   Pipes: The pipe shall be lowered in the ditch with rope slings and with
the bell end of the pipe pointing in the direction the line is being laid. The
pipe shall be laid to conform with the lines and grades specified and so that
the body of the pipe (not the bell) will bear firmly on the bottom of the
trench. Bell holes of ample size shall be dug at each joint to permit the
joints to be made properly. Before jointing the pipe, one teaspoon of powdered
calcium hypochlorite shall be placed in each length of pipe.
   C.   Joints:
      1.   All joints shall be yarned with the manufacturer's recommended
pounds of square braided jute which shall be driven in, with proper tools, to
provide for a uniform depth of lead around the circumference of the pipe.
Joints shall then be filled with hot lead, care being taken to make certain
that the lead is hot enough so that it will not chill as it enters the bell. A
joint runner of proper size should be used to prevent the jointing material
from running out. Each joint shall be filled with the manufacturer's
recommended pounds of lead. The joints shall then be caulked by experienced
workers and with tools of proper size. In no case will large caulking tools,
which might become wedged between the bell and spigot of the pipe, be allowed.
All fittings and valves shall be jointed to the pipe in the same manner as
described above for pipe joints.
      2.   If mechanical joint pipe is used, rather than bell spigot, it shall
be laid as described above for bell and spigot pipe. Care shall be taken to
make certain that the spigot is centrally located in the bell so that a secure
and tight joint may be obtained. The bolts shall be tightened progressively so
that the gland is brought up toward the pipe flange evenly and so that the same
distance is maintained between the gland and the face of the flange at all
points around the socket. Each joint shall be provided with a copper wire bond
from one pipe to the proceeding pipe so that it will be possible to have a
complete electrical circuit for the entire length of the line. The copper wire
may be spot welded to each pipe or connected through the joint all in a manner
satisfactory to the town. Upon completion of the line and after hydrostatic
pressure tests have been completed, each joint shall be wrapped with burlap and
hot asphalt.
      3.   The joint, when finished, shall be completely covered and protected
from any action from the surrounding ground.
   D.   Types Of Pipes And Joints: These specifications cover types of pipe and
joints now being manufactured and in common use. It is possible that, in the
future, new types of joints will be manufactured. These joints may be used only
if prior approval has been obtained from the town.
   E.   Concrete Blocks: Concrete blocks shall be poured between the
undisturbed part of the trench and the fittings in cases where the water line
changes direction, such as at tees, bends and elbows. Wherever a line dead
ends, a concrete block shall be poured between the end of the line and the
undisturbed part of the trench. Concrete blocks shall be poured between the
undisturbed part of the trench and the fire hydrants. These concrete blocks
shall be of sufficient size to hold the line firmly in place when excessive
pressures, due from water hammer, are placed on the line.
   F.   Backfilling Between Joints: As soon as the line has been laid and
inspected by the town, the line may be backfilled between the joints.
Backfilling shall be done with the excavated material (when same is suitable)
and shall be placed in thin layers, each layer being thoroughly compacted
before the next layer is placed. Backfilling shall be to a depth of at least
eighteen inches (18") over the top of the pipe.
   G.   Pressure Test: After the line has been backfilled and compacted between
each joint, the line shall be subjected to a hydrostatic pressure test of fifty
percent (50%) above the maximum working pressure of the line. The duration of
each pressure test shall be at least thirty (30) minutes. Each valved section
of the line shall be slowly filled with water and the specified test pressure,
measured at the point of lowest elevation, shall be applied by means of a pump
connected to the pipe in a satisfactory manner. Before applying the test, all
air shall be expelled from the line. To accomplish this, taps shall be made, if
necessary, at the points of highest elevations and afterwards tightly plugged.
All joints shall be carefully examined during the pressure test and any joint
found to be leaking shall be caulked or tightened until the leak is stopped.
All pipe, fittings or valves found under test to be defective shall be removed
and replaced and the test again applied. This procedure shall be continued
until the line is approved by the town.
   H.   Layers Of Backfill: After tests have been completed, the remainder of
the line shall be backfilled. Backfill shall be in layers, each layer being
thoroughly tamped with a tamper weighing not less than twenty (20) pounds and
having a surface of not more than eight inches (8") in diameter. Rocks larger
in volume than six inches (6") cubed shall be excluded in the backfill around
the pipe and for a distance of two feet (2') over the pipe.
   I.   Surfacing Improved Or Graveled Streets: On improved streets or alleys,
such as streets and alleys having concrete, cement asphalt or road mix oil
surfaces or on graveled streets where the amount of traffic requires that the
street be repaired and left in as good a condition as before the work
commenced, the backfill shall be tamped for the entire depth of the trench and
until at least ninety percent (90%) of the original density has been acquired.
After the trench has been thoroughly compacted and approved by the town, a
surface, conforming to the type of surface in place on the undisturbed part of
the streets or alleys, shall be replaced over the trench excavation and the
streets or alleys shall be left in as good a condition as before the work
commenced.
   J.   Tamping Unimproved Streets: On unimproved streets or alleys, when a
covering of two feet (2') has been placed on top of the pipe, as above
described, tamping may be dispensed with and water used for settling the
backfill as directed by the town and the streets or alleys left in as good a
condition as before the work commenced.
   K.   Gate Valves: On any water line installed in the town, sufficient gate
valves shall be installed so that the services in each block may be
discontinued without disrupting the service in the adjacent blocks. Gate valves
shall be installed ahead of each hydrant. Each valve shall be provided with a
valve box of the type described in subsection 8-3-3C3 of this chapter. (2014
Code)
8-3-5: SPECIAL CONDITIONS, WATER LINE NEAR SEWER LINE:
In cases where a water line crosses within two feet (2') of the sanitary sewer,
construction will be as specified in state code. (2014 Code)
8-3-6: APPLICATION TO PUBLIC WATER LINES ONLY:
The specifications of this chapter for the construction of water lines are
intended to and shall apply only to public water lines in the streets, avenues
and alleys in the town, and such specifications are not intended to and shall
not apply to the construction of private water lines built to connect private
or publicly owned buildings not in the streets and alleys with the public water
lines. (2014 Code)
8-3-7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Illegal Connections: It shall be unlawful for any person to connect any
new public water lines to the existing public water lines without complying
with this chapter and without first obtaining the approval of the town. If any
public water lines shall be connected to existing public water lines without
having complied with this chapter, the town may cause the connection between
the new line and the older existing line to be broken and may forbid further
use of the offending water line until this chapter shall be complied with.
   B.   Penalty Imposed: Every contractor, corporation or person who shall
construct or participate in the construction of any water line in the streets,
avenues and alleys within the town limits in such a manner as to violate any or
all of the foregoing specifications shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section 1-4-1 of this
code. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SEWERS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Definitions
8-4-2: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
8-4-3: Hearing Board; Arbitration
8-4-4: Use Of Public Sewers Required
8-4-5: Private Wastewater Disposal
8-4-6: Sanitary Sewers, Building Sewers And Connections
8-4-7: Public Sewer Use Restrictions And Requirements
8-4-8: Tampering With Wastewater Facilities
8-4-9: Sewer Rate Schedule
8-4-10: Violations; Penalties
8-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall. (See definitions of
Service Connection Or Service Tap and Service Pipe Or Service Line.)
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called "house connection". (See definitions of
Service Connection Or Service Tap and Service Pipe Or Service Line.)
COLLECTION MAIN OR MAIN: A sewer pipe owned, operated and maintained by the
town, which is used for the collection of sewage and to which service
connections are made.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
COMMERCIAL SERVICE: Any sewer usage other than solely for residential purposes.
Where a single structure has combined business and residential usage, the sewer
service shall be considered "commercial service". Schools, hospitals, clinics,
nursing homes, churches, trailer parks, apartments, condominiums and rooming
houses having two (2) or more rooms on a rental basis are examples of
"commercial services".
DEVELOPER: Any individual, firm, corporation or other entity who causes
improvements to be made upon land, with said improvement requiring sewer
service.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
GARBAGE: The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
HEARING BOARD: That board appointed according to provisions of section 8-4-3 of
this chapter.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The wastewater from industrial processes, trade or business
as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
MAY: Is permissive. (See definition of Shall.)
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer flows,
into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or ground water.
PERMITTEE: Any user which obtains a written permit to cause construction work
to be performed in accordance with the permit.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogen ion
concentration of 10-7.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION: The Montana public service commission.
PUBLIC SEWER: A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: The town public works director or his authorized deputy,
agent or representative.
RESIDENTIAL SERVICE: Sewer usage solely for residential purposes.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that carries liquid and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
SERVICE CONNECTION OR SERVICE TAP: The connection at the collection main which
connects the customer's service pipe to the main. (See definitions of Building
Drain and Building Sewer.)
SERVICE PIPE OR SERVICE LINE: The piping from the service connection at the
main to the customer's premises. (See definitions of Building Drain and
Building Sewer.)
SEWAGE: The spent water of a community. The preferred term is "wastewater".
SEWER: A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
SHALL: Is mandatory. (See definition of May.)
SLUG: Any discharge of water or wastewater which, in concentration of any given
constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration longer
than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average twenty four (24)
hour concentration of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect
the collection system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
STORM DRAIN (Sometimes Termed STORM SEWER): A drain or sewer for conveying
water, groundwater, subsurface water or unpolluted water from any source.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface of,
or is in suspension in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in "Standard Methods For The
Examination Of Water And Wastewater" and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
TOWN ADMINISTRATOR: The mayor of the town or any person authorized by him to
act as administrator of the sanitary sewer department.
TOWN COUNCIL: The duly elected governing body of the town, including the mayor.
TOWN SEWER: The system operated by the town for the collection, transmission
and treatment of sewage.
TOWN STANDARDS: Those standards adopted by the town council which pertain to
the design, materials and construction practices for sanitary sewers.
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary sewer
and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
USER, CUSTOMER OR CONSUMER: An individual, partnership, association, firm,
public or private corporation or government agency receiving sewer service. In
the case of a tenant, the property owner is considered the customer or
consumer.
WASTEWATER: The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or "water
pollution control plant".
WATERCOURSE: A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water, either
continuously or intermittently. (2014 Code)
8-4-2: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   Right Of Entry: The public works director and other duly authorized
employees of the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing pertinent to discharge to the community
system in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Authority Limited: The public works director or other duly authorized
employees are authorized to obtain information concerning industrial processes
which have a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the
wastewater collection system. The industry may withhold information considered
confidential. The industry shall establish that the revelation to the public of
the information in question might result in an advantage to competitors.
   C.   Town Easement: The public works director and other duly authorized
employees of the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the town holds a duly
negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the wastewater facilities lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent
work, if any, on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms
of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(2014 Code)
8-4-3: HEARING BOARD; ARBITRATION:
   A.   Council Act As Board: The town council shall act as a hearing board for
arbitration of differences between the public works director and sewer users on
matters concerning interpretation and execution of the provisions of this
chapter by the public works director.
   B.   Cost Of Arbitration: The cost of the arbitration will be divided
equally between the town and the sewer user. (2014 Code)
8-4-4: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Objectionable Deposits Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person
to place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public
or private property within the town or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the town, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   B.   Discharge Of Sewage Or Polluted Waters Prohibited: It shall be unlawful
to discharge to any natural outlet within the town or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the town, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where
suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions
of this chapter.
   C.   Privies And Septic Tanks: Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be
unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool
or other facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   D.   Connection To Public Sewer Required: The owners of all houses,
buildings or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or
other purposes, situated within the town and abutting on any street, alley or
right of way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a
public sanitary or combined sewer of the town, is hereby required at the
owner's expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect
such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within thirty (30) days after date of official
notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within five hundred feet
(500') of the property line. (2014 Code)
8-4-5: PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL:
   A.   Connection To Private System: Where a public sanitary or combined sewer
is not available under the provisions of subsection 8-4-4D of this chapter, the
building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal system
complying with the provisions of this section.
   B.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Application; Supplementary Documents: Before commencement of
construction of a private wastewater disposal system, the owner shall first
obtain a written permit signed by the public works director. The application
for such a permit shall be made on a form furnished by the town, which the
applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other information
as are deemed necessary by the public works director.
      2.   Permit And Inspection Fee: A permit and inspection fee shall be paid
to the town at the time the application is filed, in an amount specified by the
town council from time to time.
   C.   Inspection Of Installation: A permit for a private wastewater disposal
system shall not become effective until the installation is completed to the
satisfaction of the public works director. The public works director shall be
allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction, and, in any event,
the applicant for the permit shall notify the public works director when the
work is ready for final inspection, and before any underground portions are
covered. The inspection shall be made within forty eight (48) hours of the
receipt of notice by the public works director, holidays or weekends excepted.
   D.   Compliance With Regulations And Requirements:
      1.   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the state department
of public health and human services.
      2.   No permit shall be issued for any private wastewater disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than three thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet (square meters). No
septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   E.   Discontinuing Use Of Septic Tanks: At such time as a public sewer
becomes available to a property served by a private wastewater disposal system,
as provided in subsection 8-4-4D of this chapter, a direct connection shall be
made to the public sewer within sixty (60) days, in compliance with this
chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private wastewater
disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with suitable
material.
   F.   Operation In Sanitary Manner: The owner shall operate and maintain the
private wastewater disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no
expense to the town.
   G.   Discharge Into Sanitary Sewer Or Sewer Lagoon: Discharge into the
sanitary sewer or sewer lagoon is not allowed. (2014 Code)
8-4-6: SANITARY SEWERS, BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Public Sewer Connection Or Repair; Permit Required: No unauthorized
person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening into, use, alter or
disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a
written permit from the public works director.
   B.   Classes Of Building Sewer Permits; Fees:
      1.   Classes: There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits:
a) for residential and commercial service; and b) for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes.
      2.   Application; Supplementary Documents: In either case, the owner or
his agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the town. The
permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the public works director.
      3.   Permit, Inspection And Tapping Fees: A permit and inspection fee for
a residential or commercial building sewer permit and for an industrial
building sewer permit shall be paid to the town at the time the application is
filed, in an amount specified by the town council from time to time. In
addition to the permit and inspection fee, a tapping fee in an amount specified
by the town council from time to time shall be paid to the town at the time the
application is filed, where the property requiring sewer service has not been
previously connected with the town sewer.
      4.   Service Line Installation Or Repairs; Permit Requirements: Any and
all installation, repair, replacement or alteration of service lines from the
main to the consumer's premises shall require a permit issued by the town. The
permit shall set forth the reason for work and description of work to be
performed. The holder of the town permit shall be primarily responsible for
compliance with town standards, the state plumbing code, these rules and
regulations, or any other applicable rules and regulations.
   C.   Owner Responsibilities: All costs and expense incidental to the
installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
The owner shall indemnify the town from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   D.   Separate Connection For Each Building; Exception: A separate and
independent building sewer shall be provided for every building; except where
one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private
sewer is available nor can be constructed to the rear building through an
adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building sewer from the front
building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one
building sewer, but the town does not and will not assume any obligation or
responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such single
connection aforementioned.
   E.   Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the public
works director, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   F.   Conformance With Building And Plumbing Codes: The size, slope,
alignment and materials of construction of all sanitary sewers, including
building sewers, and methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the
requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and
regulations of the town and the state. In the absence of suitable code
provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth
in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and WPCF manual of practice no. 9
shall apply.
   G.   Building Drains: Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought
to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in
which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the building sewer.
   H.   Drainage Of Roof Runoff And Groundwater To Public Sewer Prohibited: No
person shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation drains, areaway
drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or
building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public
sanitary sewer, unless such connection is approved by the public works director
and the state department of public health and human services, for purposes of
disposal of polluted surface drainage.
   I.   Building Sewer Connection Into Public Sewer; Compliance With Codes,
Standards: The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town, and the state, or the procedures
set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF manual of
practice no. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight and
verified by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials shall be approved by the public works director before installation.
   J.   Inspection Before Connection To Public Sewer: The applicant for the
building sewer permit shall notify the public works director when the building
sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The
connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the public works
director or his representative.
K. Excavations 1
:
      1.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
      2.   Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
      3.   The customer, at the customer's expense, is responsible for the
excavation from the point of intended use to the main and restoration of the
surface to acceptable condition, all of which shall be done in strict
compliance with any ordinance, resolution or regulation of the town governing
excavations in streets and alleys.
      4.   All excavations in the town streets, alleys or other property
require a permit issued by the public works director for a fee in an amount
established by the town council from time to time.
      5.   The customer, at the customer's expense, shall maintain all service
piping and appurtenances in good condition, operable and free from leaks.
Failure to do so may be cause for discontinuance of service. It is the
customer's responsibility to repair any leaks in the service lines immediately
upon discovery. (2014 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 7-2-4 of this code for excavation policy.
8-4-7: PUBLIC SEWER USE RESTRICTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Unpolluted Waters: No person shall discharge, or cause to be
discharged, any unpolluted waters such as stormwater, surface water,
groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage or cooling water to any sewer,
except stormwater runoff from limited areas, which stormwater may be polluted
at times, may be discharged to the sanitary sewer by permission of the public
works director and the state department of public health and human services.
   B.   Storm Sewers: Stormwater, other than that exempted under subsection A
of this section, and all other unpolluted drainage, shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to
a natural outlet approved by the public works director and the state department
of health. Unpolluted industrial cooling waters or process waters may be
discharged, on approval of the public works director, to a storm sewer,
combined sewer or natural outlet.
   C.   Prohibited Waters And Wastes: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewers:
      1.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard including, but
not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of less than one
hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) or sixty degrees centigrade (60°C)
using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21. These wastes include, but
are not limited to, gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, etc., in solid,
liquid or gaseous form.
      2.   a. Toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient
quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to contaminate the
sludge of any municipal system, to injure or interfere with any sewage
treatment process, or equipment, constitute a hazard to humans or animals,
create a public nuisance, or result in the pass-through of inadequately treated
wastes to receiving waters.
         b.   Each user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an
increase in the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge of the sanitary
sewer treatment works shall pay for such increased costs.
      3.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities, such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
      4.   No person shall discharge to a public sewer or storm drainage system
wastes which cause, threaten to cause, or are capable of causing, either alone
or by interaction with other substances:
         a.   A fire or explosion;
         b.   Obstruction of flow in sewer system or injury of the system or
damage to the wastewater collection, treatment or disposal facilities;
         c.   Danger to life or safety of personnel;
         d.   A nuisance or prevention of the effective maintenance or
operation of the sewer system, through having a strong or unpleasant odor;
         e.   Air pollution by the release of toxic or malodorous gases or
malodorous gas producing substances;
         f.   Interference with the wastewater treatment process;
         g.   The town effluent or any other product of the treatment process,
residues, sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for reclamation and reuse or to
interfere with the reclamation process;
         h.   A detrimental environmental impact or nuisance in the waters of
the state or a condition unacceptable to any public agency having regulatory
jurisdiction over the agency;
         i.   Discoloration or any other condition in the quality of the town
treatment works effluent in such a manner that receiving water quality
requirements established by law cannot be met;
         j.   Conditions at or near the town treatment works which violate any
statute or any rule, regulation or ordinance of any public agency or state or
federal regulatory body; and
         k.   Quantities or rates of flow which overload the town collection or
treatment facilities or cause excessive town collection or treatment costs, or
may use a disproportionate share of the town facilities.
   D.   Limitations On Certain Discharges: The following described substances,
materials, waters and wastes shall be limited in discharges to municipal
systems to concentrations or quantities which will not harm either the sewers,
the sludge of any municipal system, the wastewater treatment process or
equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or will not
otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. The
public works director may set limitations lower than the limitations
established in the regulations below if, in his opinion, such more severe
limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his opinion
as to the acceptability, the public works director will give consideration to
such factors as the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and
velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, the
wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment
plant, and other pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions on
materials or characteristics of waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary
sewer which shall not be violated without approval of the public works director
are as follows:
      1.   Wastewater having a temperature higher than one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) or sixty five degrees centigrade (65°C).
      2.   Wastewater containing petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils,
or product of mineral oil origin.
      3.   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fat or
grease.
      4.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded (see definition of
"properly shredded garbage" in section 8-4-1 of this chapter). Garbage grinders
may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions,
restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or similar places where garbage
originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of
consumption on the premises or when served by caterers.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or deleterious substances to
such degree that any such material received in the composite wastewater at the
wastewater treatment works exceeds the limits established by the public works
director for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing pollutants which result in the
presence of toxic or obnoxious gases, vapors or fumes within the POTW in
quantities which may cause acute worker health and safety concerns or public
nuisance.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the public works director in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      8.   Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both, which constitute a
"slug" as defined in section 8-4-1 of this chapter.
      9.   Waters and wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over the receiving waters.
      10.   Any waters or wastes which, by interaction with other waters or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
      11.   Pollutants which cause corrosive structural damage to the POTW, but
in no case discharges with pH lower than 5.0 unless the POTW is specifically
designed to accommodate such discharges.
      12.   Any trucked or hauled wastes unless the POTW is designed to
adequately treat the wastes and the facility has points designated for such
discharges.
   E.   Authority Of Public Works Director Regarding Injurious Discharges: If
any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged to the
public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in subsection D of this section, and which, in the
judgment of the public works director, may have a deleterious effect upon the
wastewater facilities, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the public
works director may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges.
If the public works director permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the public works director and the state
department of public health and human services.
   F.   Grease, Oil And Sand Interceptors:
      1.   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be required when, in the
opinion of the public works director, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts or
any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units.
      2.   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
public works director and the state plumbing code, and shall be located as to
be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      3.   In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the
captivated material and shall maintain records of the dates and means of
disposal which are subject to review by the public works director. Any removal
and hauling of the collected materials not performed by the owner or personnel
shall be performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
   G.   Commercial Garbage: The following provisions shall apply to commercial
garbage:
      1.   A wastewater discharge permit shall be obtained for disposal of
waste from garbage grinders or garbage disintegrating machines, except for
those installed in dwellings.
      2.   a. Waste from garbage grinders shall not be discharged into a
sanitary sewer, except where the user has obtained a permit for that specific
use from the town, and agrees to undertake whatever self-monitoring is required
to enable the town to equitably determine the user charges based on the waste
constituents and characteristics.
         b.   Such grinders shall shred the waste to a degree that all
particles will be carried freely under normal flow conditions prevailing in the
public sewer. Garbage grinders shall not be used for grinding plastic, paper
products, inert materials, garden refuse, human, animal or fowl constituents
and metals. Excessive or unnecessarily large quantities of water shall not be
used to flush ground garbage into the sanitary sewer.
      3.   The following provisions shall supplement the building and plumbing
codes or other applicable rules and regulations of the town and the state:
         a.   Any type of business or establishment, such as, but not limited
to, restaurants, bakeries, donut shops, takeout or drive-in eating
establishments, ice cream or milk drive-in stations, hospitals, hotels,
markets, recreation or reception halls, etc., where any grease or other
objectionable materials may be discharged into a public or private sewage main
or disposal system, shall have a grease interceptor.
         b.   Interceptors shall be constructed in accordance with the prior
approved design by the public works director.
         c.   Each grease interceptor shall be so installed and connected that
it shall be at all times easily accessible for inspection, cleaning and removal
of the intercepted grease. A grease interceptor may not be installed in any
part of a building where food is handled. Proper location of the grease
interceptor shall meet the plumbing code and the approval of the public works
director.
         d.   Each business establishment for which a grease interceptor is
required shall have an interceptor which shall serve only that business
establishment.
         e.   Buildings remodeled for use requiring interceptors shall be
subject to these regulations.
         f.   Waste discharge from fixtures and equipment in the above
mentioned types of establishments which may contain grease or other
objectionable materials, including, but not limited to, scullery sinks, pot and
pan sinks, dishwashers, food waste disposals, soup kettles, etc., and floor
drains located in areas where such objectionable materials may exist, may be
drained into the sanitary waste through the interceptor when approved by the
public works director. Exception: toilets, urinals and other fixtures
containing fecal material may not flow through the interceptor.
         g.   The interceptors shall be maintained in efficient operating
condition by periodic removal of the accumulated grease. No such collected
grease shall be introduced into any drainage piping or public or private sewer.
         h.   Abandoned grease interceptors shall be emptied and filled as
required for abandoned septic tanks in the state plumbing code.
i. The cover for grease interceptors shall be one-half inch (1/2") thick steel
plate reinforced as required by the public works director, said reinforcing to
depend upon the load to be imposed on the plate. Except as otherwise provided,
the cover shall be gastight on all interceptors and the waste shall enter the
interceptor through the inlet pipe only.
         j.   Interceptors shall be installed in such a manner that drainage
from areas outside the area intended to be served may not enter.
   H.   Pretreatment Or Flow Equalization Facilities: Where pretreatment or
flow equalization facilities are provided or required for any waters or wastes,
they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation
by the owner at his expense.
   I.   Structure To Facilitate Observation, Sampling And Measurement Of
Wastes: When required by the public works director, the owner of the property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable structure, together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances
in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of
the wastes. Such structures, when required, shall be accessibly and safely
located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
public works director. The structure shall be installed by the owner at his
expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all
times.
   J.   Required Information From User: The public works director may require a
user of sewer services to provide information needed to determine compliance
with this chapter. These requirements may include:
      1.   Wastewater discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period.
      2.   Chemical analyses of wastewater.
      3.   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality.
      4.   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent or
other materials important to sewer use control.
      5.   A plot plan of sewers of the user's property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location.
      6.   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities.
      7.   Details of systems to prevent and control the loss of materials
through spills to the municipal sewer.
   K.   Test And Analyses Determinations: All measurements, tests and analyses
of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this
chapter shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of "Standard
Methods For The Examination Of Water And Wastewater", published by the American
Public Health Association. Sampling methods, location, times, durations and
frequencies are to be determined on an individual basis subject to approval by
the public works director.
   L.   Special Agreements: No statement contained in this section shall be
construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town
and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the town for treatment. (2014 Code)
8-4-8: TAMPERING WITH WASTEWATER FACILITIES:
No person shall wilfully break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with
any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is part of the wastewater
facilities. (2014 Code)
8-4-9: SEWER RATE SCHEDULE:
The sewer rate schedule shall be as provided in the fee schedule appendix on
file in the town office. The rate schedule may be amended from time to time by
resolution of the town council in accordance with this code and the laws of the
state. Any such resolution modifying the rate schedule shall also provide for
amendment of these regulations to reflect the new rate schedule. (2014 Code)
8-4-10: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation; Remedial Action: Any person found to be violating
any provision of this chapter, except section 8-4-8 of this chapter, shall be
served by the town with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violations.
   B.   Penalty Imposed: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the
time limit provided for in subsection A of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in
section 1-4-1 of this code.
   C.   Liability For Town Costs: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned the town by reason of such violation, including attorney fees
reasonably incurred by the town in recovering such damages. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 5
SEWER LINE CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Compliance With Regulations
8-5-2: Plan And Construction Requirements; State Approval
8-5-3: Materials Required
8-5-4: Method Of Construction
8-5-5: Special Conditions, Water Line Near Sewer Line
8-5-6: Application To Public Sewer Lines Only
8-5-7: Violations; Penalties
8-5-1: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
Any person desiring to construct a sanitary sewer within the corporate limits
of the town, which sewer will be turned over to the town for operation and
maintenance upon completion, shall be required to construct said sewer in
accordance with the specifications set forth in this chapter. (2014 Code)
8-5-2: PLAN AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS; STATE APPROVAL:
   A.   Plan Required; Specifications:
      1.   Before any sewer line is installed in the town, a plan and profile
of the proposed installation shall be submitted to the town council for their
consideration.
      2.   The plan and profile shall show location of the sewer and area being
served, location of all wyes, location and distances between manholes,
elevation of the invert of the sewer at all points where grade changes,
elevation of tops of all manholes, slopes of the sewer, and all tiles into the
present system.
   B.   Plan Submitted To State; Approval Required: The plan and profile shall
be complete enough so that it can be submitted to the state public health and
human services department for their approval prior to construction. In no case
will construction be started until written approval of the installation is
received from the town council.
   C.   Supervision; Inspection:
      1.   Any sewer installation made in the town shall be under the
supervision of the public works director. The public works director shall
approve the layout of the work and be responsible to see that the sewer is
being laid to grades specified on the plans.
      2.   The public works director shall be authorized to inspect all work
done and all materials furnished. Such inspection may extend to all or any part
of the work and to the preparation, fabrication or manufacturer of the
materials to be used. The public works director will not be authorized to
revoke, alter or waive any requirements of the specifications, however, the
public works director is authorized to call attention to any failure of the
work or materials to conform to these specifications. The public works director
shall have the authority to reject materials or suspend the work until any
question at issue can be referred to and decided by the public works director.
The costs of employing the inspector shall be borne by the person making said
improvement.
   D.   As Constructed Drawings: After the sewer has been completed and before
acceptance by the town council, there shall be "as constructed drawings"
submitted to the town council. These drawings shall be prepared on regular
plate A4x20 plan and profile paper and shall be prepared in india ink to serve
as a permanent record for the town. These final drawings shall show the final
grade and alignment of the sewer as constructed, the final location of all
manholes in relation to property lines or street intersections and the actual
location of all wyes shall be wyes shown by a dimension from the closest
manhole up grade from the wye.
   E.   Minimum Requirements: Any sewer installed in the town shall meet the
following minimum requirements:
      1.   The size of the sewer to be installed shall be determined by the
public works director. In no case will a sewer having a diameter less than
eight inches (8") be allowed to be installed.
      2.   The minimum slope shall be controlled by the flow of the sewer in
feet per second. In no case will a flow of less than two feet (2') per second
be approved.
      3.   Manholes shall be provided at all changes in grade and changes in
direction. (2014 Code)
8-5-3: MATERIALS REQUIRED:
   A.   Pipe: Any sewer pipe, junctions, bends, etc., installed in the town
shall conform to "Specifications For Standard Strength Clay Sewer Pipe" ASTM
designation C13-54 and revisions thereto. When, in the opinion of the public
works director, it is necessary to install extra strength clay sewer pipe, all
pipe, junctions, bends, etc., shall conform to "Tentative Specifications For
Extra Strength Clay Sewer Pipe" ASTM designation C200-55T and revisions
thereto.
   B.   Jointing Compound: The jointing material shall be a hot poured mineral
filled asphaltic base compound meeting federal specifications SS-S169, type I.
In no case will cement mortar or cold application bituminous jointing compound
be allowed.
   C.   Joint Primer: When primer is required, the primer furnished shall be of
the type recommended by the manufacturer of the sewer joint compound being used
on the particular job.
   D.   Jute: Jute furnished shall be dry, twisted, unoiled and of sufficient
diameter and thickness so that the spigot can be properly centered in the bell
of the proceeding pipe.
   E.   Manholes:
      1.   The manholes installed on any sewer project in the town shall be
precast concrete manholes. All manholes shall have a minimum bottom interior
diameter of four feet (4'). When a manhole is four feet (4') or more in depth,
the conventional cone type manhole may be furnished. When a manhole is four
feet (4') or less in depth, a vertical walled manhole having an interior
diameter of four feet (4') shall be furnished. The wall thickness on all
manholes furnished shall be at least eight inches (8") in width and made of
three-fourths inch (3/4") diameter bar stock. The rungs shall be securely
fastened to the concrete sidewalls and spaced sixteen inches (16") apart.
      2.   Every manhole shall be provided with a cast iron ring and solid
cover of a standard type, weighing approximately three hundred twenty five
(325) pounds each.
   F.   Cement Mortar: All cement mortar used in setting the manholes shall be
composed of equal parts of cement and clean, sharp sand free from admixture
with other foreign substances. Enough pure water shall be added to make a stiff
paste.
   G.   Concrete:
      1.   Cement used in the concrete shall conform to the requirements of
ASHO designation M85, type II. Coarse aggregate shall consist of crushed stone,
or gravel ranging in size from coarse to fine from one hundred percent (100%)
passing the one inch (1") sieve to a maximum of five percent (5%) passing the
no.4 sieve. Fine aggregate shall consist of sand having clean, hard, durable,
uncoated grains ranging in size from coarse to fine from one hundred percent
(100%) passing the no.4 to a maximum of eight percent (8%) passing the one
hundred percent (100%) sieve. Water used in concrete shall be clear and free
from oil, acid or alkali and shall not be salty or brackish. Cement, fine
aggregate, coarse aggregate and water shall be mixed in a batch mixer in the
proportion shown on the table below:
 
Minimum Cement Maximum Water  Weight Of Fine Total Weight Of
Content Per    Gallon Per Bag Aggregate Per  Aggregate Per Bag Slump Range In
Cubic Yard     Of Cement      Bag Of Cement  Of Cement         Inches
Concrete
   5.7         6           190-230     595            3-4
 
      2.   The weights of fine and coarse aggregate shall be adjusted by the
engineer or public works director to ensure concrete of a satisfactory
plasticity and workability, using not more than the maximum permissible net
water content shown. During the progress of the work, the total weight of
aggregate per bag of cement shall not be changed except when ordered by the
engineer or public works director. (2014 Code)
8-5-4: METHOD OF CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Trenches:
      1.   Trenches shall be excavated sufficiently wide to allow for placing
and working around the pipe. The minimum width of the trench for eight inch
(8") and ten inch (10") pipe shall be twenty four inches (24"). On larger
diameter pipe, the trench width shall be sufficient to allow at least six
inches (6") between the bell and the trench wall. Care shall be taken to keep
the trench as narrow as possible so that the load created by the backfill can
be kept to a minimum.
      2.   Trenches shall be excavated to the lines and grades approved by the
town council. The last two inches (2") of the trench bottom will be excavated
by hand and shaped accurately, so that the bottom quadrant of the pipe will be
supported on undisturbed earth. When rock is encountered at the trench bottom,
it shall be excavated to sufficient depth to admit refilling under the body and
the bell of the pipe with three inches (3") of fine dry earth or sand, which
shall be carefully tamped, so as to firmly fit the under half of the pipe. When
quicksand or other unstable material is encountered in the trench bottom, it
shall be excavated to a depth of at least six inches (6") below the grade and a
solid foundation built with gravel, broken stone, or concrete, all in such a
manner as the engineer or public works director shall direct.
   B.   Excavation For Manholes: Excavation for manholes shall be carried six
inches (6") below the invert grade of the sewer to allow for a six inch (6")
base under the manhole.
   C.   Pipe; Jointing:
      1.   Pipe shall not be laid until the trench is prepared to proper grade
at least fifty feet (50') in advance of the finished work. In all cases, the
bottom quadrant of the pipe shall be fully and uniformly supported. Bell holes
shall be carefully excavated at proper intervals so that no part of the load is
supported by the bells. The full load shall rest on the barrel of the pipe.
Pipe shall not be laid in water or mud. All water that would in any way hinder
the progress of the work or impair the quality of the work shall be removed
from the trench by pumping or bailing (or by some method equally effective and
approved by the engineer or public works director). The pipe shall be laid with
the use of grade stakes, grade bars, grade string, and grade rod. Grade stakes
shall be set at twenty five foot (25') intervals on an offset line along the
centerline of the trench. Trenches shall be dug with mechanical digging
equipment from grade and line established from the grade stakes. Care shall be
taken to keep the bottom of the trench two inches (2") higher than the final
grade. When digging is completed, grade bars shall be set across the trench at
each grade stake. The grade bar shall be set at some even foot above the cut
shown for the grade stake, hereby establishing at twenty five foot (25')
intervals, the grade on which the sewer pipe is to be laid. The grade string
shall then be stretched across the top of the grade bars on the exact
centerline of the ditch as established from the grade stakes. The pipe shall
then be laid by means of a grade rod, grading each pipe as it is laid from the
invert of the pipe to the grade string. All pipe shall be laid with the bells
upgrade. Pipe shall be laid continuous from beginning to end. No break in the
line shall occur at points where manholes are to be installed. The grades on
which the sewer is laid shall conform exactly to the grades shown on the plan
and profile submitted to and approved by the town council. If it is found
desirable during construction to revise the grade, such revision shall be first
submitted to the engineer or public works director for approval. Any such
changes shall be noted on the "as constructed drawings".
      2.   As soon as the pipe has been laid and properly graded, a length of
dry unoiled jute shall be caulked into the annular space of the bell of the
pipe. The jute shall be of sufficient diameter and thickness to hold the spigot
end of the pipe concentric with the bell of the proceeding pipe and shall be of
sufficient length to encircle the barrel of the pipe.
      3.   When finally caulked, the jute shall take up approximately twenty
five percent (25%) of the depth of the socket or bell and shall be filled with
jointing compound.
      4.   The jointing compound shall be poured into the socket or bell with
the use of asbestos or rubber joint runners of suitable diameter and length to
seal the outer joint face while pouring the joint. The jointing compound shall
be heated to the temperature recommended by the manufacturer before pouring.
The compound shall be poured into the joint using a container of sufficient
size so that the joint can be filled in one pouring. The joint runner shall be
left in place until the joint has cooled to the extent that the jointing
compound will not sag or creep when the runner is removed. In cases where
adhesion cannot be obtained between the compound and the pipe, the interior of
the bells and the spigot ends of the pipe shall be painted with a joint primer.
This primer shall be applied twenty four (24) hours prior to the time the pipe
is to be laid so that the primer is dry and hard. Wherever it is necessary to
pour joints in the presence of water, the trenches shall be kept water free
during jointing and for a sufficient period thereafter to allow the jointing
material to become fully set and completely resistant to water penetration.
   D.   Sewer Line Inspection: After each lateral or section of the line
between manholes has been laid and jointed, and prior to backfilling over the
pipe, the sewer line will be inspected by the inspector or engineer, or the
public works director. This inspection shall consist of careful examination of
the joints to see that a good seal is made between the jointing compound and
the pipe, the examination of the method in which pipe is bedded, and the
alignment of the pipe. To be approved for alignment, it will be necessary for
the inspector or public works director to clearly see a light held in the pipe
at the high point of the line, from the low point of the line. Should any
lateral or section of line between manholes not pass any of the above
requirements, same shall be removed and replaced to the satisfaction of the
engineer or public works director.
   E.   Manhole Requirements:
1. Sewer manholes, as specified above, shall be provided at all changes in
grade and at all changes in direction. The base under the manholes shall be
made of cast in place concrete having a diameter one foot (1') greater than the
outside diameter of the manhole and a thickness of at least six inches (6").
The top of the manhole base shall be set in cement grout on the base and a
finished floor shall be poured in the bottom of the manhole bringing the floor
level at the center of the manhole halfway up on the sewer pipe. When the floor
has firmly set, the upper one- half (1/2) of the sewer pipe shall be carefully
broken off so that the lower one-half (1/2) of the sewer pipe forms a trough
through the manhole. The finished floor of the manhole shall slope from the
side of the manhole to the trough on a slope of approximately two inches (2")
per foot. In no case will it be permissible to set the manhole to grade on
temporary supports prior to pouring the base.
      2.   In cases where there is an abrupt change in elevation in the invert
grade of the sewer, it shall be provided with a drop manhole. The drop manhole
shall be constructed so that the sewage from the high sewer drops to the invert
elevation of the low sewer outside of the manhole proper and discharges into
the manhole at the elevation of the low sewer. The high sewer shall also be run
straight into the manhole and plugged to provide for the proper cleaning of the
high sewer line. In no case and under no conditions will the high sewer line be
allowed to dump directly into the manhole.
      3.   After manholes have been set and rings and covers are in place, the
top of the ring and cover shall meet the finished grade of the street or alley.
All manholes shall be checked by the inspector or public works director prior
to setting, and should any manhole be too short or too long to meet the
required street or alley grade, the same will be rejected by the inspector or
public works director.
      4.   Cement mortar shall be placed between each manhole section before
the next section is set in place. After the manhole has been set, the excess
mortar shall be removed from the inside wall surface by means of a trowel or
other approved tools.
      5.   Ladder rungs and rings and covers shall be well coated with hot
asphalt or other approved coating to protect them against rust.
   F.   Backfilling Trenches: Trenches shall be backfilled as soon as the pipe
has been laid, approved and ordered by the inspector or the public works
director. Backfill around and under, and for two feet (2') over the top of, the
pipe shall be in uniform layers not exceeding six inches (6") in depth. Each
layer shall be thoroughly tamped with a tamper weighing not less than twenty
(20) pounds, and having a surface of not more than eight inches (8") in
diameter. Rocks larger in volume than six inches (6") cubed shall be excluded
from the backfill and with other surplus material and debris removed by the
contractor as directed by the engineer or public works director.
   G.   Surfacing Improved Or Graveled Streets: On improved streets or alleys,
such as streets and alleys having concrete, cement asphalt or road mix oil
surfaces or on graveled streets where the amount of traffic requires that the
street be repaired and left in as good a condition as before the work
commenced, the backfill shall be tamped for the entire depth of the trench and
until at least ninety percent (90%) of the original density has been acquired.
After the trench has been thoroughly compacted and approved by the engineer or
public works director, a surface, conforming to the type of surface in place on
the undisturbed part of the streets or alleys, shall be replaced over the
trench excavation and the streets or alleys shall be left in as good a
condition as before the work commenced.
   H.   Settling Unimproved Streets: On unimproved streets or alleys, when a
covering of two feet (2') has been placed on top of the pipe, as above
described, tamping may be dispensed with and water used for settling the
backfill as directed by the engineer or inspector, or the public works
director, and the streets or alleys left in as good a condition as before the
work commenced.
   I.   Walking Or Working On Surface: Walking or working on the top of the
completed sewer, except as may be necessary in tamping or backfilling, shall
not be permitted until the trench has been backfilled to a depth of at least
two feet (2') above the top of the pipe.
   J.   Replacing Sidewalk Or Alley Crossings: In cases where it is necessary
to remove sidewalk or alley crossings during excavation, it will be the
responsibility of the contractor to replace these portions of sidewalk or alley
crossings to the satisfaction of the engineer or public works director. (2014
Code)
8-5-5: SPECIAL CONDITIONS, WATER LINE NEAR SEWER LINE:
In cases where a sanitary sewer crosses a water line within two feet (2') of
the water line, the section of the sewer line ten feet (10') on either side of
the water line shall be cast iron pipe. In cases where it is necessary to run a
sanitary sewer parallel to and less than ten feet (10') from a water line, that
portion of the sewer running closer than ten feet (10') from the water line
shall be cast iron pipe. (2014 Code)
8-5-6: APPLICATION TO PUBLIC SEWER LINES ONLY:
The specifications of this chapter for the construction of sewer lines are
intended to and shall apply only to such public lines in the streets, avenues
and alleys in the town, and such specifications are not intended to and shall
not apply to the construction of private sewer lines built to connect private
or publicly owned buildings not in the streets and alleys with the public sewer
lines. (2014 Code)
8-5-7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Illegal Connections: It shall be unlawful for any person to connect any
new public sewer lines to the existing public sewer lines without complying
with this chapter and without first obtaining the approval of the town engineer
or public works director. If any public sewer lines shall be connected to
existing public sewer lines without having complied with this chapter, the town
may cause the connection between the new line and the older existing lines to
be broken and may forbid further use of the offending sewer line until this
chapter be complied with.
   B.   Penalty Imposed: Every contractor, corporation or person who shall
construct or participate in the construction of any sewer line in the streets,
avenues and alleys within the town limits in such a manner as to violate any or
all of the specifications of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   C.   Entrance into manholes or opening the same for any purpose whatever,
except by the director of public works or other persons duly authorized, is
strictly prohibited. (2014 Code; amd. Ord. 189-2014, 9-10-2014)
CHAPTER 6
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
8-6-1: Definitions
8-6-2: Direction And Control
8-6-3: Collection Of Residential Garbage And Other Refuse
8-6-4: Removal Of Commercial Garbage, Market Refuse, Other Waste
8-6-5: Preparation Of Refuse For Collection
8-6-6: Dirt And Rocks; Building Rubbish
8-6-7: Removal Of Carcasses
8-6-8: Disturbing Refuse Receptacles Or Contents
8-6-9: Burning Of Waste Prohibited
8-6-10: Imposition And Collection Of Fees And Charges
8-6-11: Landfill Permits For County Users
8-6-12: Penalty
8-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, in this chapter, the following
definitions apply:
BUILDING RUBBISH: The waste material from the construction, remodeling and
repair operation on houses, commercial buildings and other structures. It
comprises, among a great variety of rejected matter, excavated earth, stones,
bricks, plaster, wallpaper, lumber, shingles, concrete, and waste occasioned by
the installation or replacement of plumbing, heating systems, electrical work
and roofing.
COMMERCIAL WASTE: The waste which originates from places engaged primarily in
the sale or furnishing of goods or services.
GARBAGE: The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling, cooking
and consumption of foods. It is composed largely of organic matter and its
natural moisture content. "Garbage" originates primarily in kitchens, homes,
restaurants, hotels and other places where food is cooked or consumed.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: A.A waste or combination of wastes that, because of its
quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics,
may:
1.Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase
in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
2.Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the
environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, or disposed of or
otherwise managed.
B.Hazardous wastes do not include those substances governed by Montana Code
Annotated title 50.
MARKET REFUSE: The refuse from wholesale and retail stores and markets
resulting from the handling, storage and selling of food products. It
originates principally in poultry, fish, vegetable and fruit markets and from
the ordinary operation of preparing food products for sale.
REFUSE: This term is used to refer to solid waste.
RESIDENTIAL WASTE: All waste which is not included in the definition of
"commercial waste", as defined in this section.
SOLID WASTE: All putrescible and nonputrescible wastes, including, but not
limited to, garbage, rubbish, refuse, ashes, sludge from sewage treatment
plants, water supply treatment plants, or air pollution control facilities;
construction and demolition wastes; dead animals, including offal; discarded
home and industrial appliances; and wood products or wood byproducts and inert
materials. "Solid waste" does not mean municipal sewage, industrial wastewater
effluents, mining wastes regulated under the mining and reclamation laws
administered by the department of environmental quality, slash and forest
debris regulated under laws administered by the department of natural resources
and conservation, or marketable byproducts. (2014 Code)
8-6-2: DIRECTION AND CONTROL:
All matters relating to collection, removal and disposal of waste shall be done
and performed under the supervision, direction, and control of the person
designated to be in charge thereof by the town council, in strict conformity
with the provisions of this chapter and with any additional rules and
regulations that may be made from time to time by the town council. (2014 Code)
8-6-3: COLLECTION OF RESIDENTIAL GARBAGE AND OTHER REFUSE:
   A.   Placement Of Receptacle In Alley: All residential garbage and refuse,
except as herein otherwise provided, shall be deposited in the alley nearest
the premises, or at a place designated by the public works director, in a
receptacle having a lid, so that the town garbage collector may remove such
garbage.
   B.   Exception To Alley Placement; List Of Properties: Where there is no
alley adjacent to the premises, said garbage and refuse may be handled, kept
and deposited at the place and in the manner it is being handled, kept and
deposited at the effective date hereof. The public works director, or some
person under his direction, shall prepare a list of all properties where
garbage is not presently being deposited in the alley nearest the premises and
a brief description of the manner in which said garbage is being handled, kept
and deposited. This list, when completed, shall be delivered to the town clerk-
treasurer for a permanent file. (2014 Code)
8-6-4: REMOVAL OF COMMERCIAL GARBAGE, MARKET REFUSE, OTHER WASTE:
Commercial garbage, refuse and market refuse, when placed out of doors, shall
be deposited in containers with lids, and shall be removed from the premises
where such garbage originated, or such commercial garbage, refuse and market
refuse will be removed by the town garbage collectors after proper arrangements
are made at the office of the town clerk-treasurer, and charges paid. (2014
Code)
8-6-5: PREPARATION OF REFUSE FOR COLLECTION:
   A.   Garbage: All garbage shall be drained of all surplus liquids, except
grease, and thereupon shall be packaged or contained in a manner which will
prevent seepage or spillage before depositing said garbage in the garbage
receptacle.
   B.   Paper And Combustible Rubbish: Paper and combustible rubbish of every
kind whatsoever shall be packaged or contained in a manner that will prevent
blowing by the wind and shall then be deposited in a proper receptacle.
   C.   Lawn Trimmings, Weeds:
      1.   Grass cut from lawns, weeds removed from yards and gardens, and
similar waste will be placed in a plastic bag which is securely fastened at the
top. The plastic bag shall then be placed in the alley near a receptacle.
      2.   Trimmings resulting from trimming or removing hedges and trees shall
be cut up into short lengths, not to exceed four feet (4'), and securely tied
or bound together, not to exceed a two foot (2') diameter bundle, and placed
near the garbage receptacles.
      3.   Tree trunks more than six inches (6") in diameter at the large end
shall be removed to the landfill by the owner or occupant of the premises, and
will not be removed by the town garbage collector.
   D.   Plastic Bags: All plastic bags used to contain any of the materials
required by this chapter to be placed in plastic bags shall be of a strength
and size sufficient to handle such material without spilling or breaking, and
shall not exceed fifty (50) pounds. (2014 Code)
8-6-6: DIRT AND ROCKS; BUILDING RUBBISH:
   A.   Hauling Away Dirt And Rocks: Dirt and rocks accumulated as a result of
improving or grading lawns and gardens, accumulated as a result of excavation
of building sites, shall not be deposited in streets or alleys, but shall be
removed from the premises where such material originates, by the occupant,
owner, contractor or whoever was responsible for doing the work. Such dirt and
rocks may be used to fill in low lots, with the consent of the owner of the low
lots, or may be used to fill in low streets, with the consent of the town
council or public works director, or may be removed to the landfill.
   B.   Other Building Rubbish: Other building rubbish shall be removed to the
landfill from the premises where such rubbish originates by the occupant,
owner, contractor or whoever was responsible for doing the work. (2014 Code)
8-6-7: REMOVAL OF CARCASSES:
No dead animals shall be placed with, or in, any garbage or other refuse. All
dead animals shall be removed by their owner, or other person on whose premises
they may be found, directly to the landfill. (2014 Code)
8-6-8: DISTURBING REFUSE RECEPTACLES OR CONTENTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to molest, remove, handle, go through the
contents or otherwise disturb the refuse receptacles or the contents thereof,
which have been properly placed for service; provided, that this section shall
not apply to the owner or occupant of the residence dwelling or other building,
so placing the refuse and receptacle, or to others whose legal duty it is to
handle said receptacles and/or their contents. (2014 Code)
8-6-9: BURNING OF WASTE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any waste within the town limits in
the open air or in any garbage receptacle or container of any sort. (2014 Code)
8-6-10: IMPOSITION AND COLLECTION OF FEES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Collection Fees; Billing With Water Bill: The town will weekly,
semiweekly or daily, as required, remove all waste from the waste receptacles
and transport it to the landfill. For this service, a fee is hereby imposed by
the town to be paid by each water user, owner or occupant from whose premises
the waste is removed. This fee will be billed with the monthly water bill, and
collected and paid as a part of said bill and subject to the same penalties for
nonpayment as those applicable to nonpayment of water bills where the waste is
removed from the premises of a water customer of the town.
   B.   Nonwater Customer: Where the waste is removed from the premises of a
nonwater customer, the fee will be billed monthly to the owner or occupant of
the premises.
   C.   Rates Determined By Council: The rates to be charged for waste removal
shall be established by resolution of the town council from time to time and
provided in the fee schedule appendix on file in the town office. (2014 Code)
8-6-11: LANDFILL PERMITS FOR COUNTY USERS:
Landfill permits for county users are billed each year and due by January 1.
Landfill permit users may only dispose of household refuse in containers
designated by the town, or may take such household refuse to the landfill
directly. The landfill permit rate shall be as provided in the fee schedule
appendix on file in the town office. (2014 Code)
8-6-12: PENALTY:
Any person unauthorized to dispose of refuse or in any manner violating the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section 1-4-1 of
this code. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 7
WATER CONSERVATION PLAN
SECTION:
8-7-1: Purpose
8-7-2: Goals
8-7-3: Scope
8-7-4: Responsibility
8-7-5: Supply Management
8-7-6: Water Supply Emergencies; Penalty
8-7-7: Drought Emergency Conservation Plan
8-7-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this plan is to formally define and adopt an ongoing water
conservation plan for the municipal water utility of the town. (2014 Code)
8-7-2: GOALS:
The goals to be achieved as a result of adopting an ongoing water conservation
plan are as follows:
   A.   Improve the efficiency and life of the municipal water utility
facilities;
   B.   Reduce both operating and capital costs associated with the operations
of the municipal water utility;
   C.   Conserve a valuable and limited natural resource; and
   D.   Assist the community in coping with water supply emergencies. (2014
Code)
8-7-3: SCOPE:
This plan shall apply to all customers of the municipal water utility whether
same are located within or outside the corporate town limits and whether such
customers are directly or indirectly provided with town water. (2014 Code)
8-7-4: RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be the responsibility of the public works director to administer this
water conservation plan. (2014 Code)
8-7-5: SUPPLY MANAGEMENT:
To conserve water within the system, the municipal water utility shall:
   A.   Meter all customer service accounts (does not include fire lines);
   B.   Meter all withdrawals from the source of water supply (Lake Elwell);
   C.   Meter all treated water pumped into the municipal water distribution
system from the municipal water treatment plant;
   D.   Maintain "unaccounted for water" at eighteen percent (18%) or less.
(2014 Code)
8-7-6: WATER SUPPLY EMERGENCIES; PENALTY:
In an emergency situation, the public works director and/or mayor is authorized
to ration or limit the use of water for lawn and garden sprinkling. The town
council may review this or any action taken by the public works director and/or
mayor and approve the action taken or modify the action as they deem necessary
to maintain an adequate supply of water in the reservoirs for fire protection
of the town. Furthermore, this chapter provides that any person using water for
the purpose of watering or sprinkling any lawn or garden at a time prohibited
by the regulations or rules established by the town council shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor. (2014 Code)
8-7-7: DROUGHT EMERGENCY CONSERVATION PLAN:
   A.   The town operates a municipal utility. This utility is a public utility
as provided in Montana Code Annotated section 69-3-101. As a public utility,
the town is obligated by law to provide "reasonably adequate service and
facilities". The town has potential legal liability on any failure to provide
reasonably adequate service to its customers.
   B.   Any restrictions beyond lawn sprinkling and recreational use entail
serious problems. The remaining uses of water are for domestic consumption,
sanitary use, governmental use, agricultural use, commercial use, and
industrial use. Reduction of domestic consumption, sanitary use, and
governmental use can impact the health, safety and welfare of the customers of
the municipal water utility. Restrictions on commercial use, industrial use,
and agricultural use can involve economic hardship for those users. Thus, the
public works director and/or mayor shall only impose such additional
restrictions over and above lawn sprinkling and recreational use restrictions
after approval by the town council.
   C.   Depending on the severity of the drought, possible actions that the
town council could take are set forth in the drought emergency conservation
plan (stages I, II, III, IV, V, VI) as follows:
DROUGHT EMERGENCY CONSERVATION PLAN
STAGE I
Drought condition  Minor
Drought condition          Minor
Water use reduction goal   5 to 10 percent
Public information action  Explain drought/emergency conditions
                          Disseminate technical information
                          Request voluntary reduction
Public sector action       Comply with adopted use restrictions hereunder
                            Restrict lawn watering, including town parks and
Use restrictions           the sports complex, limit use of water for street
                            cleaning purposes
Penalties                  As established by the town
 
STAGE II
Drought condition  Moderate
Drought condition          Moderate
Water use reduction goal   15 to 20 percent
Public information action  Use news media intensively to explain emergency
                          Explain restrictions and penalties
                          Explain actions in potential succeeding stages
Public sector action       Comply with adopted use restrictions hereunder
Use restrictions           Restrict all outdoor water use
Penalties                  As established by the town
 
STAGE III
 
Drought condition          Severe
Water use reduction goal   20 to 30 percent
Public information action  Same as stage II
Public sector action       Prohibit all public water use not required for
                            health or safety
Use restrictions           Prohibit all outdoor water use
Penalties                  As established by the town
 
STAGE IV
 
Drought condition          Critical
Water use reduction goal   50 percent or more
Public information action  Same as stage II
Public sector action       Reduce water system allotments to residential
                            customers
                            Mandate percentage water reductions or shut down
                          commercial and/or industrial customers as
                            determined by the water commission
Penalties                  As established by the town
 
STAGE V
DECLARATION OF A STATE OF EMERGENCY
The mayor, as the chief executive officer for the town, may, pursuant to
Montana Code Annotated section 10-3-402, declare a local emergency and issue an
order declaring the nature of the emergency, the area threatened and the
conditions causing the emergency and how the emergency may be terminated.
STAGE VI
DECLARATION OF A STATE OF DISASTER
The mayor, as the chief executive officer of the town, may, pursuant to Montana
Code Annotated section 10-3-403, declare a local disaster if the mayor feels a
disaster is occurring or has occurred. The mayor shall follow all requirements
of Montana Code Annotated title 10, part 4, when declaring either an emergency
or disaster and consult with appropriate county and state officers and
personnel to mitigate the effects of the emergency or disaster.
(2014 Code)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
Building Code   1
Plumbing Code   2
Numbering Buildings   3
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Codes Adopted
9-1-2: Building Permit Required
9-1-3: Fee For Permit
9-1-1: CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption Of State Building Code: There is hereby adopted by the town
council for the purpose of regulating buildings in the town and of protecting
the health and safety of the town citizens, a certain code known as the state
building code 1
.
   B.   Adoption Of Technical Codes And Administrative Regulations: The current
editions of the building codes and all accompanying appendices, amendments and
modifications adopted by the building codes bureau, Montana department of labor
and industry (or its successors), as set out in the administrative rules of
Montana, as amended from time to time by the building codes bureau, shall be
adopted by a town administrative order of the mayor, as authorized by Montana
Code Annotated section 50-60-301(1)(b), except for any exceptions noted in this
chapter or any regulations not applicable to local government jurisdictions.
(2014 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA 50-60-203.
9-1-2: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
A building permit is required to be filled out and presented to the town
council for approval before construction can begin. (2014 Code)
9-1-3: FEE FOR PERMIT:
Building permits shall be issued upon the payment to the town clerk-treasurer
by each person requesting a building permit and prior to its issuance. The
amount of the building permit fee shall be as provided in the fee schedule
appendix on file in the town office. (1969 Code §15.16.010; amd. 2014 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
9-2-1: Plumbing Code Adopted
9-2-1: PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption Of Code: The Montana state plumbing code, with all its
amendments and supplements made a part thereof, is hereby adopted by the town,
to be, from this date forward, the law of the town.
   B.   Copies On Files: Two (2) copies of said adopted code shall be filed in
the office of the town clerk-treasurer for inspection by the public. (2014
Code)
CHAPTER 3
NUMBERING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Numbering Required; Penalty For Noncompliance
9-3-2: Numbering System
9-3-1: NUMBERING REQUIRED; PENALTY FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
   A.   Requirement; Number Specifications: All dwelling houses and business
houses in the town shall be numbered by large numbers not less than three
inches (3") in height displayed in a prominent place upon the front of said
buildings facing the street upon which said buildings are located, in
accordance with the system of numbering set forth in section 9-3-2 of this
chapter.
   B.   Time Limit; Penalty For Noncompliance: All owners and tenants of houses
within the town shall, within sixty (60) days from and after the effective date
hereof, number their houses in accordance with the rules set forth in this
chapter. In the event any owner or tenant shall fail or neglect to number
houses owned or occupied by them, within sixty (60) days after the effective
date hereof or within sixty (60) days after erection of any house or houses,
the town shall notify said owner or agent. Any such owner or agent so notified
who, within ten (10) days after such notification, fails or refuses to number
such house or houses, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code.
(2014 Code)
9-3-2: NUMBERING SYSTEM:
Addressing the town:
   A.   Starting from the east end of town and working toward the west, even
numbers were assigned to the north side and odd numbers to the south side.
   B.   Working north to south, even numbers were assigned on the west side and
odd numbers to the east side.
   C.   Special consideration was given to corner lots with the front door of
premises establishing address.
   D.   A provision was made for the possibility of lots being subdivided. Each
lot was numbered using every fourth number, thereby leaving an extra even or
odd number per lot.
   E.   Any house with an alley access was given a half number.
   F.   Lots are numbered in sequence, with respect to stated policy, working
out from Main Street.
   G.   Main and Washington are the dividing lines.
   H.   House numbers were started with 110 or 111.
   I.   A zero block had to be established when numbering both to the south and
to the east. This was due to having a Main Street and a First Street. In order
for First Street to be the 100 block, Main Street had to become a zero block.
(2014 Code)
TITLE 10
FLOODPLAIN HAZARD MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS
General Provisions   1
Definitions   2
Forms And Fees   3
Jurisdictional Area   4
Uses Allowed Without Permit Within Jurisdictional Area   5
Prohibited Uses, Activities And Structures Within Jurisdictional Area   6
Permit Requirements   7
Application Evaluation   8
Floodway Development Requirements   9
Development Requirements Within Flood Fringe Or Regulated Flood Hazard Area
With No Floodway   10
Emergencies   11
Variances   12
Appeals   13
Enforcement   14
Penalties   15
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Statutory Authority
10-1-3: Findings Of Fact
10-1-4: Purpose
10-1-5: Methods To Reduce Flood Losses
10-1-6: Jurisdictional Area
10-1-7: Floodplain Administrator
10-1-8: Compliance
10-1-9: Abrogation And Greater Responsibility
10-1-10: Regulation Interpretation
10-1-11: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
10-1-12: Disclosure Provisions
10-1-13: Amendment Of Regulations
10-1-14: Public Records
10-1-15: Land Divisions And Subdivision Review
10-1-16: Disaster Recovery
10-1-17: Comments Of DNRC
10-1-1: TITLE:
These regulations are known and may be cited as the FLOODPLAIN HAZARD
MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS, hereinafter referred to as "this title". (2014 Code)
10-1-2: STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
   A.   Floodplain and floodway management is incorporated in Montana Code
Annotated title 76, chapter 5, and describes the authority, procedures and
minimum standards for local regulations.
   B.   The authority to regulate development in specifically identified flood
hazard areas is granted to communities by Montana Code Annotated section 76-5-
301, and municipalities have authority to adopt regulations as provided for in
Montana Code Annotated section 7-1-4123, to promote the general public health,
safety and welfare. (2014 Code)
10-1-3: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   Flood hazard areas specifically adopted herein as regulated flood
hazard areas have been delineated and designated by the department of natural
resources and conservation (DNRC) and/or the federal emergency management
agency (FEMA) pursuant to Montana Code Annotated section 76-5-201.
   B.   The proposed regulations have been reviewed and approved by the state
department of natural resources and conservation and the federal emergency
management agency to meet the prescribed minimum standard for development and
procedures. (2014 Code)
10-1-4: PURPOSE:
These regulations promote public health, safety and general welfare of the
residents and minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in
regulated flood hazard areas. These regulations are intended to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business and public service interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
disruptions; and
   G.   Ensure compliance with the minimum standards for the continued
participation in the national flood insurance program for the benefit of the
residents. (2014 Code)
10-1-5: METHODS TO REDUCE FLOOD LOSSES:
These regulations are intended to reduce flood losses through the following
methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flooding, or that may cause excessive increases in flood
heights or velocities;
   B.   Require that uses of land vulnerable to floods, including public
facilities, be developed or constructed to at least minimum standards or to
otherwise minimize flood damage;
   C.   Regulate the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which are needed to accommodate floodwaters;
   D.   Regulate filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage;
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
impact other land, floodwater depth or velocity of floodwaters;
   F.   Distinguish between the land use regulations applied to the floodway
within the regulated flood hazard area and those applied to that portion of the
regulated flood hazard area not contained in the floodway;
   G.   Apply more restrictive land use regulations within the floodway of the
regulated flood hazard area; and
   H.   Ensure that regulations and minimum standards balance the greatest
public good with the least private injury. (2014 Code)
10-1-6: JURISDICTIONAL AREA:
   A.   These regulations apply only to the flood hazard areas specifically
adopted herein as regulated flood hazard areas and are more fully and
specifically described in chapter 4 of this title. The requirements and
approvals for alterations to the specific jurisdictional area are in chapter 4
of this title as well. Areas within the regulated flood hazard area also
include areas specifically identified, labeled and illustrated on maps as
floodway or flood fringe that have differing uses allowed and minimum building
standards that apply. The jurisdictional areas are those areas of the 100-year
floodplain illustrated and depicted in the referenced studies and maps.
   B.   The regulated flood hazard area supporting study and maps illustrating
the regulatory area are generally studies and maps completed for the DNRC by
FEMA or the natural resources and conservation service (NRCS) that have been
adopted by the DNRC pursuant to Montana Code Annotated section 76-5-201 et seq.
The regulated flood hazard area may include those areas collectively identified
as special flood hazard areas by FEMA on flood insurance rate maps and are
those areas subject to flood hazard caused by the 100-year flood. FEMA also
utilizes the maps of special flood hazard areas and accompanying flood
insurance studies for determining flood risk for national flood insurance
premiums. The maps and accompanying study becomes the regulatory flood hazard
area only when formally adopted by DNRC and community within an ordinance.
(2014 Code)
10-1-7: FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
A floodplain administrator is hereby officially appointed and is the
responsibility of the office of public works director and is maintained to
serve, to administer and implement the provisions of this title and meet and
maintain the commitments pursuant to 44 CFR 59.22(a) to FEMA when FEMA flood
insurance was made available in the community. (2014 Code)
10-1-8: COMPLIANCE:
Development, new construction, alteration or substantial improvement may not
commence without full compliance with the provisions of this title. (2014 Code)
10-1-9: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESPONSIBILITY:
It is not intended by these regulations to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions or underlying zoning. However,
where these regulations impose greater restrictions, the provision of these
regulations must prevail. (2014 Code)
10-1-10: REGULATION INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this title, all provisions must be: a)
considered as minimum requirements; b) liberally construed in favor of the
governing body; and c) deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers
granted under state statutes. (2014 Code)
10-1-11: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
This title does not imply that land outside the regulated flood hazard areas or
uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages.
This title shall not create liability on the part of the community or any
official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on
these regulations or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (2014
Code)
10-1-12: DISCLOSURE PROVISIONS:
All property owners or their agents in the regulated flood hazard areas shall
notify potential buyers or their agents that such property is located within
the regulated flood hazard areas and is subject to regulation and any permitted
uses that are transferred. Information regarding regulated flood hazard areas
and the repository for floodplain maps is available in the floodplain
administrator's office. (2014 Code)
10-1-13: AMENDMENT OF REGULATIONS:
Once adopted, these regulations may be amended after a public hearing and
notice, and approval of the DNRC and FEMA. (2014 Code)
10-1-14: PUBLIC RECORDS:
Records, including permits and applications, elevation and floodproofing
certificates, certificates of compliance, fee receipts and other matters
relating to these regulations must be maintained by the floodplain
administrator and are public records and must be made available for inspection
and for copies upon reasonable request. A reasonable copying cost for copying
documents for members of the public may be charged and may require payment of
the costs before providing the copies. (2014 Code)
10-1-15: LAND DIVISIONS AND SUBDIVISION REVIEW:
Any land divisions and subdivision approval, including new or expansion of
existing manufactured home parks, within the regulated flood hazard area must
be designed to meet the following criteria:
   A.   The base flood elevations and boundary of the regulated flood hazard
area are determined and considered during lot layout and building location
design;
   B.   Locations for future structures and development are reasonably safe
from flooding;
   C.   Adequate surface water drainage is provided to reduce exposure to flood
hazards;
   D.   Public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and
water systems, located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage;
and
   E.   For development within the regulated flood hazard area, permits
according to this title must be obtained before development occurs. (2014 Code)
10-1-16: DISASTER RECOVERY:
   A.   Upon completion of structure condition survey within the regulated
flood hazard area, the floodplain administrator shall notify owners that a
permit may be necessary before repair or reconstruction commences on structures
that:
      1.   Have sustained fifty percent (50%) or more in flood damages;
      2.   Have been swept away;
      3.   Have one or more collapsed or missing walls;
      4.   Cannot be reoccupied without major structural work; or
      5.   Have sustained more than two feet (2') of water over the first
floor.
   B.   Structures that have suffered substantial damage or will undergo
substantial improvements require a floodplain application and permit, and must
be upgraded to meet the minimum building standards herein during repair or
reconstruction.
   C.   The floodplain administrator shall coordinate assistance and provide
information to structure owners concerning hazard mitigation and recovery
measures with the federal emergency management agency, state department of
natural resources and conservation, and other state, local and private
emergency service organizations. (2014 Code)
10-1-17: COMMENTS OF DNRC:
The NFIP standard for community floodplain management ordinances specifies that
the local government is to consider flood hazards when reviewing and approving
subdivisions within the special flood hazard area. Floodplain administrators
should check their subdivision ordinances to ensure flood hazards outside of
regulated flood hazard areas are addressed in development proposals. For
example, the Montana model subdivision regulations suggests that if any portion
of a proposed subdivision is within two thousand (2,000) horizontal feet and
twenty (20) vertical feet of a stream draining an area of twenty five (25)
square miles or more, where no official floodplain studies of the stream have
been made, the subdivider may be required to conduct a flood hazard evaluation
study. The state department of natural resources and conservation may, if
requested, review the flood hazard analysis on the merit of its technical
adequacy and make a recommendation back to the floodplain administrator. (2014
Code)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Definitions
10-2-2: Comments Of DNRC
10-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this title shall be
interpreted as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and the most
reasonable application. For the purpose of this title, the following
definitions are adopted:
ALTERATION: Any change or addition to an artificial obstruction that either
increases its external dimensions or increases its potential flood hazard. See
also definition of Substantial Improvement.
ARTIFICIAL OBSTRUCTION: Any obstruction which is not natural and includes any
development, dam, diversion, wall, riprap, embankment, levee, dike, pile,
abutment, projection, revetment, excavation, channel rectification, road,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, refuse, automobile body, fill or other
analogous structure or matter in, along, across or projecting into any
regulated flood hazard area that may impede, retard or change the direction of
the flow of water, either in itself or by catching or collecting debris carried
by the water, or that is placed where the natural flow of the water would carry
the same downstream to the damage or detriment of either life or property. See
also definition of Development.
BASE FLOOD (FLOOD OF 100-YEAR FREQUENCY): A flood having a one percent (1%)
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation above sea level of the base flood in
relation to the national geodetic vertical datum of 1929 or the North American
vertical datum of 1988, or unless otherwise specified.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its lowest floor below ground level
on all sides.
CHANNEL: The geographical area within either the natural or artificial banks of
a watercourse or drainway.
CRAWL SPACE: Any area below the ground level and below the lowest floor having
an interior dimension of four feet (4') or less measured from the interior
ground surface to the top of the stem wall.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials. See also definition of Artificial Obstruction.
ENCROACHMENT: Activities or construction within the floodplain, including fill,
new construction, substantial improvements and other development.
ENCROACHMENT ANALYSIS: An analysis performed by an engineer to assess the
impacts of the proposed artificial obstruction or nonconforming use to the 100-
year floodplain, base flood elevation and velocity.
ESTABLISH: To construct, place, insert or excavate.
FLOOD FRINGE: The identified portion of the regulated flood hazard area outside
the limits of the floodway.
FLOOD OF 100-YEAR FREQUENCY (BASE FLOOD): A flood magnitude expected to recur
on the average of once every one hundred (100) years, or a flood magnitude that
has a one percent (1%) chance of occurring in any given year.
FLOODPLAIN: The area including and adjoining the watercourse or drainway that
would be covered by the floodwater of a flood of a 100-year frequency.
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: Community official or representative appointed to
administer and implement the provisions of this title.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, HVAC
systems, structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY: The identified portion of the regulated flood hazard area and is the
channel and the areas adjoining the channel that are reasonably required to
carry the discharge of the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water
surface by more than one-half foot (1/2').
LOWEST FLOOR: Any floor of a building, including a basement used for living
purposes, storage or recreation. This includes any floor that could be
converted to such a use.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: Includes the construction of facilities
for servicing the manufactured home lots and, at a minimum, includes the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads.
MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOME: A structure that is transportable in one or more
sections, built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without
a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes
park trailers, travel trailers and other similar vehicles placed on a site for
greater than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the commencement of clearing, grading,
filling or excavating to prepare a site for construction occurs on or after the
effective date of this title and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads and is completed on or after the
effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
100-YEAR FLOOD: See definition of Floodplain.
OWNER: Any person who has dominion over, control of, or title to an artificial
obstruction.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A park trailer, travel trailer or other similar vehicle
which is: a) built on a single chassis; b) four hundred (400) square feet or
less when measured at the largest horizontal projections; c) designed to be
self- propelled or permanently towable by a truck; and d) designed primarily
for use as temporary living quarters for recreation, camping, travel or
seasonal use, not for use as a permanent dwelling.
REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA: A floodplain whose limits have been designated
pursuant to Montana Code Annotated title 76, chapter 5, and is determined to be
the area adjoining the watercourse that would be covered by the floodwater of a
base flood, a flood of a 100-year frequency. The regulated flood hazard area
consists of the floodway and flood fringe where specifically designated.
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING: A building for living purposes or place of assembly or
permanent use by human beings. All other buildings are nonresidential.
RIPRAP: Stone, rocks, concrete blocks or analogous material that is placed
within the floodplain for the purpose of preventing or alleviating erosion.
SCOUR DEPTH: The maximum depth of streambed scour caused by erosive forces of
the base flood discharge.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home. A "structure"
is also a bridge, culvert, dam, diversion, wall, revetment, dike or other
projection that may impede, retard or alter the pattern of flow of water.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would exceed
fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure where the cost equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market
value of the structure either:
A.Before the improvement or repair is started; or
B.If the structure has been damaged, and is being restored, before the damage
occurred. For the purposes of this definition, "substantial improvement" is
considered to occur when the first construction of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences.
C.The term does not include:
1.Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or
local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely necessary
to assure safe living conditions; or
2.Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of historic
places or state inventory of historic places.
SUITABLE FILL: Fill material which is stable, compacted, well graded and
pervious, not adversely affected by water and frost, devoid of trash or similar
foreign matter, tree stumps or other organic material; and is fitting for the
purpose of supporting the intended use and/or permanent structure.
VIOLATION: A failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant
with this title. (2014 Code)
10-2-2: COMMENTS OF DNRC:
   A.   There is a large list of definitions of terms and jargon normally used
in floodplain hazard management guidelines and explanations. Be aware the same
word may mean something different when applied to flood insurance, minimum
standards or a regulatory requirement.
   B.   The definitions in Montana Code Annotated section 76-5-103 and
administrative rules of Montana section 36.15.101, where applicable, may be
considered; however, several definitions are specifically for describing the
role and responsibility of the DNRC in regard to development and adoption of
flood hazard studies and map, and other responsibilities.
   C.   FEMA definitions 44 CFR 59.1 may be considered. Definitions are used to
describe the FEMA minimum standards for floodplain management if communities
want to join the national flood insurance program so individuals and businesses
are eligible for flood insurance in that community. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 3
FORMS AND FEES
SECTION:
10-3-1: Forms
10-3-2: Fees
10-3-1: FORMS:
The following forms may be required by the floodplain administrator:
   A.   Floodplain Permit Application: The floodplain permit application is the
"Joint Application For Proposed Work In Montana Streams, Wetlands, Regulated
Flood Hazard Areas And Other Water Bodies", or other designated form.
   B.   Floodplain Permit Compliance Report: The floodplain permit compliance
report is required to be submitted by the applicant to the floodplain
administrator once the permitted project in the regulated flood hazard area is
completed or within the designated time stipulated on the floodplain permit. A
compliance report, including an elevation and/or floodproofing certificate, may
be required where specified.
   C.   Floodplain Variance Application: A floodplain variance application is
submitted by the applicant to the floodplain administrator for review of the
proposed project prior to the initiation of the project requiring a variance.
   D.   Floodplain Appeal: The floodplain appeal is submitted by the applicant
to the floodplain administrator for review of the proposed project prior to the
initiation of the project.
   E.   Floodplain Emergency Notification: The floodplain emergency
notification is required to be used by persons to notify the floodplain
administrator of projects undertaken during an emergency to safeguard life or
structures. This is not a permit application and the person must take
additional steps, as outlined in chapter 11 of this title.
   F.   Official Complaint Form: The official complaint form may be used by any
person to notify the floodplain administrator of an activity taking place
without an official signed floodplain permit. Persons may make complaints
without use of this form. (2014 Code)
10-3-2: FEES:
Reasonable fees may be adopted for permit applications, notices, variances,
inspections, certifications or other administrative actions required by this
title. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 4
JURISDICTIONAL AREA
SECTION:
10-4-1: Regulated Flood Hazard Area
10-4-2: Interpretation Of Regulated Flood Hazard Area Boundaries
10-4-3: Alteration Of Jurisdictional Area
10-4-4: Comments Of DNRC
10-4-1: REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA:
   A.   The jurisdictional areas referenced herein as the regulated flood
hazard area are the 100-year floodplains illustrated and referenced in the
floodplain management study prepared by the United States department of
agriculture, soil conservation service, in cooperation with Liberty County,
Liberty conservation district and the Montana department of natural resources
and conservation, July 1989.
   B.   The regulated flood hazard area specifically described or illustrated
in the specific study, including maps, that have been delineated, designated
and established by order of the DNRC or FEMA pursuant to Montana Code Annotated
section 76-5-201 in finding of fact.
   C.   Use allowances, design and construction requirements in this title vary
by the specific areas identified as floodway and flood fringe. (2014 Code)
10-4-2: INTERPRETATION OF REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA BOUNDARIES:
   A.   The mapped boundaries illustrated in the referenced studies in this
chapter are a guide for determining whether property is within the regulated
flood hazard area.
   B.   A determination of the outer limits and boundaries of the regulated
flood hazard area or the flood fringe and floodway within the regulated flood
hazard area includes an evaluation of the maps, as well as the particular study
data of the referenced study in this chapter.
   C.   Boundary points of the regulated flood hazard area may be illustrated
for guidance on reference maps, but the boundary is the actual intersection of
the applicable base flood elevation with the natural adjacent terrain of the
watercourse or channel.
   D.   The floodway boundary is as illustrated on the referenced maps and
studies.
   E.   Any owner or lessee of property who believes his property has been
inadvertently included in the regulated flood hazard area may submit scientific
and/or technical information to the floodplain administrator. Changes to the
national flood insurance rate maps for the national flood insurance program
through a FEMA letter of map change process are the responsibility of the owner
or lessee.
   F.   The floodplain administrator may require elevation information provided
by an engineer or land surveyor, or other information as needed, for any
development that may be considered to be subject to this title. The floodplain
administrator's interpretation of the boundaries and decision may be appealed
as set forth in chapter 13 of this title. (2014 Code)
10-4-3: ALTERATION OF JURISDICTIONAL AREA:
   A.   An "alteration" in this section is a change to the existing boundary to
the specific maps and data of the referenced studies in this chapter that form
the basis for the regulated flood hazard area.
   B.   An alteration may be the result of new data and information or when
technical or scientific flood data show that the base flood elevation has or
may be changed, or was erroneously established and the boundaries of the
regulated flood hazard area are incorrect.
   C.   Any alteration must be based on reasonable hydrological certainty.
   D.   Any alteration or proposed alteration of five-tenths feet (0.5') or
more in the base flood elevation requires approval of the DNRC, in addition to
an amendment of the adopted jurisdictional.
   E.   Any additional notices or approvals required by FEMA for the purpose of
updating flood insurance rate maps or changes as a result of permitted activity
that cause any change in topography by fill or changes in the base flood
elevation is the responsibility of the permit applicant. The floodplain
administer may represent any necessary approvals or endorsements by the permit
authority to FEMA.
   F.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all
alterations.
   G.   An alteration is not required when property located within the
regulated flood hazard area is shown to be naturally above the base flood
elevation.
   H.   Except in a flood fringe, alteration approval from DNRC is required if
property is to be raised to a level above the base flood elevation by suitable
fill and where the encroachment by the fill causes a rise in the base flood
elevation of more than five-tenths feet (0.5'). No portion of the fill may be
within the floodway.
   I.   No alteration of a regulated flood hazard area is required when
property located within the regulated flood hazard area is elevated with fill
to at or above the base flood elevation and is permitted. (2014 Code)
10-4-4: COMMENTS OF DNRC:
   A.   When property located within the regulated flood hazard area is
naturally above the base flood elevation as proven by a certified elevation
survey provided by an engineer or land surveyor, the property owner may be
required to submit a letter of map change (LOMA) to FEMA in order to affect the
flood risk designation for insurance purposes. Information on the process and
requirements are available through FEMA.
   B.   Alteration of the floodplain usually requires FEMA approval for
modification to their FEMA insurance rate maps and may require preapproval by
conditional letter of map revision and/or letter of map revision or other map
change approvals in addition to approval from the floodplain administrator and
DNRC. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 5
USES ALLOWED WITHOUT PERMIT WITHIN JURISDICTIONAL AREA
SECTION:
10-5-1: Uses Allowed Without Permit
10-5-1: USES ALLOWED WITHOUT PERMIT:
In addition to existing nonconforming uses and artificial obstructions
established before the effective date of floodplain hazard management
regulations, the following open space uses shall be allowed without a permit in
the regulated flood hazard area; provided, that such uses are not prohibited by
any other resolution or statute, do not require structures, and do not require
alteration of the floodplain, such as fill, grading, excavation or storage of
materials or equipment:
Accessory uses, not including structures, such as loading and parking areas, or
emergency landing strips associated with industrial or commercial facilities.
Addition of highway guardrail, signing and utility poles along an existing
roadway.
Agricultural uses, not including related structures, such as tilling, farming,
irrigation, ranching, harvesting, grazing, etc.
Fences, such as those that have a low impact to the flow of water, such as
barbed wire fences and wood rail fences, and shall not include permanent fences
crossing channels.
Forestry, including processing of forest products with portable equipment.
Irrigation and livestock supply wells; provided, that they are located at least
five hundred feet (500') from domestic water supply wells and with the top of
casing eighteen inches (18") above the base flood elevation.
Maintenance of existing open space uses or artificial obstructions.
Preventive maintenance activities, such as bridge deck rehabilitation and
roadway pavement. Preservation activities are considered maintenance.
Public or private recreational uses not requiring structures, such as picnic
grounds, swimming areas, parks, campgrounds, golf courses, driving ranges,
archery ranges, wildlife management and natural areas, alternative livestock
ranches (game farms), fish hatcheries, shooting preserves, target ranges, trap
and skeet ranges, hunting and fishing areas, and hiking and horseback riding
trails.
Recreational vehicle use; provided, that the use is on the site for fewer than
one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days and the vehicle is fully licensed and
ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is
on its wheels or jacking system with wheels intact, is attached to the site
only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no
permanently attached additions.
Residential uses, such as lawns, gardens, parking areas and play areas. (2014
Code)
CHAPTER 6
PROHIBITED USES, ACTIVITIES AND STRUCTURES WITHIN JURISDICTIONAL AREA
SECTION:
10-6-1: Floodway
10-6-2: Flood Fringe Or Regulated Flood Hazard Area Without Floodway
10-6-1: FLOODWAY:
The following artificial obstructions and nonconforming uses are prohibited in
the floodway within the regulated flood hazard area:
   A.   A building or structure, including alterations for living purposes,
place of assembly or permanent use by human beings, or commercial and
industrial buildings, or mobile homes and manufactured homes;
   B.   A structure, fill or excavation that would cause water to be diverted
from the floodway, cause erosion, obstruct the natural flow of waters or reduce
the carrying capacity of the floodway. Minor excavation or fill where
compatible and related and incidental may be allowed with a permitted use;
   C.   The construction or storage of an object (artificial obstruction)
subject to flotation or movement during flood level periods;
   D.   Solid and hazardous waste disposal and individual and multiple-family
sewage disposal systems, unless otherwise allowed pursuant to administrative
rules of Montana sections 17.36.101 through 17.36.116 and 17.36.309 through
17.36.345;
   E.   Storage of toxic, flammable, hazardous or explosive materials. (2014
Code)
10-6-2: FLOOD FRINGE OR REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA WITHOUT FLOODWAY:
The following artificial obstructions and nonconforming uses are prohibited in
the flood fringe or floodplain without a floodway of the regulated flood hazard
area:
   A.   Solid and hazardous waste disposal;
   B.   Storage of toxic, flammable, hazardous or explosive materials. (2014
Code)
CHAPTER 7
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-7-1: General
10-7-2: Required Permit Application Information
10-7-1: GENERAL:
   A.   A permit is required within the regulated flood hazard area for a
person to establish or alter an artificial obstruction, nonconforming use or
development.
   B.   Artificial obstructions, nonconforming uses and uses not specifically
listed in chapters 9 and 10 of this title requires a permit, except as allowed
without a permit in chapter 5 of this title or as prohibited as specified in
chapter 6 of this title.
   C.   A permit is required to reconstruct or repair an existing structure
that has experienced substantial damage or substantial improvement.
   D.   A permit is not required for existing artificial obstructions or
nonconforming uses established in the floodplain before the effective date of
floodplain management regulations.
   E.   Artificial obstruction and nonconforming uses in a regulated flood
hazard area not exempt under chapter 5 of this title is a public nuisance,
unless a permit has been obtained.
   F.   These regulations do not affect any existing artificial obstruction or
nonconforming use in the regulated flood hazard area before the land use
regulations have been adopted.
   G.   An alteration that is any change or addition to an artificial
obstruction or nonconforming use not exempt under chapter 5 of this title that
increases the size or increases its potential flood hazard, requires a permit.
   H.   Maintenance of an artificial obstruction or nonconforming use is not an
alteration. (2014 Code)
10-7-2: REQUIRED PERMIT APPLICATION INFORMATION:
A permit application shall include, but is not limited to, the following:
   A.   A completed and signed floodplain permit application;
   B.   The required review fee;
   C.   Plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions and
elevation of proposed project (i.e., landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, etc.) and
the location of the foregoing in relation to the regulated flood hazard area;
   D.   A copy of other required applicable permits which may include, but are
not limited to, a 310 permit, SPA 124 permit, section 404 permit, a 318
authorization, 401 certification or a navigable rivers land use license or
easement from other permits from federal, state and local agencies, for the
proposed floodplain project and must show that the application is not in
conflict with other relevant and applicable permits; and
   E.   Additional information related to the specific use or activity that
demonstrates the design criteria and construction standards are met or exceeded
as specified in chapters 9 and 10 of this title. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 8
APPLICATION EVALUATION
SECTION:
10-8-1: Application Review
10-8-2: Notice Requirements For Permit Applications
10-8-3: Permit Criteria
10-8-4: Decision
10-8-5: Floodplain Permit Application Approval
10-8-1: APPLICATION REVIEW:
   A.   Time Limit For Review: The floodplain administrator shall review and
evaluate the application and shall approve, approve with conditions or deny the
application within sixty (60) days (or a time specified) of receipt of a
correct and complete application.
   B.   Determination Of Complete Application: The floodplain administrator
shall determine whether the application contains the applicable elements
required in this title and shall notify the applicant of the floodplain
administrator's determination.
   C.   Resubmission Of Application: If the application is found insufficient
and if the applicant corrects the identified deficiencies and resubmits the
application, the floodplain administrator shall notify the applicant whether
the resubmitted application contains all the elements required by this title,
as applicable.
   D.   Process Repeated: This process shall be repeated until the applicant
submits a complete application containing all the elements required by this
title, or the application is withdrawn.
   E.   Denial Based On Incomplete Application: If, after a reasonable effort,
the floodplain administrator determines that the application remains
incomplete, the floodplain administrator shall deny the application and notify
the applicant of missing elements. No further action shall be taken on the
application by the floodplain administrator until the application is
resubmitted.
   F.   Review Conditions: A determination that an application contains the
appropriate information for review does not ensure that the floodplain permit
application will be approved or conditionally approved, and does not limit the
ability of the floodplain administrator in requesting additional information
during the review process. (2014 Code)
10-8-2: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
Upon receipt of a complete application for a permit, the floodplain
administrator shall:
   A.   Publish Notice: Prepare a notice containing the facts pertinent to the
application and shall publish the notice at least once in a newspaper of
general circulation in the area;
   B.   Service By Mail: Serve notice by first class mail upon adjacent and
other impacted property owners;
   C.   State Coordinator: The state national flood insurance program
coordinator located in the DNRC shall also receive notice by the most efficient
method. Notice to other stream activity permitting agencies shall also be
considered;
   D.   Time To Submit Comments: The notice shall provide a reasonable period
of time, not less than fifteen (15) days, for interested parties to submit
comments on the proposed activity; and
   E.   FEMA And Adjacent Communities: Prior to any alteration or relocation of
a watercourse in the regulated flood hazard area, additionally provide notice
to FEMA and adjacent communities. (2014 Code)
10-8-3: PERMIT CRITERIA:
   A.   Permits shall be granted or denied on the basis of whether the proposed
new construction, substantial improvement or alteration of an artificial
obstruction is not a prohibited use and meets the requirements of the minimum
standards and criteria in chapters 9 and 10 of this title.
   B.   The floodplain administrator must determine that all necessary permits
have been received from those governmental agencies from which approval is
required by federal or state law, including section 404 of the federal water
pollution control act amendment of 1972, 36 USC 1334. (2014 Code)
10-8-4: DECISION:
   A.   The floodplain administrator shall approve, conditionally approve, or
deny the proposed application. The floodplain administrator shall notify the
applicant of his action and the reasons thereof within sixty (60) days of
receipt of a correct and complete application, unless otherwise specified. A
copy of the approved permit must be provided to the DNRC.
   B.   The granting of a permit does not affect any other type of approval
required by any other statute or ordinance of the state, any political
subdivision or the United States, but is an added requirement. (2014 Code)
10-8-5: FLOODPLAIN PERMIT APPLICATION APPROVAL:
Upon approval or conditional approval of the floodplain permit application, the
floodplain administrator shall provide the applicant with a permit, including,
but not limited to, the following requirements and conditions:
   A.   The floodplain permit will become valid when all other necessary
permits are in place;
   B.   Set forth the time limit of up to one year from the date of permit
issuance or as commensurate with the project construction timeline for
completion of the project or development. The applicant may request an
extension for completion for up to an additional year. The request must be made
at least thirty (30) days prior to the completion deadline;
   C.   Notify all subsequent property owners and their agents and potential
buyers of the floodplain development permit issued on the property and that
such property is located within a regulated flood hazard area;
   D.   Maintain the artificial obstruction or use to comply with the
conditions and specifications of the permit;
   E.   Allow the floodplain administrator to perform on site inspections at
select intervals during construction or completion;
   F.   Impose interim reporting to the floodplain administrator of
construction data to confirm design elevations and other project design
criteria;
   G.   Submit a certificate of compliance report and elevation certificate
where applicable within thirty (30) days of completion or other time as
specified; and
   H.   Require FEMA approval of revisions that affected national flood
insurance rate map. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 9
FLOODWAY DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-9-1: Uses Requiring Permits
10-9-2: General Requirements
10-9-3: Permitted Uses And Conditions
10-9-1: USES REQUIRING PERMITS:
Uses specifically listed in this chapter may be allowed by permit within the
floodway, subject to the described requirements. (2014 Code)
10-9-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
An application for a permit must demonstrate the following goals and criteria
are considered and incorporated into the design of any use or artificial
obstruction in the floodway requiring a permit:
   A.   All projects in the floodway where specifically required herein as
requiring an encroachment analysis, must undergo a thorough hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis prepared by an engineer to demonstrate their effect on flood
flows, velocities and the base flood elevation.
      1.   A conditional approval from FEMA of any proposed increase of more
than zero feet (0') in the base flood elevation must accompany the application.
An application for a FEMA conditional letter of map revision approval requires
a supporting encroachment analysis.
      2.   The maximum allowable increase to the base flood elevation is one-
half foot (1/2'), unless approval of an alteration of the regulated flood
hazard area pursuant to chapter 4 of this title occurs with approval of the
variance pursuant to chapter 12 of this title.
   B.   Projects must assure that the carrying capacity of the altered or
relocated watercourse is maintained.
   C.   Projects must be designed and constructed to ensure that they do not
increase the flood hazard on other properties and be reasonably safe from
flooding.
   D.   The danger to life and property due to backwater or diverted flow
caused by the obstruction or use.
   E.   The danger that the obstruction or use may be swept downstream to the
injury of others.
   F.   The availability of alternative locations.
   G.   The construction or alteration of the obstruction or use in such manner
as to lessen the flooding danger.
   H.   The permanence of the obstruction or use.
   I.   The anticipated development in the foreseeable future of the area which
may be affected by the obstruction or use.
   J.   Relevant and related permits for the project have been obtained.
   K.   Projects must conform to the additional minimum standards and
provisions of this title as specified for the use or artificial obstruction
specified herein.
   L.   Such other factors as are in harmony with the purposes of this title,
the state floodplain and floodway management act, and the accompanying
administrative rules of Montana. (2014 Code)
10-9-3: PERMITTED USES AND CONDITIONS:
Permitted uses and conditions include:
   A.   Mining Of Material Requiring Excavation From Pits Or Pools: Mining of
material requiring excavation from pits or pools; provided, that:
      1.   A buffer strip of undisturbed land of sufficient width as determined
by an engineer to prevent flood flows from channeling into the excavation is
left between the edge of the channel and the edge of the excavation;
      2.   The excavation meets all applicable laws and regulations of other
local and state agencies; and
      3.   Excavated material may be processed on site but is stockpiled
outside the floodplain.
   B.   Railroad, Highway And Street Stream Crossings: Railroad, highway and
street stream crossings; provided, that:
      1.   Crossings are designed to offer minimal obstructions to the flood
flow;
      2.   Where failure or interruption of public transportation facilities
would result in danger to public health or safety and where practicable and in
consideration of FHWA federal aid policy guide 23CFR650A:
         a.   Bridge lower chords shall have freeboard to at least two feet
(2') above the base flood elevation to help pass ice flows, the base flood
discharge and any debris associated with the discharge; and
         b.   Culverts are designed to pass the base flood discharge and
maintain at least two feet (2') freeboard on the crossing surface.
      3.   If possible, normal overflow channels are preserved to allow passage
of sediments to prevent aggradations;
      4.   Midstream supports for bridges, if necessary, have footings buried
below the maximum scour depth; and
      5.   An encroachment analysis is prepared by an engineer.
   C.   Limited Filling For Road And Railroad Embankments: Limited filling for
road and railroad embankments not associated with stream crossings and bridges;
provided, that:
      1.   The fill is the suitable fill;
      2.   Reasonable alternate transportation routes outside the floodway are
not available;
      3.   The encroachment is located as far from the stream channel as
possible;
      4.   The project includes mitigation of impacts to other property owners
in the vicinity of the project and the natural stream function; and
      5.   An encroachment analysis is prepared by an engineer.
   D.   Buried Or Suspended Utility Transmission Lines: Buried or suspended
transmission lines; provided, that:
      1.   Suspended utility transmission lines are designed such that the
lowest point of the suspended line is at least six feet (6') higher than the
base flood elevation;
      2.   Towers and other appurtenant structures are designed and placed to
withstand and offer minimal obstruction to flood flows;
      3.   When technically feasible, the crossing will not disturb the bed and
banks of the stream and alternatives, such as alternative routes, directional
drilling, and aerial crossings are considered; and
      4.   Utility transmission lines carrying toxic or flammable materials are
buried to a depth of at least twice the calculated maximum scour depth
determined by an engineer for the base flood.
   E.   Storage Of Materials And Equipment: Storage of materials and equipment;
provided, that:
      1.   The material or equipment is not subject to major damage by flooding
and is properly anchored to prevent flotation or downstream movement; and
      2.   The material or equipment is readily removable within the limited
time available after flood warning. Storage of flammable, toxic or explosive
materials shall not be permitted.
   F.   Domestic Water Supply Wells: Domestic water supply wells; provided,
that:
      1.   They are driven or drilled wells located on ground higher than
surrounding ground to assure positive drainage from the well;
      2.   They require no other structures (e.g., a well house);
      3.   Well casings are watertight to a distance of at least twenty five
feet (25') below the ground surface and the well casing height shall be a
minimum of eighteen inches (18") above the base flood elevation;
      4.   Water supply and electrical lines have a watertight seal where the
lines enter the casing;
      5.   All pumps and electrical lines and equipment are either of the
submersible type or are adequately floodproofed; and
      6.   Check valves are installed on main water lines at wells and at all
building entry locations.
   G.   Buried, Sealed Vaults For Sewage Disposal In Campgrounds, Recreational
Areas: Buried and sealed vaults for sewage disposal in campgrounds and
recreational areas; provided, they meet applicable laws and standards
administered by the state department of environmental quality. Only those
wastewater disposal systems that meet the requirements and separation distances
under administrative rules of Montana sections 17.36.101 through 17.36.116 and
17.36.301 through 17.36.345 are allowed.
   H.   Public And Private Campgrounds: Public and private campgrounds;
provided, that:
      1.   Access roads require only limited fill and do not obstruct or divert
floodwaters;
      2.   They meet the accessory structures requirements;
      3.   An encroachment analysis must be prepared by an engineer;
      4.   No dwellings or permanent mobile homes are allowed;
      5.   Recreational vehicles and travel trailers are ready for highway use
with wheels intact, with only quick disconnect type utilities and securing
devices, and have no permanently attached additions; and
      6.   There is no large scale clearing of riparian vegetation within fifty
feet (50') of the mean annual high water mark.
   I.   Accessory Structures: Structures accessory or appurtenant to permitted
uses, such as boat docks, loading and parking areas, marinas, sheds, emergency
airstrips, permanent fences crossing channels, picnic shelters and tables and
lavatories; provided, that:
      1.   The structures are not intended for human habitation or supportive
of human habitation;
      2.   If the structures are substantial, as determined by the permit
issuing authority, an encroachment analysis must be prepared by an engineer;
      3.   The structures will, insofar as possible, be located on ground
higher than the surrounding ground and as far from the channel as possible;
      4.   Only those wastewater disposal systems that meet the requirements
and separation distances under administrative rules of Montana sections
17.36.101 through 17.36.116 and 17.36.301 through 17.36.345 are allowed;
      5.   Service facilities within these structures, such as electrical,
heating and plumbing, are floodproofed;
      6.   Structures are firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      7.   The structures do not require fill and/or substantial excavation;
      8.   No large scale clearing of riparian vegetation within fifty feet
(50') of the mean annual high water mark; and
      9.   The structures or uses cannot be changed or altered without permit
approval.
   J.   Construction Of Or Modifications To Surface Water Diversions:
Construction of or modifications to surface water diversions; provided, that
the design is prepared by an engineer and includes:
      1.   An encroachment analysis is prepared by an engineer;
      2.   Minimize potential erosion from a base flood;
      3.   Safely withstand up to the base flood; and
      4.   Construction is under the supervision of an engineer.
   K.   Design Of Flood Control And Bank Protection Measures: Flood control and
bank protection measures must be designed by an engineer and constructed to
withstand the flood depths, hydrodynamic and hydrostatic pressures, velocities,
impact, buoyancy and uplift forces associated with the base flood and include
an encroachment analysis. The design shall also show compliance with the
following additional criteria:
      1.   Levee and floodwall construction or alteration:
         a.   The proposed construction or alteration of a levee or floodwall
must be designed and constructed with suitable fill and to safely convey a base
flood;
         b.   Except to protect agricultural land only, are constructed at
least three feet (3') higher than the elevation of the base flood;
         c.   Unless to protect only agricultural land, protection of
structures of more than one landowner requires engineering and construction to
meet state and federal levee standards and be publicly owned for the purpose of
construction, operation and maintenance; and
         d.   For any increase in the elevation of the base flood, the
following information must be provided:
            (1)   The estimated cumulative effect of other reasonably
anticipated future permissible uses;
            (2)   The type and amount of existing flood prone development in
the affected area; and
            (3)   Impacts to existing or foreseeable development.
      2.   Bank stabilization projects, pier and abutment protection projects
if:
         a.   The materials for the project should be the least environmentally
damaging and practicable, designed to withstand a base flood within five (5)
years, or other time as required by the floodplain administrator and does not
require substantial yearly maintenance after that period;
         b.   Materials for the project may be designed to erode over time, but
not fail catastrophically and impact others. Erosions and raveling of the
materials may be designed to be at least similar in amount and rate to existing
natural stream banks during the base flood;
         c.   The project must not increase erosion upstream, downstream or
adjacent to the site;
         d.   Materials for the project may include, but not limited to,
riprap, root wads, brush mattresses, willow watting, woody debris or
combinations of analogous materials;
         e.   The stream's biological capacity and habitat potential shall be
incorporated in the project design.
      3.   Channelization projects where the excavation and/or construction of
an artificial channel is for the purpose of diverting the entire flow of a
stream from its established course, and provided the projects do not increase
velocity to a level that will cause erosion.
      4.   Dams, provided:
         a.   The design and construction is in accordance with the state dam
safety act and applicable safety standards; and
         b.   The project will not increase flood hazards downstream, either
through operational procedures or improper hydrologic/hydraulic design.
   L.   Stream, Bank Restoration: Stream and bank restoration projects intended
to reestablish the terrestrial and aquatic attributes of a natural stream and
not for protection of a structure or development, provided:
      1.   The project design is reviewed and approved by an engineer;
      2.   An encroachment analysis is performed by an engineer;
      3.   The project will not increase erosion upstream, downstream or
adjacent to the site;
      4.   Materials may include, but are not limited to, riprap, root wads,
brush mattresses, willow watting, woody debris or combinations of analogous
materials;
      5.   Erosions and raveling of the materials are similar in amount and
rate to existing natural stream banks during the base flood;
      6.   The project meets the terrestrial and aquatic resource capabilities
of the area. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 10
DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS WITHIN FLOOD FRINGE OR REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA
WITH NO FLOODWAY
SECTION:
10-10-1: Uses Requiring Permits
10-10-2: General Requirements
10-10-3: Residential Requirements
10-10-4: Nonresidential Requirements
10-10-1: USES REQUIRING PERMITS:
All uses and the associated requirements allowed by permit in the floodway
shall also be allowed by permit within the flood fringe or regulated flood
hazard area with no floodway. Additionally, new construction, substantial
improvements, alterations to structures, including, but not limited to,
residential, commercial, agricultural and industrial, and suitable fill shall
be allowed by permit subject to the minimum development requirements in section
10-9-2 of this title and this chapter. (2014 Code)
10-10-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
General requirements are:
   A.   Base Flood Elevation: The appropriate base flood elevation shall be
determined by appropriate methods and utilized in the design and layout of the
project by an engineer demonstrating the appropriate design and construction
criteria herein are met. Regulated flood hazard areas that do not have computed
and published base flood elevations in the adopted flood hazard study
referenced in chapter 4 of this title, the base flood elevation must be
computed as well, utilizing appropriate engineering methods and analysis.
   B.   Flood Damage: Projects must be constructed by methods and practices
that minimize flood damage and are reasonably safe from flooding.
   C.   Materials: Structures are reasonably safe from flooding and constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage.
   D.   Structures Or Fill: Structures or fill must not be prohibited by any
other statute, regulation, ordinance or resolution; and must be compatible with
subdivision, zoning and any other land use regulations, if any.
   E.   Anchoring: All construction and substantial improvements shall be
designed and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
   F.   Certification: Certification by an engineer, architect or other
qualified person must accompany the application as to an encroachment analysis
where required, adequacy of structural elevations, determination of the base
flood elevation, floodproofing, wet proofing, dry proofing, design and
construction to withstand the flood depths, hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
pressures, velocities, impact, buoyancy and uplift forces associated with the
base flood. A certification is not intended to constitute a warranty or
guarantee of performance, expressed or implied.
   G.   Encroachment Limit: Allowable encroachment for developments in the
regulated flood hazard area without a floodway must be supported by an
encroachment analysis and cannot exceed 0.5 feet increase to the base flood
elevation. An encroachment analysis is not required for any development in the
flood fringe where an accompanying floodway has been designated within the
regulated flood hazard area.
   H.   Electrical Systems:
      1.   All incoming power service equipment, including all metering
equipment, control centers, transformers, distribution and lighting panels and
all other stationary equipment, must be located at least two feet (2') above
the base flood elevation;
      2.   Portable and movable electrical equipment may be placed below the
elevation of the base flood elevation; provided, that the equipment can be
disconnected by a single plug and socket assembly of the submersible type;
      3.   The main power service lines must have automatically operated
electrical disconnect equipment or manually operated electrical disconnect
equipment located at an accessible remote location outside the floodplain, or
two feet (2') above the base flood elevation; and
      4.   All electrical wiring systems installed below the base flood
elevation must be suitable for continuous submergence and may not contain
fibrous components.
   I.   Heating, Cooling Systems: Heating and cooling systems shall:
      1.   Be installed with float operated automatic control valves so that
fuel supply is automatically shut off when floodwaters reach the floor level
where located;
      2.   Have manually operated gate valves installed in gas supply lines.
The gate valves must be operable from a location above the base flood
elevation;
      3.   Be installed in accordance with the provisions of electrical systems
floodproofing; and
      4.   Have furnaces and cooling units and ductwork installed at least two
feet (2') above the base flood elevation.
   J.   Plumbing Systems:
      1.   Sewer lines, except those to be buried and sealed, must have check
valves installed to prevent sewage backup into permitted structures; and
      2.   All toilets, stools, sinks, urinals, vaults and drains must be
located so the lowest point of possible entry is at least two feet (2') above
the base flood elevation.
   K.   Structural Fill: Fill used to elevate structures, including, but not
limited to, residential, commercial and industrial structures, must be suitable
and meet the following requirements:
      1.   The filled area is at or above the base flood elevation and extends
at least fifteen feet (15') beyond the structure in all directions;
      2.   The fill is compacted to minimize settlement and compacted to ninety
five percent (95%) of the maximum density. Compaction of earthen fill must be
certified by a registered professional engineer;
      3.   No portion of the fill is within the floodway;
      4.   The fill slope must not be steeper than one and one-half horizontal
to one vertical (11/2:1), unless substantiating data justifying a steeper slope
is provided and adequate erosion protection is provided for fill slopes exposed
to floodwaters. The erosion protection for fill slopes exposed to velocities of
four feet (4') per second and less may consist of vegetative cover consisting
of grasses or similar undergrowth as approved by the permit issuing authority.
Slopes exposed to velocities greater than four feet (4') per second shall be
protected by armoring with stone or rock slope protection.
   L.   Water And Sewage Systems: All new construction or substantial
improvements shall be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and other services designed and located
so as to prevent waters from entering or accumulating within the components
during conditions of flooding, or to prevent impairment or contamination during
flooding. (2014 Code)
10-10-3: RESIDENTIAL REQUIREMENTS:
New construction, alterations and substantial improvements of residential
dwellings, including manufactured homes and recreational vehicles on site for
more than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days, must be constructed such
that:
   A.   The lowest floor elevation (including basement), including electrical,
heating, ductwork, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment and
other services, is two feet (2') above the base flood elevation. Elevating may
be by either suitable fill, stem walls, pilings or other acceptable means;
   B.   Crawl spaces must be designed so that the crawl space floor is at or
above the base flood elevation. Crawl spaces having an inside dimension of more
than five feet (5') from the ground to the living floor level must meet the
requirements in this chapter for a basement;
   C.   Where existing streets, utilities, lot dimensions or additions onto
existing structures make strict compliance with these provisions impossible, a
lesser amount of fill or alternative floodproofing measures may be permitted
only by variance approval; and
   D.   All manufactured homes for residential use shall:
      1.   Use methods and practices which minimize flood damage;
      2.   Elevate the lowest floor two feet (2') above the base flood
elevation;
      3.   Elevate on suitable fill or be raised on a permanent foundation;
      4.   Have a foundation consisting of reinforced concrete, reinforced
mortared block, reinforced piers or other foundation elements of equal
strength;
      5.   Secure the chassis, including additions, by anchoring to the
foundation system so that it will resist flotation, collapse or lateral
movement. Anchoring may include, but is not limited to:
         a.   Over the top ties to ground anchors be provided at each of the
four (4) corners of the manufactured home, with two (2) additional ties per
side at intermediate locations for manufactured homes less than fifty feet
(50') long;
         b.   Frame ties to ground anchors be provided at each corner of the
home, with five (5) additional ties per side at intermediate points for
manufactured homes more than fifty feet (50') long; and
         c.   Components of the anchoring system capable of carrying a force of
four thousand eight hundred (4,800) pounds; and
      6.   Adequate surface drainage and access for a hauler. (2014 Code)
10-10-4: NONRESIDENTIAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Scope; Agricultural Purposes: New construction, alterations and
substantial improvements of commercial and industrial buildings must be
constructed on suitable fill, stem walls, pilings or other suitable means such
that the lowest floor elevation (including basement) is two feet (2') above the
base flood elevation, or if not the building must be adequately dry or wet
floodproofed as follows. Manufactured homes proposed for use as commercial or
industrial buildings cannot be wet or dry floodproofed. Also, agricultural
structures used solely for agricultural purposes and used exclusively in
connection with the production, harvesting, storage, drying or raising of
agricultural commodities, including raising of livestock, not be intended for
human habitation, and having low flood damage potential, are exempt from dry or
wet floodproofing, but shall:
      1.   Be located on higher ground and as far from the channel as possible;
      2.   Offer minimum obstruction to flood flows;
      3.   Be adequately anchored to prevent flotation or collapse;
      4.   Where electrical, heating and plumbing systems are installed, must
meet the floodproofing requirements in this chapter; and
      5.   Meet the elevation or dry floodproofing requirements if the
structure is an animal confinement facility.
   B.   Wet Floodproofing: Building designs to allow internal flooding of the
lowest floor must:
      1.   Limit uses to parking, loading areas and storage of equipment or
materials not appreciably affected by floodwaters;
      2.   Use materials for walls and floors that are resistant to flooding to
an elevation two feet (2') or more above the base flood elevation;
      3.   Equalize hydrostatic forces on walls by designing for entry and exit
of floodwaters that include screens, louvers, valves and other coverings or
devices that:
         a.   Automatically allow entry and exit of floodwaters;
         b.   Have two (2) or more openings with a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding; and
         c.   Have the bottom of all openings no higher than one foot (1')
above grade.
   C.   Dry Floodproofing: Building designs that do not allow internal flooding
of the lowest floors must be:
      1.   Used for a purpose other than parking, loading or storage of
materials resistant to flooding shall be dry floodproofed;
      2.   Floodproofed to an elevation no lower than two feet (2') above the
base flood elevation;
      3.   Constructed of impermeable membranes or materials for floors and
walls and watertight enclosures for all windows, doors and other openings; and
      4.   Designed to withstand the hydrostatic pressures and hydrodynamic
forces resulting from the base flood. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 11
EMERGENCIES
SECTION:
10-11-1: Scope
10-11-2: Emergency Application Requirements
10-11-3: Permit Evaluation
10-11-1: SCOPE:
   A.   Emergency repair and replacement of severely damaged artificial
obstructions and development, including public transportation facilities,
public water and sewer facilities, flood control works and private projects in
the regulated flood hazard area, are subject to the permitting requirements of
this title.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter are not intended to affect other actions
that are necessary to safeguard life or structures during periods of emergency.
(2014 Code)
10-11-2: EMERGENCY APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Notification: Prior to any action, the property owner and/or the person
responsible for taking emergency action shall notify the floodplain
administrator and follow up by submitting an emergency notification form within
five (5) days of the action taken as a result of an emergency.
   B.   Permit Application; Time Limit: Unless otherwise specified by the
floodplain administrator, within thirty (30) days of initiating the emergency
action, a person who has undertaken an emergency action must submit a
floodplain permit application that describes what action has taken place during
the emergency and describe any additional work that may be required to bring
the project in compliance with this title. (2014 Code)
10-11-3: PERMIT EVALUATION:
A person who has undertaken an emergency action may be required to modify or
remove the project in order to meet the permit requirements. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 12
VARIANCES
SECTION:
10-12-1: Permitted
10-12-2: Application Requirements
10-12-3: Notice Requirements
10-12-4: Evaluation Of Variance Application
10-12-5: Decision
10-12-6: Judicial Review
10-12-1: PERMITTED:
A variance from the minimum development standards of this title may be allowed.
An approved variance would permit construction in a manner otherwise as
required or prohibited by this title. (2014 Code)
10-12-2: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   A completed floodplain permit application and required supporting
material must be submitted;
   B.   Additionally, a completed variance application specific to the variance
request, including facts and information addressing the criteria in this
chapter, must be submitted; and
   C.   If the floodplain permit application and variance application is deemed
not correct and complete, the floodplain administrator shall notify the
applicant of deficiencies within a reasonable time not to exceed thirty (30)
days. Under no circumstances should it be assumed that the variance is
automatically granted. (2014 Code)
10-12-3: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
Public notice of the floodplain permit and variance application shall be given
pursuant to section 10-8-2 of this title. (2014 Code)
10-12-4: EVALUATION OF VARIANCE APPLICATION:
   A.   Required Findings: A variance shall only be issued upon a determination
that the variance is the minimum allowance necessary, considering the flood
hazard, to afford relief from these regulations, and provided all of the
following findings are met:
      1.   There is a good and sufficient cause;
      2.   Failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship
to the applicant;
      3.   There are no basements nor residential dwelling that has the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation;
      4.   Crawl spaces floor is no more than two feet (2') below the exterior
lowest adjacent grade and must have an inside dimension from interior ground to
the bottom of the living floor of less than five feet (5'). The crawl spaces
must meet the dry floodproofing requirements in subsection 10-10-4C of this
title;
      5.   Granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights to
existing insurable buildings, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with other existing local laws or ordinances;
      6.   The proposed use is adequately floodproofed;
      7.   The variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard,
to afford relief;
      8.   Reasonable alternative locations are not available;
      9.   There is no danger to life and property by water that may be backed
up or diverted by the obstruction or use;
      10.   There is no danger that the obstruction or use will be swept
downstream to the injury of others;
      11.   Incorporates measures in the construction or alteration of the
obstruction or use that lessens the danger;
      12.   The permanence of the obstruction or use;
      13.   There is no adverse affect to anticipated development in the
foreseeable future of the area that may be affected by the obstruction or use;
      14.   There is no adverse affect to existing properties or structures;
and
      15.   Any increase to the base flood elevation in a floodway has been
approved by FEMA for flood insurance purposes and any increase to the base
flood elevation in the floodway or floodplain of more than 0.5 feet is an
alteration of the regulated flood hazard area has been duly amended pursuant to
chapter 4 of this title.
   B.   Special Considerations: Special considerations for variance approval:
      1.   Lot Size: If the new construction or substantial improvements on a
lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less is contiguous to and surrounded by lots of
existing structures constructed below the base flood elevation, a variance may
be approved. However, as lot sizes increase beyond one-half (1/2) acre,
additional technical justification may be required; and
      2.   Historic Structures: Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued
designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum relief
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure. (2014
Code)
10-12-5: DECISION:
   A.   Town Council: The town council shall:
      1.   Evaluate the application using the criteria and findings in this
chapter, the application requirements and minimum development standards in
chapters 9 and 10 of this title;
      2.   Hear, make findings and approve, conditionally approve or deny a
variance within sixty (60) days of a complete application;
      3.   Attach conditions to the granting of variance, including a project
completion date and inspections during and after construction;
      4.   Notify the applicant that the issuance of a variance to construct a
structure below the base flood level may result in increased premium rates for
flood insurance and that flood insurance premiums are determined by actuarial
risk and will not be modified by the granting of a variance;
      5.   Grant approval only if the jurisdictional area of the regulated
flood hazard area has been approved pursuant to section 10-4-3 of this title.
   B.   Records Maintained: The floodplain administrator shall maintain a
record of all actions involving a variance, including the town council findings
and decision, and shall send a copy of each variance granted to DNRC.
   C.   Report To FEMA: The floodplain administrator shall report such
variances issued in the biennial report submitted to FEMA. (2014 Code)
10-12-6: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any person or persons aggrieved by the variance decision may appeal such
decision in a court of competent jurisdiction. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 13
APPEALS
SECTION:
10-13-1: Scope
10-13-2: Requirements For Appeal
10-13-3: Notice And Hearing
10-13-4: Decision
10-13-5: Judicial Review
10-13-1: SCOPE:
An appeal is a formal review by the town council of the floodplain
administrator's order, or granting or denial of a floodplain development
permit. (2014 Code)
10-13-2: REQUIREMENTS FOR APPEAL:
Appeals to the town council shall require the following:
   A.   An appeal shall include the basis of the appeal and supporting
information, including specific findings and conclusions of the floodplain
administrator's decision being appealed;
   B.   An appeal must be submitted by an applicant or anyone who may be
aggrieved by the floodplain administrator's decision or order;
   C.   Appeals must be received within thirty (30) days of the date of the
decision or order of the floodplain administrator; and
   D.   Additional information specific to the appeal request may be requested.
(2014 Code)
10-13-3: NOTICE AND HEARING:
   A.   Notice of the pending appeal and public hearing shall be provided
pursuant to section 10-8-2 of this title. The floodplain administrator may
notify DNRC and FEMA of pending appeals.
   B.   A public hearing must held within thirty (30) days of the notice,
unless set otherwise. (2014 Code)
10-13-4: DECISION:
A judgment on an appeal shall be made within thirty (30) days of the hearing,
unless set otherwise. The decision must grant the permit, modify or deny the
permit or remand the application to the floodplain administrator with
instructions or directions. A decision on an appeal of a permit cannot grant or
issue a variance. (2014 Code)
10-13-5: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision may appeal such decision in a
court of competent jurisdiction. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 14
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-14-1: Investigation Request
10-14-2: Authority To Enter And Investigate Land Or Water
10-14-3: Notice To Respond And Order To Take Corrective Action
10-14-4: Administrative Review
10-14-5: Appeal Of Administrative Decision
10-14-6: Failure To Comply With Order For Corrective Action
10-14-7: Judicial Review
10-14-8: Other Remedies
10-14-1: INVESTIGATION REQUEST:
An investigation of an artificial obstruction or nonconforming use within the
regulated flood hazard area may be made either on the initiative of the
floodplain administrator or on the written request of three (3) titleholders of
land which may be affected by the activity within the regulated flood hazard
area. The names and addresses of the persons requesting the investigation shall
be released if requested. (2014 Code)
10-14-2: AUTHORITY TO ENTER AND INVESTIGATE LAND OR WATER:
The floodplain administrator may make reasonable entry upon any lands and
waters for the purpose of making an investigation, inspection or survey to
verify compliance with this title.
   A.   Notice: The floodplain administrator shall provide notice of entry by
mail, electronic mail, phone call, personal delivery to the owner, owner's
agent, lessee or lessee's agent whose lands will be entered.
   B.   Posting: If none of these persons can be found, the floodplain
administrator shall affix a copy of the notice to one or more conspicuous
places on the property for five (5) days.
   C.   Warrant: If the owners do not respond, cannot be located or refuse
entry to the floodplain administrator, the floodplain administrator may only
enter the property through a search warrant. (2014 Code)
10-14-3: NOTICE TO RESPOND AND ORDER TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION:
When the floodplain administrator determines that a violation may have
occurred, the floodplain administrator may issue written notice to the owner or
an agent of the owner, either personally or by certified mail. Such notice
shall cite the regulatory offense and include an order to take corrective
action within a reasonable time or respond requesting an administrative review.
(2014 Code)
10-14-4: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW:
The order is final unless, within five (5) working days or any granted
extension after the order is received, the owner submits a written request for
an administrative review before the floodplain administrator. A request for an
administrative review does not stay the order. (2014 Code)
10-14-5: APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION:
Within ten (10) working days or any granted extension of receipt of the
floodplain administrator's decision concluding the administrative review, the
property owner or owner's agent may appeal the decision to the town council.
(2014 Code)
10-14-6: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER FOR CORRECTIVE ACTION:
If the owner fails to comply with the order for corrective action, remedies may
include administrative or legal action, or penalties through the court. (2014
Code)
10-14-7: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any person aggrieved by the decision may appeal the decision to a court of
competent jurisdiction. (2014 Code)
10-14-8: OTHER REMEDIES:
This chapter does not prevent efforts to obtain voluntary compliance through
warning, conference or any other appropriate means. Action under this chapter
shall not bar enforcement of these regulations by injunction or other
appropriate remedy. (2014 Code)
CHAPTER 15
PENALTIES
SECTION:
10-15-1: Misdemeanor
10-15-2: Declaration To Federal Flood Insurance Administrator
10-15-1: MISDEMEANOR:
   A.   Violation of the provisions of this title or failure to comply with any
of the requirements, including failure to obtain permit approval prior to
development in the regulated flood hazard area, shall constitute a misdemeanor
and may be treated as a public nuisance.
   B.   Any person who violates this title or fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided
in section 1-4-1 of this code. Each day of continuation of a violation shall be
deemed a separate and distinct offense. (2014 Code)
10-15-2: DECLARATION TO FEDERAL FLOOD INSURANCE ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Upon finding of a violation and failure of the owner to take corrective
action as ordered, the floodplain administrator may submit notice and request a
1316 violation declaration to the federal insurance administrator. The federal
insurance administrator has the authority to deny new and renewal of flood
insurance policies for a structure upon finding a valid violation declaration.
   B.   The floodplain administrator shall provide the federal insurance
administrator the following declaration:
      1.   The name of the property owner and address or legal description of
the property sufficient to confirm its identity and location;
      2.   A clear and unequivocal declaration that the property is in
violation of a cited state or local law, regulation or ordinance;
      3.   A clear statement that the public body making the declaration has
authority to do so and a citation to that authority;
      4.   Evidence that the property owner has been provided notice of the
violation and the prospective denial of insurance; and
      5.   A clear statement that the declaration is being submitted pursuant
to section 1316 of the national flood insurance act of 1968, as amended. (2014
Code)
