CIRCLE, MONTANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 02-12-24-04, passed 3-11-2024
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street Ste. 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF CIRCLE
Section
Article I. General Provisions
   
1.01   Powers of town
   
1.02   Interpretation of powers
   
1.03   Charter supremacy
   
1.04   Intergovernmental corporations
   
1.05   Oath of office
Article II. Commission (also known as Town Council)
   
2.01   Composition, terms, election, qualifications, compensation, removal,
filling of vacancies
   
2.02   Powers of commission
   
2.03   Restriction on the commission
   
2.04   Commission procedure, public participation
Article III. Town Executive (also known as Mayor)
   
3.01   Election, term, compensation, vacancy, removal, and acting executive
   
3.02   Powers and duties of town executive
Article IV. Administrative Departments
   
4.01   General
Article V. Nominations and Elections
   
5.01   Elected town officials
Article VI. Miscellaneous Provisions
   
6.01   Amendment of charter
   
6.02   Effective date
   
6.03   Separability
Article VII. Transitional Provisions
   
7.01   General transition
CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF CIRCLE
   WE, THE PEOPLE OF THE TOWN OF CIRCLE, State of Montana, in accordance with
Article XI, Section 5 of the Constitution of Montana, do adopt this charter.
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 1.01 POWERS OF TOWN.
   Town of Circle shall have all powers not prohibited by the Constitution of
Montana, the laws of Montana, or this charter.
§ 1.02 INTERPRETATION OF POWERS.
   The powers and authority of this self-government unit shall be liberally
construed. Every reasonable doubt as to the existence of a town power or
authority shall be resolved in favor of the existence of that power or
authority.
§ 1.03 CHARTER SUPREMACY.
   As provided by Article XI, Section 5 of the Constitution of Montana,
provisions herein establishing executive, legislative, and administrative
structure and organization are superior to statutory provisions.
§ 1.04 INTERGOVERNMENTAL CORPORATIONS.
   As provided by Article XI, Section 7 of the Constitution of Montana, Town of
Circle, unless prohibited by law or this charter, may:
   (a)   cooperate in the exercise of any function, power, or responsibility
with;
   (b)   share the services of any officer or facilities with one or more other
local government units, school districts, the state, or the United States.
§ 1.05 OATH OF OFFICE.
   Before entering upon the duties of office, all elected town officials shall
take and subscribe the oath of office as prescribed in Article III, Section 3
of the Constitution of Montana.
ARTICLE II. COMMISSION (ALSO KNOWN AS TOWN COUNCIL)
§ 2.01 COMPOSITION, TERMS, ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION, REMOVAL,
FILLING OF VACANCIES.
   (1)   There shall be a commission of the Town of Circle composed of four (4)
members, at least two (2) of whom shall be elected every two (2) years.
(Revised by election 11-08-11 effective 01-01-12)
   (2)   Members of the commission shall be elected for terms of four (4)
years. (Revised by election 11-08-11 effective 01-01-12)
   (3)   Elections for the commission shall be non-partisan.
   (4)   Commissioners shall be elected at large.
   (5)   By ordinance adopted at least six (6) months prior to the next Town
general election the commission may determine the annual salary of its members
and the executive. Commissioners and the Executive shall receive their actual
and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of office,
or the commission may establish per diem and mileage allowances in lieu of such
expenses.
   (6)   (a)   The office of commissioner shall become vacant upon his death,
resignation, removal from office in any manner authorized by law, or forfeiture
of his office.
      (b)   A commissioner shall forfeit his office if he:
         (I)   loses his eligibility for election to his commission seat;
         (ii)    violates any express prohibition of this charter;
         (iii)   is convicted of a felony or other offense involving moral
turpitude;
         (iv)   without commission approval, fails to attend two consecutive
months of regularly scheduled commission meetings or absents himself from the
town continuously for thirty (30) days without consent of the commission.
   (7)   In the event of vacancy, the commission shall be majority vote of the
remaining members, appoint a person eligible to hold such commission seat, to
fill the vacancy until the next regular town election at which time the
remainder of the term shall be filled as provided by law.
   (8)   The commission shall be the judge of the election and qualifications
of its members and of the grounds of forfeiture of their office. A member
charged with conduct constituting grounds for forfeiture of his office shall be
entitled to a public hearing on demand and notice of such hearing shall be
published in a manner consistent with state laws.
   (9)   The commission shall elect from its members a president. The president
shall preside at the commission meeting in the absence of the executive.
§ 2.02 POWERS OF COMMISSION.
   (1)   The commission shall be the legislative and policy determining body of
the Town of Circle. Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the
commission shall have all powers of the town, which include, but are not
limited to, the power:
      (a)   to adopt ordinances and resolutions;
      (b)   to establish departments, offices, or agencies in addition to those
created by this charter and to prescribe their function;
      (c)   subject to the limitations provided by law, to raise and borrow
money;
      (d)   to make appropriations for town purposes;
      (e)   to approve all contracts subject to bid;
      (f)   to employ an attorney for purposes which the commission feels
necessary;
      (g)   to cooperate with other governmental agencies as prescribed in
Section
1.04 of this charter;
      (h)   to provide for an annual independent audit of the finances of the
town;
      (I)   to approve the budget;
      (j)   to authorize community councils to advise the commission;
      (k)   to appoint the members of all boards and commissions except those
temporary advisory committees established by the executive.
      (l)   to provide for a review of all ordinances every six (6) years with
the first review completed by September, 1979;
   (2)   Except for the purpose of inquiry or investigation under this charter
or the code of local government, the commission or its members shall deal with
town employees who are subject to the direction and the supervision of the
executive, solely through the executive, and neither the commission nor its
members may give orders to any such employee, either publicly or privately.
§ 2.03 RESTRICTION ON THE COMMISSION.
   (1)   Neither the commission nor any of its members may dictate the
appointment or removal of any employee whom the executive or any of his
subordinates are empowered to appoint.
   (2)   Except for the purpose of inquiry or investigation under this charter
or the code of local government, the commission or its members shall deal with
town employees who are subject to the direction and the supervision of the
executive, solely through the executive, and neither the commission nor its
members may give orders to any such employee, either publicly or privately.
§ 2.04 COMMISSION PROCEDURE, PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (1)   Commission procedure shall be as prescribed by state law.
   (2)   The commission shall determine its own rules and order of business and
shall provide for the keeping of a journal of its proceedings.
   (3)   The commission shall have one (1) regular meeting per month with
special meetings as required.
   (4)   All meetings shall be open to the public except in such circumstances
as are prescribed in state law.
   (5)   All documents and records of transactions of the commission shall be
public records and shall be made available for examining or copying.
ARTICLE III. TOWN EXECUTIVE (ALSO KNOWN AS MAYOR)
§ 3.01 ELECTION, TERM, COMPENSATION, VACANCY, REMOVAL, AND ACTING EXECUTIVE.
   (1)   The town executive shall be nominated and elected at large by the
qualified electors of the town.
   (2)   The town executive shall be elected for a term of four (4) years.
   (3)   Elections for the town executive shall be non-partisan.
   (4)   The salary of the town executive shall be established by the town
commission in accordance with Section
2.01 of this charter.
   (5)   The office of town executive shall be deemed vacant or forfeit for the
same reason that a commissioner's office shall be deemed vacant or forfeit as
prescribed in Section
2.01 of this charter.
   (6)   The commission shall be the judge of the grounds of forfeiture of the
office of chief executive. A chief executive charged with conduct constituting
grounds for forfeiture of his office shall be entitled to a public hearing on
demand and notice of such hearing shall be published in manner consistent with
state law.
   (7)   In the event of a vacancy in the office of town executive, the
commission, by majority vote of all its members, shall appoint a person
eligible to hold the position of town executive to fill the vacancy until the
next regular town election, at which time the remainder of the term shall be
filled as provided bylaw for the election of town executive.
   (8)   In the event of temporary absence or disability, the President shall
serve as acting town executive.
§ 3.02 POWERS AND DUTIES OF TOWN EXECUTIVE.
   (1)   The town executive shall be the chief executive and administrative
officer of the town.
   (2)   The town executive shall:
      (a)   enforce laws, ordinances, and resolutions;
      (b)   perform duties required of him by this charter, law, ordinance, or
resolution;
      (c)   administer affairs of the town;
      (d)   carry out policies established by the commission;
      (e)   recommend measures to the commission;
      (f)   report to the commission on the affairs and financial condition of
the town;
      (g)   execute bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the
commission, subject to the approval of the commission;
      (h)   report to the commission as the commission may require;
      (I)   attend and preside at commission meetings, shall take part in
discussion and shall vote in case of a tie vote of the commission;
      (j)   execute the budget adopted by the commission;
      (k)   appoint, with the consent of the commission, all members of boards;
except, the executive may appoint without the consent of the commission
temporary advisory committees established by the executive;
      (l)   appoint a town legal advisor who shall perform such duties as are
prescribed by the executive; and
      (m)   appoint one or more administrative assistants or town clerk to
assist him in the supervision and operation of the town. Such administrative
assistants or town clerk shall be answerable solely to the executive.
   (3)   The town executive may:
      (a)   Appoint and remove all department heads. The department heads with
consent of the executive may appoint and remove their respective employees of
the town;
      (b)   Veto ordinances and resolutions, subject to over-ride by a majority
plus one of the whole number of the commission;
      (c)   Prepare the budget in consultation with the department heads and
present it to the commission for adoption; and
      (d)   Exercise control and supervision of all departments and boards to
the degree authorized by ordinance of the commission.
ARTICLE IV. ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
§ 4.01 GENERAL.
   The activities under the direction and supervision of the town executive
shall be distributed among such departments, agencies, and offices as are
established by this charter or may be established thereunder by ordinance of
the town commission in order to execute and enforce policies as determined by
the commission and to carryout obligations imposed on the town by state law.
ARTICLE V. NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
§ 5.01 ELECTED TOWN OFFICIALS.
   The procedure for the nomination and election of all elected town offices
shall be as prescribed by state law for non-partisan elections.
ARTICLE VI. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 6.01 AMENDMENT OF CHARTER.
   This charter may be amended only as prescribed by state law.
§ 6.02 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This charter shall become effective on May 2, 1977.
§ 6.03 SEPARABILITY.
   If any provision of this charter is held invalid, the other provisions of
this charter shall not be affected thereby. If the application of the charter,
or any part of its provisions, to any person or circumstances is held invalid,
the application of the charter and its provisions to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
ARTICLE VII. TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
§ 7.01 GENERAL TRANSITION.
   Transition to this charter form of government shall be as prescribed by
state law. The commission may provide for such transition by ordinance, rule or
resolution not inconsistent with state law. The provisions of this article
shall not be published as part of this charter after July 1, 1978.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application for future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Form of ordinance
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Circle
Town Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances”,
or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION FOR FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. McCone County, Montana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation, co-
partnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      STATE. The State of Montana.
      TOWN CLERK. The Clerk of the Town Council.
      TOWN. The Town of Circle, Montana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended, or
its application to any person or circumstances, is held invalid, the invalidity
does not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid
section or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with, and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable as provided in division (B)
above, does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter, or section.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Town
Council refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer,
agency, authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name
designation is incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or
following the effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed
with that entity are, or were, transferred to a different entity; then the
named board, bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its
effective date or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to
which the duties, liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and re-enactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions
for causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code
may be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not
been enacted.
§ 10.13 FORM OF ORDINANCE.
   All Ordinances shall be submitted to the council in the form and style
established by resolution of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-1)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, shall remain in full force
and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see MCA §§ 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town published in a previous year and subsequently amended,
the previous code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior
Code, § )”.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions or failing to comply with any of
the mandatory requirements of this code, or any ordinance of this town, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person convicted of a misdemeanor under this
code or any ordinance of this town shall be punished by a fine to be set by
resolution of the Town Council, or by imprisonment not to exceed six months, or
by both such fine and imprisonment. Each such person shall be guilty of a
separate offense for each and every day during any portion of which any
violation of any provision of this code, or any ordinance of this town, is
committed, continued, or permitted by any such person, and such person shall be
punished accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-6) (Ord. passed 12-10-2018)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate seal
   
11.02   Official newspaper
§ 11.01 CORPORATE SEAL.
   The corporate seal of the town shall be circular in form with inner and
outer circles of rope design. The outer circle shall be one and seven-eighths
inches in diameter, and the inner circle shall be one and one-fourth inches in
diameter. It shall bear upon the upper portion of the space between the inner
and outer circle the words “TOWN OF CIRCLE”, and upon the lower portion of said
space the words “CIRCLE, MONTANA”. Upon the upper portion of the space within
the inner circle shall be the word “CORPORATE”, and upon the lower portion of
said space shall be the word “SEAL”.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-1)
§ 11.02 OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER.
   The Circle Banner, a weekly newspaper of general circulation, edited in the
town, is hereby designated as the official newspaper for the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   PUBLIC SAFETY
      
34.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
35.   TOWN COURT
      
36.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
37.   GENERAL TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Town Council members; term
   
30.02   Town Council meetings
   
30.03   Vacancy in office
   
30.04   President of the Council
   
30.05   Powers and duties of the Council
   
30.06   Procedures
§ 30.01 TOWN COUNCIL MEMBERS; TERM.
   (A)   The Town Council shall be composed of four members.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1)
   (B)   Two members of the Council shall be elected every two years. Members
of the Council shall be elected for terms of four years.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-2)
   (C)   The members of the Council shall be nominated and elected at large by
the qualified electors of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-3)
   (D)   Elections for the office of Town Council members shall be non-
partisan.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-4) (Ord. 12-10-12-1, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 30.02 TOWN COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall, at the Council Chambers of the Town Hall, hold
a regular meeting for the transaction of municipal business, at a date and time
to be set by resolution by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-1)
   (B)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor, or at the request of
three members of the Town Council. It is the duty of the Town Clerk to give
reasonable notice of special meetings, in writing, to the Mayor and all members
of the Town Council present in the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-2)
   (C)   If a regularly scheduled Council meeting falls on a legal holiday, as
defined in MCA § 1-1-216, the Council meeting shall be rescheduled and
conducted on the next succeeding day at the time and place designated for the
conduct of Council meetings.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-3)
   (D)   All meetings of the Council, unless otherwise ordered by the Mayor for
good cause, shall be held in the Council Chambers of the Town Hall.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4)
   (E)   If Council members desire an alternate day to conduct a regularly
scheduled Council meeting, more than 24 hours’ notice shall be given as
follows:
      (1)   Posting notice of such changes in three public places;
      (2)   Publishing notice of such changes in the local newspaper; or
      (3)   Both divisions (E)(1) and (E)(2) above if time permits.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-5) (Ord. passed 5-22-2006)
§ 30.03 VACANCY IN OFFICE.
   (A)   The office of a Council member shall become vacant upon his or her
death, resignation, removal from office in any manner authorized by law, or
forfeiture of his or her office. A Council member shall forfeit the office if
he or she:
      (1)   Loses eligibility for election to the Council seat;
      (2)   Violates any express prohibition of the Town Charter;
      (3)   Is convicted of a felony or other offense involving moral
turpitude; and/or
      (4)   Fails to attend two consecutive months of regularly scheduled
Council meetings or absents himself or herself from the town continuously for
30 days without consent of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-5)
   (B)   (1)   The Council shall be the judge of the election and
qualifications of its members and of the grounds of forfeiture of his or her
office.
      (2)   A member charged with conduct constituting grounds for forfeiture
of his or her office shall be entitled to a public hearing on demand, and
notice of such hearing shall be published in a manner consistent with state
law.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-6)
   (C)   In the event of a vacancy, the Council shall, by majority vote of the
remaining members, appoint a person eligible to hold such Council seat, to fill
the vacancy until the next regular town election, at which time the remainder
of the term shall be filled, as provided by law for the election of Council
members, in MCA § 7-4-4112.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-7)
§ 30.04 PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL.
   The Council shall elect from its members a President.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-8)
§ 30.05 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Council shall be the legislative and policy determining body of
the town.
   (B)   In addition to the general powers set forth in MCA § 7-5-4101, the
Council shall have power to:
      (1)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions;
      (2)   Establish departments, offices, or agencies in addition to those
created by the Charter of the town, and to prescribe their function;
      (3)   Raise and borrow money, subject to the limitations provided by law;
      (4)   Make appropriations for town purposes;
      (5)   Approve all contracts;
      (6)   Cooperate in the exercise of any function, power, or responsibility
with one or more other local governmental units, school districts, the state,
or the United States;
      (7)   Provide for an independent audit of the finances of the town;
      (8)   Adopt and approve the budget;
      (9)   Authorize and appoint community councils to advise the Town
Council;
      (10)   Confirm the members of all boards and commissions, except those
temporary advisory committees established by the Mayor;
      (11)   Provide for a review of all codes every six years; and
      (12)   Conduct all meetings of the Board of Adjustments.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-9)
§ 30.06 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Council procedures shall be prescribed by state law.
   (B)   The Council shall determine its own rules and order of business, and
shall provide for the keeping of a journal of its proceedings.
   (C)   The Council shall have one regular meeting per month with special
meetings as required.
   (D)   All meetings shall be open to the public except in such circumstances
as are prescribed by state law.
   (E)   All documents and records of transactions of the Council shall be
public records.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-10)
CHAPTER 31: EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Salaries
   
31.02   Bonds
   
31.03   Day after Thanksgiving; holiday
Mayor
   
31.15   Nominated; election; term
   
31.16   Vacancy in office
   
31.17   Temporary absence; disability
   
31.18   Duties
Town Clerk
   
31.35   Appointment; term
   
31.36   Duties
Town Attorney
   
31.50   Appointment; term
   
31.51   Duties
Site Inspector
   
31.65   Appointment; term
   
31.66   Duties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 SALARIES.
   (A)   The salaries of the Mayor and Council members of the town are hereby
declared as follows:
      (1)   Mayor: to be set by resolution; and
      (2)   Council members: to be set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 2-6-1)
   (B)   The salaries and compensation for all officers and employees not
covered by divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above shall be fixed by resolution of
the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-6-2)
   (C)   The salaries of all officers and employees of the town shall be paid
monthly on the last day of the calendar month for which services were rendered,
or bi-monthly, upon an employee request. The Mayor and Council members may be
paid quarterly. The claims, therefore, shall be audited and allowed at the next
regular meeting of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-6-3) (Ord. passed 11-11-1997)
§ 31.02 BONDS.
   (A)   To insure the faithful performance of their duties, the following
positions shall be covered by a surety bond, to be purchased by the Town
Council, in the amount set forth for all positions: $52,000.
   (B)   This amount is to remain in effect for a period of 40 years, which is
the term of the Rural Development Loan for the Water Treatment Plant, and is to
meet current loan requirements. This surety bond amount is subject to change,
depending on the requirements of the loan or in the event the loan is paid, in
full, before the 40 years.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-1) (Ord. passed 11-11-1997)
§ 31.03 DAY AFTER THANKSGIVING; HOLIDAY.
   The Council has extended the Thanksgiving holiday to include the fourth
Thursday and Friday of November.
(Res. 11-14-16-5, passed 11-14-2016)
MAYOR
§ 31.15 NOMINATED; ELECTION; TERM.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be nominated and elected at large by the qualified
electors of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-1)
   (B)   Elections for the office of Mayor shall be non-partisan.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2)
   (C)   The Mayor shall be elected for a term of four years, beginning on
January 1 following election.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-3)
§ 31.16 VACANCY IN OFFICE.
   (A)   The office of Mayor shall become vacant upon his or her death,
resignation, removal from office in any manner authorized by law, or forfeiture
of the office.
   (B)   The Mayor shall forfeit the office if he or she:
      (1)   Loses his or her eligibility for election;
      (2)   Violates any express prohibition of the Town Charter;
      (3)   Is convicted of a felony or other offense involving moral
turpitude; and/or
      (4)   Fails to attend two consecutive months of regularly scheduled
Council meetings, or absents himself or herself from the town for 30 days
without consent of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-4)
   (C)   The Council shall be the judge of the grounds of forfeiture of the
office of Mayor. A Mayor charged with conduct constituting grounds for
forfeiture of his or her office shall be entitled to a public hearing on
demand, and notice of such hearing shall be published in the manner consistent
with state law.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-5)
   (D)   In the event of a vacancy in the office of Mayor, the Council, by a
majority vote of all its members, shall appoint a person eligible to hold the
position of Mayor to fill the vacancy. The term of such appointment to be until
the next regular town election, at which time the remainder of the term shall
be filled as provided by law for the elections of Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-6)
§ 31.17 TEMPORARY ABSENCE; DISABILITY.
   In the event of a temporary absence or disability of the Town Mayor, the
President of the Council shall serve as acting Town Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-7)
§ 31.18 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be the chief executive and administrative officer of
the town.
   (B)   In addition to the powers and duties in MCA § 7-5-4102, the Mayor
shall:
      (1)   Enforce laws, ordinances, and resolutions;
      (2)   Perform other duties required by law, ordinance, resolution, or the
Charter of the town;
      (3)   Administer affairs of the town;
      (4)   Carry out policies established by the Council;
      (5)   Recommend measures to the Council;
      (6)   Report to the Council on the affairs and financial condition of the
town;
      (7)   Execute bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the
Council, subject to the approval of the Council;
      (8)   Report to the Council as the Council may require;
      (9)   Attend and preside at Council meetings, take part in case of a tie
vote of the Council;
      (10)   Execute the budget adopted by the Council;
      (11)   Appoint, with the consent of the Council, all members of boards,
except the Mayor may appoint, without the consent of the Council, temporary
advisory committees established by the Mayor;
      (12)   Appoint and prescribe the duties of a town legal advisor;
      (13)   Appoint one or more administrative assistants, or a Town Clerk, to
assist in the supervision and operation of the town. Such administrative
assistants, or Town Clerk, shall be answerable solely to the Mayor; and
      (14)   Establish procedures for the authorization of travel, and
reimbursement of travel-related expenses, for officers and employees on
official town business.
   (C)   The Mayor may:
      (1)   Appoint and remove all department heads. The department heads, with
the consent of the Mayor, may appoint and remove their respective employees of
the town;
      (2)   Veto ordinances and resolutions, subject to override by a majority
plus one of the whole numbers of the Council;
      (3)   Prepare the budget in consultation with the department heads and
present the same to the Council for adoption; and
      (4)   Exercise control and supervision of all departments and boards.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-8) (Ord. passed 5-22-2006)
TOWN CLERK
§ 31.35 APPOINTMENT; TERM.
   The Town Clerk may be appointed by the Mayor for a term concurrent with the
term of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-1)
§ 31.36 DUTIES.
   The duties of the Town Clerk shall be as follows:
   (A)   To attend all regular and special meetings of the Town Council, and
prepare and publish a condensed statement of the proceedings thereof;
   (B)   To record each measure taken by the Town Council, stating where
applicable whether the Mayor signed, vetoed, or took no action on the measure,
and what action the Town Council made upon the Mayor’s veto, and upon every
vote to record the ayes and nays of each individual member;
   (C)   To cause to be published all ordinances and amendments thereto enacted
by the Town Council;
   (D)   To maintain a register of all effective town ordinances for public
use;
   (E)   To attend all Town Council meetings and record, and preserve a correct
record, of the proceedings;
   (F)   To publish notice of public hearings, elections, and other official
actions as required by state law and town ordinances;
   (G)   To maintain all town records required by law, and certify with the
county those records requiring certification;
   (H)   To have custody and be responsible for the safekeeping of all writings
or documents in which the town is a party in interest, unless otherwise
specifically directed by law or ordinance;
   (I)   To file and preserve all receipts, vouchers, and other documents kept,
or that may be required to be kept, necessary to prove the validity of every
transaction and the identity of every person having any beneficial relation
thereto;
   (J)   To furnish upon request to any town officer a copy of any record,
paper, or public document under his or her control when it may be necessary to
such officer in the discharge of his or her duty. When requested, he or she
shall furnish a copy to any citizen upon payment of a fee set by resolution;
   (K)   To authenticate all codes, amendments, resolutions, and other actions,
except motions, with his or her signature, certifying the time and place of
publication when required and, under the direction of the Mayor, affix the
corporate seal to those public documents or instruments which are required to
be attested to by the affixing of the seal;
   (L)   To keep and file all communications and petitions directed to the Town
Council or to the town generally, and endorse thereon the action of the Town
Council taken upon matters considered in such communications and petitions;
   (M)   To compile and preserve a complete record of every town election
regular and special, and perform duties required by law or ordinance of the
Town Clerk in regard to elections;
   (N)   To issue all licenses and permits approved by the Town Council, and
keep a record of licenses and permits issued which shall show date of issuance,
license or permit number, official receipt number, name of person to whom
issued, term of license or permit, and purpose for which issued;
   (O)   To bill and collect all charges, rents, or fees due the town for
utility and other services, and give a receipt therefor;
   (P)   To be the Treasurer for the town;
   (Q)   To draw all warrants for the town upon the order of the Town Council,
and upon every warrant shall show the fund upon which drawn and the claim to be
paid;
   (R)   To keep a warrant register in a form approved by the Town Council
showing the warrant number, date, amount, payee’s name, upon what fund drawn,
and for what claim each warrant is issued;
   (S)   To keep separate accounts for every appropriation, department, public
improvement, or undertaking, and for every public utility owned or operated by
the town. Each account shall be kept in the manner required by law;
   (T)   To balance all funds at the end of each month, and report to the Town
Council at the first meeting of each month the status of each town account as
of the end of the previous month;
   (U)   Following the adoption of the budget, the Town Clerk shall certify the
necessary tax levy along with all special assessments to the county;
   (V)   To give to the Mayor, and all members, written notice of special
Council meetings;
   (W)   To file on, or before, April 1 annually, with the State Commissioner
of Insurance, the Fire Department Annual Financial Report and the Police
Reserve Training Annual Financial Report; and
   (X)   To perform all other duties imposed upon the Clerk by law, ordinance,
or by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2)
TOWN ATTORNEY
§ 31.50 APPOINTMENT; TERM.
   (A)   It is a duty of the Mayor to appoint a qualified person to the
position of Town Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-1)
   (B)   The person appointed to the position of Town Attorney shall serve in
such capacity at the pleasure of the appointing authority.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-2)
§ 31.51 DUTIES.
   The duties of the Town Attorney shall be as follows:
   (A)   Be situated in a location to maintain necessary coordination with the
general governmental activities of the town;
   (B)   Upon request, attend any regular or special meetings of the Town
Council;
   (C)   Formulate drafts for contracts, forms, and other writings which may be
required for the use of the town;
   (D)   The Town Attorney shall keep, in proper files, a record of all
official opinions and a docket, or register, of all actions prosecuted and
defended by the office of the Town Attorney, accompanied by all proceedings
related to said actions;
   (E)   Upon request, give a written opinion upon all questions of law
relating to municipal matters, submitted by the Council, Mayor, and/or
individual members of the Council, municipal boards, or the head of any
municipal department or office;
   (F)   Prepare ordinances which the Town Council may direct to be prepared,
and report to the Council upon ordinances before their final passage by the
Town Council;
   (G)   Act as attorney for the town in all matters affecting the town’s
interest, and appear on behalf of the town before any court, tribunal,
commission, or board. The Town Attorney shall prosecute or defend all actions
and proceedings when requested by the Mayor or Council;
   (H)   Make a written report to the town and interested department heads of
the defects in all contracts, documents, authorized power of any town officer,
and ordinances submitted;
   (I)   After examination, offer a written opinion on, and recommend
alterations pertaining to, contracts involving the town before they become
binding upon the town; and
   (J)   Perform such additional duties imposed by law, ordinance, or by the
Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-3) (Ord. passed 5-22-2006)
SITE INSPECTOR
§ 31.65 APPOINTMENT; TERM.
   The Mayor shall appoint a suitable person as Site Inspector for the town.
Such person shall serve as Site Inspector for a term concurrent with the term
of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-1)
§ 31.66 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Site Inspector to perform those functions
imposed upon him or her by the Mayor, state law, or the town ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-2)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Board of Adjustment
   
32.01   Established
   
32.02   Composition
   
32.03   Meetings
   
32.04   Powers and duties
Department of Street, Water, and Sewer
   
32.15   Creation
   
32.16   Superintendent of Street, Water, and Sewer
   
32.17   Duties of Superintendent of Street, Water, and Sewer
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHED.
   The Board of Adjustment is hereby established, as provided in MCA § 76-2-
321.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-1)
§ 32.02 COMPOSITION.
   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of not less than five or more than
seven members to be appointed by Town Council for terms of three years. If the
Council does not make appointments otherwise each member of the Town Council
shall also serve as a member of the Board of Adjustment, as provided in MCA §
76-2-322.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-2)
§ 32.03 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be in the Council Chambers
of the Town Hall, at a reasonable time for the hearing of an appeal. Prior to
the hearing, public notice shall be given, as well as due notice to the parties
of interest.
   (B)   The concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be necessary to
reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of any such
administrative officials, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter
upon which it is required to pass under any such ordinance, or to effect any
variation in such ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-3)
§ 32.04 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Board of Adjustment shall be as defined in MCA
§ 76-2-323.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-4)
DEPARTMENT OF STREET, WATER, AND SEWER
§ 32.15 CREATION.
   There is hereby created the Street, Water, and Sewer Department for the
purposes of maintaining and operating the streets, alleys, water, and sewer
facilities.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1)
§ 32.16 SUPERINTENDENT OF STREET, WATER, AND SEWER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate a Town Services Superintendent, certified
under the provisions of MCA Title 37, Chapter 42, for the Street, Water, and
Sewer Department.
   (B)   The Town Services Superintendent of the Street, Water, and Sewer
Department shall serve a term coincidental with that of the Mayor.
   (C)   Salaries and compensation for the Town Services Superintendent of the
Street, Water, and Sewer Department and employees shall be fixed by resolution
of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-2)
§ 32.17 DUTIES OF SUPERINTENDENT OF STREET, WATER, AND SEWER.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Town Services Superintendent of
Street, Water, and Sewer Department to:
   (A)   Maintain a potable and pollution-free water supply;
   (B)   Maintain a high standard, continuous sewerage service;
   (C)   Maintain all streets and alleys in good repair, and oversee
maintenance of sidewalks by property owners; and
   (D)   Be accountable to the town for all property in his or her Department.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-3)
CHAPTER 33: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Police Department
   
33.01   Composition
   
33.02   Duties
   
33.03   Chief of Police
   
33.04   Rules and regulations
   
33.05   Appointments, qualifications; law enforcement officers
   
33.06   Suspension; demotion
   
33.07   Exemptions; law enforcement officers
   
33.08   Reduction in force
   
33.09   Temporary officers
   
33.10   Salary
   
33.11   Liability
   
33.12   Reserve officers; program
   
33.13   Chief Law Enforcement Administrator
Fire Department
   
33.25   Creation; purpose
   
33.26   Organization
   
33.27   Rules and regulations
   
33.28   Fire Chief
   
33.29   Assistant Fire Chief
   
33.30   Volunteer firefighters
   
33.31   Special authority of firefighters
   
33.32   Equipment
   
33.33   Fire alarms
Cross-reference:
   General Offenses, see Title XIII
   Employees and Officials, see
Ch. 31
   Town Court, see
Ch. 35
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.01 COMPOSITION.
   The Police Department shall consist of a Chief of Police and such other
members as be determined necessary by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1)
§ 33.02 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of all members of the Police Department to perform all
duties required by law, and prescribed by the political code of the state, the
codes of the town, the orders of the Mayor and the Chief of Police, and the
rules and regulations prescribed for by the government, direction, management,
and discipline of the police force, and to do all things necessary for the
detection, prevention, and suppression of crime, and the enforcement of the
criminal and traffic codes of this state and town.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2)
§ 33.03 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Mayor, with the approval of the Council, shall designate a law
enforcement officer as Chief of Police.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the Chief of Police to:
      (1)   Execute and return all processes issued or directed to him or her
by any legal authority;
      (2)   Arrest all persons who attempt to commit, or have committed, a
breach of peace or violation of any local government code or state law, and to
bring the violator before the appropriate court;
      (3)   Have charge and control of all law enforcement officers subject to
such rules of the town or state law;
      (4)   Be responsible to the town for all property in his or her
Department;
      (5)   Make a monthly report to the Mayor on the general condition of the
Department, together with such matters as pertain to his or her office; and
      (6)   Perform such other tasks as the Mayor may require.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-3) (Ord. passed 8-28-2006)
§ 33.04 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Mayor may promulgate and enforce such rules and regulations as necessary
for the direction and management of the law enforcement agency, and for the
conduct of the Department and the policing of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4)
§ 33.05 APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATIONS; LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   (A)   All appointments to the police force shall be made by the Mayor,
subject to the approval and consent of the Council. All officers shall be
appointed first for a probationary period of 12 months and thereafter, if such
probationary service has been satisfactory, permanently.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-5)
   (B)   All members of the Police Department, at the time of his or her
appointment, shall not be less than legal age by law. All law enforcement
officers must meet the physical conditions as set in the job description.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-6) (Ord. passed 8-28-2006)
§ 33.06 SUSPENSION; DEMOTION.
   The Mayor, or the Chief of Police, subject to the approval of the Mayor,
shall have the power in all cases to suspend, demote, or discharge any officer
in the Department.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-7)
§ 33.07 EXEMPTIONS; LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   (A)   A law enforcement officer may not be arrested on civil process while
actually on duty.
   (B)   A law enforcement officer may not hold any office of the town
government.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-8) (Ord. passed 8-28-2006)
§ 33.08 REDUCTION IN FORCE.
   (A)   The Council shall have the power to determine and limit the number of
law enforcement officers of the town, and may reduce the number of officers at
any time.
   (B)   Officers will be removed based on length of service from the least
service.
   (C)   Officers released due to reduction in force will be placed on an
eligibility list for reappointment.
   (D)   Officers released will be listed in order of seniority ahead of
applicants that were not removed from the Department.
   (E)   Reappointment to the law enforcement agency shall be made from the
eligibility list when vacancies exist.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-9) (Ord. passed 8-28-2006)
§ 33.09 TEMPORARY OFFICERS.
   The Mayor, or the Chief of Police, with the advice and consent of the Mayor,
may appoint temporary law enforcement officers when, through some unforeseen
occurrence, or because of training requirements, temporary law enforcement
officers are required.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-10)
§ 33.10 SALARY.
   The salary and compensation for the Chief of Police, and all law enforcement
officers, shall be fixed by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-11)
§ 33.11 LIABILITY.
   The Council shall contract to insure against liability of the town or
members of the Department for injuries, death, or property damage arising out
of, and resulting from, the performance of Departmental duties.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-12)
§ 33.12 RESERVE OFFICERS; PROGRAM.
   (A)   All appointments to the police force as reserve officers shall be made
by the Mayor, subject to approval and consent of the Council, upon the
recommendation for appointment by officers of the police force. All reserve
officers shall be appointed for a period not to exceed two years, unless
completing the basic training program required by MCA § 7-32-214, or otherwise
permitted by statute.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-13)
   (B)   The Town Reserve Officer Program shall be administered in accordance
with the applicable provisions of MCA §§ 7-32-201 through 7-32-222, and any
subsequent amendments thereto.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-14) (Ord. passed 6-8-1993)
§ 33.13 CHIEF LAW ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Chief Law Enforcement Administrator shall be the town’s Chief of Police,
unless the position is otherwise filled and provided for by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-15) (Ord. passed 6-8-1993)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.25 CREATION; PURPOSE.
   A volunteer fire department, hereafter referred to as the Town Volunteer
Fire Department, is hereby created to prevent and extinguish fires, and to
protect lives and property against fires, to promote fire prevention and fire
safety, and to answer all emergency calls for which there is no other
established agency.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-1)
§ 33.26 ORGANIZATION.
   The Town Volunteer Fire Department shall consist of a Fire Chief, Assistant
Fire Chief, and as many firefighters as may be deemed necessary from time to
time by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-2)
§ 33.27 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Town Volunteer Fire Department shall be operated and managed in
accordance with such departmental rules and regulations, as may be adopted by
vote of the active membership of the Fire Department, and approved by the
Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-3)
§ 33.28 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Chief of the Town Volunteer Fire Department shall be appointed by
the Mayor, who shall be furnished the Department’s records for attendance,
drills, meetings, and fires, and shall give due consideration to such records
in the appointing of Fire Chiefs. The Fire Chief shall be technically qualified
through training and experience, and shall have the ability to supervise
personnel.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-4)
   (B)   The powers, duties, and responsibilities of the Chief of the Town
Volunteer Fire Department are as follows:
      (1)   Be accountable to the Mayor for the personnel, morale, and general
efficiency of the Department;
      (2)   Direct the operation, organization, and discipline of the
Department, subject to the rules and regulations thereof;
      (3)   Devise and formulate, or cause to be devised and formulated, a
course or plan of instruction or training program, making available to each
regular member of his or her department not less than 30 hours of instruction
per year in matters pertaining to fire fighting, and he or she must supervise
the operation of such plan or program. The Fire Chief may request the
assistance of the state Fire Services Training School for said instruction;
      (4)   Have charge of, and be responsible for, the engines and fire
apparatus, and other property, of the town furnished the department, and see
that they are, at all times, ready for use in extinguishing fires;
      (5)   Be in command at the suppression of a fire, and have the necessary
powers, and perform the necessary duties, to ensure the safety of firefighters,
safety of other persons, and the protection of property;
      (6)   Inspect buildings in the process of erection and otherwise, and any
premises, and serve written notice upon the owner or occupant to abate, within
a specified time, any and all fire hazards that may be found;
      (7)   Investigate the cause, origin, and circumstances of each fire in
the town, and if found necessary, assist the proper authorities in suppressing
the crime of arson and prosecution therefor;
      (8)   Keep complete records of all fires, inspections, apparatus and
equipment, personnel, and other information concerning operations of the
Department. He or she shall furnish the Mayor with such information as may be
requested, and his or her records shall be open for inspection as a public
record;
      (9)   Appoint and remove, at such time and in such manner as he or she
deems necessary, all volunteer firefighters. Any such appointment, removal,
time, or manner shall have the express consent of the Mayor; and
      (10)   Enforce, or cause to be enforced, all ordinances, laws, and
regulations of the town and state, insofar as they pertain to fire and safety,
and perform such other and further duties as may be required by the Mayor and
other authorities.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-5)
§ 33.29 ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF.
   The Assistant Chief of the Town Volunteer Fire Department shall aid the
Chief in the work of the Department, and in his or her absence shall perform
his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-6)
§ 33.30 VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTERS.
   All appointees to the Town Volunteer Fire Department shall be able-bodied
citizens residing within a 15-mile radius of the town limits. Firefighters
shall be subject to supervision by the Fire Chief, or the Assistant Fire Chief,
and shall be accountable to the Chief or his or her assistant only.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-7) (Ord. passed 8-28-2006)
§ 33.31 SPECIAL AUTHORITY OF FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   If any firefighter has reasonable suspicion to believe a destructive
fire is within a building, he or she is authorized to enter that building at
any time to suppress such fire.
   (B)   Any firefighter acting under the direction of the Chief, or another
officer in command, is authorized to enter upon the premises adjacent to, or in
the vicinity of, any building or other property that is on fire for the purpose
of suppressing such fire.
   (C)   Any firefighter has the authority to destroy or move property in the
reasonable and necessary course of fire suppression for the protection of
persons and property, or to prevent the spread of fire.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-8)
§ 33.32 EQUIPMENT.
   The department shall be equipped with such apparatus and other equipment, as
may be required from time to time, to maintain its efficiency and provide
adequate protection from fire. All equipment of the Department shall be safely
and conveniently housed in such a place or places as may be designated by the
Mayor. No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private
purpose, nor shall any person willfully take away or conceal any article used
in any way by the Department, or handle any apparatus or equipment belonging to
the Department unless accompanied by, or having special permission of, an
officer or authorized member of the Department. No fire apparatus or equipment
shall be hired out or permitted to leave the fire station except in response to
a call for aid at a fire within the corporate limits of the town. Nothing in
this section shall be construed to prevent the town from entering into
agreements or contracts to furnish fire equipment or protection, or enter into
mutual aid agreements.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.33 FIRE ALARMS.
   A suitable alarm system, arrangements, or equipment shall be provided for
reporting of fires, and for alerting Department members to report to duty
stations. It is unlawful, and punishable, for any person to maliciously turn
in, or to cause to be turned in, a false fire alarm or report.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-10) (Ord. passed 8-28-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 34: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
Travel Expenses
   
34.01   Procedures
   
34.02   Mileage
   
34.03   Commercial air travel
   
34.04   Miles and lodging
   
34.05   Incidental expenses
Retirement Funds
   
34.20   Creation of fund
   
34.21   Authorization of special tax
Vacation Time
   
34.35   Definition
   
34.36   Annual vacation
   
34.37   Accumulation
   
34.38   Separation; cash for unused vacation time
   
34.39   Absence; illness
   
34.40   Determination of vacation dates
Sick Leave
   
34.55   Definition
   
34.56   Sick leave
   
34.57   Separation; accumulated sick leave
   
34.58   Leave of absence
   
34.59   Qualifying period
   
34.60   Permanent part-time employees
   
34.61   Full-time temporary, seasonal employees
   
34.62   Sick leave permitted
   
34.63   Abuse of sick leave
Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Policy
   
34.70   Purpose
   
34.71   Policy
   
34.72   Assignment of responsibility
   
34.73   Implementation
Alcohol and Controlled Substance Policy
   
34.80   Alcohol and controlled substance policy adopted by reference
TRAVEL EXPENSES
§ 34.01 PROCEDURES.
   The Mayor is hereby given the duty of establishing procedures for the
authorization of travel, and the reimbursement of travel related expenditures.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1)
§ 34.02 MILEAGE.
   (A)   Officers and employees, when authorized to travel in the performance
of his or her official duties, and using his or her own means of
transportation, shall be entitled to collect a mileage allowance for the
distance actually traveled by automobile, or for the shortest regularly
traveled automobile route when travel is by private plane.
   (B)   The rate of such mileage allowance shall be that specified by the
state.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2)
§ 34.03 COMMERCIAL AIR TRAVEL.
   All authorized commercial air travel shall be at the least expensive class
service available.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-3)
§ 34.04 MILES AND LODGING.
   (A)   Each town officer and employee shall be reimbursed for the cost of
meals and lodging.
   (B)   Reimbursement for meals and lodging shall be set by resolution of the
Town Council while employees are away from his or her designated headquarters
for more than three hours, and engaged in official and authorized town
business.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4) (Ord. passed 8-28-2006)
§ 34.05 INCIDENTAL EXPENSES.
   The actual cost of other reasonable and necessary business expenses approved
by the Mayor and/or Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-5) (Ord. passed 8-28-2006)
RETIREMENT FUNDS
§ 34.20 CREATION OF FUND.
   The town is a contracting employer of the Montana State Public Employees’
Retirement System as authorized by MCA § 19-3-201, and the Public Employees’
Retirement System Act, being MCA § 19-3-101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-1)
§ 34.21 AUTHORIZATION OF SPECIAL TAX.
   If monies are not available in the General Fund of the town from general
revenue sources, the Town Council shall annually budget, levy, and collect a
special tax to meet obligations to fund the obligations of the Public
Employees’ Retirement System.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-2) (Ord. passed 8-28-2006)
VACATION TIME
§ 34.35 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. As used in this section does not refer to town officials.
(Prior Code, § 2-8-1)
§ 34.36 ANNUAL VACATION.
   (A)   Each town employee who is in continuous employment and service of the
town is entitled to, and shall earn, annual vacation leave credit for the first
full calendar month of employment. However, employees are not entitled to any
leave with full pay until they have worked continuously for a period of six
calendar months.
   (B)   Vacation credits shall be earned in accordance with the following
schedule:
      (1)   One day through ten years of employment: at the rate of one and
one-quarter working days for each month of service;
      (2)   Eleven years through 15 years of employment: at the rate of one and
one-half working days for each month of service;
      (3)   Sixteen years through 20 years of employment: at the rate of one
and three-fourths working days for each month of service; and
      (4)   Over 20 years of employment: at the rate of two working days for
each month of service.
(Prior Code, § 2-8-2)
§ 34.37 ACCUMULATION.
   (A)   Annual vacation leave may be accumulated to a total not to exceed two
times the maximum number of days earned annually as of the last day of any
calendar year.
   (B)   The extra accrued annual vacation leave must be used by March 31 of
the following year or the excess vacation leave will be lost.
(Prior Code, § 2-8-3)
§ 34.38 SEPARATION; CASH FOR UNUSED VACATION TIME.
   An employee who is separated from the service of the town for reasons not
reflecting discredit on himself or herself shall be entitled, upon the date of
such separation, to cash compensation for unused vacation leave.
(Prior Code, § 2-8-4)
§ 34.39 ABSENCE; ILLNESS.
   (A)   Vacation leave shall not accrue during a leave of absence without pay,
the duration of which exceeds 15 days.
(Prior Code, § 2-8-5)
   (B)   Absences from employment by reason of illness shall not be chargeable
against annual vacation leave unless otherwise agreed between the town and
employee.
(Prior Code, § 2-8-6)
§ 34.40 DETERMINATION OF VACATION DATES.
   The dates when employees’ annual vacation leaves shall be granted shall be
determined by agreement between the employee and his or her immediate
supervisor, and subject to the consent of the Mayor, with regard to the best
interest of the town, as well as the best interest of the employee.
(Prior Code, § 2-8-7)
SICK LEAVE
§ 34.55 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY. Husband, wife, child, brother, sister, parent, or
grandparent.
(Prior Code, § 2-9-1)
§ 34.56 SICK LEAVE.
   Each full-time employee is entitled to, and shall earn, sick leave credits
from the first full pay period of employment. For calculating sick leave
credits, 2,080 hours (52 weeks x 40 hours) shall equal one year. Proportionate
sick leave credits shall be earned and credited at the end of each pay period.
Sick leave credits shall be earned at the rate of 12 working days for each year
of service, without restriction, as to the number of working days the employee
may accumulate.
(Prior Code, § 2-9-2)
§ 34.57 SEPARATION; ACCUMULATED SICK LEAVE.
   An employee who terminates employment with the town is entitled to a lump-
sum payment equal to one-fourth of the pay attributed to the accumulated sick
leave. The pay attributed to the accumulated sick leave shall be computed on
the basis of the employee’s salary or wage at the time of termination of
employment with the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-9-3)
§ 34.58 LEAVE OF ABSENCE.
   An employee may not accrue sick leave credits during a continuous leave of
absence without pay, which exceeds 15 calendar days.
(Prior Code, § 2-9-4)
§ 34.59 QUALIFYING PERIOD.
   Employees are not entitled to be paid for sick leave under the provisions of
this subchapter until he or she have been continuously employed for 90 days.
Upon completion of this qualifying period, the employee is entitled to the sick
leave credits earned.
(Prior Code, § 2-9-5)
§ 34.60 PERMANENT PART-TIME EMPLOYEES.
   Permanent part-time employees are entitled to prorated sick leave benefits
if he or she have a regularly scheduled work assignment, and normally work at
least 20 hours each week of the pay period, and have worked the qualifying
period.
(Prior Code, § 2-9-6)
§ 34.61 FULL-TIME TEMPORARY, SEASONAL EMPLOYEES.
   Full-time temporary and seasonal employees are entitled to sick leave
benefits, provided he or she work the qualifying period.
(Prior Code, § 2-9-7)
§ 34.62 SICK LEAVE PERMITTED.
   An employee may use accumulated sick leave credits upon approval of his or
her supervisor for absence for medical, dental, or eye appointments due to
illness, injury, exposure to contagious disease, or due to illness or death in
the employee’s immediate family requiring the employee’s personal attendance.
(Prior Code, § 2-9-8)
§ 34.63 ABUSE OF SICK LEAVE.
   Abuse of sick leave is cause for dismissal and forfeiture of the lump-sum
payments provided for in this subchapter. ABUSE is defined as a violation of
any ordinance or employee policy.
(Prior Code, § 2-9-9)
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY (EEO) POLICY
§ 34.70 PURPOSE.
   To provide equal employment opportunity in direct employment with the town.
(Res. 08-10-20-06, passed 8-10-2020)
§ 34.71 POLICY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to provide equal opportunity to all of
its employees and applicants for employment and to assure that there shall be
no discrimination against any person on the basis of race, color, religion,
creed, national origin, sex, age, physical or mental handicap, marital status
or political beliefs unless related to a bona fide occupational requirement.
   (B)   To this end, the town will take affirmative actions to equalize
opportunity for employment at all levels of operation for those classes of
people who have traditionally been denied equal opportunity—minority group
members, women, and the handicapped; and the town recognizes an obligation to
make reasonable accommodations to the known physical or mental limitations of
an otherwise qualified handicapped applicant or employee unless the
accommodation imposes an undue hardship.
   (C)   All applicants for employment with the town will be recruited from the
reasonably available labor market and evaluated on each person’s individual
qualifications and abilities.
   (D)   All town employees shall be afforded equal employment opportunity
during their terms of employment and are guaranteed protection against
retaliation for exercising any legal or administrative procedures to secure
rights to equal employment opportunity or testifying on behalf of someone else
doing so.
   (E)   Adoption of this subchapter reaffirms the town’s policy of
nondiscrimination in employment, including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Recruitment;
      (2)   Selection;
      (3)   Placement;
      (4)   Testing;
      (5)   Training;
      (6)   Promotion;
      (7)   Transfer;
      (8)   Discipline;
      (9)   Demotion;
      (10)   Layoff and termination.
   (F)   All supervisory personnel are responsible for and shall be committed
to achieving and promoting equal employment opportunity with the town and for
implementing this equal employment opportunity policy.
(Res. 08-10-20-06, passed 8-10-2020)
§ 34.72 ASSIGNMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Primary responsibility for the development, implementation and
maintenance of procedures in accordance with this equal employment opportunity
policy is assigned to the Mayor, who will serve as the equal opportunity
officer and will conduct periodic reviews of the town’s personnel action to
ensure that the policy of equal opportunity is being adhered to and will hold
quarterly equal opportunity meetings with the Mayor and all supervisors to
apprise them of progress and of any developing problems for which remedial
action would be appropriate.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby directs all employees of the town engaged in
any phase of employment, including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Recruitment;
      (2)   Selection;
      (3)   Placement;
      (4)   Testing;
      (5)   Training;
      (6)   Promotion;
      (7)   Transfer;
      (8)   Discipline;
      (9)   Demotion;
      (10)   Layoff and termination.
to take appropriate steps to ensure that employment opportunities with the town
are offered on an equal basis to all without regard to race, color, sex, creed,
religion, national origin, age, physical or mental handicap, marital status, or
political beliefs unless such distinction is a bona fide occupational
qualification.
(Res. 08-10-20-06, passed 8-10-2020)
§ 34.73 IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   The town will implement this policy and Title VII of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964, by means of the Equal Employment Program outlined below. This
Program is drawn to the specifications and standards established by
Presidential Executive Orders 11246 and 11375, which are described in Part 60-
2 of the Code of Federal Regulations (issued by the Office of Federal Contract
Compliance, U.S. Department of Labor) and the Montana Human Rights Act (MCA,
Title 49).
   (B)   This policy shall be comprehensive in its range. The town shall make
good faith efforts to implement this policy. Procedures adopted will include,
at a minimum:
      (1)   Evaluate all current employment practices for evidence of
discriminatory effect. Where such practices are found to be discriminatory in
their effect, they shall be modified so as to excise any discriminatory effect;
      (2)   Remedy any unwarranted instances of under-utilization of women,
minorities, and other individuals who have traditionally been the victims of
discrimination;
      (3)   Develop training and upgrading procedures which will ensure full
consideration for those classes of people who have traditionally been denied
equal opportunity – minority group members, women, and the handicapped – in any
future employment opportunities with the town;
      (4)   Seek out those who have been denied equal opportunity as applicants
whenever vacancies occur;
      (5)   Provide equal pay for equal work;
      (6)   Apprise all contractors and subcontractors of their affirmative
action responsibilities in all contracts awarded by this jurisdiction;
      (7)   Ensure compliance with all applicable federal and state equal
employment requirements;
      (8)   Include the following clause in all vacancy announcements: We are
an Equal Opportunity Employer;
      (9)   Provide assistance to members of protected groups in completing
applications;
      (10)   Provide assistance to individuals needing help in meeting training
and educational qualifications for job vacancies whenever possible;
      (11)   Apprise all employment referral agencies of the substance of this
policy in order to facilitate referral of qualified minorities, women and
handicapped individuals;
      (12)   Post EEO posters in conspicuous places on the town premises;
      (13)   Instruct all supervisory personnel of their duties and
responsibilities with respect to equal employment opportunity; and
      (14)   Inform all employees of the town’s commitment to equal employment
opportunity and of their rights and remedies under the law.
(Res. 08-10-20-06, passed 8-10-2020)
ALCOHOL AND CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE POLICY
§ 34.80 ALCOHOL AND CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE POLICY ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Town Council has reviewed and adopted the Alcohol and Controlled
Substance Policy attached to Res. 05-11-20-05. A copy of this Policy is
available for public inspection in the office of the Town Clerk during normal
business hours.
(Res. 05-11-20-05, passed 5-11-2020)
CHAPTER 35: TOWN COURT
Section
   
35.01   Established
   
35.02   Hours
   
35.03   Appointment of judge; qualifications
   
35.04   Bond; oath
   
35.05   Term of office
   
35.06   Duties of judge
   
35.07   Monthly report
   
35.08   Fees; compensation
§ 35.01 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Town Court.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1)
§ 35.02 HOURS.
   The Town Court shall be open for all business, civil and criminal, except on
non-judicial days as defined in MCA § 3-1-302. Upon non-judicial days, the Town
Court may transact criminal business only. Hours shall be established by
resolution of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2)
§ 35.03 APPOINTMENT OF JUDGE; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Judge shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and
consent of the Town Council, or by any other method allowed by law.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3)
   (B)   The Town Judge shall be:
      (1)   At least 25 years of age;
      (2)   A resident of the state for at least three years preceding
appointment; and
      (3)   A resident of the county during the term of office.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-4) (Ord. passed 10-9-2000)
§ 35.04 BOND; OATH.
   Before entering upon the duties of the office, and within ten days after
receiving notice of appointment, the Town Judge shall be covered in the sum of
$2,500 by the blanket bond of the town, conditioned that he or she will truly,
faithfully, and fully perform the duties of his or her office, and account for
all monies and property belonging to the town which come into his or her hands
by virtue of the office. He or she shall file an oath of office with the Town
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-5)
§ 35.05 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of office of the Town Judge shall expire concurrently with a
vacancy in the office of, or expiration of the term of, the Mayor making the
appointment.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-6)
§ 35.06 DUTIES OF JUDGE.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Judge to keep the docket required by the
laws of the state to be kept by justices of the peace; to hear and determine
all cases that may be instituted in the Town Court, under the ordinances of the
town, and to pay all fines collected for the violation thereof to the Town
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-7)
§ 35.07 MONTHLY REPORT.
   At the first regular meeting in each month, the Town Judge shall present to
the Town Council a report, in writing, giving a statement of all cases
instituted in the Town Court, the disposition of the same, and the amount of
all fines and costs collected during the preceding calendar month. The report
shall be accompanied by a receipt from the Town Clerk for the amount of the
fines and costs collected.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-8)
§ 35.08 FEES; COMPENSATION.
   The fees and compensation of the Town Judge shall be set by resolution of
the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-9)
CHAPTER 36: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
   
36.01   Interest on town warrants
   
36.02   Special improvement; revolving fund
   
36.03   Capital improvement program fund
   
36.04   Funds; accounts
   
36.05   Levy; collection of taxes
   
36.06   Return check fees
   
36.07   Construction permit fees
   
36.08   Fees for street closure
   
36.09   Uncollectible accounts
§ 36.01 INTEREST ON TOWN WARRANTS.
   When any warrant, drawn upon the Treasurer of the town, is presented for
payment, and the same is not paid for want of funds, such warrant, from the
time it is presented until called for payment, shall bear interest at a rate
fixed by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1)
§ 36.02 SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT; REVOLVING FUND.
   (A)   Under, and pursuant to the provisions of MCA §§ 7-12-4221 to 7-12-
4229, there is hereby created and established a special fund which shall be
maintained by the Town Treasurer, on the official books and records, separate
from all other funds, to be known and designated as the Special Improvement
District Revolving Fund, for the purpose of securing the prompt payment of the
cost of improvements made for the benefit of special improvement districts.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-1)
   (B)   For the purpose of providing funds for the revolving fund, the Town
Council may, from time to time, transfer to the revolving fund from the General
Fund. In addition, the town can levy and collect a tax upon the taxable
property to meet the obligation of the revolving fund. The transfers and levy
combined can not exceed 5% of the principal amount of the outstanding Special
Improvement District bonds of the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-2)
   (C)   Whenever any Special Improvement District bond of the town, or any
interest, shall become due and payable, and the Special Improvement District
does not have sufficient money to pay, the Town Council can order funds to be
paid to the special improvement district. The loan will be repaid to the
revolving fund by order from the Town Council to cover the bonds and interest.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-3)
   (D)   (1)   By order of the Town Council, excess reserve funds from other
town funds can be transferred to the revolving fund, or excess reserves from
the revolving fund can be transferred to the General Fund.
      (2)   Transfers to the revolving fund can be used to pay unpaid
assessments as established by law.
      (3)   The reserve for the revolving fund can not be reduced to pay unpaid
assessments.
      (4)   Revolving fund reserves will be deposited in a qualified depository
bank and secured at all times. If held in a time deposit, it can not exceed 180
days.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-4) (Ord. passed 8-28-2006)
§ 36.03 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM FUND.
   (A)   The town hereby elects to adopt the all-purpose levy, and hereby
creates and establishes special funds which shall be maintained by the Town
Treasurer on the official books and records of the town, separate from all
other funds, to be known and designated as Capital Improvement Program Funds
for the purpose of establishing individual funds for replacing and repairing
property, plants, or equipment costing in excess of $5,000, with a life
expectancy of five years or more, not to exceed 5% of the monies received from,
and as a part of, the all-purpose levy aforesaid.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-1)
   (B)   For the purpose of setting aside funds for the replacement and
acquisition of a fire engine for the Town Volunteer Fire Department, the Town
Council may, in its discretion, levy and collect an amount not to exceed four
mills retroactive to August 13, 1984, and the Town Treasurer is hereby directed
to maintain a special fund on the official books and records of the town to be
known and designated as the Capital Improvement Fund for Fire Engine.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-2)
   (C)   For the purpose of setting aside funds for the acquisition and
replacement of a police car for the Town Police Department, the Town Council
may levy and collect an amount not to exceed four mills, and the Town Treasurer
is hereby directed to maintain a special fund on the official books and records
of the town to be known and designated as the Capital Improvement Fund for
Police Car.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-3)
§ 36.04 FUNDS; ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of keeping a clean and accurate account of the monies,
revenues, and disbursements, there are hereby created the General Fund, and
such other funds, as are required by the laws of the state, or the town
ordinances, to be kept for special funds and trust or agency funds. The monies
and revenues which constitute each of the said funds, having been accumulated
by operation of law for such special purpose, shall be known by the name
designated by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-1)
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall set up such individual accounts to record
receipts by source and expenditures by purpose, as will provide adequate
information and control for budgetary purposes as planned and approved by the
Town Council. Each individual account shall be maintained within its proper
fund as required by order of the Town Council or state law, and shall be so
kept that receipts can be immediately and directly compared with specific
estimates, and expenditures can be related to the appropriations which
authorized it. No expenditure shall be posted except to the appropriations for
the function and purpose for which the expense was incurred.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-2)
§ 36.05 LEVY; COLLECTION OF TAXES.
   (A)   In all respects, other than as provided in this section, the levy,
assessment, equalization, and collection of town taxes, and the proceedings for
such purposes, shall be as provided in state law.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-1)
   (B)   All town taxes shall become delinquent at the same time as county and
state taxes.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-2)
   (C)   The County Treasurer shall collect for the use of the town such
additional penalty and interest on delinquent town taxes as are provided by law
upon all delinquent taxes.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-3)
   (D)   All special assessments provided for by this section or resolution of
the Town Council, and not previously paid to the Town Treasurer, shall be duly
certified to the County Clerk by the Town Clerk, as provided in the provisions
of this code or other ordinances or resolution. The same shall be spread upon
the tax roll and collected by the County Treasurer in the same manner as other
town taxes.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-4)
§ 36.06 RETURN CHECK FEES.
   The town will charge a fee of $35 for NSF funds.
(Res. 11-14-16-1, passed 11-14-2016)
§ 36.07 CONSTRUCTION PERMIT FEES.
   The town will charge a fee for a construction permit in an amount set by
resolution of the Town Council. The town may assess an additional fee for
starting a project before applying for a construction permit in an amount set
by resolution of the Town Council. All permits need prior approval of the Mayor
and Council before a construction permit is issued.
(Res. 11-14-16-2, passed 11-14-2016; Ord. 02-12-24-04, passed 3-11-2024)
§ 36.08 FEES FOR STREET CLOSURE.
   The town will charge a fee for a street closure permit in an amount set by
resolution of the Town Council. All permits need prior approval of the Mayor
and Council before a street closure permit is issued.
(Res. 11-14-16-3, passed 11-14-2016; Ord. 02-12-24-04, passed 3-11-2024)
§ 36.09 UNCOLLECTIBLE ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Town professional staff shall report to the Town Council not less than
quarterly regarding all accounts determined to be uncollectible. Staff shall
first make all efforts to collect payment on accounts before determining them
to be uncollectible.
   (B)   The Town Council shall review staff’s determination, including a
review of the efforts made to collect payment.
   (C)   If the Town Council agrees with the determination of the professional
staff, it shall order that all uncollectible accounts shall be written off on
the books of the town using the allowance method of accounting.
   (D)   Staff shall records all written off accounts in the town records and
shall provide regular reports to the Town Council concerning the status of all
written off accounts.
(Res. 08-10-20-04, passed 8-10-2020)
CHAPTER 37: GENERAL TOWN POLICIES
Section
   
37.01   Public records policy
   
37.02   Boundaries
   
37.03   Nomination of election; polling places
   
37.04   Fair housing law
§ 37.01 PUBLIC RECORDS POLICY.
   (A)   Policy. The Town Council has determined that a formal policy regarding
the submission and processing of requests for access to public records should
be adopted to provide the public and the town’s employees with clear
requirements and practices that will permit the town to operate in an open and
public manner.
   (B)   Procedure.   
      (1)   The town will provide an effective and timely response to requests
for public records under MCA § 2-6-101. The town will make every effort to
provide assistance and prompt, accurate and courteous service in a timely
manner. Please note that some requests may take longer to accomplish depending
on file storage location and staff availability. Most record requests are at
very little cost and fulfilled timely. However, in some instances a fee may be
associated (broken into half-hour increments) for the time involved
researching, any print copies or electronic data of the request, pursuant to
MCA § 2-6-1006. This may include requests requiring significant time
researching across numerous departments, old and archived records, voluminous
records, and the like.
      (2)   All records requests are to be directed to the Town Clerk, who will
provide the town’s response. This request form may be obtained from town hall
or by email request. Once received, it will be routed to the proper department
for processing. The department will provide the Clerk with the requested
information, and the amount of time involved researching the request. The Clerk
will be responsible for communicating the status of the request, and any amount
due for copies and/or research time, to the requestor. You can e-mail completed
request forms to townofcircle@midrivers.com. Upon receipt of any monies due,
the requested information/documentation will be provided to the requestor.
Requests for information that is protected or prohibited from public release by
law may be denied and the requestor contacted and informed of this. Public
documents containing exempt information may be released after redaction.
Requests pertaining to matters implicating privacy interest will be reviewed by
the Town Council before any release of information.
      (3)   Please complete the request for public records form. A title or
reasonable description of the requested information is required for all
information not readily available or dependent upon staff availability if the
request cannot be fulfilled immediately.
   (C)   Fees.
 
Copies                                       Fees
Up to 15 pages (printed, copies, electronic) No charge
Over 15 pages (printed, copies, electronic)  $0.15 per page
11 x 17 inch copy                            $0.25 per page
Cost to mail information                     $1.00 plus required postage
Electronic data                              $0.03 for every page over 15 pages
 
Staff time                 Fees
First 15 minutes           No charge
Between 15-30 minutes      $10
Each additional 30 minutes $10
 
(Res. 08-12-19-09, passed 8-12-2019)
§ 37.02 BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the town, shall be that part of McCone, County, Montana,
bounded and described as:
Lands situate in Sections 9, 10 and 15, Township 19 North, Range 48 East,
Principal Meridian Montana; McCone County; State of Montana; being more
particularly described as follows:
Beginning at a point being the quarter corner for said Sections 9 and 10;
thence along the east-west midsection line of said Section 10 N89°53'E, 2356.4
feet; to the westerly boundary of McCugh’s Addition to the town of Circle
according to the Plat thereof; thence along said westerly boundary N27°45'30"E,
418.9 feet; and N62°14'30"W, 100.0 feet; and N27°45'30"E, 374.2 feet; to the
north-south midsection line for said Section 10; thence N00°02'30"W, 1887.7
feet to the north quarter corner for said Section 10; thence along the north
line of said Section 10 S89°56E, 1905.6 feet; thence S00°02"30"E, 1402.5 feet;
thence S89°56'E, 743.0 feet to the east line of said Section 10; thence
S00°04'W, 1224.7 feet to the east quarter corner for said Section 10; thence
S00°04'W, 1315.6 feet to the south sixteenth (Sl/16) corner for Sections 10 and
11 of said Township and Range; thence along the south line of the northeast
quarter of the southeast quarter (NE1/4SE1/4) of said Section 10 S89°45'W,
1321.4 feet; thence along the east line of the southwest quarter of the
southeast quarter (SW1/4SE1/4) of said Section 10 S00°00'E, 990.0 feet; thence
S89°45'W, 991.0 feet; thence S00°00'W, 330.0 feet to the south line of said
Section 10; thence along said south line S89°45'E, 331.35 feet; thence
S00°05'W, 1318.69 feet to the south line of the north half of the north half
(N1/2N1/2) of said Section 15; thence along said south line S89°56'W, 1589.2
feet to the easterly boundary of the BNSF Railroad right-of-way; thence along
said right-of-way S27°45'30”W, 373.12 feet; thence S89°55'19"W, 870.08 feet to
the southwest corner of Lot 2AP according to the amended plat of Wolff Minor
Subdivision, Lots 2 and 3; thence along the west line of said Lot 2AP
N00°01'41"W, 168.63 feet; and N30°14'54"E, 162.24 feet; and N17°22'20"E, 279.72
feet to the southwest corner of Hilstad Heights Subdivision Phase 2 according
to the final plat thereof; thence along the westerly boundary of said Hilstad
Heights Subdivision Phase 2 and the westerly boundary of Hilstad Heights
Subdivision Phase 1 N10°11'14"E, 240.03 feet; and N17°20'26"W, 480.07 feet; and
S72°38'26"W, 69.24 feet; and N00°27'42"W, 400.05 feet; to the south line of
said Section 10; thence along said south line S89°49'W, 72.7 feet; thence
N00°00'E, 382.2 feet; thence N89°52'E, 224.5 feet; thence S00°11'W, 50.0 feet;
thence S89°52'E, 75.2 feet; thence N00°01'W, 619.1 feet to the south boundary
of the Kalberg Addition to the Town of Circle according to the plat thereof;
thence along said south line N89°57'W, 367.3 feet; thence N89°47'W, 520.9 feet
to the west line of said Section 10; thence N00°00'E, 276.5 feet to the
southeast corner of the Schwartz Addition to the Town of Circle according to
the plat thereof; thence along the boundary of said Schwartz Addition N90°00'W,
491.0 feet and N00°00'E, 308.6 feet; and S90°00'E, 491.0 feet to the west line
of said Section 10; thence N00°00'E, 1096.8 feet to the point of beginning;
containing 481 acres, more or less.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-1) (Ord. 05-11-20-02, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 37.03 NOMINATION OF ELECTION; POLLING PLACES.
   (A)   The procedures for the nomination and election of all elected town
officers shall be as prescribed by state law for non-partisan elections.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1)
   (B)   In all municipal elections held in the town, there shall be but one
polling or voting place, which shall be designated by the election official.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-2) (Ord. passed 5-22-2006)
§ 37.04 FAIR HOUSING LAW.
   (A)   The town makes a firm commitment to do all within its power to
eliminate prejudice, intolerance, disorder and discrimination in housing.
   (B)   A fair housing law poster, which has the “Equal Housing Opportunity”
logo, will be displayed at the Town Hall.
   (C)   The following procedures will be used to accomplish the purpose of
this section:
      (1)   The Mayor or Town Council shall inform all employees of the town’s
commitment to fair housing.
      (2)   The Mayor or Town Council will post this a copy of Res. 08-10-20-07
in all town buildings and other public places and publicize it.
      (3)   The Mayor or Town Council shall direct all employees to forward
immediately to the Mayor and/or Council Chairman any reports they receive of
housing discrimination.
      (4)   The Mayor, town, or the Town Council shall forward such complaints
to the Montana Human Rights Commission, Department of Labor and Industry, P.O.
Box 1728, Helena, Montana 59624-1728 within ten days of receipt of said
complaint.
(Res. 08-10-20-07, passed 8-10-2020)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID, HAZARDOUS WASTE
      
51.   WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 50: SOLID, HAZARDOUS WASTE
Section
   
50.01   Direction; control
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Disposal; Class I wastes
   
50.04   Disposal; Class II wastes
   
50.05   Disposal; Class III wastes
   
50.06   Waste receptacles
   
50.07   Waste collection
   
50.08   Burning garbage
   
50.09   Burying waste
   
50.10   Hauling waste
   
50.11   Accumulation of waste
   
50.12   Littering
   
50.13   Fees; removal of waste
§ 50.01 DIRECTION; CONTROL.
   All matters relating to collection, removal, and disposal of waste shall be
done according to the direction and control of the Mayor and the Town Council
in strict conformity with the provisions of this chapter and with any
additional rules and regulations that may be made, from time to time, by the
Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLASS I SOLID WASTE. Includes, and is limited to, those solid wastes
classified or identified by EPA and the state as hazardous waste. Examples may,
or may not, include the following:
      (1)   Municipal and domestic wastes such as septic tank pumpings, raw
sewage sludge, chemical toilet wastes, infectious medical wastes, and
incinerator ashes; and
      (2)   Commercial and industrial waste such as sludges from air and water
pollution control equipment, ashes and dusts from incinerators and air
pollution control devices, caustic acids, waste chemicals, paint sludges, spent
cleaning fluids and solvents, petroleum wastes, discarded chemical containers,
chemical fertilizers, pesticides, and discarded, unrinsed pesticide containers.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2)
   CLASS II SOLID WASTE. As defined by the state and the Environmental
Protection Agency. Examples include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   HOUSE REFUSE means all solid waste that normally originates in a
residential environment. Minor amounts of hazardous waste are contemplated to
be within the scope of this term;
      (2)    Decomposable wastes and mixed solid wastes containing decomposable
material, excluding hazardous waste;
      (3)   Municipal and domestic wastes, such as garbage and putrescible
organic materials, paper, cardboard, cloth, glass, metal, plastics, street
sweepings, yard and garden waste, digested sewage treatment sludges, water
treatment sludges, ashes, dead animals, offal, discarded appliances, and
abandoned automobiles;
      (4)   Hospital and medical facility wastes, provided that infectious
medical wastes have been sterilized or safely contained to prevent the danger
of disease;
      (5)   Commercial and industrial wastes such as packaging materials,
liquid or solid industrial process wastes, which are chemically or biologically
decomposable, crop residues, manure, chemical fertilizers, and emptied
pesticide containers which have been triple rinsed, or processed, by methods
approved by the Department.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-3)
   CLASS III SOLID WASTES. As defined by the state and the Environmental
Protection Agency, CLASS III SOLID WASTES include, but is not limited to: wood
wastes and non-water soluble; essentially inert solids, such as brick, dirt,
rock, concrete, or vehicle tires; and industrial mineral wastes which are
essentially inert and non-water soluble, and do not contain hazardous waste
constituents.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-4)
   GENERATOR. An individual, firm, partnership, family business, company,
association, corporation, town, local government entity, or any other
governmental or private entity, whether organized for profit or not, within the
corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-5)
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. A waste or combination of wastes of a solid, liquid,
contained gaseous, or semi-solid form which may, by concentration or quantity,
or physical, chemical, or infectious characteristic, cause, or significantly
contribute to, an increase in mortality, or an increase in serious,
irreversible, or incapacitating reversible, illness, or pose a substantial
present, or potential hazard, to human health or environment when improperly
treated, stored, transported, or disposed of, or otherwise managed.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2)
   REFUSE CONTAINER. A portable facility used for the temporary storage of
solid waste. Containers are emptied periodically, and the solid waste is then
taken to a disposal or resource recovery facility.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-6)
   RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY. A facility at which solid waste is processed for
the purpose of extracting, converting to energy, or otherwise separating and
preparing solid waste for reuse.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-7)
   RESOURCE RECOVERY SYSTEM. A solid waste management system which provides for
the collection, separation, recycling, or recovery of solid wastes, including
disposal of non-recoverable waste residues.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-8)
   STORAGE. The actual or intended containment of wastes, whether on a
temporary basis or for a period of years.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-9)
§ 50.03 DISPOSAL; CLASS I WASTES.
   Class I waste disposal will be handled according to all laws and
regulations, and by a negotiated agreement between the Town Council and the
generator.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-10)
§ 50.04 DISPOSAL; CLASS II WASTES.
   (A)   (1)   Class II wastes will include all of those wastes defined in §
50.02 of this chapter, and will include shrubbery trimmings, and tree limbs not
to exceed four inches in diameter, and must be no longer than four feet in
length. Tree limbs must be placed next to the refuse containers.
      (2)   Tree limbs may be hauled to the burn area by the property owner or
by a hired hauler.
   (B)   Arrangements to dispose of Class II wastes will be the responsibility
of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-11)
§ 50.05 DISPOSAL; CLASS III WASTES.
   (A)   Class III wastes may be hauled to a landfill via the generator of the
waste, contractor, or a hired hauler.
   (B)   Trees and tree limbs, grass clippings, and garden waste will be
accepted as Class III waste, however, this waste will have to be separated
between the burn area and compost.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-12)
§ 50.06 WASTE RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   (1)   Owners or occupants of each residence or establishment shall
provide a sufficient number of waste receptacles to accommodate the waste
generated by the residence or establishment between collections.
      (2)   The receptacles shall meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Receptacles shall have lids;
         (b)   Receptacles shall be kept clean and in good condition, free of
holes or jagged edges;
         (c)   Racks or posts shall be provided for each receptacle to prevent
spillage by wind or dogs;
         (d)   If feasible, receptacles shall be placed not more than ten feet
from the alley line and, if feasible, at the rear of the property;
         (e)   Separate metal receptacles shall be required for ashes and other
heavy, non-combustible waste. These receptacles shall be easily lifted, and of
a volume not to exceed two cubic feet; and
         (f)   Receptacles for general use shall have a capacity of not less
than 15, nor more than 32, gallons.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-13)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to molest, remove, handle, go
through the contents, or otherwise disturb the waste receptacles, or the
content thereof, which have been properly placed for service, provided that
this section shall not apply to the owner or occupant of the residence, or
other building, so placing the waste in the receptacle, law enforcement, or the
town. It shall also be unlawful for any person to use a waste receptacle
without permission of the owner or occupant of the residence.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-15) (Ord. passed 2-8-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.07 WASTE COLLECTION.
   (A)   All household waste must be drained of surplus liquids, except grease,
and placed in plastic bags before being deposited in waste receptacles.
   (B)   Paper and cardboard must be contained in, and weighted in, a manner to
prevent blowing by the wind.
   (C)   Tree limbs must be no larger than four inches in diameter and four
feet in length.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-14)
§ 50.08 BURNING GARBAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to burn waste within the corporate limits of the
town.
   (B)   Dry, combustible materials may be burned in such incinerators that
meet, or exceed, the requirements of the state, and are approved by the Fire
Chief. Leaves, grass, weeds, and lawn trimmings from lawns and gardens may be
burned only with the permission of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.09 BURYING WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bury any waste within the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.10 HAULING WASTE.
   No one shall be permitted to haul waste without taking all necessary
precautions to prevent blowing, leaking, or dropping off of contents on public
streets or ways of the town, or the private property therein.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.11 ACCUMULATION OF WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any generator to allow wastes to accumulate on
private property, or in streets or alleys within the town, for a period of ten
days or longer.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.12 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, or cause to be deposited,
any form of litter upon or along any of the sidewalks, streets, avenues, or
alleys of the town, or within or upon any public places within the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.13 FEES; REMOVAL OF WASTE.
   (A)   The town will make arrangements to remove all waste per the schedule
agreed to by the waste generator. In the case of residences, the waste removal
will be once per week.
   (B)   For this service, a fee is hereby imposed by the town to be paid by
each waste generator whose premise also receives town water and sewer service.
This fee will be billed with the monthly water and sewer bill, and can be paid
separate or consolidated with the water and sewer bill.
   (C)   The solid waste charges are due when received, and must be paid
according to terms as set by resolution. In the event the bill is not paid
according to terms as set by resolution, the chapter violation procedure will
be implemented.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWER
Section
   
51.01   Water rights
   
51.02   Jurisdiction
   
51.03   Privilege of inspection
   
51.04   Application; water, sewer services
   
51.05   Tapping the main
   
51.06   Water meters
   
51.07   Water fixture specification
   
51.08   Excavations; water and sewer
   
51.09   Inspection of connection; water and sewer
   
51.10   Plumbers; restrictions, requirements
   
51.11   Wasting water; prohibited
   
51.12   Sprinkling restrictions
   
51.13   Emergency water control
   
51.14   Schedule; water, sewer rates
   
51.15   Billing; reinstatement
   
51.16   Review, revision; water, sewer rates
   
51.17   Sewer system use; discharges prohibited
   
51.18   Construction; sewer
   
51.19   Inactive connections; vacant properties
§ 51.01 WATER RIGHTS.
   (A)   The Town Council may acquire water rights by purchase, appropriation,
location, condemnation, or otherwise.
   (B)   The Town Council shall have the power to construct waterworks and
sewer facilities across any stream of water, watercourse, traffic way, railway,
canal, ditch, or flume, which the route of the works may intersect or cross,
provided that:
      (1)   All construction, alteration, or extension of either water supply
or distribution facilities have met prior approval of the state Department of
Health and Environmental Sciences, as provided in MCA Title 75, Chapters 5 and
6, and Title 76, Chapter 4;
      (2)   The works are constructed in a manner as to afford security for
life and property; and
      (3)   Crossings and intersections are restored by the Street, Water, and
Sewer Department to as close to their former state as possible.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-4)
§ 51.02 JURISDICTION.
   The town shall have jurisdiction and control over the territory occupied by:
   (A)   The sewer facilities, and over and along the line of the lagoons,
trenches, pipes, drains, sewers, and other appurtenances used in the
construction and operation of the services for the enforcement of sanitary
conditions and abatement of nuisances; and
   (B)   The water facilities, and over and along the line of reservoirs,
streams, trenches, pipes, drains, and other appurtenances used in the
construction and operation of the water system, and also over the source from
which water is taken for the enforcement of sanitary conditions, the abatement
of nuisances, and the general preservation of the purity of its water supply.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-5)
§ 51.03 PRIVILEGE OF INSPECTION.
   Authorized employees of the town shall be permitted to enter upon all
properties connected with, or to be connected with, the town sewer system or
town water distribution system for the purposes of inspection of all pipes,
motors, meters, and water fixtures, the manner in which water is used, and
enforcing the ordinances herein.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-6)
§ 51.04 APPLICATION; WATER, SEWER SERVICES.
   (A)   Water services.
      (1)   Written application for the use of water shall be made to the Town
Clerk by the owner or agent of a residence, firm, corporation, or other
association to be benefitted, designating the location of the property, and
stating the purpose for which the water may be required.
      (2)   Written application for the repair of service lines between the
curb stop and the building serviced shall be made to the Town Clerk by the
owner or agent of a residence, firm, corporation, or other association
designating the location of property, explanation of repair, and estimated time
of completion.
      (3)   No owner or agent of a residence, firm, corporation, or other
association supplied with water from the town mains shall be entitled to use it
for any purpose other than those stated in the application, or to supply in any
way another residence, firm, corporation, or other association.
      (4)   Any person, firm, or corporation failing to secure an approved
application prior to tapping a main, reconnecting disconnected service, or
repair of service shall be subject to discontinuance of service and
disconnection. The offender shall be solely accountable for all expense
incurred in disconnection or discontinuance of service, and subject to any
further penalties incurred upon conviction of violation of any state code or
town ordinance.
      (5)   When an application has been granted, authorized employees shall
tap the main.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-7)
   (B)   Sewer services.
      (1)   Written application for sewer services shall be made to the Town
Clerk by the owner or agent of a residence, firm, corporation, or other
association to be benefitted, designating the location of the property, the
location of the proposed sewer lines, and any information required to determine
the type of dwelling served.
      (2)   All materials, fixtures, and backfilling work shall conform to the
minimum standards of the State Plumbing Code.
      (3)   As provided for in proceeding sections of this chapter, all
requirements for excavations (§
51.08), inspections (§
51.09), and plumbers (§
51.10) shall be met.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-25) (Ord. passed 8-28-2006)
§ 51.05 TAPPING THE MAIN.
   (A)   The water shutoff device, pipe, and other material required to
establish water service to a premises, from the main up to, and including, the
curb stop, will be provided, owned, and maintained by the town.
   (B)   There will be a street or alley opening charge, as set by resolution
of the Town Council, to establish water service.
   (C)   The owner shall provide, own, and maintain all pipe, shutoffs, opening
and closing of the ditch, and all other material and labor to provide water
service from the water shutoff device to the premises.
   (D)   Such water service lines must be laid below the street grade at a
standard depth of seven feet.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-8) (Ord. passed 8-28-2006)
§ 51.06 WATER METERS.
   (A)   Each building or structure using town water shall have a standard
water meter, furnished and installed by the town, in a place affording
protection from freezing, either in a curb box or inside of the building or
structure at the option of the property owner. Such meter shall be readily
accessible for reading. The owner shall pay the difference in cost between the
standard and larger meter for any water service that requires a larger-than-
standard meter.
   (B)   All such meters shall be owned and kept in repair by the town,
excepting circumstances when a meter shall become inoperable due to freezing or
damage caused by the consumer or owner, whereupon the repair charge or
replacement cost will be assessed against the owner.
   (C)   Should a meter become inoperable and fail to register accurately, the
owner shall be charged at the average monthly consumption rate as shown by the
meter during the last three months the meter was in good working order.
   (D)   In no instance will the town furnish water from one house to another,
or from one unit of a multi-family unit structure to another, through one
meter, even if owned by one owner. An example would be from one duplex unit to
the other, but this is not intended to include apartment complexes or trailer
courts.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-9)
§ 51.07 WATER FIXTURE SPECIFICATION.
   (A)   All materials used for water pipes, vents, fixtures, appurtenances,
and other water devices shall conform to state Plumbing Code specifications.
   (B)   The standard water service tap shall be three-fourths inch in
diameter, providing that the Town Services Superintendent or Town Council may
grant special permission for larger taps where water supply and distribution
facilities are sufficient to permit such taps.
   (C)   Water service pipes shall be so arranged that the supply for each
separate building or house may be controlled by a separate curb box placed on
the boulevard or sidewalk. This curb cock and box must be kept easily
accessible by the owner of the premises and will be maintained by town.
   (D)   Water service curb cocks shall be of the inverted type (key),
Minneapolis pattern, provided with a stop to enable the operator to ascertain
whether the cock is full, open, or closed. The top of the cock shall be
threaded for attaching the curb box.
   (E)   In all cases, if meters are placed on pipes connected to boilers or
other hot-water apparatus, a relief valve, not less than one-half inch, must be
placed between said meter and such boiler, or other hot-water apparatus, to
protect the meter from back pressure of steam or hot water.
   (F)   The water service curb box shall be cast iron, of the two-piece
extension pattern, and provided with coupling for screwing onto the curb box.
It shall be provided with a one and one-half inch tap using the plug and brass
bushing. The location of the curb box shall be designated by the Street, Water,
and Sewer Department. The top of the water service curb box shall be set flush
with the sidewalk and concreted in.
   (G)   Property owners, contractors, or other persons causing damage to curb
boxes will be charged for the damage in accordance with direct repair costs.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-10) (Ord. passed 8-28-2006)
§ 51.08 EXCAVATIONS; WATER AND SEWER.
   (A)   All excavation work shall be dug so as to occasion the least possible
inconvenience to the public and conform, but not be limited, to §§
153.006 through
153.012, and §
51.05(C) above.
   (B)   All water service lines shall be dug at right angles to the main, when
feasible.
   (C)   The surface shall be left in at least as good a condition as prior to
excavation, and removal of all excess dirt or rubbish shall be made at the
expense of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-11)
§ 51.09 INSPECTION OF CONNECTION; WATER AND SEWER.
   (A)   Upon completion of any plumbing, water service connection or repair,
or sewerage service connection or repair, and before any backfilling is done,
the Town Services Superintendent of the Street, Water, and Sewer Department
shall be notified, and forthwith inspect the installation or work to determine
whether it meets the minimum requirements of this chapter and the State
Plumbing Code. If the installation or work passes such inspection, approval
thereof shall be recorded on the written application for said connection, and
the application kept in the office of the Town Clerk. A reasonable fee to be
fixed by the Town Council shall be paid by the owner of the premises for the
aforementioned inspection.
   (B)   Failure to notify the Town Services Superintendent of the Street,
Water, and Sewer Department of connection completion prior to backfilling shall
subject the owner to the penalty or re-excavation at his or her own expense.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.10 PLUMBERS; RESTRICTIONS, REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permits for the installation and repair of any water or sewer service
pipes will be issued to regular licensed plumbers only. Such installation or
repair must conform with the rules and specifications of the Street, Water, and
Sewer Department.
   (B)   The plumber or consumer may turn on the water for the purpose of
testing the installation, but under no circumstances shall the water be left
turned on without permission from the Street, Water, and Sewer Department.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person or persons to flush hydrants, tamper
with hydrants, valves, service boxes, or any other part of the waterworks
system, or to have in the person or persons’ possession any hydrant wrenches,
valve keys, or any tools or materials of any kind that is the property of the
Town Street, Water, and Sewer Department, unless duly authorized by town
employees or officials.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, company, association, or
corporation to tap the water mains, or install water service or any other
plumbing work without first complying with the terms and provisions of this
chapter. The violator shall be held liable for a separate and distinct offense
for each day’s violation of any provision of this section.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-13) (Ord. passed 8-28-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.11 WASTING WATER; PROHIBITED.
   Consumers shall prevent unnecessary waste of water, and keep all water
outlets closed when not in actual use. Hydrants, urinals, water closets, tubs,
and other fixtures must not be left running for any purpose other than the use
for which they were intended. When any such waste occurs, the water service may
be terminated.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.12 SPRINKLING RESTRICTIONS.
   In case of a real or anticipated water scarcity, the Mayor and Town Council
may, by resolution, place any restrictions upon the use of water for irrigation
or sprinkling purposes which is deemed necessary.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-15)
§ 51.13 EMERGENCY WATER CONTROL.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to control, limit, or cut off constant flow
of water supplying an area or areas, as may be warranted and reasonably
calculated, to maintain adequate water pressure in distribution pipelines to
fight, control, or prevent the spread of fire, or control any other emergency
threatening the public health, welfare, and safety.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-16)
§ 51.14 SCHEDULE; WATER, SEWER RATES.
   (A)   Water rates.
      (1)   Municipal water rates for residential, commercial, and industrial
customers within the town’s service area shall be furnished at a rate for a
minimum billing of gallons of usage, as set by resolution.
      (2)   These rates are subject to change and to be set by resolution of
the Town Council as determined necessary.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-17)
   (B)   Sewer rates.
      (1)   Municipal sewer rates for residential, commercial, and industrial
customers within the town’s service area shall be furnished at a rate based on
the consumer’s water usage.
      (2)   Summer sewer rates for consumers will be based on his or her
average water usages from November 20 to March 20. Summer rates are again in
effect from May 20 to September 20.
      (3)   Commercial and industrial customers, as listed in division (A)
above, shall not be allowed the summer sewer rates.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-18)
§ 51.15 BILLING; REINSTATEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Water meters shall be read monthly.
      (2)   Charges for sewer, as set by the rate schedule, shall be made a
part of a concurrent monthly utility bill together with charges for water;
however, each shall be listed separately.
      (3)   The Town Clerk shall keep a correct account of all receipts, make
out and mail all bills for sewer and water charges, and any materials furnished
to owners. The Town Clerk shall collect the same and deposit the proceeds
collected to the enterprise funds in accordance with the Department of Commerce
uniform accounting procedures.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-19)
   (B)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
      (4)   In a property owner-tenant situation, the property owner shall be
responsible for the timely payment of water and sewer bills, and the sewer and
water account shall remain in the property owner’s name.
   (C)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (D)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge as
set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-20)
§ 51.16 REVIEW, REVISION; WATER, SEWER RATES.
   The schedule of water or sewer rates contained herein shall be revised only
after published notice and public hearing. After the adoption or revision of
said schedule of water rates, 15% of the qualified electors of the town may
file a petition with the Town Clerk to the effect that the rates are
unreasonable or unjustly discriminatory. The Town Clerk shall deliver the
petition to the Town Council and the Public Service Commission. The Public
Service Commission shall, after the hearing, file its findings and
determinations. If the findings and determinations conclude that the schedule
of water or sewer rates are unreasonable or unjustly discriminatory, the town
shall amend the rates so as to remove any unreasonable or unjustly
discriminatory features.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-22)
§ 51.17 SEWER SYSTEM USE; DISCHARGES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   The owner of any houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes abutting any street,
alley, or right-of-way in which there is not located, or may in the future be
located, a public sewer is hereby required, at his or her expense, to install
suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such toilet facilities
directly with the public sewer, provided that said public sewer is within 100
feet of the property line.
      (2)   Roofs, paved areas, yards and courts, and courtyards may be drained
into a storm sewer system. Drainage from the above cited sources and storm
water shall not be drained into sanitary sewers.
      (3)   In no instances shall septic tanks, cesspools, privies, privy
vaults, or other facilities be used for the disposal of sewerage, except where
approved by the Town Services Superintendent of the Street, Water, and Sewer
Department, and a public sewer is not available.
      (4)   Motor vehicle and farm equipment washing facilities must be
connected to the sanitary sewer. Water from the wash area must flow through a
sump designed to trap solids and other waste material.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-23)
   (B)   No persons shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, to any public
sewer any harmful waters or wastes, whether liquid, solid, or gas, capable of
causing obstructions detrimental to the equipment and personnel of the sewerage
works, or which interfere with the proper operation of the sewerage works.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-24) (Ord. passed 3-9-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.18 CONSTRUCTION; SEWER.
   (A)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building of sewer line to the public sewer main shall be borne by the
owner. The owner or his or her agent(s) shall indemnify the town for any loss
or damage that may directly, or indirectly, be occasioned by the installation
of the building to the sewer main is the responsibility of the owner. A minimum
street or alley opening charge set by resolution of the Town Council will be
assessed for the owner.
   (B)   All materials, fixtures, and backfilling work shall conform to the
minimum standards of the state Plumbing Code.
   (C)   As provided for in previous sections of this chapter, all requirements
for excavations (§
51.08) shall be met.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-26) (Ord. passed 8-28-2006)
§ 51.19 INACTIVE CONNECTIONS; VACANT PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Intent to establish a monthly charge for inactive connections to and
vacant properties connected to the municipal water system and wastewater
system. It is the intent of the town to implement a monthly charge for inactive
connections and vacant properties connected to the water system and/or the
wastewater system.
   (B)   Basis of monthly inactive and vacant property charge.
      (1)   At large within town limits.
         (a)   For each continuous parcel of property that is owned by one
property owner(s), that has water and/or sewer private service lines from the
town’s mains to such property, the owner shall pay a minimum of at least one
fee, whether it be a monthly base rate or the vacant/inactive charge per each
type of service available.
         (b)   If it is unknown by the town whether the parcel has water and/or
sewer services, it shall be assumed that the parcel does not and no charges
will be levied. However, at such time as line(s) are located and/or used, the
parcel shall be subject to the applicable rates or charges, either the water
and/or sewer monthly base rate(s) or the vacant/inactive charge(s).
         (c)   A continuous parcel of property shall not include properties
that are divided by a road, street, alley, highway, or are attached only by a
corner (e.g., diagonally). Properties divided by a ditch, creek, or fence shall
be considered continuous.
         (d)   If the parcel is divided and sold, applicable fees will apply to
each new parcel.
         (e)   For properties that are turned on/off in the middle of a billing
cycle, monthly service and vacant/inactive charges will be prorated
accordingly.
      (2)   Main street retail.
         (a)   Each parcel identified by the Town Council that is, or has the
potential to be, a separate retail business, whether or not structures exist on
the property, shall pay one service fee, whether the monthly base rate or the
vacant/inactive charge per each type of service available. The continuous
parcel exception shall not apply.
         (b)   If the parcel is divided and sold, applicable fees will apply to
each new parcel.
         (c)   For properties that are turned on/off in the middle of a billing
cycle, monthly service and vacant/inactive charges will be prorated
accordingly.
      (3)   Outside of town limits.
         (a)   Owners of each continuous parcel of property outside of the town
limits, which has access to the town’s water and/or sewer systems, shall pay at
least one fee, either the monthly base rate or the vacant/inactive charge,
according to the type(s) of service available. If the owner of the parcel does
not want access to the town’s services, they must either pay the vacant/
inactive charges or physically abandon the service line at the connection with
their private line. This abandonment must be under the direct supervision of
the town’s water/sewer superintendent, who shall visually inspect and approve
of the physical disconnection in writing. If the water and sewer superintendent
does not visually inspect and approve of the abandonment, the appropriate rate/
charges will continue to be billed to the property. The property owner shall be
responsible for all costs of abandonment. Abandonment is not an option for
parcels inside the town limits.
         (b)   If the parcel is divided and sold, applicable fees will apply to
each new parcel.
         (c)   For properties that are turned on or off in the middle of a
billing cycle, monthly service and vacant and inactive charges will be prorated
accordingly.
   (C)   Inactive connection charge/vacant property charge. The town proposes
to establish a monthly charge for the town’s water system, effective as of the
December 31, 2020 billing (the “Inactive connection charge”). The inactive
connection/vacant property charge will be charged to all parcels with
connections to the water system as provided above. The charge shall be $15 per
month for properties with a building upon the property.
   (D)   Inactive connection/vacant property charge. The town proposes to
establish a monthly charge of $5 for inactive connections and vacant properties
connected to the wastewater system, effective as of the December 31, 2020
billing (the “inactive connection/vacant property charge”). The inactive
connection/vacant property charge will be charged to all parcels with
connections to the wastewater system as provided above.
   (E)   Determination of annual budget for systems. Each year the Council of
the town shall determine the amount of money needed to pay the costs of the
systems including but not limited to: (a) the payment of the reasonable expense
of operation and maintenance of the systems; (b) administration of the systems;
(c) the payment of principal and interest on any bonded or other indebtedness
of the systems; and (d) the establishment or maintenance of any required
reserves, including reserves needed for expenditures for depreciation and
replacement of facilities, as may be determined necessary from time to time by
the Council or as covenanted in the ordinance or resolution authorizing any
outstanding bonds of the systems. Based on the annual needs of the systems, the
Council will establish charges for the use of the systems.
   (F)   Further rate increases. Subsequent adjustments to the inactive
connection charge and vacant property charge will be made by resolution of the
Town Council duly adopted after a public hearing with notice thereof given as
provided by law.
(Res. 05-11-20-04, passed 7-13-2020; Am. Res. 08-17-20-01, passed - -2020; Am.
Res. 10-13-20-02, passed 10-13-2020)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC AND PARKING
Section
   
70.01   U-turn prohibited
   
70.02   “Stop”, “Yield”, “Slow” signs; installation authorized
   
70.03   Conformity; adoption
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Public Safety, see
Ch. 33
   Town Court, see
Ch. 35
§ 70.01 U-TURN PROHIBITED.
   Reverse or “U-turns” are prohibited in the town, unless specifically
authorized by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 “STOP”, “YIELD”, “SLOW” SIGNS; INSTALLATION AUTHORIZED.
   “Stop” signs, “Yield” signs, and “Slow” signs shall be installed as directed
by the Town Council, and duly adopted where the same are deemed necessary by a
majority of the Town Council by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-2)
§ 70.03 CONFORMITY; ADOPTION.
   (A)   The provisions of MCA Title 61, Chapter 8 are hereby adopted as part
of the ordinances of the town under the regulation of traffic ordinances.
   (B)   The provisions of MCA Title 61, Chapter 8 shall be enforced by law
enforcement, and no ordinance shall be enacted or enforced in conflict with the
provision of this chapter unless expressly authorized therein.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-3)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   It is a misdemeanor for a person, firm, or corporation to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter, and upon conviction thereof, said person, firm, or
corporation shall be punishable as follows: Fines to be set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-2)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Snowmobiles
   
71.01   Definition
   
71.02   Effect of regulations
   
71.03   State registration required
   
71.04   Operation; unlawful operation
   
71.05   Curfew
   
71.06   Riding on streets, roadways, snowmobile paths, sidewalks
   
71.07   Right-of-way
   
71.08   Prohibited actions
   
71.09   Parking
 
   
71.99   Penalty
SNOWMOBILES
§ 71.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates, or is in actual physical control of the
operation of, a snowmobile.
   OWNER. Every person as defined herein, other than a lienholder or other
person having a security interest only, holding record title to a snowmobile
and entitled to the use or possession thereof.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, association, corporation, and any other
body or group of persons, whether incorporated or not, and regardless of the
degree of formal organization.
   ROADWAY. Portions of any highway, road, or street improved, designed, or
ordinarily used for travel or parking of motor vehicles.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any self-propelled, track-driven vehicle designed primarily for
travel on snow or ice, or natural terrain, which may be steered by wheels,
skis, or runners, and which is not otherwise registered or licensed under the
laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-1)
§ 71.02 EFFECT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is a violation of this subchapter for any person to do any act
forbidden, or fail to perform any act required, by this subchapter.
   (B)   The parent of any child, and the guardian of any ward, shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   These regulations applicable to snowmobiles shall apply whenever a
snowmobile is operated upon any street, or upon any public path set aside for
the exclusive use of snowmobiles, subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-2) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 STATE REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   The owner of a snowmobile shall register such vehicle with the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles of the state, and shall further comply with all provisions of
the 1969 Snowmobile Act, being MCA §§ 23-2-601 through 23-2-657. The owner
shall display, in a conspicuous place on such registered vehicle, the
registered number.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-3)
§ 71.04 OPERATION; UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a snowmobile upon a controlled access
highway or facility.
      (2)   A snowmobile may make a direct crossing of a street or highway
where such crossing is necessary to get to another authorized area of
operation. Such crossings shall be made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees
to the directions of the highway, at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing. The snowmobile shall make a complete stop before
entering upon any part of the highway or road, and the operator shall yield the
right-of-way to all oncoming traffic.
      (3)   No snowmobile shall be operated upon a public street or highway
when permitted to do so by this subchapter, unless equipped with a brake light,
at least one head lamp, and one tail lamp, which shall be lighted at all times
during such operation, unless equipped with a suitable braking device which may
be operated by either hand or foot.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-4)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any snowmobile
in any one or more of the following manners:
      (1)   In violation of any statute of the state or ordinance of the town
regulating the operation of motor vehicles;
      (2)   In a careless or reckless manner so as to endanger the person or
property of another, or to cause injury or damage to either;
      (3)   Operating a snowmobile, or permitting such operation by any person
who, by reason of physical or mental disability, is incapable of operating the
snowmobile as required for safety under the prevailing circumstances;
      (4)   Without a muffler in good working order and in constant operation
which prevents excessive or unusual noise and annoying smoke; and/or
      (5)   To pull any sled or trailer, or any other object without a “rigid
type” hitch.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-5)
   (C)   Snowmobiles will not be operated on private property without the
permission of the owner, and at no time shall they be operated on sidewalks or
posted areas.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-6) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 CURFEW.
   No snowmobiling shall be done after the hour of 10:00 p.m. within the town,
except in going to, or returning from, an evening ride.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-7) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 RIDING ON STREETS, ROADWAYS, SNOWMOBILE PATHS, SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   (1)   Every person operating a snowmobile upon a street or roadway
shall ride as near to the right-hand side of the roadway as practicable,
exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the
same direction.
      (2)   Persons riding snowmobiles upon a street or roadway shall not ride
more than single file, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the
exclusive use of snowmobiles.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-8)
   (B)   No person shall ride a snowmobile upon any sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-12) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Emerging from an alley, driveway, or building, snowmobile operators shall,
upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on said sidewalk or
sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-9)
§ 71.08 PROHIBITED ACTIONS.
   No person riding upon any snowmobile shall attach the same, or himself or
herself, to any vehicle upon the street or roadway.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-10) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 PARKING.
   No person shall park a snowmobile upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb, or upon the sidewalk in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-11) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this subchapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violations of any section of §§
71.01 through
71.09 shall be misdemeanors and punishable by fine or imprisonment, or both, as
follows:
      (1)   For careless or reckless operation of a snowmobile, or for the
operation of a snowmobile while under the influence of intoxicants or
narcotics: a fine as set by law; and
      (2)   For violation of any other provision of §§
71.01 through
71.09, or of any rule or regulation established hereunder: a fine not to exceed
$150.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-13) (Ord. passed 12-21-2006)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limit schedule
      
II.   Stop intersections
      
III.   Commercial vehicles
      
IV.   Traffic-control devices
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMIT SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Minimum speed limit in an urban district upon Montana Highway 13. The
speed limit upon Montana Highway 13, beginning with the intersection of Montana
Highway 200 and B Avenue, and extending south to the south town limits, shall
not be less than 25 mph thereon, as defined in MCA § 61- 8-102(2)(z).
   (B)   Minimum speed limit outside an urban district upon Montana Highway 13.
The speed limit upon Montana Highway 13, beginning with the intersection of
Montana Highway 200 and B Avenue and extending south to the south town limits,
shall not be less than 35 mph outside any urban district thereon, as defined in
MCA § 61-8-102(2)(z).
   (C)   Modifying, establishing speed limits. The town may modify or alter
such established speed limits within the town limits beginning with the
intersection of Montana Highway 200 and B Avenue, and extending south to the
south town limits, after a traffic and engineering investigation is conducted
by the state and at the state’s request.
   (D)   Urban district defined. URBAN DISTRICT means the territory contiguous
to, and including, any street which is built up with structures devoted to
business, industry, or dwelling houses situated at intervals of less than 100
feet for a distance of one-fourth mile or more.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-4) (Ord. passed 12-21-2006)
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   All traffic shall be required to stop at all intersecting streets, alleys,
and driveways before entering upon Montana Highway 13, beginning with the
intersection of Montana Highway 200 and B Avenue, and extending south to the
south town limits, and where the town considers that such traffic control
creates a hazardous situation, it will request a traffic and engineering study
by the state, and that the state, after such a study, may authorize express
written modifications in the traffic-control devices as may be in the public
interest from a safety and convenience standpoint.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-6) (Ord. passed 12-21-2006)
SCHEDULE III. COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate any commercial vehicle exceeding 32,000 pounds
gross weight at any time upon any of the streets or alleys; excepting those
streets which are designated as state primary or secondary highways, or
extensions thereof, and A and F Avenues.
   (B)   The provisions of this schedule shall not apply to emergency, Police
Department, Fire Department, Sanitation Department, or to public utility
vehicles, when actually engaged in the performance of their usual designated
function, or to vehicles used in performance of official duties for the United
States, state, county, or the town, or to the occasional transport of household
goods or freight for the use and benefit of area residents.
   (C)   (1)   Exceptions include: Any truck, bus, tractor, trailer, or any
combination thereof, as described in division (B) above of this schedule, which
is being operated, parked, or let stand for the express purpose of loading or
unloading merchandise, property, goods, or passengers, or for providing a
service in a residential zone, provided, however, that such operating, parking,
or standing shall not be for longer than one hour, and in no case shall
overnight parking be allowed except when such operation, parking, or standing
is necessitated by an emergency or by an act of God.
      (2)   Prior permission may be granted by the Town Council for special
circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-1) (Ord. passed 9-10-2012) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Sign, signal, or traffic-control devices. The town will not erect any
sign, signal, or traffic-control device that will give preference to local
routes which intersect with Montana Highway 13, beginning with the intersection
of Montana Highway 200 and B Avenue, and extending south to the south town
limits; and no sign, signal, or traffic-control device will be erected or
constructed, nor shall the establishment or modification of any speed zone,
parking regulation, or traffic marking which will affect traffic upon Montana
Highway 13, beginning with the intersection of Montana Highway 200 and B
Avenue, and extending south to the south town limits, will be made without
express written permission of the state, and then only after a property traffic
and engineering study indicates that such a sign, signal, or traffic-control
device is required; and such said sign, signal, or traffic-control device shall
be erected or constructed in accordance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic-
Control Devices for Streets and Highways, and subsequent amendments thereto.
   (B)   Street lighting. The town will not erect any lighting upon Montana
Highway 13, beginning with the intersection of Montana Highway 200 and B
Avenue, and extending south to the south town limits, without express written
permission of the state, and then only after a property traffic and engineering
study indicates that such lighting devises are required; and further, that
plans for such lighting installation shall be approved by the state before
erection.
   (C)   Cost and maintenance of lighting projects. For lighting projects
inside of the town upon Montana Highway 13, beginning with the intersection of
Montana Highway 200 and B Avenue, and extending south to the south town limits,
the cost of operation and maintenance of the lighting shall be paid by the
state; however, where an existing lighting district, which is paid for by a
city, town, or special improvement district shall continue paying the amount of
the previous payments toward the cost of operation and maintenance of the new
or revised lighting system. If and when the cost of energy or maintenance is
raised by the utility company, the city, town, or special improvement district
shall pay their proportionate share of the rate increase.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-5) (Ord. passed 12-21-2006)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parallel parking
      
II.   Prohibited parking
SCHEDULE I. PARALLEL PARKING.
   Parallel parking is required, beginning with the intersection of Montana
Highway 200 and B Avenue, and extending south to the south town limits.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-7)
SCHEDULE II. PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   Prohibited parking within 20 feet. A vehicle shall not be stopped,
stood, or parked on a sidewalk, in front of a public or private driveway,
within an intersection, on a crosswalk, within 20 feet of a crosswalk on
Montana Highway 13, beginning with the intersection of Montana Highway 200 and
B Avenue, and extending south to the south town limits; or within 20 feet of
the crosswalk of any intersecting street at its intersection on Montana Highway
13, beginning with the intersection of Montana Highway 200 and B Avenue, and
extending south to the south town limits.
   (B)   Prohibited parking within 30 feet. A vehicle shall not be stopped,
stood, or parked within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop
sign, or traffic-control signal located at the side of the roadway of Montana
Highway 13, beginning with the intersection of Montana Highway 200 and B
Avenue, and extending south to the south town limits, or within 30 feet upon
the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign, or traffic-control signal
located at the side of the roadway of an intersecting street at its
intersection with Montana Highway 13, beginning with the intersection of
Montana Highway 200 and B Avenue, and extending south to the south town limits;
on the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of
Montana Highway 13, beginning with the intersection of Montana Highway 200 and
B Avenue, and extending south to the south town limits, or upon any bridge or
other elevated structure upon Montana Highway 13, beginning with the
intersection of Montana Highway 200 and B Avenue, and extending south to the
south town limits, or within any highway tunnel that is a part of Montana
Highway 13, beginning with the intersection of Montana Highway 200 and B
Avenue, and extending south to the south town limits.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-7) (Ord. passed 12-21-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMALS
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Expectorating
   
90.02   Debris; streets, sidewalks
   
90.03   Abandonment of dangerous objects
   
90.04   Propelling missiles
   
90.05   Discharging firearms
   
90.06   Fireworks
   
90.07   Barriers, barricades
   
90.08   Unreasonable noise
   
90.09   Fences; barbed wire, electric
   
90.10   Sale of food
Nuisances
   
90.25   Definition
   
90.26   Nuisances prohibited
   
90.27   Nuisances declared
   
90.28   Undeclared nuisances
   
90.29   Notice, failure to abate
Outdoor Vehicle Storage
   
90.40   Nuisance declared
   
90.41   Definitions
   
90.42   Prohibited acts
   
90.43   Exceptions
   
90.44   Construction
Cross-reference:
   Public Safety, see
Ch. 33
   Traffic Code, see Title VII
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 EXPECTORATING.
   To expectorate in or upon any food establishment, restaurant, hotel, motor
inn, cocktail lounge, or tavern, or other such public place is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.02 DEBRIS; STREETS, SIDEWALKS.
   It is a violation of this code to throw, or deposit, on any street or
sidewalk any glass bottle, glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage,
rubbish, litter, offal, or any other debris, or any other substance likely to
injure any person, animal, or vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03 ABANDONMENT OF DANGEROUS OBJECTS.
   (A)   Containers. It is unlawful to place, discard, or abandon, or allow to
be placed, discarded, or abandoned, any refrigerator, icebox, freezer, cabinet,
or similar container equipped with an airtight door or lid, snap lock, or other
locking device, in a location accessible to children, outside any building,
dwelling, or within an unoccupied or abandoned building or dwelling, or other
structure under his or her control without first removing the door, lid, snap
lock, or other locking device of said refrigerator, icebox, freezer, cabinet,
or similar container.
   (B)   Plastic bags. It is unlawful to abandon, expose, leave in any place
accessible to children or permit to remain upon any premises under his or her
control any plastic bag without first tearing the same sufficiently to render
it no longer dangerous to a child.
   (C)   Equal application. The provisions of this section apply equally to the
owner, lessee, occupant, or operator of any premises where such aforementioned
articles remain upon such premises.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 PROPELLING MISSILES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to shoot, sling, throw, or discharge any slingshot,
B.B. gun, pellet gun, missile propelling device of any kind by any means
whatsoever, whether any instrument is called by any name set forth above, or to
shoot, sling, or throw any stone, rock, or other propellant, missile, or
substance in any manner as to be likely to cause injury to any person or
property.
   (B)   Division (A) above does not apply to a school supervised archery class
having been, and which may continue to be held, on school property during the
course of school activities. The school will ensure that all safety precautions
are taken, including safety nets, and the like, to prevent arrows from entering
upon public highways, streets, sidewalks, alleys, and the like. This exclusion
is made with the understanding that the school has assumed, and will continue
to assume, full responsibility for the liability of its archery classes.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5) (Ord. passed 6-13-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   It is unlawful to discharge rifles, shotguns, revolvers, pistols, guns, or
firearms of any kind within the town limits, provided that this section and §
90.04 shall not apply to law enforcement officers in the discharge of a
firearm, or other instrument, for the proper and necessary enforcement of the
law.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 FIREWORKS.
   It is unlawful for any person, co-partnership, or corporation to manufacture
or use or explode any fireworks. Retail fireworks stands will be allowed within
the town limits with approval on an annual basis from the Fire Department, Town
Council, and/or law enforcement. The retail seller must have authorization to
sell from a designated site, and comply with all state fireworks laws governing
the sale of fireworks. The term FIREWORKS, as used in this section, refers to
CONSUMER FIREWORKS, as outlined in state law, and would include firecrackers,
skyrockets, Roman candles, bottle rockets, and other devices designated, and
intended, for pyrotechnic display.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-7) (Ord. passed 5-10-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.07 BARRIERS, BARRICADES.
   (A)   Erecting. It is unlawful to place, or erect upon, any public way a
barrier, barricade, or obstruction of any type, except temporary barriers or
warning signs placed for the purpose of safeguarding the public against
hazards.
   (B)   Removing. It is unlawful to remove, destroy, or interfere with any
barrier, guard, or light placed before, or in, any dangerous place near the
streets, sidewalks, or other public way of the town, for the purpose of warning
or protecting users of such ways from injury or danger, provided that removal
after the danger has ceased shall not be considered unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.08 UNREASONABLE NOISE.
   (A)   It is unlawful to make, continue, or cause to be made any loud or
unusual noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort,
repose, health, peace, or safety of others.
   (B)   Unlawful noises include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Horns and signal devices. The sounding of any horn or signaling
device of any automobile, motorcycle, truck, or other vehicle on any street or
public place, except as a danger warning, the creation by means of any such
signaling devices of any unreasonable loud or harsh sound, the sounding of such
devices for any unnecessary and unreasonable period of time other than by
accident or mechanical, electrical, or other difficulty or failure, and the use
of any such signaling device where traffic is held up;
      (2)   Radios and phonographs. The use or operation of any radio,
phonograph, or other sound producing machine in such a manner as to disturb the
peace and quiet of neighbors;
      (3)   Loud-speakers and amplifiers used for advertising. The use or
operation, or permitting to be played, used, or operated, any radio, receiver
set, musical instrument, phonograph, tape recorder, loud-speaker, sound
amplifier, or other machine or device for the production or reproduction of
sound which is cast upon the public streets for the purpose of commercial
advertising, or attracting the attention of the public in any residential area
except with the proper permit;
      (4)   Yelling or shouting. Yelling, shouting, or creating other loud
noises which annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of persons in the
vicinity;
      (5)   Animals. The keeping of any animals which, by causing frequent or
long continuous noise, shall disturb the comfort or repose of any persons in
the vicinity;
      (6)   Schools, courts, churches, hospitals. The creating of any excessive
noise on any street adjacent to any hospital, school, institution of learning,
church, or court which interferes with the workings of such institution, or
disturbs or annoys patients in a hospital; and
      (7)   Pounding. The pounding or hammering on any metal object or thing,
except inside a building, or in connection with the construction or erection of
a building.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.09 FENCES; BARBED WIRE, ELECTRICAL.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided herein, to erect or maintain any fence
composed wholly, or partly, of barbed wire, smooth wire, pallets, rubbish,
tires, vehicle parts, plywood, or any fence capable of producing an electric
shock upon, along, or about any street or alley, or along any dividing line
between separate pieces, parcels, or lots of land is prohibited.
   (B)   Security fences utilizing barbed wire tops are permitted if the
following criteria are met:
      (1)   The property is zoned and is located entirely within a commercial
zone;
      (2)   The security fence is not less than eight feet tall, exclusive of
the barbed wire top; and
      (3)   Not more than three strands of barbed wire shall be added to the
top of the fence, and is maintained in good condition.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-10) (Am. Ord. 11-14-22-01, passed 12-12-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.10 SALE OF FOOD.
   To sell, or offer for sale, any tainted, unsound, or rotten meat, fish,
fowl, fruit or vegetables, eggs, milk, butter, canned goods, packaged goods, or
other articles of food, or to sell, or offer for sale, the flesh of any animal
that was diseased is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
NUISANCES
§ 90.25 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to health, or is indecent or offensive
to the sense, or any obstruction to the free use of property, so as to
interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1)
§ 90.26 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is hereby prohibited, and a
nuisance, public or private, may be abated in the manner provided in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.27 NUISANCES DECLARED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following are declared to be
nuisances:
   (A)   Polluting water. The pollution, or rendering unwholesome or impure, of
water of any river, stream, or pond, or unlawfully diverting the same from its
natural course or state, to the injury or prejudice of others;
   (B)   Collection of foul substances. The causing or suffering of any offal,
foul, or noisome substance to be collected, or to remain in any place, to the
prejudice of others;
   (C)   Discharge to premises of another. The causing or allowing of any
offal, foul, or noisome substance to be discharged, or to penetrate, or drain
from, premises occupied by a person into or upon the premises of another;
   (D)   Emission of gases. The causing or permitting any emission of noxious
fumes, gas, smoke, fly ash, or odor to any place where the same shall be
offensive, or constitute a danger to the general public;
   (E)   Refuse storing. The depositing or storing of inflammable junk or
refuse, such as old rags, rope, cordage, rubber, bones, and paper on any
premises, or at any place outside of an enclosed building of fireproof
construction, unless such articles are deposited in a suitable receptacle
provided therefor, and said receptacle shall be properly covered and fastened
in such a manner that such contents cannot be blown therefrom;
   (F)   Dead animals. Any animal which shall have died within the town, and
the owner or possessor of said animal does not cause the same to be at once
removed outside the town limits;
   (G) Weeds and vegetation.
      (1)   Nuisance weeds and vegetation. Dense growth of all weeds, vines,
brush, or other vegetation in the town so as to constitute a health, safety, or
fire hazard, including all weeds, grass, and uncontrolled, untended, or
unmanaged vegetation, exclusive of trees and shrubs, growing to a height in
excess of eight inches.
      (2)   Removal of nuisance weed and vegetation required. All occupants or
owners of municipal properties are hereby required to cut, remove, or
exterminate all nuisance weeds and vegetation, upon his or her premises, to the
center of the street or alley.
      (3)   Failure to comply.
         (a)   The town, or its designated official, shall notify property
owners to cut, remove, or exterminate nuisance weeds and vegetation whenever
the height of said weeds or vegetation exceeds eight inches. Written notice
shall be mailed to the property owner at the address on record at the County
Treasurer’s office. The notice shall give the property owner at least five days
to cut, remove, or exterminate the nuisance weeds.
         (b)   If the owner or occupant fails to cut, remove, or exterminate
the nuisance weeds and vegetation by the date in the notice, or at any time
after the specified date that such weeds reach a height of eight inches and
remain in that manner for a period of seven days, the town shall remove the
same, and the cost thereof shall become a lien upon the property. The Town
Clerk shall, each year, prepare a resolution containing a list of all lots and
parcels of land in the town from which, and adjacent to which, the town cut,
removed, or exterminated the nuisance weeds and vegetation, which list shall
contain opposite the number of such lots, or description of such parcels of
land the name of the owner or owners, if known, and the amount of the costs as
reported to the Town Clerk for exterminating or removing such nuisance weeds or
vegetation.
         (c)   The Town Clerk shall present a resolution to the Town Council
with the vouchers in support of each cutting, removal, or extermination, and
which the same is passed by the Town Council and approved by the Mayor in the
same manner as other resolutions or special assessments, the assessments
therein provided shall be a lien upon, and against, the lots of parcels or
land.
         (d)   A copy of the resolution shall be certified to the County
Treasurer by the Town Clerk, for collection in the same manner as other taxes.
      (4)   Fees. A fee set by resolution per lot, shall be charged if the town
has to cut, remove, or destroy nuisance weeds or vegetation on private
property;
   (H)   Vehicles. Unused, abandoned, or junk vehicles, or parts thereof, shall
be enforced by state code; and
   (I)   Motorized and non-motorized vehicles, trailers, and equipment.
Motorized and non-motorized vehicles, trailers, and equipment will not be
parked on the streets for more than 72 hours.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3) (Ord. 10-12-09-1, passed 10-12-2009; Ord. 12-14-09-1,
passed 12-14-2009) (Res. 10-11-10-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.28 UNDECLARED NUISANCES.
   In all cases where no provision is made specifically declaring what is a
nuisance, and how the same may be removed, abated, or prevented, the provisions
of state law regarding public nuisances shall apply when such offenses are
detrimental or dangerous to the health and safety of the town, and they shall
be treated as nuisances, and proceeded against as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-4)
Statutory reference:
   State law regarding what is a nuisance, see MCA § 45-8-111
§ 90.29 NOTICE, FAILURE TO ABATE.
   (A)   Whenever the Mayor, or other authorized Town Officer, determines or
finds that a nuisance exists and is then, or is likely to become, detrimental
to the public health, comfort, or safety of any person, he or she shall notify,
in writing, the owner or occupant of the existence of the nuisance, and request
such person to abate, or commence abatement, of such nuisance within 24 hours
therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-5)
   (B)   (1)   If a request for abatement of a nuisance is not complied with as
set forth in division (A) above, the Mayor, or his or her representative, shall
file a complaint in the Town Court, and the Town Judge may order the Chief of
Police to abate the same, and to certify the cost thereof, to the owner or
occupant of the existence of such nuisance, and he or she shall thereupon add
the amount so certified to the fine imposed upon such owner or occupant, and
enforce the payment of the same in the manner provided for in the collection of
fines.
      (2)   The notice required in division (A) above is not mandatory, and a
complaint may be signed without such notice being first given when an immediate
abatement of the nuisance is necessary for the protection of the public health
and safety.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-6) (Ord. passed 4-13-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
OUTDOOR VEHICLE STORAGE
§ 90.40 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   The presence of a dismantled, partially dismantled, or inoperable vehicle or
motor vehicle, or parts thereof, or any abandoned vehicle or motor vehicle, on
occupied or unoccupied land within the town limits in violation of the terms of
this subchapter is declared a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-11)
§ 90.41 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISMANTLED OR PARTIALLY DISMANTLED VEHICLE. Any vehicle or motor vehicle
from which some part or parts, which are ordinarily a component thereof, have
been removed or are missing.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE. Any vehicle or motor vehicle which, by reason of
dismantling, disrepair, or other cause, is incapable of being propelled under
its own power.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle propelled by its own power, and designed primarily
to transport persons or property upon the highways of the state and the streets
and alleys of the town. The term does not include a bicycle, as defined by MCA
§ 61-8-102(2)(b).
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property may be
transported or drawn upon, a public highway, or town street and alley, except
devices moved by animal power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or
track. This term does not include a bicycle, as defined by MCA § 61-1-123.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-11)
§ 90.42 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   To store on, place on, or permit to be stored or placed on, or allowed to
remain on occupied or unoccupied land within the town limits, any dismantled,
partially dismantled, or inoperable vehicle or motor vehicle, or parts of a
vehicle, whether abandoned or not, except in zones where such activity is
within the contemplated purpose of a duly licensed business under the
provisions of the zoning code, unless such articles shall be kept in a wholly
enclosed garage or structure.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-11)
§ 90.43 EXCEPTIONS.
   Any owner or tenant may store, permit to be stored, or allow to remain upon
his or her premises any dismantled, partially dismantled, or inoperable vehicle
or motor vehicle, or parts thereof, for a period not to exceed 48 hours if such
vehicle or motor vehicle is registered in his or her name.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-11)
§ 90.44 CONSTRUCTION.
   This subchapter shall be construed as being supplementary to any sections of
the health and safety or zoning codes relating to rubbish, litter, garbage,
refuse, trash, or junk, and shall not be construed to permit the parking or
placing of dismantled, partially dismantled, or inoperable vehicles or motor
vehicles on a street.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-11)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Dangerous animals
   
91.03   At large
   
91.04   Impoundment; notice; costs
   
91.05   Sale of animals
   
91.06   Records
   
91.07   Cruelty to animals
   
91.08   Keeping of certain animals
Dogs
   
91.20   Definitions
   
91.21   License required
   
91.22   Vaccination required
   
91.23   At large
   
91.24   Impounding
   
91.25   Dog fights; prohibited
   
91.26   Kennel
   
91.27   Public nuisance; owner liable
   
91.28   Responsibility of owner
   
91.29   Confinement of certain dogs
   
91.30   Muzzling
   
91.31   Interference with Animal Control Officer; police officer
Chickens
   
91.40   Chickens (female Gallus gallus domesticus)
   
91.41   Commercial keeping of chickens prohibited
   
91.42   Offensive animal waste
   
91.43   Animal waste
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. An animate being not human.
   AT LARGE. Any animal, whether licensed or unlicensed, found off the premises
of its owner and not under control of a competent person, restrained within a
motor vehicle, or housed in a veterinary hospital or kennel.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any animal which is not naturally tame or gentle, but is
of a wild nature or disposition, and which, because of its size, vicious
nature, or other characteristics, would constitute a danger to human life or
property if not kept or maintained in a safe manner, or in secure quarters.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. An animal owned or kept for any human purposes.
   HUMANE DESTRUCTION. A method of killing an animal which minimizes the pain
and suffering of the animal.
   HUMANE TREATMENT. The provisions of adequate food, water, shelter, and
necessary veterinary attention for impounded animals.
   IMPOUND. The holding of an animal in a specific place pending claim by its
owner or other disposition.
   OWNER. A person who keeps or holds an animal as personal property.
   PET. An animal owned or kept for other than agricultural purposes.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1)
§ 91.02 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any dangerous or vicious
animal of any kind to run at large within the town.
   (B)   The Animal Control Officer, or any law enforcement officer of the
town, shall be authorized to use such force as is necessary to prevent any such
dangerous or vicious animal from causing harm to any person or property.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2) (Ord. passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03 AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any cattle, horses, mules, sheep,
goats, swine, fowl, or other animals to permit the same to run at large within
the town, and each day that any such animals are permitted to run at large
within the limits of the town shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 IMPOUNDMENT; NOTICE; COSTS.
   (A)   If any animal, domestic pet, or otherwise is found running at large
contrary to the provisions of this subchapter, the Animal Control Officer, his
or her representative, or any police officer shall take up, and impound, the
animal in the town animal shelter or other place provided for that purpose.
   (B)   The Animal Control Officer shall give written notice personally to the
owner, or person entitled to the possession, if known, of animals so impounded.
Said notice shall give the number, description, marks, and brands of the animal
when impounded, with the reasons therefor, together with the amount of charges,
if any, in a reasonable amount.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-4)
§ 91.05 SALE OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   If the owner or person entitled to the possession of any animals does
not pay the charges and take it away within 96 hours from the time it was taken
into custody, or if the owner cannot be determined, law enforcement may sell
such animal at public auction, after having given at least five days notice of
the time and place of such sale, by publishing or by posting said notice in
five public places in the town as well as serving a copy of said notice upon
the owner of said animal, if known. The notice shall describe the location
where the animal was taken. Such animal may be redeemed by the owner at any
time before the date of sale by payment to the office of the Town Clerk of any
fees, charges, and expenses therefor.
   (B)   The funds acquired from the sale of the aforementioned animal shall be
deposited with the Town Clerk and credited to the General Fund. Animal shelter
charges, veterinary fees, or other expenses incurred from the impoundment and
care of said animal by a licensed veterinarian, or other appropriate licensed
person, shall be paid upon presentation of a claim against the town by such
person.
   (C)   In the event said animals are infected with a disease, they shall be
humanely destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 RECORDS.
   The Animal Control Officer shall keep, or cause to be kept, accurate and
detailed records of impoundment and disposition of all animals coming into his
or her custody. The Animal Control Officer shall keep, or cause to be kept,
accurate and detailed records of all bite cases reported and investigated of
the same. The Animal Control Officer shall keep, or cause to be kept, accurate
and detailed records of all animal monies belonging to the town, and records of
issuance of licenses, tags, and the date of issuance and number thereof, which
records shall be open to inspection and audit at appropriate times by persons
responsible for such inspections and audits.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-6)
§ 91.07 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, either as owner or otherwise, to
inhumanely kill, beat, under feed, overload, overdrive, poison, torment,
abandon, abuse, or cruelly treat, in any manner, an animal, or cause or procure
any animal to be so killed, beaten, underfed, over-driven, poisoned, tormented,
abandoned, abused, or in any manner cruelly treated.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.08 KEEPING OF CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or herd within the
town limits, any horses, mules, sheep, swine, cattle, goats, chickens, turkeys,
ducks, geese, peacocks or any wild or undomesticated animals or fowl.
Penalty, see §
10.99
DOGS
§ 91.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Any animal, whether licensed or unlicensed, found off the premises
of its owner and not under control of a competent person, restrained within a
motor vehicle, or housed in a veterinary hospital or kennel.
   DOG. Both male and female animals of the canine species whether altered or
not.
   HUMANE DESTRUCTION. A method of killing an animal which minimizes the
animal’s pain and suffering.
   HUMANE TREATMENT. The provision of adequate food, water, shelter, and
necessary veterinary attention for impounded animals.
   IMPOUND. The holding of an animal in a specific place pending claim by its
owner or other disposition.
   OWNER. A person who keeps or holds an animal as personal property.
   VACCINATION. The injection of an approved vaccine by a licensed veterinarian
for the purpose of immunizing a dog against rabies or other communicable and
harmful diseases.
   WOLF HYBRID. Any animal which is wolf, or part wolf and domestic dog.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1) (Ord. 02-12-24-01, passed 3-11-2024)
§ 91.21 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   All dogs kept, harbored, or maintained in the town shall be required
to be licensed if over six months of age, between January 1 and April 15 of
each year, and in the manner provided in this section.
   (B)   Application for a dog license shall be made to the Animal Control
Office upon forms provided for such purpose, and such application shall state
the name and address of the owner, and the name, breed, color, and sex of each
dog sought to be licensed.
   (C)   Each application for a dog license shall be accompanied by a license
fee to be set by resolution of the Town Council.
   (D)   Upon payment of the license fee, the Animal Control Office shall issue
to the owner a license certificate and a metallic tag for each dog so licensed.
The shape of the tag shall be changed every year and shall have stamped thereon
the year for which it was issued and the number corresponding with the number
of the certificate. Every owner shall be required to provide each dog with a
collar, to which the license tag must be affixed, and shall see that the collar
and tag are worn at all times.
      (1)   In case a dog tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate will be issued
by the Animal Control Office upon presentation of a receipt of the license fee
for the current year, and the payment of a fee as set by resolution of the Town
Council.
      (2)   Any dog found running at large without the license tag attached to
its collar shall be deemed unlicensed. Dog tags shall not be transferable from
one dog to another, and no refunds shall be made on any dog license fee because
of the death of the dog or the owner’s leaving the town before expiration of
the license period.
   (E)   Before issuance of the license, the owner shall furnish a
veterinarian’s certificate showing that the dog for which the license is sought
has been vaccinated, as required in §
91.22, and that the vaccination does not expire within six months from the
effective date of the dog license.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2) (Ord. passed 11-28-2005; Ord. passed 7-25-2011)
§ 91.22 VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   All dogs six months or older shall be vaccinated against rabies and other
diseases which may be transmitted to humans, or which may pose a threat to
public health, and all such dogs shall be so vaccinated once every two years
thereafter. The vaccination required by this section shall be made by any
veterinarian licensed to practice veterinarian medicine in the state. A tag
showing proper vaccination shall be worn by every dog when not confined.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-3)
§ 91.23 AT LARGE.
   No owner of any dog shall permit such dog to run at large, whether the dog
is licensed or unlicensed. Dogs shall be permitted off the premises of their
owner only when on a leash beside a competent person.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.24 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Seizure. It is lawful for the Animal Control Officer, his or her
representative, and all law enforcement officers to seize and impound any
unlicensed or unvaccinated dogs found at large, or any licensed dog found at
large which they reasonably feel to be in violation of the provisions of §§
91.20 through
91.31, or at the direction of the law enforcement, the owner may be served a
summons to appear before the Town Court to answer charges made thereunder.
   (B)   Licensed dogs. Owners of impounded licensed dogs shall be notified by
the Animal Control Officer, or his or her representative, that upon payment of
impounding fees to be set by resolution, plus veterinary fees and animal
shelter charges, the dog will be turned over to said owner. If the impounded
licensed dog is not recovered by its owner within 72 hours of impoundment, the
dog will be destroyed in a humane manner.
   (C)   Unlicensed dogs. Impounded, unlicensed dogs may be recovered by their
owner, upon proper identification, by payment of the license fee, fees as set
by resolution and boarding costs, and the cost of vaccination, if vaccination
is required by §
91.22.
   (D)   Subsequent violation. Any subsequent occasion a dog is impounded in
violation of this subchapter, the owner or keeper of such impounded dog shall
pay a fine as set by resolution, plus boarding costs as provided in division
(B) above for the release of such dog.
   (E)   Sale of unclaimed dogs. If any dog, whether licensed or unlicensed, is
not claimed within 72 hours of impoundment, the Animal Control Officer, or the
Chief of Police, shall offer the dog for sale. If no bid to the amount of $9,
plus impounding fees, is received for said dog, the dog shall be destroyed in a
humane manner.
   (F)   Adoption. The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Town Council,
may provide for the establishment of adoption services for unclaimed dogs. In
such case, the Animal Control Officer, or his or her representative, may turn
any unclaimed dogs over to the Humane Officer of the county who shall agree to
find a home for the dogs. Such person must follow the provisions set forth in
§§
91.21 and
91.22 of this subchapter, except that no license fee need be paid for a dog to
be removed from the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-5) (Ord. passed 8-8-2005; Ord. passed 7-25-2011)
§ 91.25 DOG FIGHTS; PROHIBITED.
   No person shall cause, instigate, or encourage, by words, sign, or
otherwise, any dog fight within the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.26 KENNEL.
   No dog kennels are permitted within the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-6) (Ord. passed 7-25-2011; Ord. 02-12-24-01, passed 3-11-
2024)
§ 91.27 PUBLIC NUISANCE; OWNER LIABLE.
   The following actions committed by a dog constitute a public nuisance for
which the owner of such dog shall be held liable:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner of a dog to allow, or permit such
dog, to unprovokedly bite or attack human beings or other animals, either on
public or private property, or in a vicious or terrorizing manner approach any
person in apparent attitude of attack upon the streets, sidewalks, or any
public ground or place;
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of a dog to allow, or permit such
dog, to pass upon the premises of another thereby defiling, causing damage, or
otherwise interfering with the premises; and
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for an owner of a dog to allow, or permit such
dog to unprovokedly cause serious annoyance or disturbance to any person or
persons by frequent and habitual howling, yelping, barking, or otherwise, or by
running after or chasing persons, bicycles, automobiles, or other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-7) (Ord. 02-12-24-01, passed 3-11-2024) Penalty, see §  
10.99
§ 91.28 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   The owner or keeper of any dog which has, to the knowledge of the
owner or by notification of the owner by a complaining party, bitten a human
being, shall immediately confine the dog in some structure from which it cannot
make exit by its own power and volition, and said owner shall immediately
notify the Animal Control Officer, or any law enforcement officer, of such
fact.
   (B)   The owner or keeper of any dog which has, to the knowledge of the
owner or by notification to the owner by a complaining party, damaged, defaced,
or destroyed the property of another, or caused serious annoyance or
disturbance to any person or persons, shall be deemed in violation of the
provisions of this section and shall be subject to the penalties herein
provided.
   (C)   Whenever an affidavit is made before the Town Judge that the owner of
a dog has violated the provisions of this subchapter, the Town Judge shall
issue an order to show cause to such owner of the dog to be returnable on a
certain day, for the purpose of hearing the allegations in such affidavit, and
if found to be true, then the Town Judge may issue an order directing the owner
of the dog to destroy it in a humane manner within 24 hours after receiving
such order, and/or make suitable and reasonable restitution to the complaining
party. The owner who refuses or neglects to destroy the dog within 24 hours
after receiving such order, or to arrange for the animal’s permanent removal
from the town, shall be guilty of violating this section, and it shall be the
duty of the Animal Control Officer, his or her representative, or any law
enforcement officer to seize and forthwith humanely destroy such animal.
   (D)   Whenever an animal is to be put to death under this chapter, except
for infection with rabies, the owner or other person may apply to the Town
Judge for permission to permanently remove the animal from the town and, upon
the filing of the person’s written agreement to remove the animal from the town
forthwith and to be responsible for its permanently remaining out of the town,
supported by a bond, having a term of five years, in the sum of $100, with
sufficient sureties, the Town Judge may, in his or her discretion, make an
order allowing such animal to be removed from the town instead of being put to
death.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-8) (Ord. passed 7-25-2011; Ord. 02-12-24-01, passed 3-11-
2024)
§ 91.29 CONFINEMENT OF CERTAIN DOGS.
   Any dog which has bitten, or which is suspected to have bitten, a person, or
which is believed to have rabies or other diseases which may pose a threat to
public health, or to have been exposed to the same, shall be confined upon
order of the Animal Control Officer, or any law enforcement officer, Town
Judge, County Health Department, or his or her agent, and shall not be sold,
destroyed, or otherwise disposed of or released to its owner until authority to
do so is given by the responsible County Health Officer, or his or her agent.
It is unlawful for any owner or person responsible for the keeping of such dog
to permit such animal during confinement to come into contact with the public.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-9) (Ord. passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 02-12-24-01, passed 3-11-
2024) Penalty, see §  
10.99
§ 91.30 MUZZLING.
   The Mayor may, when the public health and safety requires, issue a
proclamation for a limited period, ordering every person owning or keeping a
dog within the town to confine such dog with a muzzle of sufficient strength to
prevent its biting any person. During the period prescribed by the Mayor’s
proclamation, any unmuzzled dog found running at large upon any public place in
the town shall be summarily disposed of.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.31 INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER; POLICE OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person to interfere with, molest, hinder or obstruct
the Animal Control Officer, his or her representative, or law enforcement in
the discharge of his or her official duties under §§
91.20 through
91.43.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-12) (Ord. 03-13-23-03, passed 4-10-2023) Penalty, see §  
10.99
CHICKENS
§ 91.40 CHICKENS (FEMALE GALLUS GALLUS DOMESTICUS).
   (A)   Up to six chicken hens (female Gallus gallus domesticus) may be kept
on a premise subject to the following requirements and subject to all other
applicable provisions of this code:
      (1)   The chicken hens must be kept on a single-family parcel(s). Chicken
hens are prohibited
on any multi-dwelling parcel(s). No roosters (male Gallus gallus domesticus)
shall be permitted in town.
      (2)   The owner must obtain an annual permit from the Town Animal
Control. The fee(s) for this permit will be determined by Town Council
resolution and may be periodically adjusted. The town shall inspect the premise
on which it is proposed chickens will be kept prior to the issuance or renewal
of a permit. The initial permit fee shall be $20.
      (3)   The chicken hens shall be provided with a covered, predator-proof
chicken house that is thoroughly ventilated, of sufficient size to admit free
movement of the chicken hens, designed to be easily accessed, cleaned and
maintained by the owners, be at least two square feet per chicken hen in size
and the coop and enclosure cannot be more than 12 feet at its peak in height.
      (4)   No chicken house, outdoor chicken enclosure, or chicken hen shall
at any time be located closer than ten feet to any public right-of-way,
sidewalk, or neighboring property line other than the chicken owner, custodian,
or keeper.
      (5)   The chicken hens shall be shut into the chicken house at night,
from sunset to sunrise.
      (6)   During daylight hours the adult chicken hens shall have access to
the chicken house and, weather permitting, shall have access to an outdoor
enclosure on the subject property, adequately fenced to contain the chicken
hens and to prevent access to the chicken hens by predators.
      (7)   Stored feed must be kept in a rodent- and predator-proof container.
      (8)   It is unlawful for the owner, custodian, or keeper of any chicken
hen to allow the animal(s) to be a nuisance to any neighbors, including but not
limited to: noxious odors from the animals or their enclosure; and noise of a
loud and persistent and habitual nature. Abatement of a nuisance under this
section may include removal of the animals from town and cancellation of any
permit issued to keep chickens.
      (9)   No chicken hen(s) shall be allowed to run at large in the town. No
owner or keeper shall allow or permit any chicken hen(s) to be at large off the
owner's or keeper's property. Any chicken hen(s) found to be running at large
in the town or on private property in violation of this section is a public
nuisance and may be ordered to be removed from the town pending resolution of
any violation (see division (A)(8) above).
      (10)   No chicken house or chicken enclosure shall be located in a front
yard.
      (11)   No chicken hens shall be slaughtered within view of adjacent
property or the public.
      (12)   Changes to the standards contained in this section shall require
any permit holder to comply with any new standard, regulation, or condition and
no notice to a permit holder is required prior to enforcement of any new
standard beyond that required for adoption of a new or revised ordinance.
   (B)   Persons found to have committed a violation of this section shall be
subject to a municipal infraction with civil penalties as specified in §
10.99. The initial fine for a violation of this section shall be $100.
(Ord. 03-13-23-02, passed 4-10-2023)
Cross-reference:
   Collection of foul substances, §
90.27
   Noisy animals, §
90.08
   Animals at large, §
91.03
§ 91.41 COMMERCIAL KEEPING OF CHICKENS PROHIBITED.
   Any keeping of chickens shall be secondary and accessory to the primary
residential use of the property. Commercial breeding and/or raising of any type
of fowl or product therefrom shall be prohibited, except as may otherwise be
allowed by right or through conditional use in the zoning regulations.
(Ord. 03-13-23-02, passed 4-10-2023)
§ 91.42 OFFENSIVE ANIMAL WASTE.
   Any barn, stable, building, shed, yard, coop, or other place wherein any
animal is or has been kept, which barn, stable, building, shed, yard or other
place is suffered to become filthy or offensive with animal waste to neighbors
or passersby, or injurious to the health of any neighborhood, or tends to
contaminate the atmosphere in any place in the town is declared to be a
nuisance.
(Ord. 03-13-23-02, passed 4-10-2023)
§ 91.43 ANIMAL WASTE.
   The owner, keeper or custodian of every animal shall immediately retrieve
and remove all excreta deposited by his or her animal(s) while off the owner's/
keeper's property.
(Ord. 03-13-23-02, passed 4-10-2023)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   CABLE TELEVISION
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Issuing licenses
   
110.03   License required
   
110.04   License fee
   
110.05   Application
   
110.06   License prohibited
   
110.07   Place of sale
   
110.08   License limits
   
110.09   Purchase prohibited
   
110.10   Restrictions
   
110.11   Hours of sale
   
110.12   State liquor store
   
110.13   Suspension and revocation
   
110.14   Renewal of license
   
110.15   Transfer of license
   
110.16   Disposition of revenues
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. A compound produced and sold for human consumption as a
drink that contains more than 0.5% of alcohol by volume.
   BEER. A malt beverage containing not more than 7% of alcohol by volume.
   CLUB. A national fraternal organization, except college fraternities, or an
association of individuals organized for social purposes and not for profit,
with a permanent membership and an existence of two years prior to making
application for license, with permanent quarters or rooms.
   INTERDICTED PERSONS. A person to whom the sale of alcoholic beverages are
prohibited under the laws of the state.
   LICENSE. A license issued by the officers of the town, to a qualified person
under which it shall be lawful for the licensee to sell and dispense alcoholic
beverages at retail as provided in this chapter.
   LICENSEE. The person to whom a license is issued.
   LIQUOR. An alcoholic beverage except beer and table wine.
   MALT BEVERAGE. An alcoholic beverage made by the fermentation of an infusion
or decoction, or a combination of both, in potable brewing water, of malted
barley with or without other malted cereals, and with or without the addition
of unmalted or prepared cereals, other carbohydrates, or products prepared
therefrom, and with or without other wholesome products suitable for human food
consumption.
   STATE LIQUOR STORE. A retail store established and operated by the State
Department of Revenue under the laws of the state for the purpose of selling
liquor.
   TABLE WINE. Wine as defined below, which contains not more than 16% alcohol
by volume.
   WINE. An alcoholic beverage made from or containing the normal alcoholic
fermentation of the juice of sound, ripe fruit or other agricultural products
without addition or abstraction, except as may occur in the usual cellar
treatment of clarifying and aging, and that contains more than 0.5% but not
more than 24% of alcohol by volume. WINE may be ameliorated to correct natural
deficiencies, sweetened, and fortified in accordance with applicable federal
regulations and the customs and practices of the industry. Other alcoholic
beverages not defined as above but made in the manner of wine, and labeled and
sold as wine, in accordance with federal regulations, are also WINE.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1)
§ 110.02 ISSUING LICENSES.
   The Town Clerk is hereby empowered, authorized, and directed to issue
licenses to qualified applicants as herein provided after the applicant has
been duly presented to, and approved by, the Town Council. A licensee shall be
authorized and permitted to sell alcoholic beverages at retail in accordance
with the laws of the state, or any rules or regulations promulgated by the
State Department of Revenue and provisions of this chapter. Qualified
applicants shall include persons, hotels, businesses, clubs, and fraternal
organizations.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2)
§ 110.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person who has not been issued a license under this chapter who shall
sell or keep for sale any alcoholic beverages, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   General. The license fees herein provided for are exclusive of, and in
addition to, other license fees chargeable in the town for the sale of
alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   Liquor. Fraternal organizations or clubs, a fee to be set by
resolution of the Town Council. All other licenses shall be one-half of the
amount paid by such licensee to the State Department of Revenue for a state
license. All licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall expire
on the last day of December following the issuance of said license.
   (C)   Beer. All license fees shall be one-half of the amount paid annually
to the State Department of Revenue for a state license, payable on December 31.
   (D)   Table wine. The license fee for retail sale of table wine for off-
premises consumption shall be set by resolution of the Town Council, payable on
December 31.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-4) (Ord. passed 8-28-2006)
§ 110.05 APPLICATION.
   Prior to the issuance of a license as herein provided, the applicant shall
file a written application with the Town Clerk, signed by the applicant, and
containing such information and statements relative to the applicant and the
premises where the alcoholic beverages are to be sold, as may be required by
the Town Council. The application must be verified before a person authorized
to administer oaths.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-5)
§ 110.06 LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Upon the receipt of an application under this chapter, accompanied by
the necessary license fee, the Town Council shall, within 30 days thereafter,
cause to be made a thorough investigation of all matters pertaining thereto,
and shall determine whether such applicant is qualified for a license, and the
premises are suitable for the business.
   (B)   No license shall be issued by the Town Council to:
      (1)   A person who has been convicted of being, or is the keeper of, a
house of prostitution;
      (2)   A person who has been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor opposed
to decency and morality, or federal and state laws;
      (3)   A person whose license issued under the laws of the state has been
revoked for cause;
      (4)   A person who makes an application for renewal of a license would
not be eligible for such license upon a first application; and
      (5)   A person who is not qualified or whose premises do not conform to
the provisions of the state, or with the rules and regulations promulgated by
the State Department of Revenue.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-6)
§ 110.07 PLACE OF SALE.
   Every license issued under this chapter shall set forth the name of the
person to whom issued, the location by lot and block of the premises where the
business is to be located, and such other information as the Town Council shall
deem necessary, and if issued to a co-partnership, the names of all of the
partners. Such licenses shall be signed by the licensee, and shall be non-
transferable except, and only with, the consent of the Town Council. The
license shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises to which it is
issued, and shall be exhibited to any duly authorized officer of the town.
Every license issued under the provisions of this chapter is separate and
distinct, and no person except the licensee therein named shall exercise any of
the privileges granted thereunder, and all licenses are applicable only to the
premises in respect to which they are issued.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-7)
§ 110.08 LICENSE LIMITS.
   (A)   Liquor. No person shall be granted more than one license in any year.
No person, club, or fraternal organization shall be entitled to a license under
this chapter unless such person, club, or fraternal organization shall have
been issued a beer license by the town.
   (B)   Beer. No person shall be issued more than one current license under
the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Table wine. No person shall be issued more than one current license
under the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-8) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09 PURCHASE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No licensee, or his or her employee or employees, or any other person,
shall sell, deliver, or give away, or cause, or permit, to be sold, delivered,
or given away, any alcoholic beverage to:
      (1)   Any person under the age of 21 years;
      (2)   Any intoxicated person or any person actually, apparently, or
obviously intoxicated; and/or
      (3)   An interdicted person.
   (B)   Any person under 21 years of age, or other person who knowingly
misrepresents his or her qualifications for the purpose of obtaining an
alcoholic beverage from such licensee, shall be equally guilty with said
licensee and shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to the penalty provided
in MCA § 45-5-624, provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be
construed as authorizing or permitting the sale of an alcoholic beverage to any
person in violation of any federal law. With the exclusions provided for in MCA
§ 16-6-305, when the alcoholic beverage is provided for in a non-intoxicating
quantity to a person under 21 years of age by his or her parent or guardian,
physician, or dentist for medicinal purposes, a licensed pharmacist upon the
prescription of a physician, or an ordained minister or priest in connection
with a religious observance and MCA § 45-5-624 when, in the course of his or
her employment, it is necessary to possess alcoholic beverages.
   (C)   It shall be further mandatory under the provisions of this chapter
that all licensees display in a prominent place in their premises a placard, as
issued by the State Department of Revenue, stating fully the consequences for
violations of the provisions of this chapter by persons under 21 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-9) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10 RESTRICTIONS.
   No alcoholic beverages shall be sold, offered for sale, or given away upon
any premises licensed for retail sale of the same during those hours and days
prohibited by state statute; more specifically, being each day between 2:00
a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-10) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.11 HOURS OF SALE.
   No license shall be granted for any premises which shall be on the same
street or avenue and within 600 feet of a building occupied exclusively as a
church, synagogue, or other place of worship, or school except a commercially
operated school. The measurements herein shall be taken in a straight line from
the center of the nearest entrance of such school, church, synagogue, or other
place of worship to the center of the nearest entrance of the premises to be
licensed.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-11) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12 STATE LIQUOR STORE.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or keep for sale, or have on
his or her premises for any purposes whatever, any liquor except that purchased
from the state liquor store, and any licensee found in possession, or selling,
or keeping for sale.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-12) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.13 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Town Council may, upon its own motion, and shall upon a written,
verified complaint of any person, investigate the action and operation of any
licensee hereunder.
   (B)   The Town Council shall have the power to temporarily suspend or
permanently revoke a license issued under this chapter for violation of the
provisions herein.
   (C)   After suspension or revocation of the license, the Town Council shall
have the power to renew the same if in its discretion is deemed appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-13) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.14 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   Any person holding a license issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter may renew the license by paying the Town Clerk in advance, on or before
the date the license fee is due, however the Town Council may decline to renew
the license.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.15 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   Application for transfer shall be made in the same manner as the original
license application, and the transferee shall be responsible for paying the
applicable license fees.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-15)
§ 110.16 DISPOSITION OF REVENUES.
   All monies and revenues derived from the collection of the license fees
herein provided for shall be placed in the General Fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-16)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter for which a
penalty is not herein provided shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction shall be fined not less than $100 or more than $500, or
imprisoned for not more than six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-17)
   (B)   Any liquor which was not purchased from the state liquor store shall,
upon conviction, be fined not less that $100, not more than $300, or imprisoned
for not more than 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-12)
CHAPTER 111: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   Application
   
111.04   License fee and term
   
111.05   Twenty year license fee
   
111.06   Grant of authority
   
111.07   Construction and extension
   
111.08   Safety requirements
   
111.09   Conditions of street occupancy
   
111.10   Operational standards
   
111.11   Insurance and indemnification
   
111.12   License termination
   
111.13   Repairs; complaints
   
111.14   Compliance with laws; ordinances
   
111.15   Review rates
   
111.16   Violation
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM. A system composed of, without limitation, antenna,
cables, wires, lines, towers, wave guides, or any other conductors, converters,
equipment, or facilities designed, constructed, or wired for the purpose of
producing, receiving, amplifying, and distributing by coaxial cable audio and/
or visual radio, television electronic or electrical signals to and from
persons, subscribers, and locations in the license area.
   CATV. A cable television system as herein defined.
   EXPANDED CATV SERVICE. Any communications service in addition to basic CATV
service provided by the licensee either directly or as a carrier for their
subsidiaries, affiliates, or any other person engaged in communications
service, including, but not by way of limitation, to pay television, burglar
alarm service, data, or other electronic transmission services, facsimile
reproduction services, meter reading services, and home shopping services.
   LICENSEE. A grantee of rights under this chapter.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY OF LICENSEE. All property owned, installed, or used by a company or
companies in the conduct of a CATV business in the town.
   REGULAR CATV SERVICE. The distribution of broadcast television and radio
signals, and installation, disconnect, and reconnect of facilities required for
said distribution.
   STREET. The surface of, and the space above and below, any public street,
right-of-way, road, highway, freeway, bridge, lane, path, alley, court,
sidewalk, parkway, drive, communications, or utility easement, now or hereafter
established as such within the town’s jurisdictional area.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person or entity receiving regular CATV service.
   TOWN. The Town of Circle, Montana.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The governing body of the Town of Circle, Montana.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of operating a cable television
system within the town without first having obtained a license for such
purpose, nor shall any person carry on said business at any other place or
location other than as designated in the license, and under such regulations as
are hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for a license to engage in the business of operating a
cable television system will be made by the person, or his or her duly
designated agent, by filing such application with the Town Clerk.
   (B)   Such application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant, and should the applicant be
a corporation, the names and addresses of all officers and directors of said
corporation;
      (2)   An outline of the general construction and operating plans of the
applicant;
      (3)   A proposed schedule for the construction of the system and the
commencement of the service, or, if the system is already operational, a full
and complete description, including maps and plans of the system;
      (4)   A statement of the policy of the applicant concerning the extension
of the system within the license area; and
      (5)   Such information as may be required to determine the legal
character, financial, technical, and other qualifications of the applicant.
   (C)   Within 30 days following receipt of the application, the Town Clerk
shall submit said application to the Town Council; the Town Council shall, at a
regular or special meeting, adopt a resolution to either approve the
application as submitted, approve the application subject to modifications, or
deny said application.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3)
§ 111.04 LICENSE FEE AND TERM.
   (A)   The applicant shall pay the town, at the time of submitting an
application, and annually thereafter, for license renewals, a non-refundable
fee to be set by resolution of the Town Council.
   (B)   Each license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall expire
on December 31 of each year, which shall be renewable annually upon payment of
the required fees and maintaining the facility as required by law.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-4) (Ord. passed 9-11-2006)
§ 111.05 TWENTY YEAR LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Any licensee may make application for a 20-year, nonexclusive license
upon meeting the following three conditions:
      (1)   Compliance with all of the rules, regulations and requirements of
the Federal Communications Commission;
      (2)   Compliance with all remaining requirements in the sections of this
chapter; and
      (3)   PERFORMANCE meaning “completion and activation of a receiving and
transmitting cable television facility in the town”.
   (B)   The applicant shall pay the town a non-refundable annual license fee
of $100 for the 20-year license. With continued compliance, a licensee may
renew this license for an additional 20-year period.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-5)
§ 111.06 GRANT OF AUTHORITY.
   Upon approval of the application, the town may grant to the applicant the
right, privilege, and license to engage in the business of operating a CATV
system in the town for the purpose of providing regular CATV service and such
aspects of expanding CATV service, if any, as authorized.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-6)
§ 111.07 CONSTRUCTION AND EXTENSION.
   Any person receiving a license under the terms of this chapter shall
accomplish significant construction within a reasonable time after receiving
certification from the Federal Communications Commission, and shall thereafter
equitably and reasonably extend energized trunk cable to at least 90% of the
authorized service area each year. Extensions of any system within the license
area shall be made by the licensee in accord with the policy set forth in the
license grant.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-7)
§ 111.08 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The licensee shall at all times employ care, and shall install and
maintain in use commonly accepted methods and devices for preventing failures
and accidents which may cause damage, injuries, or nuisances.
   (B)   The licensee shall install and maintain its wires, cables, fixtures,
and other equipment in accordance with requirements of town ordinances, and
state codes and regulations, and in such manner that they will not interfere
with the water, sewer, electric, telephone, or other utilities serving the
town.
   (C)   All structures and lines, equipment and connections in, over, under,
and on the streets, sidewalks, alleys, and public ways or places of the town,
wherever situated or located, shall at all times be kept and maintained in a
safe, suitable, and substantial condition, and in a state of good order and
repair.
   (D)   The licensee shall maintain a staff at all times sufficient to provide
safe, adequate, and prompt service of its facilities.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-8)
§ 111.09 CONDITIONS OF STREET OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   All transmission and distribution structures, lines, and equipment
erected by the licensee within the town shall be so located as to cause no
interference with the use of the streets, alleys, and other public ways and
places, and to cause no interference with the rights and reasonable convenience
of property owners contiguous to any of the said streets, alleys, or other
public ways and places.
   (B)   In case of work in any street, sidewalk, alley, public way, grass, or
paved areas, or any other public or private property, the licensee shall, at
its own expense, and in a manner approved by the town, replace and restore the
property in as good a condition as before the work.
   (C)   The system shall be maintained so as not to interfere with existing
television or radio reception.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-9)
§ 111.10 OPERATIONAL STANDARDS.
   The licensee shall operate and maintain its cable television system in full
compliance with the standards set forth by the Federal Communications
Commission. The quality of service provided shall be consistent with normal
industry standards and technical state of the art.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-10)
§ 111.11 INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   Every licensee under the provisions of this chapter agrees to hold the
town harmless from all losses, claims, or demands for damages, or injuries to
persons or property arising out of the construction, maintenance, or operation
of his or her facility or system, and shall maintain on file with the Town
Clerk a certificate evidencing that he or she has in effect, and good standing,
insurance coverage by one or more responsible carriers authorized to do
business in the state, having minimum limits of $25,000 property damage and
$100,000 personal injury per person, which may be limited to $300,000 per
accident.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-11)
   (B)   The licensee shall at all times protect and hold harmless the town
from all claims, actions, suits, liability, loss, expense, damages of every
kind and description (herein collectively referred to as CLAIMS), including
investigation costs, court costs, and attorney’s fees, which may accrue to, or
be suffered or claimed by, any person or persons arising out of the ownership,
construction, repair, replacement, maintenance, and operation of the cable
television system. The town shall give the licensee prompt notice of any such
claim made against the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-12)
§ 111.12 LICENSE TERMINATION.
   Upon expiration of the license, if the licensee shall not have acquired an
extension or renewal thereof, the licensee may enter upon the streets and
public ways of the town for the purposes of removing therefrom any or all of
its property and equipment. In so removing said property and equipment, the
licensee shall backfill, at its own expense, any excavation occasioned thereby,
and shall leave said streets and public ways and places in as good a condition
as it was.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-13)
§ 111.13 REPAIRS; COMPLAINTS.
   The licensee shall maintain a business office and staff personnel in the
town which subscribers may contact during regular business hours for prompt
maintenance and service. Should any subscriber have a complaint regarding
quality of service, equipment, malfunction, or related matters, the subscriber
may lodge his or her complaint at the business office with personnel of the
licensee. The licensee shall notify each subscriber, at the time of the initial
subscription to the licensee’s service, of the procedures for reporting
complaints.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-14)
§ 111.14 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS; ORDINANCES.
   The licensee shall, at all times, be subject to all lawful exercise of
police power by the town. The licensee shall, at all times, comply with all the
rules, regulations, and requirements of the Federal Communications Commission.
Failure to do so may subject the license to revocation.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.15 REVIEW RATES.
   The town reserves the right to establish a procedure by which it shall
review the rates set by the licensee, and the licensee shall cooperate fully
with the Town Council in establishing a review procedure, and provide any
information required to support any proposed rate changes.
(Prior Code § 5-2-16)
§ 111.16 VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install, or maintain,
within the jurisdictional area of the town, any equipment or facilities for
distributing any television signals, radio signals, or expanded services
through a CATV system, unless a license therefor has been issued and is in good
standing.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
132.   OFFENSES CONCERNING MINORS
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
130.01   Assault and battery
   
130.02   Fighting
   
130.03   Disturbing the peace
   
130.04   False alarm; reports
   
130.05   Obstructing movements
   
130.06   Weapons
   
130.07   Interference with officers
   
130.08   Impersonating an officer
§ 130.01 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   To apply, to attempt to apply, or to threaten to apply an unlawful or
unpermitted physical force to the person of another in a rude and insolent
manner, or with the intent to do physical harm, with the apparent ability to
execute any attempt or threat is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 FIGHTING.
   Two or more persons, by agreement, engaging in any fight, or use blows or
violence towards each other in an angry or quarrelsome manner, in any public
place, to the disturbance of others is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   To excite, disturb, or aid in disturbing the peace of others or any lawful
assembly by violent, tumultuous, offensive, or obstreperous conduct is
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 FALSE ALARM; REPORTS.
   (A)   To make, turn in, or give false alarm of fire or of need for police or
ambulance assistance, or to interfere with the proper functioning of an alarm
system, or to aid or abet the commission of such an act is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-5)
   (B)   To maliciously make or file with the Police Department any false,
misleading or unfounded report or statement concerning the commission or
alleged commission of any crime is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 OBSTRUCTING MOVEMENTS.
   To hinder, annoy, or molest persons passing along any street, sidewalk,
crosswalk, or other public way, or other place of public assemblage in any
manner so as to unreasonably obstruct such public way or place is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.06 WEAPONS.
   (A)   Carrying of concealed weapons. Carrying or bearing concealed within
the town a dirk, dagger, pistol, revolver, slingshot, swordcane, billy, metal
knuckles, knife, having a blade four inches long or longer, razor, not
including a safety razor, or other weapons capable of producing death or bodily
harm is prohibited.
   (B)   Prohibited weapons. To manufacture, cause to be manufactured, possess,
display, offer to sell, lend, or purchase any metal knuckles, bludgeon, dirk,
dagger, or swordcane is prohibited.
   (C)   Exceptions for police officers. The provisions set forth above shall
not be construed to forbid law enforcement officers from carrying or wearing
weapons for the proper and necessary enforcement of the law, and a person with
a permit to carry a concealed weapon under MCA § 45-8-321.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.07 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   To resist, abuse, molest, hinder, obstruct, or refuse to obey, or assist,
when called upon to do so by any law enforcement officer, firefighter, judge,
or other officer of the town in the performance or discharge of his or her duty
is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.08 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   To impersonate a law enforcement officer, or other officer of the town, by
wearing a badge, star, uniform, or other insignia of office, or to hold himself
or herself out to be a law enforcement officer or other officer of the town,
without lawful authority to do so, is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
131.01   Keeping a house of prostitution
   
131.02   Indecent exposure
   
131.03   Obscene material
   
131.04   Abusive, obscene language
   
131.05   Window peeping
   
131.06   Exceptions
   
131.07   Definitions; public intoxication
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 KEEPING A HOUSE OF PROSTITUTION.
   To own, manage, supervise, reside in, or otherwise keep, alone or in
association with others, a house of prostitution, or to rent, let, or lease to
another a room, apartment, or tenement, knowing that the same is to be used for
prostitution; or use or occupy a room, apartment, or tenement for prostitution;
or be an inmate of, or any way connected with, or contribute to, the support of
a house of prostitution; or remain in or resort to a house of prostitution, or
keep or maintain a house of prostitution or a room, apartment, or tenement,
resorted to by men and/or women for prostitution is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-2) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   For a person who, for the purpose of arousing or gratifying sexual desire of
himself or herself, appears in a public place or upon a public street in a
state of nudity; exposes his or her genitals under circumstances in which he or
she knows his or her conduct is likely to cause affront or alarm, or makes an
open and indecent or obscene exposure of himself or herself is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-3) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 OBSCENE MATERIAL.
   To display, sell, offer for sale, give away, have in one’s possession with
intent to sell, loan, or give away, distribute, or otherwise disseminate any
obscene material is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-4) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory references:
   State law’s definition of “obscene” and “material”, see MCA § 45-8-201(2),
MCA § 45-8-205(2)
§ 131.04 ABUSIVE, OBSCENE LANGUAGE.
   To use or utter abusive or obscene language publicly to the disturbance of
the public peace and quiet is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-5) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory references:
   State law’s definition of “obscene”, see MCA § 45-8-201
§ 131.05 WINDOW PEEPING.
   For any person to enter upon any private property and look, peer, or peep
into, or be found loitering around or within the view of any window, door or
other means of viewing into any occupied building other than his or her own
household is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-6) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in §§
131.02 or
131.03 shall be construed to affect the publication or use of standard medical
books, or the practice of licensed practitioners, or medicine or druggists, in
his or her regular business, or the possession or use by artists of models in
the necessary line of his or her art.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-7)
§ 131.07 DEFINITIONS; PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. A compound produced and sold for human consumption as
a drink that contains more than 0.5% of alcohol by volume.
      BEER. An alcoholic beverage made by the fermentation of an infusion or
decoction, or a combination of both, in potable brewing water, of malted barley
with or without hops or their parts or their products, and with or without
other malted cereals, and with or without the addition of unmalted or prepared
cereals, other carbohydrates, or products prepared therefrom, and with or
without other wholesome products suitable for human food consumption,
containing not more than 7% of alcohol by weight.
      LIQUOR. An alcoholic beverage except beer and table wine.
      PUBLIC DISPLAY OR EXHIBITION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. Includes the
carrying or exhibiting of open cans or bottles of alcoholic beverages, or the
carrying or exhibiting of glasses or other types of containers, either empty or
containing alcoholic beverages, within a public place, and shall also include
the carrying, exhibiting, or transporting of such in, or on, vehicles, but does
not include carrying or transporting alcoholic beverages in sacks, cases,
boxes, cartons, or other similar containers that conceal the contents, provided
such alcoholic beverage has not been opened and seals have not been broken; it
further does not include the collection and transportation of empty containers
for salvage or refuse collection purposes in portions of vehicles not used for
passenger purposes.
      PUBLIC DRINKING. Includes the drinking or consuming of alcoholic
beverages in any public place as defined herein.
      PUBLIC PLACES. Includes all streets, avenues, alleys, parks, parking
lots, and sidewalks, and does not including the inside of any building, within
the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-1)
   (B)   Public drinking and public display or exhibition of alcoholic
beverages, as defined herein, are hereby prohibited, and it shall be unlawful
and a misdemeanor for any person to engage in public drinking and to engage in
any public display or exhibition of alcoholic beverages within the town limits,
except in or on those establishments having a license to dispense alcoholic
beverages.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-2) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, fined not exceeding $500, or by
imprisonment not exceeding six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-3)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES CONCERNING MINORS
Section
   
132.01   Definition
   
132.02   Unlawful assistance
   
132.03   Violations by minors
   
132.04   Failure of parental responsibility
   
132.05   Violations
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MINOR. Both males and females under 18 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-1)
§ 132.02 UNLAWFUL ASSISTANCE.
   It is unlawful to assist a minor, or anyone under the age of 21 years, to
buy, procure, obtain, or be served any alcoholic beverages, or to induce any
person to sell, serve, or deliver any alcoholic beverage to a minor or anyone
under the age of 21, or by the concealment of any facts which are calculated to
cause the person selling, serving, or delivering such alcoholic beverages to
sell to a minor, or anyone under the age of 21, or to any person for ultimate
delivery to a minor, or anyone under the age of 21.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-2) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 VIOLATIONS BY MINORS.
   Commission of any of the following acts in this section by any minor or
anyone under the age of 18 will constitute a violation of this chapter:
   (A)   Curfew. For a minor to loiter, idle, wander, stroll, operate a motor
vehicle, or play in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks,
playgrounds, or other public grounds, public places, and public buildings,
places of amusement and entertainment, vacant lots, or other unsupervised
places, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the following day, on
Sundays through Thursdays, inclusive, and between the hours of 12:01 a.m. and
5:00 a.m. on Fridays and Saturdays; provided, however, that the provisions of
this section do not apply to a minor accompanied by his or her parent,
guardian, or other adult person having the care and custody of the minor, or
when the minor is upon an emergency errand or legitimate business directed by
his or her parent, guardian, or other adult person having the care and custody
of the minor. The town siren will resound at 10:00 p.m. each Sunday through
Thursday, and at 12:01 a.m. on Friday and Saturday, to announce curfew times.
   (B)   False statement of identification. To make false statements or to
furnish, present, or exhibit any fictitious or false registration card,
identification card, or other instrument, or to furnish, present, or exhibit
any document issued to another person for the purpose of gaining admission to
prohibited places, or for the purpose of procuring the sale, gift, or delivery
of prohibited articles including, but not limited to, alcoholic beverages, is
prohibited.
   (C)   Procuring unlawful services. For a minor, or anyone under the age of
21 years, to engage or authorize the services of any other person to procure
for such minor, or anyone under the age of 21 years, any article which the
minor, or person under the age of 21 years, is prohibited by law to purchase.
   (D)   Visiting a bar, tavern, and the like. For a minor, or anyone under the
age of 21 years, to enter or visit any bar, tavern, or other establishment
where beer or liquor is sold for on-premises consumption, or to loiter or
remain at such establishment, unless such minor, or person under the age of 21
years, is accompanied by a parent or legal guardian, provided, however, that
the provisions of this section shall not apply to hotels, hotel dining rooms,
or restaurants, nor to lunch counters or booths where liquor or beer is served.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-3) (Ord. passed 10-20-2003) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 FAILURE OF PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   It is unlawful for any parent, guardian, or other adult person having the
care and custody of a minor to knowingly permit such minor to violate the
provisions of §
132.03, or interfere with a sentence or court order by purposely or knowingly
causing a minor to fail to comply with a sentence imposed under this section,
or a youth court disposition order for a youth found to have violated this
section or any section under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-4) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.05 VIOLATIONS.
   Any minor violating any provisions of this chapter shall be dealt with in
accordance with Juvenile Court law or other applicable law and procedure. Any
minor violating any provisions of this chapter who fails to comply with a
sentence must be transferred to the Juvenile Court.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-5) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any parent, guardian, or other adult person having the care and
custody of a minor violating any provisions of this chapter, for which another
penalty has not been provided, shall, upon conviction, be penalized as set
forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person under the age of 21 years, or other person, violating any
of the provisions of this chapter, for which another penalty has not been
provided, shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
penalized as set forth in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-5) (Ord. 10-13-87(1), passed - -)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
133.01   Destroying, injuring, removing, tampering, defacing property
   
133.02   Library property
   
133.03   Scattering trash, rubbish
   
133.04   Advertising material
   
133.05   Defacing, destroying proclamations or notices
   
133.06   Removal of earth
   
133.07   Petty larceny; shoplifting
   
133.08   Receiving stolen property
§ 133.01 DESTROYING, INJURING, REMOVING, TAMPERING, DEFACING PROPERTY.
   To willfully, maliciously, or wantonly destroy, injure, remove, tamper with,
or deface real property, or improvements thereto, or personal property, either
public or private, is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.02 LIBRARY PROPERTY.
   To carry away without authority, misuse, cut, write upon, injure, deface,
tear, or destroy, in whole or in part, any book, periodical, map, chart,
picture, newspaper, or any other property devoted to public library use is
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.03 SCATTERING TRASH, RUBBISH.
   To throw, or permit to be deposited or scattered, upon a sidewalk, alley,
street, or public property, or upon the private property of another, rubbish,
waste, trash, or other disposed material of any kind, is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.04 ADVERTISING MATERIAL.
   To distribute, place, or post in or upon public property any show card,
poster, brochure, circular, handbill, dodger, or other advertising matter, or
to distribute, place, or post in or upon private property, including utility
poles, any such matter without the express consent of the owner is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.05 DEFACING, DESTROYING PROCLAMATIONS OR NOTICES.
   To intentionally deface, obliterate, tear down, or destroy, in whole or in
part, any transcript or extract from or of any law of the United States or of
the state, or any proclamation, advertisement, or notification set upon any
place within the town by authority of law or by order of any court, during the
time for which the same is to remain posted, is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.06 REMOVAL OF EARTH.
   For any unauthorized person to move, distribute, or take away earth, stone,
pavement, or other material from a public street, alley, park, or public ground
is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.07 PETTY LARCENY; SHOPLIFTING.
   (A)   Petty larceny. To steal, take, carry, lead, drive, or entice away the
goods or personal property of another, under the value of $300, with the intent
to deprive the owner of the possession thereof, is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-8)
   (B)   Shoplifting. To willfully take possession of, or conceal, merchandise
offered for sale with the intention of converting the same to one’s own use,
without paying for it, or to willfully alter any label, price tag, or marking
upon merchandise, or transfer merchandise from one container to another with
the intention of depriving the merchant of all or part of the value of the
merchandise, is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.08 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   To buy, procure, receive, or conceal anything of value, knowing the same to
have been stolen, converted, embezzled, or acquired by fraud, is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
153.   FLOODPLAIN
      
154.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Zoning Commission created
   
150.02   Intent; land use
   
150.03   Authority
   
150.04   Land use variance procedure
   
150.05   Land use variance requirements
§ 150.01 ZONING COMMISSION CREATED.
   There is hereby established a Zoning Commission, consisting of five members,
to be appointed by the Town Council. The purpose of said Commission shall be to
zone all the real property within the limits of the town not heretofore zoned,
and also to make any changes or amendments in the zoning of any property
heretofore zoned and being within the corporate limits of the town, as deemed
necessary and in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-1)
§ 150.02 INTENT; LAND USE.
   Land use variances, for uses other than those specifically permitted in each
district, are intended, in appropriate cases, and subject to appropriate
conditions and safeguards, to be special exception to the terms of this chapter
when granted in harmony with its general purposes and intent, and where
intended to avoid undue hardship when strict and literal enforcement of this
chapter is inappropriate.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-1)
§ 150.03 AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to MCA § 76-2-321(2), the Town Council hereby reserves to itself
the power to make exceptions to the zoning regulations, zoning ordinances, or
land use plans of the town. The Town Council reserves to itself all powers to
grant variances or make zoning exceptions as aforesaid, not expressly granted
to the Board of Adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-2)
§ 150.04 LAND USE VARIANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   After an appropriate application has been filed with the agency or
department responsible for performing the town’s planning function, and any
required filing fee has been paid, the Board of Adjustment shall make such an
investigation of the facts, bearing upon the application to provide information
necessary to assure that the action on the application is consistent with the
intent and purpose of this chapter and the provisions of this chapter. The
Board of Adjustment shall hold a public hearing on the application to gather
facts and information from all interested parties. At least 15 days’ notice of
the time and place of the hearing shall be published in an official newspaper,
or a newspaper of general circulation, in the town. The Board of Adjustment may
continue the hearing if necessary to obtain additional facts and information.
If the hearing is continued, a second legal notice is not required if the time,
date, and location of the continued hearing are announced at the hearing, and
placed in the official record of the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall send the Town Council its recommendation
on the application, together with any and all pertinent facts in regard to the
application and its recommendation. The applicant shall be given a true and
exact copy of the Board of Adjustment’s recommendation at least three days
prior to the Town Council’s hearing on the application.
   (C)   The Town Council shall hold a public hearing on the application, at
which time the Board of Adjustment’s recommendation shall be read, and
additional testimony may be taken from interested parties. The Town Council
may, by resolution, approve, deny, or change the recommendation of the Board of
Adjustment, and shall approve, disapprove, conditionally approve, deny, or
conditionally deny the requested land use variance. The resolution shall
contain the statement of findings required by §
150.05.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-3)
§ 150.05 LAND USE VARIANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall not recommend the granting of any land
use variance, and no land use variance shall be granted by the Town Council
except upon the basis of a written statement of findings, warranted by the
facts, circumstances, and evidence of record, that:
      (1)   The strict enforcement of this chapter is inappropriate and would
cause undue hardship to the applicant; or
      (2)   The proposed use is in harmony with the general purposes and intent
of this chapter.
   (B)   The use will not adversely affect nearby properties of their occupants
by:
      (1)   Measurably and substantially reducing the value or marketability of
such properties;
      (2)   Substantially increasing traffic, noise, glare, or odor on, or
adjacent to, such properties;
      (3)   Substantially reducing or impairing the full enjoyment of such
properties for the uses or purposes to which the same are presently put;
      (4)   Causing or increasing the likelihood of danger or peril from crime,
fire, or other hazard to the public health, safety, or welfare; or
      (5)   Causing any other quantifiable or demonstrable impact of
substantial magnitude.
   (C)   The proposed use will meet the overall density, coverage, yard,
height, and other regulations of the district in which it is to be located, and
the appropriate variance and/or conditional use permit will be obtained in
regard to the same.
   (D)   Public hearings have been held by the Board of Adjustment and the Town
Council, after the required legal notices have been given, and the public has
been given an opportunity to be heard upon the matter.
   (E)   Furthermore, a variance may be granted only where, because of physical
conditions peculiar to the property, such a strict and literal application
imposes an undue hardship by making the use or development of the property, for
permitted uses or in a required or restricted manner, extremely difficult or
impossible. Disadvantage in property value or in income, or potential profit,
or economic hardship, or financial disadvantage, rendering a property
practically valueless, does not justify granting of a variance. No variance
shall be granted where the hardship is self-created, self-inflicted, or results
from the actions of the owner, or where the property was purchased with actual
or constructive knowledge of restrictions and/or hardship imposed by the
chapter. Such factors shall be described in the Town Council statement of
findings, warranted by the facts, circumstances, and evidence of record.
   (F)   If the same appear appropriate, the Board of Adjustment may recommend,
and the Town Council may impose such requirements as they deem necessary to
protect the surrounding neighborhood from the effects of the granted variance.
In such case, the applicant may be required to assure the town of compliance
with any conditions set forth in said variance. This assurance may be, at the
town’s discretion, in the form of a cashier’s check, a performance bond,
acceptable letter of credit, or cash placed in an escrow account in the amount
of the estimated value of all physical improvements, required or imposed as
conditions for said variance, plus 10%. The value shall be determined by
agreement between the Town Council and the applicant, or its representative if
it is a corporation. Furthermore, the Town Council shall set forth the time or
times by which the conditions are to be met. The applicant shall forfeit the
security in the event the conditions are not met by the required deadlines. The
applicant shall be advised 20 days before the expiration of the time in which
the conditions are to be met.
   (G)   The recommendations of the Board of Adjustment, and the decision of
the Town Council, shall, in each case, be subject to the provisions of MCA §
76-2-305.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-4)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Building Code adopted
   
151.02   Permit required
   
151.03   Plans and specifications
   
151.04   Construction permit fees
   
151.05   Plumbing Code
   
151.06   Electric Code
   
151.07   Fire Code
House Numbering
   
151.20   Purpose
   
151.21   Authority
   
151.22   Administration
   
151.23   Property numbering and street naming map
   
151.24   Street naming system
   
151.25   Property numbering
   
151.26   Compliance
   
151.27   New construction; subdivision
   
151.28   Effective date
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The Uniform Building Code of the International Conference of Building
Officials is hereby adopted by reference as the Building Code of the town, and
made a part hereof as fully as though set out in length herein, together with
all subsequent revisions, additions, and amendments thereto, and of which two
copies shall be and remain on file with the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-1)
§ 151.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Private dwellings.
      (1)   No person shall erect or construct, or proceed with the erection or
construction, of any private dwellings, single-family units up to, and
including, four plexes, garages, small buildings, and the like; not add to,
enlarge, move, convert, extend, or demolish any of the aforementioned buildings
or structures and including trailer houses or mobile homes, or cause the same
to be done, without first obtaining an electrical permit and plumbing permit
from the Department of Commerce, except when demolishing a building or
structure, and then a construction permit to be applied for, in writing, from
the Town Council.
      (2)   Any person desiring a construction permit as required by this
section shall file with the Site Inspector an application therefor, in writing,
on a blank form to be furnished by the Town Clerk. The application must contain
and/or have attached the following:
         (a)   A description of the land upon which the proposed building or
work is to be done, either by lot and block, tract, or similar description that
will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or work;
         (b)   A description of the use or occupancy of all parts of the
building, and other information as required by the Site Inspector;
         (c)   Copies of plans and specifications, and a lot plan showing the
location of the proposed building and of every existing building on the
property, shall accompany every application, and shall be filed in duplicate
with the Site Inspector;
         (d)   Plans shall be drawn to scale upon paper or cloth, and the
essential parts to a scale of no less than one-eighth inch to one foot;
         (e)   Plans shall be clear and indicating the nature and character of
the work proposed and local ordinances complied with;
         (f)   Any specifications in which general expressions are used to the
effect that “work shall be done in accordance with the Building Code”, or “to
the satisfaction of the Site Inspector” shall be deemed incomplete, and every
reference to this section shall be to the division applicable to the material
to be used, or to the method of construction proposed; and
         (g)   All plans shall bear the name of the architect, structural
engineer, or person responsible.
   (B)   Public and commercial buildings.
      (1)   No person shall erect or construct, or proceed with the erection or
construction, of a public or commercial building without first obtaining a
building permit, and any necessary electrical and plumbing permits from the
Department of Commerce, Building Codes Bureau. The forms should be completed
and submitted, along with the required fees to the Building Codes Bureau for
the state’s review and the issuance of permits.
      (2)   A person must apply to the Town Clerk for a construction permit to
construct a public or commercial building in the same manner as required for
private dwellings in divisions (A)(2)(a) through (A)(2)(g) above. An
application for a public or commercial building must also have attached the
Building Codes Bureau approval. The Site Inspector would again verify from the
application the location of the building on the property and compliance with
local ordinances. Building permit forms for the Building Codes Bureau are
available through the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.03 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The application filed by an applicant for a construction permit shall
be checked by the Site Inspector. Such plans may be reviewed by the Chief of
the Fire Department with respect to the storage of volatile and flammable
liquids. When such applications are found to be in conformity with the
requirements of this subchapter, and all other laws of the state Building Codes
Bureau or Town Code provisions applicable thereto, the Site Inspector shall
issue a permit for the specific construction upon receipt of the required
permit fee.
   (B)   When the Site Inspector approves the construction permit, he or she
shall endorse in writing, or stamp on the applications “Approved”. The
application for the permit shall be returned to the Town Clerk for approval by
the Town Council.
   (C)   The approved application shall be retained by the Site Inspector as a
public record for a period of not less than 90 days from date of completion of
the work covered therein. This application shall not be changed, modified, or
altered without authorization from the Town Council, and all work shall be done
in accordance with the approved plans.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-2)
§ 151.04 CONSTRUCTION PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring a construction permit under
the provisions of this subchapter shall, upon the application for such permit,
pay the Town Clerk a fee set by resolution for each permit. No permit shall be
issued unless the applicant therefor shall pay the Town Clerk the fee provided
herein. In addition, the Town Clerk would collect any required deposits for
water, sewer, and the like, and assign an address and indicate the flood zone
designation on the permit.
   (B)   Where work for which a permit is required by this subchapter is
started or proceeded prior to obtaining said permit, the fee shall be doubled,
but the payment of and double fee shall not relieve any person from complying
with the requirements of this subchapter in the execution of the work, nor from
other penalties prescribed herein.
   (C)   A permit fee shall not be required when moving, altering, or building
onto a trailer house or mobile home located in a licensed trailer court.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.05 PLUMBING CODE.
   In order to protect the public health and safety of the town through the
establishment of minimum standards of design, materials, and workmanship for
all plumbing hereafter installed, altered, or repaired, and of methods of
procedure within the town limits, the Uniform Plumbing Code of the
International Conference of Building Officials, and as amended by the
supplement published by the state, is hereby adopted by reference as the
Plumbing Code of the town, and made a part hereof as fully as if set out in
length herein, and from the date on which this section shall take effect, the
provisions thereof shall be controlling in the installation, alteration, or
repairing of plumbing within the town, together with all subsequent revisions,
additions, and amendments thereto, and of which two copies shall be and remain
on file with the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 14-2-1)
§ 151.06 ELECTRIC CODE.
   (A)   All electrical wiring, installation, or electrical fixtures,
apparatus, or electrical appliances for furnishing light, heat, or power, or
other electrical work or practice introduced in, or placed in or upon, or in
anyway connected on, any building or structure within the limits of the town
shall be in conformity with the provisions set forth in the National Electrical
Code, as adopted by the National Fire Protection Association, and the same is
hereby adopted by reference as the Electrical Code of the town, and made a part
hereof as fully as if set out at length herein, together with all subsequent
revisions, additions, and amendments thereto, and of which two copies shall be
and remain on file with the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 14-3-1)
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to relieve from, or lessen, the
responsibility of any person owning, operating, or installing any electrical
wires, appliances, apparatus, construction, or equipment for damages to anyone
injured or damaged, either in person or property by any defect therein; nor
shall the town or any agent thereof be held as assuming such liability by
reason of inspection authorized herein or certificate of inspection issued by
the town.
(Prior Code, § 14-3-2)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or cause to be
operated, any machine, device, apparatus, or instrument within the town limits
which shall cause electrical interference with radio or television reception
provided, however, that the operation of x-ray machines or any device,
apparatus, or instrument for the purpose of making x-ray pictures, or to assist
in making physical examinations, or in the treatment of the sick or injured,
shall not be included within this restriction.
(Prior Code, § 14-3-3)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.07 FIRE CODE.
   For the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to
life and property from fire or explosion, the Uniform Fire Code, recommended by
the Western Fire Chiefs Association and the International Conference of
Building Officials, is hereby adopted by reference as the Fire Code of the
town, and made a part hereof as fully as if set out in length herein, together
with all subsequent revisions, additions, and amendments thereto, and of which
two copies shall be and remain on file with the Town Clerk, and from the
effective date of this section, the provisions thereof shall be controlling
within the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 14-4-1)
HOUSE NUMBERING
§ 151.20 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to enhance the easy and rapid
location of properties by law enforcement, fire, rescue, and emergency medical
services personnel in the town. This subchapter will promote the public health,
safety, and welfare by:
      (1)   Providing a consistent but flexible addressing system for the town;
      (2)   Enabling emergency services a means to locate residences,
businesses, and other structures;
      (3)   Providing a permanent location-type address for residences,
businesses, and other buildings;
      (4)   Establishing a manner and form of providing new addresses to new
residences, businesses, and other buildings;
      (5)   Posting designated building numbers; and
      (6)   Providing for the orderly development of the town.
   (B)   (1)   This subchapter shall govern the land within the jurisdictional
area of the town and the adjacent fringe areas, located adjacent to the town
within the county, as depicted on the official property numbering and street
naming map.
      (2)   This subchapter shall replace previous addressing systems and
ordinances for the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-1)
§ 151.21 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to, and consistent with §
10.13 of the town code.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-2)
§ 151.22 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be administrated by the town, who is authorized
to and shall assign street names and numbers to all properties, both existing
and proposed streets, in accordance with the criteria in adopted address
standards.
   (B)   The town shall also be responsible for maintaining the following
records of this subchapter:
      (1)   A town map for official use showing street names and numbers;
      (2)   An alphabetical list of all property owners as identified by
current assessment records, by last name, showing the assigned numbers; and
      (3)   An alphabetical list of all roads with property owners, listed in
order of their assigned numbers.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-3)
§ 151.23 PROPERTY NUMBERING AND STREET NAMING MAP.
    The property numbering and street naming map shall be officially adopted
with this subchapter. All property numbers shall be assigned in accordance with
this numbering map. No other property numbers shall be used or displayed in the
town, except numbers assigned in accordance with the official numbering map.
The property numbering and street map shall be kept on file in the office of
the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-4)
§ 151.24 STREET NAMING SYSTEM.
   (A)   Roads predominantly running east-west or northwest-southeast are known
as streets, and shall be in numerical order starting at First Street. Streets
predominantly running north-south or northeast-southwest are known as avenues,
and shall be in alphabetical order going west, starting at the Burlington
Northern Railway. The streets east of the railway will retain their platted
names. Some streets and avenues have been extended to name previously unnamed
roadways.
   (B)   No streets and avenues should have a duplicate name or similar
sounding names.
   (C)   A continuous street or avenue should bear the same name throughout its
entire length. No separate name is to be used for a cul-de-sac that provides
street frontage for three or less lots or units.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-5)
§ 151.25 PROPERTY NUMBERING.
   (A)   Numbers shall be assigned in relation to consecutive block numbers.
Numbers shall be assigned every 50 feet, or 25 feet in the business district,
whether improved lot or vacant lot. Odd and even property number designation
shall follow the addressed county roads, when possible, with even numbers on
the east and north sides, and odd numbers on the west and south sides of the
streets and avenues.
   (B)   All number origins shall begin from the designated origin of First
Street and A Avenue.
   (C)   The number assigned to each structure shall be that of the numbered
interval falling closest to the front door. If the front door is not
accessible, the number shall be that of the interval falling closest to the
driveway of said structure.
   (D)   Every structure with more than one principle use or occupancy shall
have a separate number for each use or occupancy. For example, duplexes will
have two separate numbers; apartments will have one road number with an
apartment number, such as 1106 F Avenue Apt. 1; trailer courts will have one
number with a trailer number, such as 206 B Avenue #5.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-6)
§ 151.26 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   All owners of structures shall, by the date stipulated in §
151.28, display and maintain, in a conspicuous place on said structure, the
assigned numbers in the following manner.
      (1)   Number on the structure or residence. Where the residence or
structure is within 50 feet of the edge of the road right-of-way, the assigned
number shall be displayed on the front of the residence or structure near the
front door or entry.
      (2)   Number at the street line. Where the residence or structure is over
50 feet from the edge of the road right-of-way, the signed number shall be
displayed on a post, fence, wall, or on some structure at the property line
next to the walk or access drive to the residence or structure.
      (3)   Size and color of number. Numbers shall be displayed in a
contrasting color to the structure color, and a large enough size to be
readable from the street or access driveway. The address numbers shall be
located in a way to be visible from the road.
      (4)   Interior location. All residents and other occupants are requested
to post assigned number and street names next to his or her telephone for
emergency reference.
   (B)   Every person whose duty is to display the assigned number shall remove
any different number that might be mistaken for, or confused with, the number
assigned in conformance with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-7)
§ 151.27 NEW CONSTRUCTION; SUBDIVISION.
   All new construction and subdivisions shall be named and numbered in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter and as follows.
   (A)   New construction. Whenever any residence or other structure is
constructed or developed, it shall be the duty of the new owner to obtain an
assigned number from the town. This shall be done at the time of the issuance
of the building permit.
   (B)   New subdivisions. Any prospective subdivider shall show a proposed
road name and lot numbering system on the pre-application submission to the
county Planning Board. Approval by the county Planning Board, after
consultation with the town, shall constitute the assignment of street names and
numbers to the lots in the subdivision. On the final plan showing proposed
roads, the applicant shall mark on the plan lines or dots in the center of the
streets every 50 feet to aid in assignment of numbers to structures
subsequently constructed.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-8)
§ 151.28 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective as of April 10, 1999. It shall be the
duty of the town to notify by mail each property owner and the post office of a
new address at least 30 days before the effective date of its use. It shall be
the duty of each property owner to comply with this subchapter, including the
posting of new property numbers, within 30 days following notification. On new
structures, numbering will be installed before final inspection, or when the
structure is first used or occupied, whichever comes first.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-9)
CHAPTER 152: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Maintenance
   
152.002   Obstructions
   
152.003   Openings
   
152.004   Private use
   
152.005   Temporarily closed streets
Sidewalk Construction and Repair
   
152.015   Requirements
   
152.016   Width and depth; curbing
   
152.017   New construction
   
152.018   Variance
   
152.019   Failure to comply
   
152.020   Permit required; driveways and curbs
   
152.021   Contents of application, deposit; driveways and curbs
Excavations
   
152.035   Permit required
   
152.036   Deposit by applicants
   
152.037   Sidewalk excavation
   
152.038   Warning lights; barricades
   
152.039   Damage to existing improvements
   
152.040   Restoration of surface
   
152.041   Emergency work
Encroachments
   
152.055   Purpose
   
152.056   Definitions
   
152.057   Public right-of-way
   
152.058   Projection and clearance
Vacating Streets and Alleys
   
152.070   Council authorized
   
152.071   Petition requirements
   
152.072   Notice
   
152.073   Utility rights
   
152.074   Assessment of costs
   
152.075   Closing of block 10
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 MAINTENANCE.
   It shall be the duty of all owners of property in the town upon which
sidewalks have been laid, to keep his or her sidewalks in good repair, and to
remove snow and ice within 12 hours from the time snow and ice ceases to fall,
or sooner if ordered by the law enforcement, Town Services Superintendent, or
the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-1) (Ord. passed 5-14-2007)
§ 152.002 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, create, or maintain any
obstruction on any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way, except as may
be provided in this subchapter or in the codes and laws of the town.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-2) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.003 OPENINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain any opening or
stairway in any public street, sidewalk, or alley without first applying with
the Town Clerk for a permit. The application shall state the purpose for which
the street is to be cut through or broken open, the proposed area of such an
opening, and the exact location of the opening. The application shall be
examined and approved by the Town Services Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-3) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.004 PRIVATE USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to use any street
or other public place as space for the display of goods or merchandise for
sale, or to write or make any sign or advertisement on any such pavement.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-4) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.005 TEMPORARILY CLOSED STREETS.
   Whenever the Town Council shall temporarily close any street or alley, or
any portion thereof, for construction or repair, it shall be unlawful for any
person other than the contractor or town employees to ride or drive any animal,
or operate any vehicle, on the closed portion of the street or alley. It shall
also be illegal to interfere with, take down, or remove any of the lights,
barricades, guards, or barriers surrounding the closed portion of the street or
alley.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-5) Penalty, see §
152.999
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR.
§ 152.015 REQUIREMENTS.
   No person, corporation, or other association of any kind within the town
limits shall construct, repair, or alter any sidewalk, except as provided for
in the following sections of this subchapter, and the sidewalk complies with
the Americans with Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. § 12101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-1) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.016 WIDTH AND DEPTH; CURBING.
   (A)   All sidewalks constructed, repaired, or altered shall be built along
the owner’s property line. In residential areas, all sidewalks shall be of a
width of four feet and a depth of at least four inches of concrete. In the
business district, all sidewalks shall be of a width of ten feet and have a
depth of at least six inches of concrete. All sidewalks within the corporate
limits shall be built at the established grade levels. Newly constructed will
conform to the sidewalk on the adjoining property, providing that the existing
sidewalks are in good condition.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-2)
   (B)    All curbing shall be built ten feet from the owner’s property line,
and all curb cocks shall be installed at a distance of nine feet from the
owner’s property line.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-3)
§ 152.017 NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   Any person planning to construct any new sidewalks within the territorial
limits of the town shall advise the Town Services Superintendent of such plans.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-4)
§ 152.018 VARIANCE.
   The Town Services Superintendent shall have the right to investigate and
allow or disallow variances from the aforementioned requirements from §
152.015 for reasons he or she, with the advice and consent of the Mayor, may
determine to be in the best interests of the town.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-5)
§ 152.019 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
    If any property owner fails to comply with the provisions of this
subchapter, upon receiving 30 days’ notice of such failure, with instructions
to correct the same, the Town Services Superintendent, with the advice and
consent of the Mayor, will contract for the proper construction and/or repair
of such sidewalks or curbing, and the cost of such construction or repair shall
constitute a lien upon the property until paid.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-6) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.020 PERMIT REQUIRED; DRIVEWAYS AND CURBS.
   No person shall begin to construct, reconstruct, repair, alter, or grade any
driveway, curb, or curbcut on the public streets without first obtaining a
permit from the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 12-5-1) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.021 CONTENTS OF APPLICATION, DEPOSIT; DRIVEWAYS AND CURBS.
   (A)   (1)   The application for a permit shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   The dimensions of the work to be done;
         (c)   The location of the work to be done, and the name of the person
or firm who is to do such work;
         (d)   The estimated cost of the work; and
         (e)   The date of commencement and date of completion of the proposed
work, and other dates and plans as may be required by the Town Clerk or the
Town Services Superintendent.
      (2)   The Superintendent of the Street, Sewer, and Water Department must
approve all applications before a permit may be issued.
(Prior Code, § 12-5-2)
   (B)   Any applicant for a driveway permit must post with the Town Clerk a
deposit, as set by resolution, payable to the town, to protect the town from
any liability which may arise as a result of the work to be done. The
Superintendent must inspect and approve all work performed on property before
the deposit is refunded.
(Prior Code, § 12-5-3) (Ord. passed 5-14-2007)
EXCAVATIONS
§ 152.035 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dig up, break, excavate,
tunnel, undermine, or in any manner breakup any street, or make or cause to be
made any excavation in or under the surface of any street for any purpose, or
to place, deposit, or leave upon any street any earth or other evacuated
material obstructing or tending to interfere with the free use of the street,
unless such person shall first obtain an excavation permit from the Town Clerk.
   (B)   The application for an excavation permit shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The purpose of the excavation;
      (3)   The location of the work to be done, and the name of the person or
firm who is to do such work;
      (4)   The estimated cost of the proposed work; and
      (5)   The date of commencement and date of completion of the proposed
work, and other dates and plans as may be required by the Town Clerk or the
Town Services Superintendent.
   (C)   The Town Services Superintendent must approve all application before a
permit may be issued.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-1) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.036 DEPOSIT BY APPLICANTS.
   Any applicant for permission to open any street within the town must post
with the Town Clerk a non-refundable fee, set by resolution, payable to the
town for each opening of a paved street or alley, and a fee set by resolution
for any unpaved street or alley. The non-refundable fee shall be for any
liability of any kind or character whatsoever, which may arise as a result of
the applicant’s opening any street, or which may, in any way or manner, be
connected with or related to the excavation.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-2) (Ord. passed 5-14-2007)
§ 152.037 SIDEWALK EXCAVATION.
   Any excavation made in or under any sidewalk shall be provided with a
substance and adequate foot-bridge over the excavation on the line of the
sidewalk. The bridge shall be at least three feet wide and securely railed on
each side so that pedestrians can pass over safely at all times.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-3) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.038 WARNING LIGHTS; BARRICADES.
   Any person making an opening in any street, highway, alley, sidewalk, or
public ground in the town shall protect such opening by means of proper
barricades and lights, and maintain the same during the period of the
construction work, and any opening found not to be properly protected shall
immediately be closed by the town.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-4) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.039 DAMAGE TO EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS.
   All damage done to existing improvements during the progress of the
excavation work shall be repaired by the permittee. Materials for such repair
shall conform to the requirements of any applicable code provision or
ordinance. If, upon being ordered, the permittee fails to furnish the necessary
labor and materials for such repairs, the Town Services Superintendent shall
have the authority to cause the necessary labor and materials to be furnished
by the town, and to charge the cost against the permittee, and the permittee
shall also be liable on its bond therefor.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-5) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.040 RESTORATION OF SURFACE.
   (A)   The permittee shall restore the surface of all streets broken into or
damaged, as a result of the excavation work, to their original condition in
accordance with the specifications of the Town Services Superintendent. The
permittee may be required to place a temporary surface over openings made in
paved traffic lanes, and shall be required to exercise special care in making
and maintaining such temporary restorations to assure safe traveling conditions
until such time as permanent restorations are made. The permittee shall be held
responsible for any incomplete or defective work discovered within 24 months
from the completion of the excavation work.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-6)
   (B)   If the permittee shall have failed to restore the surface of the
street to its original and proper condition upon the expiration of the time
fixed by the permit, or shall otherwise have failed to complete the excavation
work covered by such a permit, the Street, Sewer, and Water Department shall
have the right to do all work necessary to restore the street and to complete
the excavation work. The permittee shall be liable for the actual cost thereof
and 25% of such cost in addition, for general overhead and administrative
expenses.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-7) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.041 EMERGENCY WORK.
   In the event of any emergency in which a sewer main, conduit, or utility in
or under any street breaks, bursts, or otherwise is in such condition as to
immediately endanger the property, life, health, or safety of any individual,
the person owning or controlling the sewer main, conduit, or utility, without
first applying for and obtaining an excavation permit, shall immediately take
emergency measures to correct the dangerous conditions. The person owning or
controlling the facility shall apply for an excavation permit not later than
the end of the next day during which the Town Clerk’s office is open, and shall
not proceed with permanent repairs without first obtaining an excavation
permit.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-8) Penalty, see §
152.999
ENCROACHMENTS
§ 152.055 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide minimum standards to safeguard
life, health, property, and public welfare by regulating and controlling
encroachments and private use of public rights-of-way within the corporate
limits of the town. The subchapter is intended to ensure full compliance by
this incorporated town with all applicable federal, state, and local laws in
the interest of public safety and the free and safe flow of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-2)
§ 152.056 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURB LINE. The line at the face of the curb nearest to the street or
roadway. In the absence of a curb, the CURB LINE shall be established by the
town officials.
   ENCROACHMENTS. All private devices placed upon the public right-of-way,
including devices which overhang or underlie the right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-3)
§ 152.057 PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   No private signs, eaves, marques, or similar devices will be allowed to
encroach on the public rights- of-way within the incorporated limits of the
town. No gainful private or commercial use of public right-of-way will be
allowed, for example, non-emergency servicing of vehicles, parking, or placing
of portable advertising devices on the public right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-4) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.058 PROJECTION AND CLEARANCE.
   The outermost portion of an overhanging device must be at least five feet
behind the curb line, and the lowest portion of an overhanging device must be
at least ten feet above the top of the curb line, sidewalk, or roadway shoulder
elevation, as the case may be.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-5) Penalty, see §
152.999
VACATING STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 152.070 COUNCIL AUTHORIZED.
   The Town Council shall have the authority to order the discontinuance or
vacation of streets and alleys within the corporate limits of the town, if it
can be done without detriment to the public interest.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-1)
§ 152.071 PETITION REQUIREMENTS.
   Streets or alleys may be discontinued or vacated only upon a written
petition of all owners of lots on the streets or alley. However, where the
street or alley is to be closed for school purposes, a petition signed by 75%
of the lot owners on the whole street or alley to be closed will be required.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-2)
§ 152.072 NOTICE.
   Before acting on the petition a notice must be published or posted in three
public places stating when the petition will be acted on, and what street or
alley, or part thereof, is to be discontinued or vacated. Notice must be
published in a newspaper or posted at least one week before the petition is
acted on.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-3)
§ 152.073 UTILITY RIGHTS.
   Discontinuing or vacating a street or alley shall not affect the right of
any public utility to continue to maintain its plant and equipment in any such
street or alley.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-4)
§ 152.074 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   The costs of discontinuing or vacating a street or alley may be assessed
against the petitioning property owners. Such costs may include costs of
publication, engineering, and site viewing.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-5)
§ 152.075 CLOSING OF BLOCK 10.
   The alley running east to west through block 10 of the First Addition of the
town is hereby declared closed. The town reserves the right to keep intact and
maintain all electrical distribution poles not situated on the alley or any
addition which the town may deem necessary. If at any time the lot owners of
block 10, First Addition, wish the distribution system poles removed from said
alley, they must bear all expense incurred in removing the distribution system
and all expenses in relocating said distribution system on some other street or
alley.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-6)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Every person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor, and on conviction before the police court shall be fined, as
set by resolution, for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-7) (Ord. passed 5-14-2007)
CHAPTER 153: FLOODPLAIN
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Floodplain hazard management regulations
   
153.002   Statutory authority
   
153.003   Findings of fact
   
153.004   Purpose
   
153.005   Method to reduce losses
   
153.006   Regulated area
   
153.007   Floodplain Administrator
   
153.008   Compliance
   
153.009   Abrogation, greater responsibility
   
153.010   Regulation interpretation
   
153.011   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
153.012   Disclosure
   
153.013   Amendment of regulations
   
153.014   Public records
   
153.015   Subdivision review
   
153.016   Disaster recovery
   
153.017   Definitions
   
153.018   Forms and fees
   
153.019   Emergencies; general
   
153.020   Emergency notification; application requirements
   
153.021   Enforcement
   
153.022   Declaration to the Federal Flood Insurance Administrator
Flood Hazard Area
   
153.035   Regulated flood hazard area
   
153.036   Interpretation of boundaries
   
153.037   Alteration
   
153.038   General uses of flood hazard area without a permit
   
153.039   Open space uses
   
153.040   Floodway; prohibited use
   
153.041   Artificial obstructions prohibited
Floodplain Permits
   
153.055   Permit application
   
153.056   Required application information
   
153.057   Application review
   
153.058   Notice requirements
   
153.059   Permit criteria
   
153.060   Decision
   
153.061   Permit conditions
Development Requirements; Floodway
   
153.075   Uses requiring permits
   
153.076   General requirements
   
153.077   Mining of materials
   
153.078   Railroad, highway, street stream crossings
   
153.079   Limited filling; road, railroad embankments
   
153.080   Buried, suspended utility transmission lines
   
153.081   Storage of materials, equipment
   
153.082   Domestic water supply wells
   
153.083   Buried, sealed vaults for sewage disposal; campgrounds, recreational
areas
   
153.084   Public, private campgrounds
   
153.085   Structures accessory or appurtenant
   
153.086   Construction, modification; surface water diversions
   
153.087   Flood control; stream bank stabilization measures
   
153.088   Stream, bank restoration
   
153.089   Existing residential, non-residential buildings in floodway
Developmental Requirements; Flood Fringe
   
153.100   Uses requiring permits
   
153.101   General requirements
   
153.102   Residential building; exceptions or additional requirements
   
153.103   Non-residential building; exceptions or additional requirements
Variances
   
153.115   General
   
153.116   Variance application requirements
   
153.117   Notice requirements for applications
   
153.118   Evaluation of application
   
153.119   Decision
   
153.120   Judicial review
Administrative Appeals
   
153.130   General
   
153.131   Appeals requirements
   
153.132   Notice and hearing
   
153.133   Decision
   
153.134   Judicial review
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 FLOODPLAIN HAZARD MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS.
   These regulations are known, and may be cited, as the Floodplain Hazard
Management Regulations, hereinafter referred to as “these regulations”.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(1.1))
§ 153.002 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Floodplain and floodway management is incorporated in MCA Title 76,
Chapter 5, and describes the authority, procedures, and minimum standards for
local regulations, and is further described in Montana Administrative Rule
(ARM) 36, Chapter 15.
   (B)   The authority to regulate development in specifically identified flood
hazard areas has been accepted pursuant to MCA § 76-5-301.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(1.2))
§ 153.003 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Flood hazard areas specifically adopted herein as regulated flood
hazard areas have been delineated and designated by order or determination of
the Department of Natural Resources and Conservation (DNRC), pursuant to MCA §§
76-5-201 et seq.
   (B)   These regulations have been reviewed by the state Department of
Natural Resources and Conservation and the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
The state Department of Natural Resources and Conservation has found the
regulations acceptable in meeting the Department minimum standards. The Federal
Emergency Management Agency finds that these regulations are adequate and
consistent with the comprehensive criteria for land management and use,
pursuant to the standards established in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(1.3))
Statutory reference:
   Review of findings of fact by DNRC and FEMA, see MCA § 76-5-302, ARM §
36.15.202
Federal reference:
   Review of findings of fact by DNRC and FEMA, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.1(b), 42
U.S.C. § 4022
§ 153.004 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of these regulations is to promote public health, safety,
and general welfare of the residents, and minimize public and private losses
due to flood conditions in regulated flood hazard areas.
   (B)   These regulations are intended to:
      (1)   Protect human life and health;
      (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   Minimize prolonged business and public service interruptions;
      (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges;
      (6)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
disruptions; and
      (7)   Ensure compliance with the minimum standards for the continued
participation in the National Flood Insurance Program for the benefit of the
residents.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(1.4))
§ 153.005 METHOD TO REDUCE LOSSES.
   In accordance with MCA § 76-5-102, these regulations are intended to reduce
flood losses through the following methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flooding, or that may cause excessive increases in flood
heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses of land vulnerable to floods, including public
facilities, be developed or constructed to at least minimum standards, or to
otherwise minimize flood damage;
   (C)   Regulate the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are needed to accommodate floodwaters;
   (D)   Regulate filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
impact other land, floodwater depth, or velocity of floodwaters;
   (F)   Distinguish between the land use regulations applied to the floodway
within the regulated flood hazard area, and those applied to that portion of
the regulated flood hazard area not contained in the floodway;
   (G)   Apply more restrictive land use regulations within the floodway of the
regulated flood hazard area; and
   (H)   Ensure that regulations and minimum standards balance the greatest
public good with the least private injury.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(1.5))
§ 153.006 REGULATED AREA.
   (A)   These regulations apply only to the flood hazard areas specifically
adopted herein as regulated flood hazard areas, which are more fully and
specifically described in §
153.035. Requirements and approvals for alterations to the regulated flood
hazard area are specified in §
153.035. The regulated flood hazard area includes areas specifically
identified, labeled, and illustrated on maps, such as floodplain, floodway, or
flood fringe, that have differing uses allowed and minimum building standards
that apply. The regulated flood hazard area is the geographic area inundated by
the flood of 100-year frequency, illustrated and depicted in the referenced
studies and maps.
   (B)   The regulated flood hazard area supporting study and maps illustrating
the regulatory area are based on studies and maps that have been specifically
adopted pursuant to MCA § 76-5-201, et seq. The maps and accompanying study
become the regulated flood hazard area only when formally adopted by DNRC, and
subsequently by the political subdivision, by these regulations. The original
source of studies and data may be from a flood insurance study by FEMA, or
other studies by Corps of Engineers, Soil Conservation, United States
Geological Service, or other federal or state agency.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(1.6))
§ 153.007 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   A Floodplain Administrator is appointed by the Town Council. The Floodplain
Administrator’s duty is to administer and implement the provisions of these
regulations. The Floodplain Administrator must serve to meet and maintain the
commitments pursuant to 44 C.F.R. § 59.22(a) to FEMA to remain eligible for
National Flood Insurance for individuals and business within the political
subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(1.7))
Statutory reference:
   Floodplain Administrator, see ARM § 36.15.204(2)(h)
Federal reference:
   Floodplain Administrator, see 44 C.F.R. § 59.22(b)(1)
§ 153.008 COMPLIANCE.
   Development, new construction, alteration, or substantial improvement may
not commence without full compliance with the provisions of these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(1.8))
§ 153.009 ABROGATION, GREATER RESPONSIBILITY.
   It is not intended by these regulations to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions, zoning, or other regulations
in effect. However, where these regulations impose greater restrictions, the
provision of these regulations must prevail.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(1.9))
Federal reference:
   Restrictions, abrogation, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.1(d)
§ 153.010 REGULATION INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of these regulations, all provisions
shall be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the Town Council; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(1.10))
Federal reference:
   Interpretation of regulations, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.1
§ 153.011 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   These regulations do not imply that land outside the regulated flood hazard
areas, or uses permitted within such areas, will be free from flooding or flood
damages. These regulations shall not create liability on the part of the
community, or any official or employee thereof, for any flood damages that
result from reliance on these regulations or any administrative decision
lawfully made hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(1.11))
§ 153.012 DISCLOSURE.
   All property owners, or his or her agents, in the regulated flood hazard
areas shall notify potential buyers, or his or her agents, that such property,
including any permitted uses transferred, is located within the regulated flood
hazard area, and is subject to regulation and any permitted uses that are
transferred. Information regarding regulated flood hazard area and the
repository for floodplain maps is available in the Floodplain Administrator’s
office.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(1.13))
Statutory reference:
   Disclosure for property owners, regulated flood hazard areas, see ARM §
36.15.204(2)(g)
§ 153.013 AMENDMENT OF REGULATIONS.
   These regulations may be amended after notice and public hearing in regard
to the amendments to these regulations. The amendments must be found adequate
and acceptable by DNRC and FEMA to be effective and must be submitted for
review at least 30 days prior to official adoption.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(1.14))
§ 153.014 PUBLIC RECORDS.
   Records, including permits and applications, elevation and flood proofing
certificates, certificates of compliance, fee receipts, and other matters
relating to these regulations must be maintained by the Floodplain
Administrator, and are public records and must be made available for
inspection, and for copies, upon reasonable request. A reasonable copying cost
for copying documents for members of the public may be charged and may require
payments of the costs before providing the copies.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(1.15))
Federal reference:
   Public records maintained by the Floodplain Administrator, see 44 C.F.R. §
60.3(b)(5)(iii), 44 C.F.R. § 59.22(a)(9)(iii)
§ 153.015 SUBDIVISION REVIEW.
   Within the regulated flood hazard area, subdivisions, including new or
expansion of existing manufactured home parks, must be designed to meet the
following criteria:
   (A)   The base flood elevations and boundary of the regulated flood hazard
area must be determined and considered during lot layout and building location
design;
   (B)   Locations for future structures and development must be reasonably
safe from flooding;
   (C)   Adequate surface water drainage must be provided to reduce exposure to
flood hazards;
   (D)   Public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical, and
water systems, must be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage; and
   (E)   Floodplain permits must be obtained according to these regulations
before development occurs that is within the regulated flood hazard area.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(1.16))
Federal reference:
   Subdivision review, regulated flood hazard area, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(a)(4)
(iii), 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(a)(4)(ii), 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b)
§ 153.016 DISASTER RECOVERY.
   (A)   In the event of a natural or human-made disaster, the Floodplain
Administrator should participate in the coordination of assistance, and provide
information to structure owners concerning hazard mitigation and recovery
measures with the Federal Emergency Management Agency, state Disaster Emergency
Services, state Department of Natural Resources and Conservation, and other
state, local, and private emergency service organizations.
   (B)   Upon completion of cursory street view structure condition survey
within the regulated flood hazard area, the Floodplain Administrator shall
notify owners that a permit may be necessary for an alteration or substantial
improvement before repair or reconstruction commences on damaged structures
because of damages caused by natural or human-made disasters, such as floods,
fires, or winds.
   (C)   Owners should be advised that structures that have suffered
substantial damage, and will undergo substantial improvements, require a
floodplain application and permit, and must be upgraded to meet the minimum
building standards herein during repair or reconstruction.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(1.17))
Federal reference:
   Disaster recovery, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(c)(2) and (3)
Statutory reference:
   Disaster recovery, see MCA § 76-5-404(3)(b), ARM § 36.15.702
§ 153.017 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   100-YEAR FLOOD. One percent annual chance flood. See BASE FLOOD.
   ALTERATION. Any change or addition to an artificial obstruction that either
increases its external dimensions or increases its potential flood hazard.
(ARM § 36.15.101(2))
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure in which the use is incidental or
accessory to the use of a principal structure.
(44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
   ARTIFICIAL OBSTRUCTION. Any obstruction which is not natural and includes
any development, dam, diversion, wall, riprap, embankment, levee, dike, pile,
abutment, projection, revetment, excavation, channel rectification, road,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, refuse, automobile body, fill, or other
analogous structure or matter in, along, across, or projecting into any
regulated flood hazard area that may impede, retard, or change the direction of
the flow of water, either in itself or by catching or collecting debris carried
by the water, or that is placed where the natural flow of the water would carry
the same downstream to the damage or detriment of either life or property. See
also DEVELOPMENT.
(ARM § 36.15.101(3)) (MCA § 76-5-103(1))
   BASE FLOOD (FLOOD OF 100-YEAR FREQUENCY). A flood having a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
(ARM § 36.15.101(4)) (44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation above sea level of the BASE FLOOD
in relation to the National Geodic Vertical Datum of 1929, or the North
American Vertical Datum of 1988, or unless otherwise specified.
(ARM § 36.15.101(5))
   BASEMENT. Any area of a building, except a crawl space, as having its lowest
floor below ground level on all sides.
(44 C.F.R. § 59.1; NFIP Insurance Manual, Rev. May 2013)
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
(44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
   CHANNEL. The geographical area within either the natural or artificial banks
of a watercourse or drain way.
(MCA § 76-5-103(2))
   CRAWLSPACE. An enclosure that has its interior floor area no more than five
feet below the top of the next highest floor. See ENCLOSURE and SUBGRADE
CRAWLSPACE.
(NFIP Insurance Manual, Rev. May 2013)
   DNRC. Montana Department of Natural Resources and Conservation.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials. See also ARTIFICIAL OBSTRUCTION.
(44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A building that has no basement, and that has it lowest
elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls,
posts, piers, pilings, or columns. A building on a crawlspace is considered an
ELEVATED BUILDING.
(NFIP Insurance Manual, Rev. May 2013)
   ENCLOSURE. The portion below the lowest elevated floor of an elevated
building that is either partially or fully shut in by rigid walls, including a
crawlspace, sub grade crawlspace, stairwell, elevator, or a garage below or
attached.
   ENCROACHMENT. Activities or construction within the regulated flood hazard
area including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, and other
development.
   ENCROACHMENT ANALYSIS. A hydrologic and hydraulic analysis performed by an
engineer to assess the effects of the proposed artificial obstruction or
nonconforming use on base flood elevation, flood flows, and flood velocities.
   ESTABLISH. To construct, place, insert, or excavate.
(ARM § 36.15.101(9)) (MCA § 76-5-103(7))
   EXISTING ARTIFICIAL OBSTRUCTION or NONCONFORMING USE. An ARTIFICIAL
OBSTRUCTION or NONCONFORMING USE that was established before land use
regulations were adopted pursuant to MCA § 76-5-301(1).
(MCA § 76-5-404(3))
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The identified portion of the floodplain of the regulated
flood hazard area outside the limits of the floodway.
(ARM § 36.15.101(10))
   FLOOD OF 100-YEAR FREQUENCY (BASE FLOOD). A flood magnitude expected to
recur on the average of once every 100 years, or a flood magnitude that has a
1% chance of occurring in any given year.
(MCA § 76-5-103(9)) (44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
   FLOOD PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
electrical, plumbing, HVAC systems, structures, and their contents. The term
includes WET FLOOD PROOFING, DRY FLOOD PROOFING, and ELEVATION OF STRUCTURES.
(44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
   FLOODPLAIN. The area of the regulated flood hazard area including and
adjoining the watercourse or drainway that would be covered by the floodwater
of a base flood. The area is partitioned into a flood fringe and floodway where
specifically designated. See REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. Community official or representative appointed to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter.
   FLOODWAY. The identified portion of the floodplain of the regulated flood
hazard area that is the channel, and the area adjoining the channel, that is
reasonably required to carry the discharge of the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface by more than one-half foot.
(MCA § 76-5-103(11)) (MCA § 76-5-103(5))
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official response from FEMA that amends or
revises the FEMA special flood hazard area and FEMA Flood Insurance Study for
flood insurance purposes and/or flood risk hazard. FEMA LETTERS OF MAP CHANGE
specific to an amendment or revision include:
      (1)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A FEMA letter of
approval for a proposed physical change that, when completed, would propose to
change the flood zones, delineation, or elevations on the FEMA Flood Insurance
Rate Map or FEMA Flood Boundary Map, and may amend the FEMA Flood Insurance
Study through a subsequent LOMR. The CLOMR may be considered in an evaluation
by DNRC and the Floodplain Administrator during consideration of a proposed
alteration to the regulated flood hazard area;
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A letter of determination from FEMA
issued in response to a request that a property or structure is not subject to
the mandatory flood insurance requirement because it was inadvertently located
in the effective FEMA special flood hazard area. The material submitted and
response from FEMA may be considered by the Floodplain Administrator for
determining if a property or structure is within the regulated flood hazard
area and subject to these regulations;
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official FEMA amendment to the
currently effective FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map or FEMA Flood Boundary Map
based on a physical change to the floodplain of the special flood hazard area.
It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations, and elevations on
the FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map or FEMA Flood Boundary Map and may amend the
FEMA Flood Insurance Study. It must be preceded by an approved alteration of
the designated floodplain from DNRC and subsequently an amendment to the
regulated flood hazard area; and
      (4)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). A letter of approval
from FEMA removing the mandatory requirement for flood insurance on property
based on placement of fill or an addition. Placement of fill or an addition
must be preceded by a permit pursuant to these regulations. Placement of fill
does not remove the development from the regulated flood hazard area or these
regulations.
   LOWEST FLOOR. Any floor of a building, including a basement, used for living
purposes, storage, or recreation. This includes any floor that could be
converted to such a use.
(ARM § 36.15.101(14)) (44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. Includes the construction of
facilities for servicing the MANUFACTURE HOME lots and, at a minimum, includes
the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final
site grading or the pouring of concrete pads.
(44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
   MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOME. A building that may be residential or non-
residential, is transportable in one or more sections, built on a permanent
chassis, and designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation when
connected to the required utilities, and includes park trailers, travel
trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than 180
consecutive days.
(ARM § 36.15.101(15))
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the commencement of clearing,
grading, filling, or excavating to prepare a site for construction occurs on or
after the effective date of these regulations, and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
(ARM § 36.15.101(20)) (44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A MANUFACTURE HOME PARK or
SUBDIVISION for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed includes, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads, and is completed on or after the
effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
(44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
   NON-RESIDENTIAL. Buildings, including manufactured homes, that are not
residential, including commercial, agricultural, industrial buildings, and
accessory buildings. See RESIDENTIAL.
   OWNER. Any person who has dominion over, control of, or title to an
artificial obstruction.
(MCA § 76-5-103(13))
   PERSON. Includes any individual, or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association, or any other entity, including state and local
governments and agencies.
(44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A park trailer, travel trailer, or other similar
vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a motorized
vehicle; and
      (4)   Designed primarily for use as temporary living quarters for
recreation, camping, travel, or seasonal use, not for use as a permanent
dwelling.
(44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
   REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA. A floodplain whose limits have been designated
pursuant to MCA §§ 76-5-201 through 76-5-209, and is determined to be the area
adjoining the watercourse that would be covered by the floodwater of a base
flood. The REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA consists of the floodway and flood
fringe where specifically designated.
(ARM § 36-15-101(11)) (MCA § 76-5-103(4)) (MCA § 76-5-103(10))
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. A dwelling or building for living purposes, or place
of assembly, or permanent use by human beings, and including any mixed use of
residential and non-residential use. All other buildings are non-residential.
   RIPRAP. Stone, rocks, concrete blocks, or analogous materials that are
placed along the bed or banks of a watercourse or drain way for the purpose of
preventing or alleviating erosion.
(ARM § 36.15.101(18))
   SCOUR DEPTH. The maximum depth of streambed scour caused by erosive forces
of the base flood.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Land area which has been specifically identified
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency as the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. It is useful
for the purposes of identifying flood hazards by local subdivisions of
government for regulatory purposes, as well as use by the National Flood
Insurance Program for establishing risk zones and flood insurance premium
rates. The FEMA flood hazard area zone designation or flood risk potential is
as illustrated on FEMA’s Flood Hazard Boundary Map or Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   STRUCTURE. Any artificial obstruction.
   SUBGRADE CRAWLSPACE. A crawlspace foundation enclosure that has its interior
floor no more than five feet below the top of the next higher floor, and no
more than two feet below the lowest adjacent grade on all sides. A foundation
exceeding either dimension is a basement.
(NFIP Insurance Manual, Rev. May 2013)
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would
exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
(44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure where the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure either before the improvement or repair is started, or if the
structure has been damaged and is being restored before the damage occurred.
      (1)   Substantial improvement is considered to occur when the first
construction of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building commences.
      (2)   The term does not include:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or state inventory of historic places.
(ARM § 36.15.101(21)) (44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
   SUITABLE FILL. Fill material which is stable, compacted, well graded, and
pervious, not adversely affected by water and frost, devoid of trash or similar
foreign matter, tree stumps or other organic material, and is fitting for the
purpose of supporting the intended use and/or permanent structure.
(ARM § 36.15.101(22))
   VARIANCE. A grant or relief from the development requirements of these
regulations which would permit construction in a manner that would be otherwise
prohibited by these regulations by an approval pursuant §§
153.115 through
153.120.
(ARM § 36.15.101(23))
   VIOLATION. A finding and order pursuant to the regulations against the owner
or responsible party of the failure of a structure, or other development, to be
fully compliant with these regulations.
(44 C.F.R. § 59.1)
(Prior Code, § 11-2(2))
§ 153.018 FORMS AND FEES.
   (A)   The following forms may be required by the Floodplain Administrator:
      (1)   Floodplain permit application form. The “Joint Application for
Proposed Work in Montana’s Steams, Wetlands, Regulated Flood Hazard Areas, and
Other Water Bodies”, or other designated application form. A completed FEMA MT-
1 form may be required to accompany the application when required by the
Floodplain Administrator;
      (2)    Floodplain permit compliance report. A report required to be
submitted by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator once the permitted
project in the regulated flood hazard area is completed, or within the
designated time stipulated on the floodplain permit. A compliance report,
including an elevation and/or flood proofing certificate, may be required where
specified for the purpose of documenting compliance with the requirements of
the permit;
      (3)   Floodplain variance application form. An application submitted by
the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator to initiate a proposed variance
from the requirements of these regulations as described in §§
153.115 through
153.120;
      (4)   Floodplain appeal notice form. A form submitted by the applicant or
an aggrieved party to initiate the appeal process described in §§
153.130 through
153.134;
      (5)   Floodplain emergency notification form. A written notification form
required pursuant to §§
153.019 and
153.020 of these regulations; and
      (6)   Official complaint form. A form that may be used by any person to
notify the Floodplain Administrator of an activity taking place that appears to
be noncompliant with the requirements of these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(3.1))
   (B)   A reasonable application fee for processing of permit applications may
be imposed. Fees may be adopted for costs of permit applications, notices,
variances, inspections, certifications, or other administrative actions
required by these regulations. Fees are established by resolution and kept in
the town office.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(3.2))
Statutory reference:
   Forms and fees required for application, see ARM § 36.15.204(3)(b)
§ 153.019 EMERGENCIES; GENERAL.
   (A)   Emergency repair and replacement of severely damaged artificial
obstructions and development in the regulated flood hazard area, including
public transportation facilities, public water and sewer facilities, flood
control works, and private projects are subject to the permitting requirements
of these regulations.
   (B)   The provisions of these regulations are not intended to affect other
actions that are necessary to safeguard life or structures during periods of
emergency.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(11.1))
Statutory reference:
   Emergencies within the flood hazard area, see ARM § 36.15.217
§ 153.020 EMERGENCY NOTIFICATION; APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The property owner and/or the person responsible for taking emergency
action must notify the Floodplain Administrator prior to initiating any
emergency action in a regulated flood hazard area normally requiring a
floodplain permit. An emergency notification form must be submitted to the
Floodplain Administrator within five days of the action taken as a result of an
emergency.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified by the Floodplain Administrator, within 30
days of initiating the emergency action, a person who has undertaken an
emergency action must submit a floodplain permit application that describes
what action has taken place during the emergency, and describe any additional
work that may be required to bring the project in compliance with these
regulations.
   (C)   A person who has undertaken an emergency action may be required to
modify or remove the project in order to meet the permit requirements.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(11.2))
§ 153.021 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   An investigation to determine compliance with these regulations for an
artificial obstruction or nonconforming use within the regulated flood hazard
area may be made, either on the initiative of the Floodplain Administrator or
on the written request of three title holders of land which may be affected by
the activity. The names and addresses of the persons requesting the
investigation shall be released if requested.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(14.1))
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator may make reasonable entry upon any lands
and waters for the purpose of making an investigation, inspection, or survey to
verify compliance with these regulations.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator shall provide notice of entry by mail,
electronic mail, phone call, or personal delivery to the owner, owner’s agent,
lessee, or lessee’s agent whose lands will be entered.
      (2)   If none of these persons can be found, the Floodplain Administrator
shall affix a copy of the notice to one or more conspicuous places on the
property.
      (3)   If the owners do not respond, cannot be located, or refuse entry to
the Floodplain Administrator, he or she may initiate a search warrant.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(14.2))
   (C)   When the Floodplain Administrator determines that a violation may have
occurred, he or she may issue written notice to the owner or an agent of the
owner, either personally or by certified mail. Such notice shall cite the
regulatory offense and include an order to take corrective action within a
reasonable time or to respond by requesting an administrative review by the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(14.3))
   (D)   The order to take corrective action is final, unless within five
working days, or any granted extension after the order is received the owner
submits a written request for an administrative review by the Floodplain
Administrator. A request for an administrative review does not stay the order.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(14.4))
   (E)   Within ten working days, or any granted extension, of receipt of the
Floodplain Administrator’s decision concluding the administrative review, the
property owner, or owner’s agent, may appeal the decision pursuant to §§
153.130 through
153.134.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(14.5))
   (F)   If the owner fails to comply with the order for corrective action,
remedies may include administrative or legal actions, or penalties through
court.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(14.6))
   (G)   This section does not prevent efforts to obtain voluntary compliance
through warning, conference, or any other appropriate means. Action under this
section shall not bar enforcement of these regulations by injunction or other
appropriate remedy.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(14.7)) Penalty, see §
153.999
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of application by Floodplain Administrator, see MCA § 76-5-105
(1), MCA § 76-5-105(2)
§ 153.022 DECLARATION TO THE FEDERAL FLOOD INSURANCE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Upon finding of a violation and failure of the owner to take
corrective action as ordered, the Floodplain Administrator may submit notice
and request a 1316 Violation Declaration to the Federal Insurance
Administrator. The Federal Insurance Administrator has the authority to deny
new and renewal flood insurance for a structure upon finding a valid violation
declaration.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator shall provide the Federal Insurance
Administrator the following:
      (1)   The name(s) of the property owner(s), and address or legal
description of the property sufficient to confirm its identity and location;
      (2)   A clear and unequivocal declaration that the property is in
violation of a cited state or local law, regulation, or ordinance;
      (3)   A clear statement that the public body making the declaration has
authority to do so, and a citation to that authority;
      (4)   Evidence that the property owner has been provided notice of the
violation and the prospective denial of insurance; and
      (5)   A clear statement that the declaration is being submitted pursuant
to § 1316 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(15.2)) Penalty, see §
153.999
Federal reference:
   Declaration to the Federal Flood Insurance Administrator, see 44 C.F.R. §
73.3
FLOOD HAZARD AREA
§ 153.035 REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA.
   The regulated flood hazard areas are the 100-year floodplains illustrated
and referenced in the following specific studies and reports described as
follows:
   (A)   April 15, 1986 Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) for the town;
   (B)   The regulated flood hazard areas specifically described or illustrated
in the above referenced studies and maps of the 100-year floodplain have been
delineated, designated, and established by order or determination by the DNRC,
pursuant to MCA §§ 76-5-201 et seq.
   (C)   Use allowances, design, and construction requirements specifically in
§§
153.038 through
153.041, §§
153.075 through
153.089, and §§
153.100 through
153.103 in these regulations vary by the specific floodplain areas, including
areas identified as floodway and flood fringe within the regulated flood hazard
area.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(4.1))
§ 153.036 INTERPRETATION OF BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The mapped boundaries of the floodplain illustrated in the referenced
studies and maps in §
153.035 are a guide for determining whether property is within the regulated
flood hazard area.
   (B)   A determination of the outer limits and boundaries of the regulated
flood hazard area, or the flood fringe and floodway within the regulated flood
hazard area, includes an evaluation of the maps as well as the particular study
data referenced in §
153.035. Supporting study material for base flood elevations takes precedence
over any map illustrations if it exists.
   (C)   The regulated flood hazard area boundary is delineated by the base
flood elevation. The physical field regulatory boundary of the regulated flood
hazard area is the actual intersection of the applicable study base flood
elevation with the existing adjacent terrain of the watercourse or drainway.
   (D)   The floodway boundary where identified within the floodplain is as
illustrated on the referenced maps and studies. Since the floodway boundary is
a study feature, the location of the boundary may be physically located by
referencing the study data to a ground feature. The Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of the boundary and decision may be appealed as set forth in §
153.130.
   (E)   The Floodplain Administrator may request additional information
described below to determine whether or not the proposed development is within
the regulated flood hazard area:
      (1)   Where base flood elevations exist. The property owner may provide
additional information which may include elevation information provided by an
engineer or land surveyor in order to determine if the proposed development is
subject to these regulations;
      (2)   Where base flood elevations do not exist. The property owner may
provide additional information to be considered to determine the location of
the regulatory boundary or, alternatively, provide a computed base flood
elevation provided by an engineer; and
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator’s interpretation of the boundaries and
decision may be appealed as set forth in §
153.130.
   (F)   Any owner or lessee of property who believes his or her property has
been inadvertently included in the regulated flood hazard area, including the
floodway or flood fringe, may submit scientific and/or technical information to
the Floodplain Administrator for a determination if the property is
appropriately located. Scientific or technical information submitted to FEMA by
an owner to affect the insurance rating for insurance purposes may be
considered by the Floodplain Administrator. A determination by the Floodplain
Administrator is independent of any determination by FEMA for insurance
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(4.2))
Statutory reference:
   Interpretation of land boundaries, flood hazard area, see ARM § 36.15.501(6)
§ 153.037 ALTERATION.
   (A)   Revisions or updates to the specific maps and data that alter the
established floodplains or floodway of the regulated flood hazard area requires
DNRC approval, pursuant to MCA § 76-5-203. An alteration of the regulated flood
hazard area is a DNRC approved amendment to the DNRC order that originally
delineated and designated the 100-year floodplain, and is the basis of the
regulated flood hazard area referenced in §
153.035(B). A DNRC-approved alteration consists of revisions or updates to the
specific maps and data of the referenced studies in §
153.035, and forms the basis for an amendment to the regulated flood hazard
area in these regulations.
   (B)   Any change to the regulated flood hazard area, as a result of a DNRC
alteration, is effective upon amendment to the regulated flood hazard area
described in §
153.035(A).
   (C)   Substantial natural physical change, or new technical or scientific
flood data, showing that the base flood elevation has or may be changed, or was
erroneously established, shall be brought to the attention of DNRC and FEMA.
   (D)   Any floodplain permit application for a proposed development or
artificial obstruction must be denied until a DNRC alteration, pursuant to MCA
§ 76-5-203, is approved if it causes an increase of half a foot or more to the
base flood elevation of a regulated flood hazard area without a floodway, or an
increase of more than zero feet to the base flood elevation of a floodway.
   (E)   To propose an alteration, a petition must be submitted to DNRC and
must include the following information:
      (1)   Certification that no buildings are located in the areas which
would be impacted by the increased base flood elevation;
      (2)   Evidence of notice to all property and land owners of the proposed
impacts to his or her properties, explaining the proposed impact on his or her
property;
      (3)   Information that demonstrates that alternatives are not feasible;
      (4)   Information that demonstrates that development is for a public use
or benefit; and
      (5) Any other supporting information and data as needed for approvals.
   (F)   The Floodplain Administrator may represent the permit authority for
any necessary applications, approvals, or endorsements, such as the FEMA
Community Acknowledgment Form to where affecting the FEMA special flood hazard
area:
      (1)   A determination by the Floodplain Administrator that land areas
located within the regulated flood hazard area are above the base flood
elevation, as proven by a certified elevation survey, does not constitute or
require an alteration or an amendment of the regulated flood hazard area, and
may be maintained as a public record that more explicitly defines the regulated
flood hazard area boundary; and
      (2)   Elevating with suitable fill as permitted does not alter the
regulated flood hazard area or remove the elevated area from the regulated
flood hazard area.
   (G)   A floodplain permit implementing the physical change cannot be
approved until a CLOMR has been issued by FEMA.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(4.3))
Federal reference:
   Alteration to the regulated flood hazard area, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(c)(1),
44 C.F.R. § 60.3(d)(3), 44 C.F.R. § 65.3, 44 C.F.R. § 65.7, 44 C.F.R. § 65.12,
44 C.F.R. § 65.12(a)(3), 44 C.F.R. § 65.12(a)(5)
Statutory reference:
   Alteration to the regulated flood hazard area, see ARM § 36.16.505, ARM §
36.15.505(1)(a), ARM § 36.15.505(2)
§ 153.038 GENERAL USES OF FLOOD AREA WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   Existing artificial obstructions or nonconforming uses established before
land use regulations, pursuant to MCA § 76-5-301 where effective, are allowed
without a permit. However, alteration or substantial improvement of an existing
artificial obstruction or nonconforming use requires a floodplain permit.
Maintenance of an existing artificial obstruction or nonconforming use does not
require a floodplain permit if it does not cause an alteration or substantial
improvement.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(5.1))
Statutory reference:
   General uses of the flood area without a permit, see MCA § 76-5-404(3)
§ 153.039 OPEN SPACE USES.
   The following open space uses shall be allowed without a permit in the
regulated flood hazard area, provided that such uses are not prohibited by any
other regulation or statute, do not require structures, and do not require
fill, grading, excavation, or storage of materials or equipment:
   (A)   Agricultural uses not including related structures, such as tilling,
farming, irrigation, ranching, harvesting, grazing, and the like;
   (B)   Accessory uses not including structures, such as loading and parking
areas, or emergency landing strips associated with industrial or commercial
facilities;
   (C)   Forestry, including processing of forest products with portable
equipment;
   (D)   Recreational vehicle use, provided that the vehicle is on the site for
fewer than 180 consecutive days and the vehicle is fully licensed and ready for
highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system with wheels intact, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently
attached additions;
   (E)   Residential uses such as lawns, gardens, parking areas, and play
areas;
   (F)   Maintenance of the existing state of an existing open space uses,
including preventive maintenance activities such as bridge deck rehabilitation
and roadway pavement preservation activities. Maintenance cannot increase the
external size or increase the hazard potential of the existing open space use;
   (G)   Public or private recreational uses not requiring structures such as
picnic grounds, swimming areas, boat ramps, parks, campgrounds, golf courses,
driving ranges, archery ranges, wildlife management and natural areas,
alternative livestock ranches (game farms), fish hatcheries, shooting
preserves, target ranges, trap and skeet ranges, hunting and fishing areas, and
hiking and horseback riding trails;
   (H)   Fences that have a low impact to the flow of water, such as barbed
wire fences and wood rail fences, and not including permanent fences crossing
channels. Fences that have the potential to stop or impede flow or debris, such
as a chain link or privacy fence, requires a floodplain permit and meet the
requirements of §
153.085;
   (I)   Addition of highway guard rail, signing, and utility poles that have a
low impact to the flow of water along an existing roadway; and
   (J)   Irrigation and livestock supply wells, provided that they are located
at least 500 feet from domestic water supply wells and with the top of casing
18 inches above the base flood elevation.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(5.2))
Federal reference:
   Open space uses, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(c)(14)
Statutory reference:
   Open space uses, see MCA § 76-5-401, MCA § 76-5-401(1)), MCA § 76-5-401(2),
MCA § 76-5-401(4), MCA § 76-5-401(5), MCA § 76-5-404(3), MCA § 76-5-404(3)(b),
ARM § 36.15.601, ARM § 36.15.601(1)(a), ARM § 36.15.601(1)(b), ARM § 36.15.601
(1)(c), ARM § 36.15.601(1)(d), ARM § 36.15.601(1)(e), ARM § 36.15.601(2)(b),
ARM § 36.15.601(2)(a), ARM § 36.21.647, ARM § 36.15.701(1)
§ 153.040 FLOODWAY; PROHIBITED USE.
   The following artificial obstructions and nonconforming uses are prohibited
in the floodway of the regulated flood hazard area, except for those
established before land use regulations pursuant to MCA § 76-5-301 have been
adopted:
   (A)   A building for residential or non-residential purposes;
   (B)   A structure, fill, or excavation that would cause water to be diverted
from the floodway, cause erosion, obstruct the natural flow of waters, or
reduce the carrying capacity of the floodway. Notwithstanding these
requirements, excavation or fill may be allowed when it is a component to a
permitted use allowed in these regulations;
   (C)   The construction or storage of an artificial obstruction subject to
flotation or movement during flood level periods;   
   (D)   Solid and hazardous waste disposal, and individual and multiple family
sewage disposal systems, unless the systems meet the local health and
sanitation regulations, and when permitted pursuant to these regulations, and
are designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters, and avoid
impairment or contamination;
   (E)   Storage of toxic, flammable, hazardous, or explosive materials; and
   (F)   Cemeteries, mausoleums, or any other burial grounds.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(6.1))
Federal reference:
   Prohibited use of the floodway, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(a)(3)
Statutory reference:
   Prohibited use of the floodway, see MCA § 76-5-403(1), MCA § 76-5-403(2),
MCA § 76-5-403(3), MCA § 76-5-404(3), ARM § 36.15.605)(1a), ARM § 36.15.605(1)
(c), ARM § 36.15.605(2)(a), ARM § 36.15.605(2b), ARM § 36-15-605(2c), ARM §
36.15.605(2d)
§ 153.041 ARTIFICIAL OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED.
   The following artificial obstructions and nonconforming uses are prohibited
in the flood fringe or regulated flood hazard area without a floodway, except
for those established before land use regulations, have been adopted:
   (A)   Solid and hazardous waste disposal, and individual and multiple family
sewage disposal systems, unless the systems meet the local health and
sanitation regulations, and when permitted pursuant to these regulations, and
are designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters, and avoid
impairment or contamination;
   (B)   Storage of toxic, flammable, hazardous, or explosive materials;
   (C)   The construction or storage of an artificial obstruction subject to
flotation or movement during flood level periods;
   (D)   Cemeteries, mausoleums, or any other burial grounds; and
   (E)   Critical facilities, including buildings and associated structures,
that provide essential community care and emergency operation functions such as
schools, hospitals, nursing home facilities, fire stations, and police
stations.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(6.2))
Federal reference:
   Artificial obstructions prohibited, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.22(a)(2), 44 C.F.R. §
60.3(a)(3)
Statutory reference:
   Artificial obstructions prohibited, see MCA § 76-5-404(3), ARM § 36-15-703
(1), ARM § 36-15-703(2)
FLOODPLAIN PERMITS
§ 153.055 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   A floodplain permit is required for a person to establish, alter, or
substantially improve an artificial obstruction, nonconforming use, or
development within the regulated flood hazard area.
   (B)   A floodplain permit is required for artificial obstructions,
developments, and uses not specifically listed in §§
153.075 through
153.089, and §§
153.100 through
153.103, except as allowed without a floodplain permit in §§
153.038 and
153.039, or as prohibited as specified in §§
153.040 and
153.041, within the regulated flood hazard area.
   (C)   Artificial obstructions and nonconforming uses in a regulated flood
hazard area not exempt under §§
153.038 and
153.039 are public nuisances, unless a floodplain permit has been obtained.
   (D)   A floodplain permit is required for an alteration of an existing
artificial obstruction or nonconforming use that increases the external size or
increases its potential flood hazard, and not exempt under §§
153.038 and
153.039.
   (E)   A floodplain permit is required to reconstruct or repair an existing
artificial obstruction that has experienced substantial damage and will undergo
substantial improvement.
   (F)   Maintenance of an existing artificial obstruction or use that is a
substantial improvement or an alteration requires a floodplain permit.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(7.1))
Statutory reference:
   Permit application regulations, see MCA § 76-5-404, MCA § 76-5-404(1), MCA §
76-5-404(3)(b), ARM § 36.15.204(2)(a)
Federal reference:
   Permit application regulations, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.1
§ 153.056 REQUIRED APPLICATION INFORMATION.
   A floodplain permit application shall include, but is not limited to, the
following:
   (A)   A completed and signed floodplain permit application;
   (B)   The required review fee;
   (C)   Plans, in duplicate, drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions,
and elevation of the proposed project, including landscape alterations,
existing and proposed structures, and the location of the foregoing in relation
to the regulated flood hazard areas and, if applicable, the floodway boundary;
   (D)   A copy of other applicable permits or pending applications required by
federal or state law as submitted, which may include, but are not limited to, a
310 permit, SPA 124 permit, § 404 permit, 318 authorization, 401 certification,
or a Navigable Rivers Land Use License or Easement for the proposed project;
and the applicant must show that the floodplain permit application is not in
conflict with the relevant and applicable permits; and
   (E)   Additional information related to the specific use or activity that
demonstrates the design criteria and construction standards are met or
exceeded, as specified in §§
153.075 through
153.089, and §§
153.100 through
153.103.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(7.2))
Federal reference:
   Required application information, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(a)(2)
Statutory reference:
   Required application information, see MCA § 76-5-405, ARM § 36.15.216
§ 153.057 APPLICATION REVIEW.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review and evaluate the floodplain
permit application and shall approve with conditions, or deny, the application
within 180 days of receipt of a correct and complete application.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator shall determine whether the floodplain
permit application contains the applicable elements required in these
regulations, and shall notify the applicant of the Floodplain Administrator’s
determination.
   (C)   If the floodplain permit application is found to be missing the
required elements, and if the applicant corrects the identified deficiencies
and resubmits the floodplain application, the Floodplain Administrator shall
notify the applicant whether the resubmitted floodplain application contains
all the elements required by these regulations, as applicable.
   (D)   This process shall be repeated until the applicant submits a completed
floodplain permit application containing all the elements required by these
regulations, or the application is withdrawn.
   (E)   If, after a reasonable effort, the Floodplain Administrator determines
that the floodplain application remains incomplete, the Floodplain
Administrator shall deny the floodplain permit application and notify the
applicant of missing elements. No further action shall be taken on the
floodplain permit application by the Floodplain Administrator until the
floodplain permit application is resubmitted.
   (F)   A determination that a floodplain permit application is correct and
complete for review does not ensure that the floodplain permit application will
be approved or conditionally approved, and does not limit the ability of the
Floodplain Administrator to request additional information during the review
process.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(8.1))
Statutory reference:
   Application review by Floodplain Administrator, see MCA § 76-5-405(2)
§ 153.058 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a complete application for a floodplain permit, the
Floodplain Administrator shall prepare a notice containing the facts pertinent
to the floodplain permit application, and shall:
      (1)   Publish the notice at least once in a newspaper of general
circulation in the area;
      (2)   Serve notice by first-class mail upon adjacent property owners;
      (3)   Serve notice to the state National Flood Insurance Program
Coordinator, located in DNRC, by the most efficient method. Notice to other
permitting agencies or other impacted property owners may be provided; and
      (4)   Prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse in the
regulated flood hazard area, additionally provide notice to FEMA and adjacent
communities.
   (B)   The notice shall provide a reasonable period of time, not less than 15
days, for interested parties to submit comments on the proposed activity.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(8.2))
Federal reference:
   Notice requirements, published by the Floodplain Administrator, see 44
C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(6)
Statutory reference:
   Notice requirements, published by the Floodplain Administrator, see ARM §
36.15.204(2)(c)
§ 153.059 PERMIT CRITERIA.
   (A)   Floodplain permit applications shall be approved provided the proposed
new construction, substantial improvement, or alteration of an artificial
obstruction meets the requirements of the minimum standards and criteria in §§
153.075 through
153.089, and §§
153.100 through
153.103, and other requirements of these regulations.
   (B)   A floodplain permit application for a development that will cause an
increase of more than zero feet to the base flood elevation of the floodway, or
more than half of a foot to the base flood elevation of the regulated flood
hazard area without a floodway, shall not be approved until approval for an
alteration pursuant to §
153.037 has been approved, the regulated flood hazard area is amended, and a
FEMA CLOMR, where required, is issued.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall determine that all necessary
permits have been received from those governmental agencies from which approval
is required by federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act Amendment of 1972, 36 U.S.C. § 1344.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(8.3))
Federal reference:
   Floodplain permit criteria, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.3, 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(a)(2)
Statutory reference:
   Floodplain permit criteria, see MCA § 76-5-406
§ 153.060 DECISION.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall approve, conditionally approve, or
deny the proposed floodplain permit application. The Floodplain Administrator
shall notify the applicant of his or her action, and the reasons thereof,
within 180 days of receipt of a correct and complete floodplain permit
application unless otherwise specified. A copy of the approved floodplain
permit must be provided to DNRC.
   (B)   The approval of a floodplain permit application does not affect any
other type of approval required by any other statute or ordinance of the state,
or any political subdivision or the United States, but is an added requirement.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(8.4))
Statutory reference:
   The Floodplain Administrator’s decision regulations, floodplain permit
application, see MCA § 76-5-108, MCA § 76-5-405(2), ARM § 36.15.204(2)(e)
§ 153.061 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
    Upon approval, or conditional approval, of the floodplain permit
application, the Floodplain Administrator shall provide the applicant with a
floodplain permit with applicable specific requirements and conditions
including, but not limited to, the following:
   (A)   The floodplain permit will become valid when all other necessary
permits required by federal or state law are in place;
   (B)   Completion of the development pursuant to the floodplain permit shall
be completed within one year from the date of the floodplain permit issuance,
or a time limit commensurate with the project construction time line for
completion of the project or development. The applicant may request an
extension for up to an additional year. The request must be made at least 30
days prior to the permitted completion deadline;
   (C)   The applicant shall notify subsequent property owners and his or her
agents, and potential buyers, of the floodplain development permit issued on
the property, and that such property is located within a regulated flood hazard
area, and shall record the notice with the Floodplain Administrator;
   (D)   The applicant shall maintain the artificial obstruction or use to
comply with the conditions and specifications of the permit;
   (E)   The applicant shall allow the Floodplain Administrator to perform on
site inspections at select intervals during construction or completion;
   (F)   The applicant shall provide periodic engineering oversight and/or
interim reports during the construction period to be submitted to the
Floodplain Administrator to confirm constructed elevations and other project
elements;
   (G)   The applicant shall submit a compliance report, including
certifications where required and applicable, including flood proofing,
elevation, surface drainage, proper enclosure openings, and materials to the
Floodplain Administrator within 30 days of completion or other time as
specified;
   (H)   The applicant shall submit an annual performance and maintenance
report on bank stabilization, or other projects utilizing maturing vegetative
components, to the Floodplain Administrator for a period of five years, or a
time specified in the permit; or
   (I)   The applicant shall submit evidence of a submittal of a FEMA Letter of
Map Revision (LOMR) to FEMA and applicable fees within six months of project
completion, and proceed with due diligence for acceptance of the document and
necessary supporting materials by FEMA.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(8.5))
Federal reference:
   Conditions for floodplain permit, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(a)(2), 44 C.F.R. §
65.3
Statutory reference:
   Conditions for floodplain permit, see ARM § 36.15.204(2)(g)
DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS; FLOODWAY
§ 153.075 USES REQUIRING PERMITS.
   Artificial obstructions, including alterations and substantial improvements
specifically listed in §§
153.077 through
153.089, may be allowed by permit within the floodway, provided the general
requirements in §
153.076, and the applicable requirements in §§
153.077 through
153.089, are met.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(9.1))
§ 153.076 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   An application for a permit shall meet the following requirements.
   (A)   All projects shall be designed and constructed to ensure that they do
not adversely affect the flood hazard on other properties, and are reasonably
safe from flooding.
   (B)   All projects shall assure that the carrying capacity of the floodway
is not reduced. All projects in the floodway shall meet the following:
      (1)   Demonstrate that the project does not increase the base flood
elevation by conducting an encroachment analysis certified by an engineer. A
minimal or qualitative encroachment analysis may be accepted when the project
or development does not require a structure, alteration of the floodway,
involve fill, grading, excavation, or storage of materials or equipment, but is
also certified by an engineer to not exceed the allowable encroachment to the
base flood elevation; and
      (2)   The allowable encroachment to the base flood elevation is zero
feet, and no significant increase to the velocity or flow of the stream or
watercourse, unless approval of an alteration of the regulated flood hazard
area, pursuant to §
153.037, and an approved FEMA Conditional Letter of Map Revision occurs before
permit issuance.
   (C)   An application for a floodplain permit must also demonstrate that the
following factors are considered and incorporated into the design of the use or
artificial obstruction in the floodway:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to backwater or diverted flow
caused by the obstruction or use;
      (2)   The danger that the obstruction or use may be swept downstream to
the injury of others;
      (3)   The availability of alternative locations;
      (4)   Construct or alter the obstruction or use in such manner as to
lessen the flooding danger;
      (5)   The permanence of the obstruction or use is reasonably safe from
flooding;
      (6)   The anticipated development in the foreseeable future of the area
which may be affected by the obstruction or use;
      (7)   Relevant and related permits for the project have been obtained;
      (8)   Such other factors as are in harmony with the purposes of these
regulations, the state Floodplain and Floodway Management Act, and the
accompanying Administrative Rules of Montana ; and
      (9)   The safety of access to property in times of flooding for ordinary
and emergency services.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(9.2))
Federal reference:
   General requirements for development in the Floodway, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.3
(a)(2), 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(a)(3) and (4), 44 C.F.R. § 60.22(c)(7), 44 C.F.R. §
65.12(a)
Statutory reference:
   General requirements for development in the floodway, see ARM § 36.15.216(2)
(a), ARM § 36.15.216(2)(b), ARM § 36.15.216(2)(c), ARM § 36.15.216(2)(d), ARM §
36.15.216(2e), ARM § 36.15.216(2)(f), ARM § 36.15.216(2)(g), ARM § 36.15.505,
ARM § 36.15.505(b), ARM § 36.15.604, MCA § 76-5-406(1), MCA § 76-5-406(2), MCA
§ 76-5-406(3), MCA § 76-5-406(4), MCA § 76-5-406(5), MCA § 76-5-406(6), MCA §
76-5-406(7)
§ 153.077 MINING OF MATERIALS.
   Mining of material requiring a excavation from pits or pools, provided, in
addition to the requirements of §
153.076, that:
   (A)   A buffer strip of undisturbed land of sufficient width, as determined
by an engineer, to prevent flood flows from channeling into the excavation, is
left between the edge of the channel and the edge of the excavation;
   (B)   The excavation meets all applicable laws and regulations of other
local and state agencies; and
   (C)   Excavated material may be processed on site but is stockpiled outside
the floodway.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(9.3))
Statutory reference:
   Mining of minerals in the floodway, see ARM § 36.15.602(1)(a), ARM §
36.15.602(1)(b), ARM § 36.15.602(1)(c)
§ 153.078 RAILROAD, HIGHWAY, STREET STREAM CROSSINGS.
   In addition to the requirements of §
153.076:
   (A)   Crossings are designed to offer minimal obstructions to the flood
flow;
   (B)   Where failure or interruption of public transportation facilities
would result in danger to public health or safety, and where practicable, and
in consideration of FHWA Federal-Aid Policy Guide, 23 C.F.R. part 650A:
      (1)   Bridge lower chords shall have freeboard to at least two feet above
the base flood elevation to help pass ice flows, the base flood discharge, and
any debris associated with the discharge; and
      (2)   Culverts shall be designed to pass the base flood discharge and
maintain at least two feet freeboard on the crossing surface;
   (C)   Normal overflow channels, if possible, are preserved to allow passage
of sediments to prevent aggradations; and
   (D)   Mid-stream supports for bridges, if necessary, have footings buried
below the maximum scour depth.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(9.4))
Statutory reference:
   Railroad, highway, and street stream crossing regulations in the floodway,
see ARM § 36.15.602(2)
§ 153.079 LIMITED FILLING; ROAD, RAILROAD EMBANKMENTS.
   In addition to the requirements of §
153.076, that:
   (A)   The fill is a suitable fill;
   (B)   Reasonable alternate transportation routes outside the floodway are
not available; and
   (C)   The encroachment is located as far from the stream channel as
possible.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(9.5))
Statutory reference:
   Limited filling in roads and railroad embankments in the floodway, see ARM §
36.15.602(3)
§ 153.080 BURIED, SUSPENDED UTILITY TRANSMISSION LINES.
   In addition to the requirements of §
153.076:
   (A)   Suspended utility transmission lines are designed such that the lowest
point of the suspended line is at least six feet higher than the base flood
elevation;
   (B)   Towers and other appurtenant structures are designed and placed to
withstand and offer minimal obstruction to flood flows;
   (C)   Alternatives such as alternative routes, directional drilling, and
aerial crossings are considered when technically feasible; and
   (D)   Utility transmission lines carrying toxic or flammable materials are
buried to a depth of at least twice the calculated maximum scour depth
determined by an engineer for the base flood.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(9.6))
Statutory reference:
   Buried and suspended utility transmission lines regulations in the floodway,
see ARM § 36.15.602(4)
§ 153.081 STORAGE OF MATERIALS, EQUIPMENT.
   In addition to the requirements of §
153.076:
   (A)   The material or equipment is not subject to major damage by flooding,
and is properly anchored to prevent flotation or downstream movement; and
   (B)   The material or equipment is readily removable within the limited time
available after flood warning. Storage of flammable, toxic, or explosive
materials shall not be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(9.7))
Statutory reference:
   Storage of materials and equipment regulations in the floodway, see ARM §
36.15.602(5)(a), ARM § 36.15.602(5)(b)
§ 153.082 DOMESTIC WATER SUPPLY WELLS.
   In addition to the requirements of §
153.076, water supply wells:
   (A)   Are driven or drilled wells located on ground higher than surrounding
ground to assure positive drainage from the well;
   (B)   Require no other structures, such as a well house;
   (C)   Casings are water-tight to a distance of at least 25 feet below the
ground surface and the well casing height is a minimum of two feet above the
base flood elevation, or capped with a watertight seal, and vented two feet
above the base flood elevation;
   (D)   Water supply lines have a watertight seal where the lines enter the
casing;
   (E)   All pumps and electrical lines and equipment are either of the
submersible type or are adequately flood proofed; and
   (F)   Check valves are installed on main water lines at wells and at all
building entry locations.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(9.8))
Federal reference:
   Domestic water supply wells in the floodway regulations, see 44 C.F.R. §
60.3 (a)(5)
Statutory reference:
   Domestic water supply wells in the floodway regulations, see ARM § 36.15.602
(6)
§ 153.083 BURIED, SEALED VAULTS FOR SEWAGE DISPOSAL; CAMPGROUNDS, RECREATIONAL
AREAS.
   In addition to the requirements of §
153.076, demonstrate approval by the State Department of Environmental Quality,
and local health and sanitation permits or approvals.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(9.9))
Federal reference:
   Buried or sealed vaults for sewage disposal on campgrounds and recreational
areas within the floodway, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(a)(6)
Statutory reference:
   Buried or sealed vaults for sewage disposal on campgrounds and recreational
areas within the floodway, see ARM § 36.15.602(7)
§ 153.084 PUBLIC, PRIVATE CAMPGROUNDS.
   In addition to the requirements of §
153.076, private campgrounds:
   (A)   Access roads require only limited fill and do not obstruct or divert
floodwaters;
   (B)   The project meets the accessory structures requirements in this
section;
   (C)   No dwellings or permanent mobile homes are allowed;
   (D)   Recreational vehicles and travel trailers are ready for highway use
with wheels intact, with only quick disconnect type utilities and securing
devices, and have no permanently attached additions; and
   (E)   There is no large-scale clearing of riparian vegetation within 50 feet
of the mean annual high water mark.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(9.10))
Federal reference:
   Public and private campgrounds in the floodway, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(c)(14)
Statutory reference:
   Public and private campgrounds in the floodway, see ARM § 36.15.602(8)
§ 153.085 STRUCTURES ACCESSORY OR APPURTENANT.
   (A)   Structures accessory or appurtenant to permitted uses, such as boat
docks, loading and parking areas, marinas, sheds, emergency airstrips,
permanent fences crossing channels that may impede or stop flows or debris,
picnic shelters and tables, and lavatories, that are incidental to a principal
structure or use.
   (B)   In addition to the requirements of §
153.076:
      (1)   The structures are not intended for human habitation or supportive
of human habitation;
      (2)   The structures will have low flood damage potential;
      (3)   The structures will, insofar as possible, be located on ground
higher than the surrounding ground and as far from the channel as possible;
      (4)   The structures will be constructed and placed so as to offer a
minimal obstruction to flood flows;
      (5)   Only those wastewater disposal systems that are approved under
health and sanitation regulations are allowed;
      (6)   Service facilities within these structures, such as electrical,
heating, and plumbing, are flood proofed according to the requirements in §§
153.100 through
153.103;
      (7)   The structures are firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      (8)   The structures do not require fill and/or substantial excavation;
      (9)   The structures or use cannot be changed or altered without permit
approval; and
      (10)   There is no clearing of riparian vegetation within 50 feet of the
mean annual high water mark.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(9.11))
Statutory reference:
   Structures that are accessory or appurtenant in the floodway, see ARM §
36.15.602(9)
§ 153.086 CONSTRUCTION, MODIFICATION; SURFACE WATER DIVERSIONS.
   In addition to the requirements of §
153.076, that the design is reviewed and approved by an engineer and includes:
   (A)   Measures to minimize potential erosion from a base flood; and
   (B)   Designs and plans that demonstrate any permanent structure in the
stream is designed to safely withstand up to the base flood, considering the
forces associated with hydrodynamic and hydrostatic pressures, including flood
depths, velocities, impact, ice buoyancy, and uplift forces associated with the
base flood.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(9.12))
Federal reference:
   Construction and modification of surface water diversions, see C.F.R. § 60.3
(a)(3), C.F.R. § 60.3(d)(3)
Statutory reference:
   Construction and modification of surface water diversions, see ARM §
36.15.603(3)(b), ARM § 36.15.603(3)(c)
§ 153.087 FLOOD CONTROL; STREAM BANK STABILIZATION MEASURES.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §
153.076, that the design is reviewed and approved by an engineer and
constructed to substantially resist or withstand the forces associated with
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic pressures, including flood depths, velocities,
impact, ice buoyancy, and uplift, associated with the base flood.
   (B)   The design must also show compliance with the following applicable
criteria:
      (1)   Levee and floodwall construction or alteration:
         (a)   Must be designed and constructed with suitable fill, and be
designed to safely convey a base flood;
         (b)   Must be constructed at least three feet higher than the
elevation of the base flood, unless the levee or floodwall protects
agricultural land only;
         (c)   Must meet state and federal levee engineering and construction
standards, and be publically owned and maintained if it protects structures of
more than one landowner; and
         (d)   For any increase in the elevation of the base flood, an
alteration of the regulated flood hazard area requires approvals pursuant to §
153.037.
      (2)   Stream bank stabilization, pier, and abutment protection projects:
         (a)   Must be designed and constructed using methods and materials
that are the least environmentally damaging yet practicable, and should be
designed to withstand a base flood once the project’s vegetative components are
mature within a period of up to five years, or other time as required by the
Floodplain Administrator. Once vegetation is mature and established, it should
not require substantial yearly maintenance after the initial period;
         (b)   Materials for the project may be designed to erode over time,
but not fail catastrophically and impact others. Erosion, sedimentation, and
transport of the materials may be designed to be at least similar in amount and
rate of existing stable natural stream banks during the base flood;
         (c)   Must not increase erosion upstream, downstream, across from, or
adjacent to the site in excess of the existing stable natural stream bank
during the base flood; and
         (d)   Materials for the project may include, but are not limited to,
riprap, root wads, brush mattresses, willow wattles, natural woody debris, or
combinations of analogous materials.
      (3)   Channelization projects where the excavation and/or construction of
an channel is for the purpose of diverting the entire, or a portion of, the
flow of a stream from its established course, the project must:
         (a)   Not increase the magnitude, velocity, or elevation of the base
flood; and
         (b)   Meet the requirements of §
153.087(2) above.
      (4)   Dams:
         (a)   The design and construction shall be in accordance with the
state Dam Safety Act and applicable safety standards; and
         (b)   The project shall not increase flood hazards downstream, either
through operational procedures or improper hydrologic/hydraulic design.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(9.13))
Federal reference:
   Flood control and stream bank stabilization, see C.F.R. § 60.3(a)(3), C.F.R.
§ 60.3(d)(3)
Statutory reference:
   Flood control and stream bank stabilization, see ARM § 36.15.101(7), ARM §
36.15.505(1)(c)(ii) and (iii), ARM § 36.15.606, ARM § 36.15.606(1)(a), ARM §
36.15.606(1)(b), ARM § 36.15.606(1)(c), ARM § 36.15.606(1)(d), ARM § 36.15.606
(2)(a)
§ 153.088 STREAM, BANK RESTORATION.
   Projects intended to reestablish the terrestrial and aquatic attributes of a
natural stream, and not for protection of a structure or development, provided,
in addition to the requirements of §
153.076, that:
   (A)   The project will not increase velocity or erosion upstream,
downstream, across from, or adjacent to the site;
   (B)   Materials may include, but are not limited to, boulders, rock cobble,
gravel, native stream bed materials, root wads, brush mattresses, willow
wattles, natural woody debris, or combinations of analogous materials, and that
reasonably replicates the bed and bank of the natural stream;
   (C)   Erosion, sedimentation, and transport of the materials are not more
than the amount and rate of existing natural stream banks during the base
flood; and
   (D)   The project may be designed to allow vegetative materials to mature
within a period up to five years, or other time as required by the Floodplain
Administrator. Once vegetation is mature and established, it should not require
substantial yearly maintenance after the initial period.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(9.14))
Statutory reference:
   Stream and bank restoration in the floodway, see ARM § 36.15.606(1)(b)
§ 153.089 EXISTING RESIDENTIAL, NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS IN FLOODWAY.
   Any alteration or substantial improvement to an existing building must meet
the requirements of §
153.076, and the applicable requirements in §§
153.100 through
153.103 for residential or non-residential buildings.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(9.15))
Statutory reference:
   Existing residential and non-residential buildings in the floodway, see MCA
§ 76-5-404(3)(b)
DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS; FLOOD FRINGE
§ 153.100 USES REQUIRING PERMITS.
   (A)   All uses allowed by permit in the floodway shall also be allowed by
permit within the flood fringe or regulated flood hazard area with no floodway.
Such uses are subject to the requirements in §§
153.075 through
153.089, with the exception of the encroachment limit of §
153.076(B)(2). Instead, such uses are subject to the encroachment limits of §
153.101(I).
   (B)   Except for prohibited artificial obstructions in §
153.041, all other artificial obstructions, including new construction,
substantial improvements, alterations to residential and non-residential
structures, including manufactured homes, and related suitable fill or
excavation, shall be allowed by permit, and are subject to the requirements in
this section and §
153.076, with the exception of the encroachment limit of §
153.076(B)(2).
(Prior Code, § 11-2(10.1))
Statutory reference:
   Uses requiring permits in the flood fringe, see ARM § 36.15.701(2)
§ 153.101 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   An application for a floodplain permit must demonstrate or meet the
following applicable requirements.
   (A)   Base flood elevation. Where necessary to meet the appropriate
elevation requirement in these regulations, the base flood elevation(s) must be
determined by an engineer and utilized in the design and layout of the project,
demonstrating the design and construction criteria herein are met. For
regulated flood hazard areas that do not have computed and published base flood
elevations in the adopted flood hazard study referenced in §
153.035, a base flood elevation must be determined or obtained from a reliable
source, utilizing appropriate engineering methods and analyses.
   (B)   Flood damage. Structures must be constructed by methods and practices
that minimize flood damage and structures must be reasonably safe from
flooding.
   (C)   Surface drainage. Adequate surface drainage must be provided around
structures.
   (D)   Materials. Structures must be constructed with materials resistant to
flood damage.
   (E)   Artificial obstructions. Structures, excavation, or fill must not be
prohibited by any other statute, regulation, ordinance, or resolution, and must
be compatible with subdivision, zoning, and any other land use regulations, if
any.
   (F)   Anchoring. All construction and substantial improvements must be
designed and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
   (G)   Certification. Certification by an engineer, architect, land surveyor,
or other qualified person must accompany the application where required,
including for an encroachment analysis, adequacy of structural elevations, base
flood elevation determinations, flood proofing, enclosure flood openings and
design, and construction to withstand the hydrodynamic forces and hydrostatic
pressures of flood depths, velocities, impact, buoyancy, uplift forces
associated with the base flood and surface drainage. A certification is not
intended to constitute a warranty or guarantee of performance, expressed or
implied.
   (H)   Access. Structures must have safe access during times of flooding up
to the base flood for ordinary and emergency services, provided there are no
reasonable alternate locations for structures.
   (I)   Encroachment analysis.
      (1)   All applications in the regulated flood hazard area without a
floodway must be supported by an encroachment analysis of the proposed use, a
thorough hydrologic and hydraulic analysis, except as provided in following
division (I)(4) below, prepared by an engineer to demonstrate the effect of the
structure on flood flows, velocities, and the base flood elevation.
      (2)   The maximum allowable encroachment is certified to be at, or less
than, half a foot increase to the base flood elevation, unless approval of an
alteration of the regulated flood hazard area pursuant to §
153.037, and an approved FEMA Conditional Letter of Map Revision occurs before
permit issuance.
      (3)   An encroachment analysis is not required for any development in the
flood fringe where an accompanying floodway has been designated within the
regulated flood hazard area.
      (4)   Although all other development standards herein apply, a minimal or
qualitative encroachment analysis may be accepted when the project or
development does not require a structure alteration of the floodplain, involve
fill, grading, excavation, or storage of materials or equipment, and also is
certified by an engineer to not exceed the allowable encroachment.
   (J)   Electrical systems flood proofing. All electrical service materials,
equipment, and installation for uses in a regulated flood hazard area must be
certified to meet the following requirements.
      (1)   All incoming power service equipment, including all metering
equipment, control centers, transformers, distribution and lighting panels, and
all other stationary equipment, must be located at least two feet above the
base flood elevation.
      (2)   Portable and movable electrical equipment may be placed below the
base flood elevation, provided that the equipment can be disconnected by a
single plug and socket assembly of the submersible type.
      (3)   The main power service lines must have automatically operated
electrical disconnect equipment, or manually operated electrical disconnect
equipment, located at an accessible remote location outside the regulated flood
hazard area, or two feet above the base flood elevation.
      (4)   All electrical wiring systems installed below the base flood
elevation must be suitable for continuous submergence, and may not contain
fibrous components.
   (K)   Heating and cooling systems; flood proofing. Heating and cooling
systems, for uses in a regulated flood hazard area, must be certified to meet
the following requirements.
      (1)   Float operated automatic control valves must be installed so that
fuel supply is automatically shut off when floodwaters reach the floor level
where the heating and cooling systems are located.
      (2)   Manually operated gate valves must be installed in gas supply
lines. The gate valves must be operable from a location above the base flood
elevation.
      (3)   Electrical systems flood proofing must be met.
      (4)   Furnaces and cooling units must be installed at least two feet
above the base flood elevation and the ductwork installed above the base flood
elevation.
   (L)   Plumbing systems flood proofing. Plumbing systems for uses in the
regulated flood hazard area must be certified to meet the following
requirements.
      (1)   Sewer lines, except those to a buried and sealed vault, must have
check valves installed to prevent sewage backup into permitted structures.
      (2)   All toilets, stools, sinks, urinals, vaults, and drains must be
located so the lowest point of possible floodwater entry is at least two feet
above the base flood elevation.
   (M)   Structural fill flood proofing. Fill used to elevate structures
including, but not limited to, residential and non-residential buildings must
be certified to meet the following requirements.
      (1)   The filled area must be at or above the base flood elevation and
extend at least 15 feet beyond the structure in all directions.
      (2)   Fill material must be suitable fill that is stable, compacted, well
graded, and pervious, not adversely affected by water and frost, devoid of
trash or similar foreign matter, tree stumps or other organic material, and is
fitting for the purpose of supporting the intended use and/or permanent
structure.
      (3)   The fill must be compacted to minimize settlement, and compacted to
95% of the maximum density. Compaction of earthen fill must be certified by a
engineer.
      (4)   No portion of the fill is allowed within the floodway.
      (5)   The fill slope must not be steeper than one and a half horizontal
to one vertical, unless substantiating data justifying a steeper slope is
provided, and adequate erosion protection is provided for fill slopes exposed
to floodwaters.
   (N)   Wet flood proofing. Building designs with an enclosure below the
lowest floor must be certified to meet the following.
      (1)   Materials used for walls and floors are resistant to flooding to an
elevation two feet or more above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   The enclosure must be designed to equalize hydrostatic forces on
walls by allowing for entry and exit of floodwaters. Opening designs must
either be certified by an engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the
following.
         (a)   Automatically allow entry and exit of floodwaters through
screens, louvers, valves, and other coverings or devices.
         (b)   Have two or more openings with a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area below the lowest
floor, except if the enclosure is partially subgrade, a minimum of two openings
may be provided on a single wall.
         (c)   Have the bottom of all openings no higher than one foot above
the higher of the exterior or interior adjacent grade or floor immediately
below the openings (NFIP Insurance Manual, Rev. May 2013).
   (O)   Dry flood proofing. Building designs that do not allow internal
flooding must be certified according to these regulations to meet the
following.
      (1)   Building use must be for non-residential use only, and does not
include mixed residential and non-residential use.
      (2)   Flood proofed to an elevation no lower than two feet above the base
flood elevation.
      (3)   Constructed of impermeable membranes or materials for floors and
walls, and have water-tight enclosures for all windows, doors, and other
openings.
      (4)   Designed to withstand the hydrostatic pressures and hydrodynamic
forces resulting from the base flood and the effects of buoyancy.
   (P)   Elevation of the lowest floor. Elevating the lowest floor may be by
either suitable fill, foundation wall enclosure, stem walls, pilings, posts,
piers, columns, or other acceptable means.
   (Q)   Crawl spaces. Crawl space foundation enclosures, including subgrade
crawlspace enclosures below the lowest floor, must meet the wet flood proofing
requirements, and be designed so that the crawl space floor is at or above the
base flood elevation. Crawl space foundations must have an inside dimension of
not more than five feet from the ground to the top of the living floor level,
and a subgrade crawlspace must also have the interior ground surface no more
than two feet below the exterior lowest adjacent ground surface on all sides. A
subgrade foundation exceeding either dimension is a basement.
   (R)   Manufactured home anchors. For new placement, substantial improvement,
or replacement of manufactured homes for residential or non-residential use,
including additions, the chassis must be secure and must resist flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement by anchoring with anchoring components capable of
carrying a force of 4,800 pounds and as follows.
      (1)   For manufactured homes less than 50 feet long, over-the-top ties to
ground anchors are required at each of the four corners of the home, with two
additional ties per side at intermediate locations.
      (2)   For manufactured homes more than 50 feet long, frame ties to ground
anchors are required at each corner of the home with five additional ties per
side at intermediate points.
   (S)   Access. Access for emergency vehicles is provided. For manufactured
homes, access for a manufactured home hauler is also provided.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(10.2))
Statutory references:
   General requirements for a floodplain application in the flood fringe, see
ARM § 36.15.101(22), ARM § 36.15.505, ARM § 36.15.604, ARM § 36.15.606(1), ARM
§ 36.15.701(3)(a), ARM § 36.15.701(3)(b), ARM § 36.15.702(2)(a), ARM §
36.15.702(2)(b), ARM § 36.15.702(2)(c); ARM § 36.15.801(3)(b), ARM § 36.15.901
(1)(a), ARM § 36.15.901(1)(b), ARM § 36.15.901(1)(c), ARM § 36.15.901(1)(d),
ARM § 36.15.902(1)(a), ARM § 36.15.902(1)(b), ARM § 36.15.902(1)(c), ARM §
36.15.903(1)(a), ARM § 36.15.903(1)(b), MCA § 76-5-402(2)(b)
Federal references:
   General requirements for a floodplain application in the flood fringe, see
44 C.F.R. § 60.3(a), 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(a)(3)(iii), 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(8), 44
C.F.R. § 60.3(c)(3) and (4), 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(c)(5), 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(c)(6), 44
C.F.R. § 60.3(c)(13), 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(d)(3)
§ 153.102 RESIDENTIAL BUILDING; EXCEPTIONS OR ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   New construction, alterations, and substantial improvements of residential
dwellings and manufactured homes, including replacement of manufactured homes,
must be constructed such that:
   (A)   Elevation of the lowest floor. The lowest floor of the building,
including an attached garage or basement, must be two feet or more above the
base flood elevation;
   (B)   Enclosures. Enclosures of elevated buildings cannot be dry flood
proofed. Use for an enclosure is limited to facilitating building component
access. The enclosure, including a crawlspace, must be wet flood proofed, and
the enclosure floor must be at or above the base flood elevation. An attached
garage floor must be two or more feet above the base flood elevation; and
   (C)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles on site for more than 180
days, or not ready for highway use, must meet the requirements for manufactured
homes for residential use.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(10.3))
Statutory reference:
   Exceptions and additional requirements for residential buildings, see ARM §
36.15.701(3)
§ 153.103 NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING; EXCEPTIONS OR ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   New construction, alterations, and substantial improvements of non-
residential buildings, including agricultural, commercial, and industrial
buildings, and residential and non-residential accessory buildings must be
constructed such that:
   (A)   Elevation of the lowest floor. The lowest floor of the building must
be elevated two feet above the base flood elevation, or adequately dry flood
proofed according to this section. The lowest floor may be wet proofed,
provided the use is limited to only parking, loading, and storage of equipment
or materials not appreciably affected by floodwater;
   (B)   Enclosures. Enclosures below the lowest floor on elevated buildings
must be wet flood proofed, and the use must be limited to parking, access, or
storage, or must be adequately dry flood proofed according to this subchapter;
   (C)   Manufactured homes. Manufactured homes proposed for use as non-
residential buildings cannot be dry flood proofed; and
   (D)   Agricultural structures. Agricultural structures not intended to be
insurable, used solely for agricultural purposes, having low flood damage
potential, used exclusively in connection with the production, harvesting,
storage, drying, or raising of agricultural commodities, including raising of
livestock, and not intended for human habitation are exempt from the elevation
requirement, dry or wet flood proofing, but shall:
      (1)   Be located on higher ground and as far from the channel as
possible;
      (2)   Offer minimal obstruction to flood flows;
      (3)   Be adequately anchored to prevent flotation or collapse;
      (4)   Where electrical, heating, and plumbing systems are installed, meet
the flood proofing requirements in §
153.101(J), (K), (L), and (M); and
      (5)   Meet the elevation or dry flood proofing requirements if the
structure is an animal confinement facility.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(10.4))
Federal reference:
   Exceptions and additional requirements for non-residential buildings, see 44
C.F.R. § 60.3(c)(3)(ii),    44 C.F.R. § 60.3(c)(3)(4)
Statutory reference:
   Exceptions and additional requirements for non-residential buildings, see
ARM § 36.15.602(9), ARM    § 36.15.701(3)(e), ARM § 36.15.702(2)
VARIANCES
§ 153.115 GENERAL.
   A variance from the minimum development standards of these regulations may
be allowed. An approved variance would permit construction in a manner
otherwise as required or prohibited by these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(12.1))
Federal reference:
   Variances, general standards, see 44 C.F.R. § 59.1
Statutory reference:
   Variances, general standards, see ARM § 36.15.218
§ 153.116 VARIANCE APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to any consideration of a variance from any development standard
in these regulations, a completed floodplain permit application and required
supporting material must be submitted.
   (B)   Additionally, supporting materials in a variance application specific
to the variance request, including facts and information addressing the
criteria in this subchapter, must be submitted.
   (C)   If the floodplain permit application and variance application is
deemed not correct and complete, the Floodplain Administrator shall notify the
applicant of deficiencies within a reasonable time not to exceed 30 days. Under
no circumstances should it be assumed that the variance is automatically
granted.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(12.2))
§ 153.117 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS FOR APPLICATION.
   Public notice of the floodplain permit application and variance application
shall be given pursuant to §
153.058.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(12.3))
§ 153.118 EVALUATION OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   A floodplain permit and variance shall only be issued upon a
determination that the variance is the minimum allowance necessary considering
the flood hazard to afford relief from these regulations, and provided all of
the following criteria are met:
      (1)   There is a good and sufficient cause. Financial hardship is not a
good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   Failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship
to the applicant;
      (3)   Residential and non-residential buildings are not in the floodway
except for alterations or substantial improvement to existing buildings.
Residential dwellings, including basements and attached garages, do not have
the lowest floor elevation below the base flood elevation;
      (4)   Any enclosure including a crawl space, must meet the requirements
of §
153.101(N) if the enclosure interior grade is at or below the base flood
elevation;
      (5)   Granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights
to existing buildings, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with other existing local laws or ordinances;
      (6)   The proposed use is adequately flood proofed;
      (7)   The variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood
hazard, to afford relief;
      (8)   Reasonable alternative locations are not available;
      (9)   An encroachment does not cause an increase to the base flood
elevation that is beyond that allowed in these regulations; and
      (10)   All other criteria for a floodplain permit, besides the specific
development standard requested by variance, are met.
   (B)   An exception to the variance criteria may be allowed as follows:
      (1)   For either new construction of a structure outside of the floodway
only, or for substantial improvements or an alteration of a structure on a lot
of one-half acres or less that is contiguous to, and surrounded by, lots with
existing structures, constructed below the base flood elevation; or
      (2)   For historic structures, variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure, and the variance is the minimum relief
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure. The
historic nature of the building must be designated as a preliminary or historic
structure by the U.S. Secretary of Interior, or an approved state or local
government historic preservation program.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(12.4))
Federal reference:
   Evaluation of application for a floodplain permit and variance, see 44
C.F.R. § 60.6(a), 44 C.F.R. § 60.6(a)(1), 44 C.F.R. § 60.6(a)(3), 44 C.F.R. §
60.6(a)(4) 
Statutory reference:
   Evaluation of application for a floodplain permit and variance, see ARM §
36.15.218(a), ARM     § 36.15.218(b), ARM § 36.15.218(c), ARM § 36.15.218(d),
MCA § 76-5-406(3)
§ 153.119 DECISION.
   The Town Council shall:
   (A)   Evaluate the floodplain permit application and variance application
using the criteria in §
153.118, and the application requirements and minimum development standards in
§
153.076 and §
153.101;
   (B)   Make findings, and conditionally approve or deny a floodplain permit
and variance within 60 days of a complete application;
   (C)   If approved, attach conditions to the approval of the floodplain
permit and variance, including a project completion date and inspections during
and after construction;
   (D)   Notify the applicant that the issuance of a floodplain permit and
variance to construct a structure not meeting the minimum building requirements
in these regulations may result in increased premium rates for flood insurance,
and that flood insurance premiums are determined by actuarial risk, and will
not be modified by the granting of a variance; and
   (E)   Submit to the Floodplain Administrator a record of all actions
involving a floodplain permit and variance, including the findings and
decision, and send a copy of each variance granted to DNRC.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(12.5))
Federal reference:
   Town Council’s decision on a variance, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.6(a), 44 C.F.R. §
60.6(a)(6)
Statutory reference:
   Town Council’s decision on a variance, see MCA § 76-5-405
§ 153.120 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any person or persons aggrieved by the floodplain permit and variance
decision may appeal such decision in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(12.6))
ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS
§ 153.130 GENERAL.
   An administrative appeal may be brought before the Town Council for review
of the Floodplain Administrator’s order, decision to grant, condition, or deny
a floodplain permit, or interpretation of the regulated flood hazard area
boundary.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(13.1))
§ 153.131 APPEALS REQUIREMENTS.
   The following provisions apply to administrative appeals:
   (A)   An appeal shall include the basis of the appeal and supporting
information, including specific findings and conclusions of the Floodplain
Administrator’s decision being appealed;
   (B)   An appeal may be submitted by an applicant and/or anyone who may be
aggrieved by the Floodplain Administrator’s decision or order;
   (C)   Appeals must be received within 30 days of the date of the decision or
order of the Floodplain Administrator; and
   (D)   Additional information specific to the appeal request may be requested
by the review panel.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(13.2))
§ 153.132 NOTICE AND HEARING.
   (A)   Notice of the pending appeal and hearing shall be provided pursuant to
§
153.058. The Floodplain Administrator may notify DNRC and FEMA of pending
appeals.
   (B)   A public hearing on the appeal must be held within 30 days of the
notice, unless set otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(13.3))
§ 153.133 DECISION.
   A judgment on an appeal shall be made within 30 days of the hearing unless
set otherwise. The decision may affirm, modify, or overturn the Floodplain
Administrator’s decision. A decision on an appeal of a permit cannot grant or
issue a variance. A decision may support, reverse, or remand an order or
determination of a boundary of the regulated flood hazard area by the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(13.4))
§ 153.134 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision on an administrative appeal
may appeal such decision in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(13.5))
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of the provisions of these regulations, or failure to comply
with any of the requirements, including failure to obtain permit approval prior
to development in the regulated flood hazard area, except for an emergency,
shall constitute a misdemeanor and may be treated as a public nuisance.
   (C)   Any person who violates these regulations or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than
$100, or imprisoned for not more than ten days, or both. Each day’s continuance
of a violation shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 11-2(15.1))
Statutory reference:
   Violations of the floodplain, see MCA § 76-5-110
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Definitions
   
154.02   Purpose
   
154.03   Jurisdiction
   
154.04   General procedures; preliminary plats
   
154.05   Final plats
   
154.06   Uniform standards; final subdivision plats
   
154.07   Major final plats
   
154.08   Design and improvement standards
   
154.09   Spaces for recreational camping vehicles, mobile homes
   
154.10   Uniform standards; monumentation
   
154.11   Uniform standards; certificates of survey
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.25   Variances
   
154.26   Amendment of regulations
   
154.27   Administration
   
154.28   Subdivision application; preliminary plat submittal
   
154.29   Review process
   
154.30   Public hearing and notice
   
154.31   Planning Board hearing, consideration, recommendation
   
154.32   Subdivider’s preference; mitigation
   
154.33   Town Council meeting
   
154.34   Amended applications
Major and Minor Subdivisions; Condominiums
   
154.45   Major subdivisions
   
154.46   Review and approval procedures
   
154.47   Planned developments
   
154.48   Expedited review; minor subdivisions
   
154.49   Condominiums
Exemptions
   
154.60   Divisions of land exempt from subdivision review
   
154.61   Divisions of land exempt from review and surveying
   
154.62   Land exempt from review; subject to survey requirements; zoning
regulations
   
154.63   Relocation of common boundary
   
154.64   Relocation of common boundary; platted subdivision
   
154.65   Gift or sale; member of immediate family
   
154.66   Divisions of land; agricultural use
   
154.67   Review and procedure
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS (LEGAL AND PHYSICAL). LEGAL ACCESS means that each lot in a
subdivision either abuts a public (city, county, state, or federal) street or
road, or that the subdivider has obtained adequate and appropriate easements
across all necessary properties, from a public road to each lot in the
subdivision, whether or not a road has been constructed on that property, and
has dedicated the easement or private road for public use. PHYSICAL ACCESS
means that a street or road conforming to the subdivision design standards
provides vehicular access to each lot in the subdivision, either from a public
street or road, from a road constructed to local road standards in the obtained
easements which is dedicated to public use, or from a private road improved to
local road standards which has been dedicated to public use.
   ADJOINING LANDOWNER (ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNER). The owner of record of a
parcel of land that is contiguous at any point, or land that is separated from
the parcel by a road, watercourse, or deeded right-of-way.
   AGRICULTURE. All aspects of farming or ranching, including the cultivation
or tilling of soil; dairying; the production, cultivation, growing, harvesting
of agricultural or horticultural commodities; raising of livestock, bees, fur-
bearing animals, or poultry; and any practices including forestry or lumbering
operations, including preparation for market, or delivery to storage, to
market, or to carriers for transportation to market.
   AGRICULTURAL WATER USER FACILITIES. Facilities which provide water for
irrigation or stock watering to agricultural lands for the production of
agricultural products. These facilities include, but are not limited to,
ditches, head gates, pipes, and other water conveying facilities.
   BLOCK. A group of lots, tracts, or parcels within well-defined and fixed
boundaries.
   CERTIFICATE OF SURVEY. A drawing of a field survey prepared by a
professional land surveyor for the purpose of disclosing facts pertaining to
boundary locations.
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. A subdivision with lots clustered in a group of five or
more that is designed to concentrate building sites on smaller lots while
allowing other lands to remain undeveloped. (MCA § 76-3-103(2))
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN, MASTER PLAN, OR GROWTH POLICY. A COMPREHENSIVE
DEVELOPMENT PLAN, MASTER PLAN, or COMPREHENSIVE PLAN that was adopted pursuant
to MCA Title 76, Chapter 1, before October 1, 1999, or a policy that was
adopted pursuant to MCA Title 76, Chapter 1, on or after October 1, 1999.
   CONDOMINIUM. A form of individual ownership with unrestricted right of
disposal of one or more units in a multiple unit project, with the land and
other parts of the project held in common ownership or use with owners of the
other units, pursuant to MCA Title 70, Chapter 23.
   COVENANT (RESTRICTIVE COVENANT). A limitation contained in a deed or other
document that restricts or regulates the use of the real property.
   DEDICATION. The deliberate appropriation of land by an owner for any general
and public use, reserving to the landowner no rights that are incompatible with
the full exercise and enjoyment of the public use to which the property has
been devoted.
(MCA § 76-3-103(3))
   DEQ. The Montana Department of Environmental Quality.
   DIVISION OF LAND. The segregation of one or more parcels of land from a
larger tract held in single or undivided ownership by transferring, or
contracting to transfer, title to, or possession of, a portion of the tract, or
properly filing a certificate of survey or subdivision plat establishing the
identity of the segregated parcels, pursuant to the MSPA. The conveyance of a
tract of record or an entire parcel of land that was created by a previous
division of land is not a DIVISION OF LAND.
(MCA § 76-3-103(4))
   DWELLING UNIT. Any structure or portion thereof providing complete,
independent, and permanent living facilities for one household.
   EASEMENT. Authorization by a property owner for another to use, or
restriction on the right of the owner to use all or a portion of the owner’s
property for a specified purpose.
   ENGINEER (PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER). A person licensed in conformance with the
State’s Engineers’ and Land Surveyors’ Act (MCA Title 37, Chapter 67) to
practice engineering in the state.
   FLOOD. The water of any watercourse or drainage which is above the bank or
outside the channel and banks of such watercourse or drainage.
(MCA § 76-5-103 (8))
   FLOOD OF 100-YEAR FREQUENCY. A flood magnitude which has a 1% chance of
occurring in any given year, or is a flood magnitude which is expected to recur
on the average of once every 100 years.
(MCA § 76-5-103 (9))
   FLOODPLAIN. The area adjoining the watercourse or drainage that would be
covered by the floodwater of a flood of 100-year frequency.
(MCA § 76-5-103 (10))
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a watercourse or drainage, and those portions of
the floodplain adjoining the channel, that are reasonably required to carry and
discharge the floodwater of any watercourse or drainage.
(MCA § 76-5-103 (11))
   GOVERNING BODY. The governing authority of the town organized pursuant to
law.
(MCA § 76-3-103 (7))
   IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT. A contractual agreement that may be required by the
Town Council to ensure the construction of such improvements as required by
local subdivision regulations. The IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT may require collateral
to secure the construction of such improvements, such as the deposit of
certified funds, irrevocable letters of credit, performance or property bonds,
private or public escrow agreements, or similar financial guarantees.
   LANDOWNER. All individuals, groups, or parties with a title interest in the
property. For purposes of MCA § 76-3-207, when a parcel of land for which an
exemption from subdivision review is claimed is being conveyed under a
contract-for-deed, the terms PROPERTY OWNER, LANDOWNER, and OWNER mean the
seller of the parcel under the contract-for-deed. For all other purposes of
these regulations, the terms PROPERTY OWNER, LANDOWNER, and OWNER mean both the
seller and the purchaser under a contract for deed.
(ARM § 24.183.1104)
   LOCAL SERVICES. Any and all services that local governments, public or
private, utilities are authorized to provide for the benefit of their citizens.
   LOT. A parcel, plot, or other land area created by subdivision for sale,
rent, or lease.
   LOT MEASUREMENT.
      (1)   LOT AREA. The area of a lot determined exclusive of street,
highway, alley, road, or other rights-of-way or access easements;
      (2)   LOT DEPTH. The length of a line drawn perpendicularly to the front
lot line and extending to the rear lot line;
      (3)   LOT FRONTAGE. The width of the front lot line; and
      (4)   LOT WIDTH. The average width of the lot.
   LOT TYPES.
      (1)   CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two streets;
      (2)   FLAG LOT. A lot of irregular shape, the bulk of which is normally
situated to the rear of other lots, having as its frontage and access a drive
connecting it to a street;
      (3)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot with frontage on only one street; and
      (4)   THROUGH OR DOUBLE-FRONTAGE LOT. A lot whose front and rear lines
both abut on streets.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. A subdivision that creates six or more lots.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. A subdivision that creates five or fewer lots.
   MOBILE (MANUFACTURED) HOME. A detached residential dwelling unit, which may
consist of two or more sections, fabricated at a factory and designed to be
towed on its own chassis to a building site for occupation as a dwelling with
or without a permanent foundation. The term includes, but is not limited to,
TRAILER HOMES, HOUSE TRAILERS, and MANUFACTURED HOMES whether or not the unit
has been constructed after July 1, 1976, in conformance with Federal
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards. The term does not include
“modular” or “factory-built buildings” that are fabricated at a factory in
accordance with the Uniform Building Code Standards applicable to site-built
homes, and are transported to the site for final assembly on a permanent
foundation.
   MOBILE (MANUFACTURED) HOME PAD. Area of a mobile home space which has been
prepared for the placement of a mobile home.
   MOBILE (MANUFACTURED) HOME PARK. A tract of land that provides, or will
provide, spaces for two or more mobile homes.
   MOBILE (MANUFACTURED) HOME SPACE. A designated portion of a parcel of land
designed for the accommodation of one mobile home and its accessory buildings
or structures for the exclusive use of the occupants.
   MONTANA DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY MINIMUM STANDARDS. Minimum
standards promulgated by the state Department of Environmental Quality,
pursuant to MCA § 75-5-101 et seq.
   MONUMENT (PERMANENT MONUMENT). Any structure of masonry, metal, or other
permanent, durable material placed in the ground, which is exclusively
identifiable as a monument to a survey point, expressly placed for surveying
reference.
   MSPA. Montana Subdivision and Platting Act, MCA Title 76, Chapter 3.
   NATURAL ENVIRONMENT. The physical conditions which exist within a given
area, including land, air, water, mineral, flora, fauna, sound, light, and
objects of historic and aesthetic significance.
   OPEN SPACE. Land or water areas retained for use as active or passive
recreation areas or for resource protection in an essentially undeveloped
state.
   OVERALL DEVELOPMENT PLAN. The plan of a subdivision design proposed to be
subdivided in stages.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (P.U.D.). A land development project consisting of
residential clusters, industrial parks, shopping centers, or office building
parks that compose a planned mixture of land uses, built in a prearranged
relationship to each other, and having open space and community facilities in
common ownership or use.
(MCA § 76-3-103 (11))
   PLANNING BOARD. A PLANNING BOARD formed pursuant to MCA Title 76, Chapter 1.
   PLAT. A graphical representation of a subdivision showing the division of
land into lots, parcels, blocks, streets, alleys, and other divisions and
dedications.
      (1)   AMENDED PLAT. The final drawing of any change to a filed platted
subdivision, or any lots within a filed platted subdivision.
      (2)   FINAL PLAT. The final drawing of the subdivision and dedication
required to be prepared for filing for record with the County Clerk and
Recorder, containing all elements and requirements set forth in these
regulations and the MSPA.
(MCA Title 76, Chapter 3).
      (3)   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A neat and scaled drawing of a proposed
subdivision showing the layout of streets, alleys, lots, blocks, and other
elements of a subdivision that furnish a basis for review by the county
Planning Board and Town Council, as more specifically set forth in these
regulations and the MSPA.
      (4)   VACATED PLAT. A plat which has been voided under the provisions of
MCA §§ 76-3-305, 7-5-2501, 7-5-2502, 7-14-2616(1) and/or (2), 7-14-2617, 7-14-
4114(1) and/or (2), and 7-14-4115.
   PRE-APPLICATION SKETCH (OR DRAWING). A legible drawing showing approximate
boundaries, dimensions, areas, distances, and other pertinent information of a
proposed subdivision, all as more particularly set forth in §
154.04(D).
   PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY. The prevailing healthful, sanitary condition of
well being for the community at large. Conditions that relate to PUBLIC HEALTH
AND SAFETY include, but are not limited to: disease control and prevention;
emergency services; environmental health; flooding, fire or wildfire hazards,
rock falls or landslides, unstable soils, steep slopes, and other natural
hazards; high voltage lines or high pressure gas lines; and air or vehicular
traffic safety hazards.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any structure or facility constructed to serve more than
one lot in a subdivision which is dedicated to the public, or otherwise
acquired by a government entity, for public use. Examples of typical PUBLIC
IMPROVEMENTS include parks, streets or roads, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, and
street lighting, utilities, and systems for water supply, sewage disposal,
drainage, or fire protection.
   PUBLIC ROAD OR STREET. A road or street is public if its right-of-way has
been dedicated or acquired for public use.
   PRIVATE IMPROVEMENT. Private improvements are the same types of improvements
as defined under PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS, except the structure or facility has not
been dedicated to the public or otherwise acquired by a government entity for
public use.
   PRIVATE ROAD. A road is private if its right-of-way has neither been
dedicated nor acquired for public use. A private road may be open to use by the
general public or public access may be restricted.
   RECREATIONAL CAMPING VEHICLE. A vehicular-type unit primarily designed as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use that either
has its own motor power or is mounted on, or drawn by, another vehicle.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. A tract of land available to, and principally
used by, the public for camping, where persons can park recreational vehicles
for camping and sleeping purposes.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SPACE. A designated portion of a recreational vehicle
park designed for the placement of a single recreational vehicle and the
exclusive use of its occupants.
   REVIEWING AUTHORITY. The DEQ or local Board of Health or Sanitarian as
authorized under MCA Title 76, Chapter 4.
   RIGHTS-OF-WAY. A linear public way established or dedicated for public
purposes by a duly recorded plat, deed, easement, grant, prescription,
condemnation, governmental authority, or by operation of law intended to be
occupied by a street, non-motorized vehicle path, railroad, electric
transmission lines, water line, sanitary sewer line, storm sewer line, or other
similar uses.
   STATE. The state of Montana.
   STREET TYPES. For purposes of these regulations, street types are defined as
follows.
      (1)   ALLEY. A public or private way reserved as a secondary means of
access to the rear or side of lots which abut on, and are served by, public
roads.
      (2)   ARTERIAL. A street or road having the primary function of moving
traffic with emphasis on a high level of mobility for through movement, and the
secondary function of providing access to adjacent land. ARTERIALS generally
carry relatively large volumes of traffic. ARTERIALS have two to four lanes of
moving traffic and should provide only limited access to abutting property.
      (3)   COLLECTOR. A street or road having the equally important functions
of moving traffic and providing access to adjacent land. COLLECTOR STREETS have
two moving traffic lanes, and up to two parking lanes.
      (4)   CUL-DE-SAC. A street having only one outlet for vehicular traffic
and terminating in a turn-around area.
      (5)   FRONTAGE ACCESS (SERVICE ROAD). A local or collector street,
usually parallel and adjacent to an arterial or major collector, which provides
access to abutting properties and controls traffic access to arterials or
collectors.
      (6)   HALF-STREET. A portion of the width of a street, usually located
along the perimeter of a subdivision, the remaining portion of which street
must be located on adjacent property if the street is to be fully constructed.
      (7)   LOCAL STREETS. A street or road having the primary function of
serving abutting properties, and the secondary function of moving traffic.
LOCAL STREETS have two moving lanes of traffic, up to two parking lanes, and
provide access to abutting properties.
      (8)   LOOP. A local street which begins and ends on the same street,
generally used for access to properties.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm, or corporation, or other entity which causes
land to be subdivided, or which proposes a subdivision of land. When used in
these regulations, the term SUBDIVIDER may also include the property purchaser
on a contract-for-deed or its agent, or the landowner’s agent, if the landowner
has provided the Subdivision Administrator written notification that the
landowner’s agent is authorized to act on the landowner’s behalf, and to
receive notices regarding local government decisions concerning the
subdivision.
(MCA § 76-3-103(15))
   SUBDIVISION. A division of land, or land so divided, which creates one or
more parcels containing less than 160 acres that cannot be described as a one-
quarter aliquot part of a United States government section, exclusive of public
roadways, in order that the title to, or possession of, the parcels may be
sold, rented, leased, or otherwise conveyed, and includes any re-subdivision,
and further includes a condominium or area, regardless of its size, that
provides, or will provide, multiple space for recreational camping vehicles or
mobile homes.
(MCA § 76-3-103(16))
   SUBDIVISION ADMINISTRATOR. The person or persons authorized by the Town
Council to perform the duties of review and administration set forth in these
regulations.
   SURVEYOR (PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYOR). A person licensed in conformance with
the Montana Engineers’ and Land Surveyors’ Act to practice surveying in the
state.
(MCA Title 37, Chapter 67)
   SURVEYOR (PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYOR). A professional land surveyor duly
appointed by the Town Council to review surveys and plats submitted for filing.
   SWALE. A drainage channel or depression designed to direct surface water
flow.
   TITLE REPORT (ABSTRACT OF TITLE, SUBDIVISION GUARANTEE, OR PLATTING REPORT).
A report from a title service company on the condition of title to the property
proposed for subdivision, which identifies the owners of record of the
property, lien holders, encumbrances, easements and restrictions of record, and
all other conditions of title of public record, and accompanied by a guarantee
of the accuracy of the report from the title insurance agent or its
underwriter.
   TOPOGRAPHY. General term to include characteristics of the ground surface
such as plains, hills, mountains, slopes, and other physiographic features.
   TOWNHOUSE LOT. Arrangement under which units share a common wall, and
individuals own his or her own units and hold separate title to the land
beneath the unit.
   TRACT OF RECORD. An individual parcel of land, irrespective of ownership,
that can be identified by legal description, independent of any other parcel of
land, using documents on file in the records of the County Clerk and Recorder’s
office.
(MCA § 76-3-103(17)(a))
   VICINITY SKETCH. A map at a scale suitable to locate a proposed subdivision,
showing the boundary lines of all adjacent properties and streets, and other
information necessary to determine the general location of the proposed
subdivision.
   WILDLIFE. Animals that are not domesticated or tamed, or as may be defined
in a growth policy.
   WILDLIFE HABITAT. The place or area where wildlife naturally lives or
travels through.
(Prior Codes, § 11-4-1)
§ 154.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purposes of these regulations are to promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare by regulating the subdivision of land; to prevent
the overcrowding of land; to lessen congestion in the streets and highways; to
provide for adequate light, air, water supply, sewage disposal, parks and
recreation areas, ingress and egress, and other public requirements; to require
development in harmony with the natural environment; to promote preservation of
open space; to promote cluster development approaches that minimize costs to
local citizens, and that promote effective and efficient provision of public
services; to protect the rights of property owners; and to require uniform
monumentation of land subdivisions and transferring interests in real property
by reference to a plat or certificate of survey.
   (B)   These regulations are intended to comply with Part 5 of the MSPA, and
are intended to promote:
      (1)   The orderly development of the jurisdictional area;
      (2)   The coordination of roads within subdivided land with other roads,
both existing and planned;
      (3)   The dedication of land for roadways and for public utility
easements;
      (4)   The improvement of roads;
      (5)   The provision of proper physical and legal access, including
obtaining necessary easements;
      (6)   The provision of adequate open spaces for travel, light, air, and
recreation;
      (7)   The provision of adequate transportation, water, drainage, and
sanitary facilities;
      (8)   The avoidance or minimizing of congestion;
      (9)   The avoidance of subdivisions which would involve unnecessary
environmental degradation;
      (10)   The avoidance of danger or injury by reason of natural hazard, or
the lack of water, drainage, access, transportation, or other public
improvements;
      (11)   The avoidance of excessive expenditure of public funds for the
supply of public improvements and services;
      (12)   The manner and form of making and filing of any plat for
subdivided lands; and
      (13)   The administration of these regulations by defining the powers and
duties of approving authorities, including procedures for the review and
approval of all plats of subdivisions covered by these provisions.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Purpose of the subdivision regulations, see MCA § 76-3-102
§ 154.03 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   These regulations govern the subdivision of land within the
jurisdictional area of the town.
   (B)   If a proposed subdivision lies within one mile of a third-class city
or town, or within two miles of a second-class city, or within three miles of a
first-class city, the Town Council must submit the preliminary plat to the city
or town council(s), or its designated agent, for review and comment. If a
proposed subdivision lies partly within an incorporated city or town, the
preliminary plat must be submitted to, and approved by, both the city or town
and the county governing body.
   (C)   If a proposed subdivision is located in a rural school district, the
Town Council shall provide a summary of the information contained in the
subdivision application and preliminary plat to school district trustees.
   (D)   When a proposed subdivision is also proposed to be annexed to a
municipality, the Town Council will combine public hearings and otherwise
coordinate the subdivision review process and annexation procedures whenever
possible.
   (E)   These regulations supplement all other regulations, and where they are
at variance with other laws, regulations, ordinances, or resolutions, the more
restrictive requirements apply. Other regulations include, but are not limited
to, zoning regulations, floodplain regulations, building codes, development
codes, and fire codes.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-5)
§ 154.04 GENERAL PROCEDURES; PRELIMINARY PLATS.
   (A)   Construction work shall not occur on a proposed subdivision until the
Town Council has given conditional approval of the preliminary plat.
Construction work undertaken prior to the preliminary plat approval subjects
the subdivider to the possibility the work will have to be redone or removed.
In addition, MCA § 76-4-121 regulates subdivision activities.
   (B)   Except as noted below, a final subdivision plat must be filed for
record with the County Clerk and Recorder before title to the subdivided land
can be sold or transferred in any manner. After the preliminary plat of a
subdivision has been approved or conditionally approved, the subdivider may
enter into contracts to sell lots in the proposed subdivision if all of the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   Under the terms of the contracts, the purchasers of lots in the
proposed subdivision make any payments to an escrow agent, which must be a bank
or savings and loan association chartered to do business in the state;
      (2)   Under the terms of the contracts and the escrow agreement, the
payments made by purchasers of lots in the proposed subdivision may not be
distributed by the escrow agent to the subdivider until the final plat of the
subdivision is filed with the County Clerk and Recorder;
      (3)   The contracts and the escrow agreement provide that if the final
plat of the proposed subdivision is not filed with the County Clerk and
Recorder within two years of the preliminary plat approval, the escrow agent
shall immediately refund to each purchaser any payments made under the
contract;
      (4)   The contracts contain the following language conspicuously set out
therein: “The real property which is the subject hereof has not been finally
platted, and until a final plat identifying the property has been filed with
the County Clerk and Recorder, title to the property cannot be transferred in
any manner”;
      (5)   The County Treasurer has certified that all real property taxes and
special assessments assessed and levied on the land to be divided, have been
paid; and
      (6)   A copy of the contracts and escrow agreement described above must
be submitted to the Planning Board (or Subdivision Administrator) within ten
days of the last signature.
   (C)   The Town Council or its designated agent(s), or affected agencies
identified during the pre-application meeting, may investigate, examine, and
evaluate the site of the proposed subdivision to verify information provided by
the subdivider, and to subsequently monitor compliance with any conditions if
the preliminary plat is approved conditionally. The submission of a subdivision
application constitutes a grant of permission by the subdivider for the Town
Council, its agents, and affected agencies to enter the subject property. This
consent applies to members of the public attending a noticed public meeting for
a site visit.
   (D)   Prior to submittal of a subdivision application, the subdivider shall
request a pre-application meeting with the Subdivision Administrator. The
meeting shall occur within 30 days after the subdivider submits a written
request for the meeting to the Subdivision Administrator.
   (E)   At the time of the pre-application meeting request, the subdivider
shall provide to the Subdivision Administrator a sketch of the proposed
subdivision showing the layout of the proposed features in relation to existing
site conditions, and pre-application fee set by resolution.
   (F)   The sketch may be a freehand sketch drawn directly on a print of a
topographic map of the area proposed for division, at a scale of one inch to
400 feet or larger, that is adequate to show the property and must include the
following:
      (1)   Information on the current status of the site, including:
         (a)   Location;
         (b)   Approximate tract and lot boundaries of existing tracts of
record;
         (c)   Description of general terrain;
         (d)   Natural features on the land, including water bodies,
floodplains, geologic hazards, and soil types;
         (e)   Existing structures and improvements;
         (f)   Existing utility lines and facilities serving the area to be
subdivided;
         (g)   Existing easements and rights-of-way;
         (h)   Existing zoning or development regulation standards;
         (i)   Existing conservation easements;
         (j)   Existing covenants or deed restrictions; and
         (k)   Existing noxious weeds.
      (2)   Documentation on the current status of the site, including:
         (a)   Ownership information, such as a deed, option to buy, or buy-
sell agreement, including permission to subdivide;
         (b)   Water rights, including location of agricultural water user
facilities;
         (c)   Any special improvement districts; and
         (d)   Rights of first refusal for the property.
      (3)   Information on the proposed subdivision, including:
         (a)   Tract and proposed lot boundaries;
         (b)   Proposed public and private improvements;
         (c)   Location of utility lines and facilities;
         (d)   Easements and rights of way; and
         (e)   Parks and open space, and proposed conservation easements.
   (G)   The Subdivision Administrator shall identify, for informational
purposes, the state laws, local regulations, and growth policy provisions that
may apply to the subdivision review process including, but not limited to,
zoning regulations and floodplain regulations.
   (H)   The Subdivision Administrator shall provide the subdivider with a list
of public utilities, local, state, and federal agencies, and any other entities
that have an interest in the proposed subdivision and that may be contacted for
comment by the Subdivision Administrator or Planning Board on the subdivision
application. The Subdivision Administrator shall also identify the timeframes
that the public utilities, agencies, and other entities, are given to respond.
   (I)   The Subdivision Administrator may identify particular additional
information he or she anticipates will be required for review of the
subdivision application. This does not limit the ability of the Subdivision
Administrator to request additional information at a later time.
   (J)   Unless the subdivider submits a subdivision application within six
months of this pre-application meeting, the subdivider must request a new pre-
application meeting prior to submitting the subdivision application.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-7)
Statutory reference:
   General procedures for preliminary plats before construction, see MCA § 76-
3-303
§ 154.05 FINAL PLATS.
   (A)   Final plat contents. The final plat submitted for approval must
conform to the preliminary plat as previously reviewed and approved by the Town
Council, and must incorporate all required modifications, and comply with all
conditions imposed at the time of subdivision application and preliminary plat
approval. The final plat and accompanying documents must comply with §
154.06. Final plats of subdivisions approved for phased development shall be
filed sequentially in accordance with the approval.
   (B)   Final plat initial review.
      (1)   The final plat approval application form, which can be obtained
from the Subdivision Administrator, and all supplementary documents must be
submitted to the Subdivision Administrator at least 30 working days prior to
the expiration of preliminary plat approval.
      (2)   The submittal shall include, as applicable:
         (a)   The final plat application;
         (b)   The final plat review fee;
         (c)   A statement from the project surveyor or engineer outlining how
each condition of approval has been satisfied;
         (d)   A title report or updated abstract dated no less than 30 days
prior to the date of submittal;
         (e)   The DEQ or local Environmental Health Department approval;
         (f)   The final grading and drainage plan, including all road plans
and profiles, state or local encroachment permits, and the Traffic Impact
Analysis (if required);
         (g)   All engineering plans;
         (h)   Any homeowner association documents, including bylaws,
covenants, and/or declarations;
         (i)   County Attorney approval; and
         (j)   One 18 inches by 24 inches, or larger, copies of the final plat,
completed in accordance with §
154.06.
   (C)   Review by Subdivision Administrator.
      (1)   The Subdivision Administrator shall review the final plat to
ascertain that all conditions and requirements for final plat approval have
been met. The Subdivision Administrator will not accept, begin processing, nor
schedule any actions on a final plat submittal until a complete application and
fee, and copies of the final plat, have been received. Final plat applications
will not be considered complete by the Subdivision Administrator until all
conditions of preliminary approval have been satisfied.
      (2)   If the Subdivision Administrator determines that the final plat
differs from the approved or conditionally approved preliminary plat, the
applicant shall be required to submit an amended application pursuant to §
154.04(F).
      (3)   The Subdivision Administrator may require that final subdivision
plats be reviewed for errors and omissions in calculation or drafting by an
examining land surveyor before recording with the County Clerk and Recorder.
When the survey data shown on the plat meets the conditions pursuant to these
regulations, the examining surveyor shall certify the compliance in a printed
or stamped signed certificate on the plat.
   (D)   Restrictive covenants: approval, content, and enforcement by the town.
      (1)   The Town Council may require that some or all restrictive covenants
governing the use of land within the subdivision, whether proposed by the
subdivider or required by the Town Council, be set forth in a separate heading
identifying them as plat approval covenants, and indicating: “These covenant(s)
may not be repealed or amended without prior written consent of the Town of
Circle Council”.
      (2)   The Town Council may require that all restrictive covenants it has
required as a condition of plat approval contain the following language: “The
Town of Circle Council is a party to this restrictive covenant and may enforce
its terms”.
      (3)   If common property is to be deeded to a property owners’
association, the covenants and by-laws which govern the association must, at a
minimum, provide for the:
         (a)   Formation of a property owners’ association concurrently with
the filing of the final subdivision plat. Articles of incorporation shall be
filed with the Secretary of State’s office;
         (b)   Mandatory membership for each property owner. Purchasers of
property may also be required to sign a waiver of right to protest the
formation of a maintenance district to maintain improvements;
         (c)   Perpetual reservation of the common property when required under
MCA § 76-3-621(6)(a);
         (d)   Payment of liability insurance premiums, local taxes, and the
cost of maintaining recreational or other facilities;
         (e)   Placement of liens on the property of lot owners who are
delinquent in the payment of association fees and assessments;
         (f)   Adjustment of assessments to meet changing needs;
         (g)   Means of enforcing the covenants, and of receiving and
processing complaints;
         (h)   Transition of control of the association from the declarant to
the homeowners;
         (i)   Dissolution of the association and modification of the covenants
and restrictions after obtaining the Town Council’s approval of the change; and
         (j)   Regular maintenance of roads, parks, buildings, drainage
facilities, and other facilities controlled by the association.
   (E)   Public improvements agreement; guaranty.
      (1)   As a condition of approval of the final plat, the subdivider must
have installed all required improvements, or have entered into a subdivision
improvements agreement guaranteeing the construction, installation, and
maintenance of all required improvements. No construction or placement of
structures on the lots may occur until improvements related to public health
and safety, such as roads or fire fighting facilities, have been installed and
engineering plans have been filed. A model subdivision improvements agreement
and alternative methods of guaranteeing public improvements, the procedures and
requirements for securing an agreement, and suggested conditions for
maintenance are available from the Subdivision Administrator.
      (2)   If the subdivider chooses to enter into a subdivision improvements
agreement, guaranteeing the public improvements through a bond or letter of
credit, three bids for the cost of installation of the public improvements
shall be obtained by the subdivider. The amount of the guarantee shall be
calculated by multiplying 125% by the highest bid. As the public improvements
are installed, the subdivider shall provide a letter to the Town Council
indicating such, and including a copy of the engineered plans. The consulting
engineer designated by the Town Council shall review and certify all public
improvements have been installed in conformance with the plans and
specifications. Prior to the release of the guarantee, a copy of the plans,
stamped by the project surveyor or engineer, in accordance with his or her
licensing provisions, shall be filed in the County Clerk and Recorder’s office
with reference to the final subdivision plat.
   (F)   Amending approved preliminary plats before final plat approval.
      (1)   If the subdivider proposes to change the preliminary plat after the
preliminary plat approval, but before the final plat approval, the subdivider
shall submit the proposed changes to the Subdivision Administrator for review.
         (a) Within five working days of receiving the proposed changes, the
Subdivision Administrator shall determine whether the changes to the
preliminary plat are material pursuant to division (F)(1)(b) below.
         (b)   If the Subdivision Administrator determines the changes are
material, he or she may either require the subdivider to submit the changed
plat to the Planning Board for a meeting or hearing prior to making his or her
recommendation to the Town Council, or, if the changes are extensive, the
Subdivision Administrator may require the subdivider to begin the subdivision
review process again, starting with the pre-application meeting, and require
payment of a new application fee.
         (c)   If the Subdivision Administrator determines the changes are not
material, he or she shall accept the changes, notify the subdivider and the
Town Council of that decision, and the Town Council shall approve of those
changes in a meeting for which notice has been given of non-material changes to
the final plat.
      (2)   The following changes, although not an exhaustive list, may be
considered material:
         (a)   Configuration or number of lots;
         (b)   Road layout;
         (c)   Water and/or septic proposals;
         (d)   Configuration of park land or open spaces;
         (e)   Easement provisions;
         (f)   Designated access;
         (g)   Changes to the proposed covenants; or
         (h)   Changes to conditions of approval.
      (3)   A subdivider whose proposed changes to the preliminary plat have
been deemed material by the Subdivision Administrator may appeal his or her
decision to the Town Council by written notice within ten working days. The
subdivider may request a hearing, and may submit additional evidence to show
that the changes to the preliminary plat are not material.
      (4)   If the subdivider and Subdivision Administrator determine that a
condition of approval is illegal or impossible to comply with due to
circumstances outside the subdivider’s control, economic hardship
notwithstanding, the condition may be reviewed by the Town Council through a
properly noticed public hearing in order to determine if the condition may be
waived or amended.
   (G)   Final plat approval.
      (1)   The Town Council shall examine every final subdivision plat, and
shall approve it if it conforms to the conditions of preliminary plat approval
and to the terms of the MSPA, and these regulations, or deny it pursuant to
division (G)(1)(b) below.
         (a)   If the final plat is approved, Town Council shall certify its
approval on the face of the final plat. When applicable, a certificate of the
Town Council expressly accepting any dedicated land, easements, or improvements
will be filed with the final plat.
         (b)   If the final plat is denied, the Town Council shall write a
letter stating the reason for denial and forward a copy to the subdivider. The
Town Council will return the final plat to the subdivider within ten working
days of the action. The subdivider may then make any necessary corrections and
resubmit the final plat for approval.
      (2)   The Town Council may withdraw approval of a final plat if it
determines that material information submitted by the subdivider is inaccurate.
   (H)   Final plat filing.
      (1)   After it is approved, the final plat may not be altered in any
manner except as provided in division (I) below. The County Clerk and Recorder
may not accept any plat for filing that does not bear the Town Council’s
approval in proper form or that has been altered. The County Clerk and Recorder
may file an approved plat only if it is accompanied by the documents specified
in §§
154.06 and
154.10.
   (I)   Amending filed plats.
      (1)   Changes that materially alter any portion of a filed plat, its land
divisions, or improvements, or that will modify the approved use of land within
the subdivision, must be made by filing an amended plat showing all
alterations. Any alteration which increases the number of lots or modifies six
or more lots, or abandons or alters a public road right-of-way or park land
dedication, must be reviewed and approved by the Town Council.
      (2)   An amended plat may be subject to the procedures for reviewing
major or minor subdivisions, as appropriate. The Town Council may not approve
an amended final plat without the written consent of the owners and lien
holders of all lots which will be modified by the proposed amendment.
      (3)   The Town Council may not approve an amendment that will place a lot
in non-conformance with the standards contained in §
154.07 of these regulations, or with local zoning regulations, unless the Town
Council holds a public hearing on the amendment and issues a written variance
from the standards pursuant to §
154.25.
      (4)   The final amended plat submitted for approval must comply with the
requirements for final subdivision plats under §
154.06.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-10)
Statutory reference:
   Final plats, general requirements, see MCA § 76-3-507
§ 154.06 UNIFORM STANDARDS; FINAL SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   (A)   A final subdivision plat may not be approved by the Town Council or
filed by the County Clerk and Recorder unless it complies with the following
requirements:
      (1)   Final subdivision plats must be legibly drawn with permanent ink,
or printed or reproduced by a process guaranteeing a permanent record, and must
be 18 inches by 24 inches, or 24 inches by 36 inches, overall to include a one-
half inch margin on the binding side;
      (2)   One signed copy on cloth-backed material, or on three mil or
heavier matte stable-base polyester film or equivalent, and one signed
reproducible copy on a stable-base polyester film or equivalent must be
submitted;
      (3)   If more than one sheet must be used to adequately depict the land
subdivided, each sheet must show the number of that sheet and the total number
of sheets included. All certifications must be placed or referred to on one
sheet; and
      (4)   A survey that modifies a filed subdivision plat must be entitled
“amended plat of (lot, block and name of subdivision being amended”, and,
unless it is exempt from subdivision review by MCA §§ 76-3-201 or 76-3-207(1)
(d) or (e), may not be filed with the County Clerk and Recorder unless it meets
the filing requirements for final subdivision plats specified in this section.
   (B)   A final plat submitted for approval must show or contain, on its face
or on separate sheets referred to on the plat, the following information. The
surveyor may, at his or her discretion, provide additional information
regarding the survey:
      (1)   A title or title block indicating the quarter-section, section,
township, range, principal meridian, county, and, if applicable, city or town
in which the subdivision is located. The title of the plat must contain the
words “plat” and either “subdivision” or “addition”;
      (2)   The name of the person(s) who commissioned the survey and the name
(s) of the owner of the land to be subdivided, if other than the person(s)
commissioning the survey, the names of any adjoining platted subdivisions, and
the numbers of any adjoining certificates of survey previously filed;
      (3)   A north arrow;
      (4)   A scale bar. The scale must be sufficient to legibly represent the
required information and data on the plat;
      (5)   The location of, and other information relating to, all monuments
found, set, reset, replaced, or removed, as required by ARM § 24.183.1101(1)
(c).
         (a)   If additional monuments are to be set after the plat is filed,
the location of these monuments must be shown by a distinct symbol, and the
plat must bear a certification by the surveyor as to the reason the monuments
have not been set and the date by which they will be set.
         (b)   All monuments found during a retracement that influenced the
position of any corner or boundary indicated on the plat must be clearly shown,
as required by ARM § 24.183.1101(1)(c).
      (6)   The location of any section corners, or corners of divisions of
sections, pertinent to the survey;
      (7)   Witness and reference monuments, and basis of bearings. For
purposes of this rule, the term BASIS OF BEARINGS means the surveyor’s
statement as to the origin of the bearings shown on the plat. The BASIS OF
BEARINGS may refer to a particular line between monumented points in a
previously filed survey document. If the plat shows true bearings, the BASIS OF
BEARINGS must describe the method by which these true bearings were determined;
      (8)   The bearings, distances, and curve data of all boundary lines. If
the subdivision is bounded by an irregular shoreline or body of water that is a
riparian boundary, the bearings and distances of a meander traverse generally
paralleling the riparian boundary must be given;
      (9)   The courses along a meander line are shown solely to provide a
basis for calculating the acreage of a parcel with one or more riparian
boundaries as the parcel existed at the time of survey;
      (10)   For purposes of these regulations, a line that indicates a fixed
boundary of a parcel is not a “meander” or “meander line”, and may not be
designated as one;
      (11)   Data on all curves sufficient to enable the re-establishment of
the curves on the ground. For circular curves, these data must at least include
radius and arc length. For non-tangent curves, which must be so labeled, the
plat must include the bearings of radial lines or chord length and bearing;
      (12)   Lengths of all lines shown to at least tenths of a foot, and all
angles and bearings shown to at least the nearest minute. Distance measurements
must be stated in English units, but their metric equivalents, shown to the
nearest hundredth of a meter, may be noted parenthetically;
      (13)   The location of any section corners or corners of divisions of
sections the surveyor deems to be pertinent to the subdivision;
      (14)   All lots and blocks in the subdivision, designated by number, the
dimensions of each lot and block, the area of each lot, and the total acreage
of all lots. Excepted parcels must be marked “Not included in this subdivision”
or “Not included in this plat”, as appropriate, and the bearings and lengths of
these excepted boundaries must be shown;
      (15)   All streets, alleys, avenues, roads, and highways; their widths
(if ascertainable) from public records, bearings, and area; the width and
purpose of all road rights-of-way and all other easements that will be created
by the filing of the plat; and the names of all streets, roads, and highways;
      (16)   The location, dimensions, and areas of all parks, common areas,
and other grounds dedicated for public use;
      (17)   The total acreage of the subdivision;
      (18)   A narrative legal description of the subdivision as follows:
         (a)   If the parcel being subdivided is either an aliquot part of a
U.S. government section or a U.S. government lot, the information required by
this section is the aliquot or government lot description of the parcel;
         (b)   If the plat depicts the division of a parcel or lot that is
shown on a filed certificate of survey or subdivision plat, the information
required by this section is the number or name of the certificate of survey or
plat, and the number of the parcel or lot affected by the survey;
         (c)   If the parcel surveyed does not fall within (B)(18)(a) or (B)
(18)(b) above, the information required by this subsection is the metes-and-
bounds description of the perimeter boundary of the subdivision; and
         (d)   If the plat establishes the boundaries of a subdivision
containing one or more interior parcels, the information required by this
section is the legal description of the perimeter boundary of the subdivision;
      (19)   The dated signature and the seal of the surveyor responsible for
the survey. The affixing of this seal constitutes a certification by the
surveyor that the final plat has been prepared in conformance with the State
Subdivision and Platting Act, being MCA Title 76, Chapter 3, and the
regulations adopted under that Act;
      (20)   A memorandum of any oaths administered under MCA § 76-3-405;
      (21)   The dated, signed, and acknowledged consent to the subdivision of
the owner of the land being subdivided. For purposes of this rule, when the
parcel of land proposed for subdivision is being conveyed under a contract-for-
deed, the terms “owner” and “owner of the land” refers to the seller under the
contract-for-deed;
      (22)   Certification by the Town Council that the final subdivision plat
is approved; and
      (23)   Space for the County Clerk and Recorder’s filing information.
   (C)   The following documents must appear on the face of, or accompany, the
approved final plat when it is presented to the County Clerk and Recorder for
filing:
      (1)   If applicable, the owner’s certificate of dedication of streets,
parks, playground easements, or other public improvements;
      (2)   If applicable, a certificate of the Town Council expressly
accepting any dedicated land, easements, or improvements. An acceptance of a
dedication is ineffective without this certification;
      (3)   A certificate of a title abstractor showing the names of the owners
of record of the land to be subdivided, and the names of any lien holders or
claimants of record against the land, and the written consent to the
subdivision by the owners of the land, if other than the subdivider, and any
lien holders or claimants of record against the land;
      (4)   Copies of any covenants or deed restrictions relating to the
subdivision;
      (5)   If applicable, a certificate from the State Department of
Environmental quality stating that it has approved the plans and specifications
for water supply and sanitary facilities;
      (6)   A certificate from the subdivider indicating which required public
improvements have been installed, and a copy of any subdivision improvements
agreement securing the future construction of any additional public improvement
to be installed;
      (7)   Unless otherwise provided by local subdivision regulations, copies
of final plans, profiles, grades, and specifications for improvements,
including a complete grading and drainage plan, with the certification of a
registered professional engineer, that all required improvements which have
been installed are in conformance with the attached plans. Local subdivision
regulations may authorize the subdivider, under conditions satisfactory to the
Town Council, to prepare these plans and specifications after the final plat
has been filed, or file them with a government official other than the County
Clerk and Recorder, or both;
      (8)   If applicable, the certificate of the examining land surveyor;
      (9)   If a street created by the plat will intersect with a state
highway, a copy of the state highway access or encroachment permit; and
      (10)   The certification of the County Treasurer that all real property
taxes and special assessments assessed and levied on the land to be subdivided
have been paid.
(Prior Code, Title XI, Chapter 4, Appendix A, § 24.183.1107)
Statutory reference:
   Uniform standards for subdivision plats, see MCA §§ 76-3-101 through 76-3-
625
§ 154.07 MAJOR FINAL PLATS.
   The final plat must have the contents, and be submitted and reviewed in
accordance with, the appropriate requirements contained in §
154.05.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-19)
§ 154.08 DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   General. All subdivisions approved by the Town Council must comply
with the provisions of this section, except where granted a variance pursuant
to §
154.25(A). The Town Council may not grant variances from the provisions of
division (E) below. For planned unit developments, subdivisions created by rent
or lease, and condominiums, refer to §
154.49 of these regulations.
   (B)   Conformance with regulations. The design and development of a
subdivision must conform with any applicable zoning or other regulations. Where
no zoning regulations are in effect, maximum density and minimum lot size must
be established in consultation with local and state health authorities.
   (C)   Natural environment. The design and development of subdivisions must
provide satisfactory building sites which are properly related to topography,
and must, to the extent possible, preserve the natural terrain, natural
drainage, existing topsoil, trees, and natural vegetation.
   (D)   Lands unsuitable for subdivisions. The Town Council may find land to
be unsuitable for subdivision because of potential hazards, such as flooding,
snow avalanches, rock falls, land slides, adverse soil types, steep slopes in
excess of 25% slope, high potential for wildfire, subsidence, high water table,
polluted or non-potable water supply, high voltage lines, high pressure gas
lines, aircraft or vehicular traffic hazards or congestion, or severe toxic or
hazardous waste exposure; or because of unreasonable burdens on the general
public, such as requirements for the excessive expenditure of public funds,
environmental degradation, or other features which may be detrimental to the
health, safety, or general welfare of existing or future residents. These lands
must not be subdivided for building or residential purposes unless the hazards
are eliminated, or will be mitigated, by approved design and construction
plans.
   (E)   Floodplain provisions. Land located in the floodway of a 100-year
flood event, as defined by MCA Title 76, Chapter 5, or other land determined by
the Town Council to be subject to flooding, may not be subdivided for building
or residential purposes, or other uses that may increase or aggravate flood
hazards to life, health, or welfare, or that may be prohibited by state or
local floodplain or floodway regulations.
      (1)   If any portion of a proposed subdivision is within 2,000 horizontal
feet and 20 vertical feet of a live stream draining an area of 25 square miles
or more, and no official floodway delineation or floodway studies of the stream
have been made, the subdivider shall provide in detail to the Floodplain
Management Section of the Water Resources Division of the State Department of
Natural Resources and Conservation (DNRC), a flood hazard evaluation, including
the calculated 100-year frequency water surface elevations, and the 100-year
floodplain boundaries. This detailed evaluation must be performed by a licensed
professional engineer experienced in this field of work. The evaluation must
follow the “guidelines for obtaining 100-year flood elevations in Approximate
Zone A or unmapped areas”, which may be found at the following website: http://
www.mtfloods.org. The subdivider shall be responsible for assuring the DNRC
submits its report to the Subdivision Administrator prior to the hearing or
meeting on the subdivision application.
      (2)   The above requirement is waived if the subdivider contacts the
Water Resources Division and that agency states, in writing, that available
data indicate that the proposed subdivision is not in a flood hazard area.
However, the DNRC may require additional information following the above
guidelines to ensure there are no flood hazards.
   (F)   Improvement design. Engineering and survey plans, specifications, and
reports required in connection with public improvements and other elements of
the subdivision application required by the Commission must be prepared by a
professional engineer or a professional land survey, or as their respective
licensing laws allow, in accordance with the MSPA and these regulations.
   (G)   Lots. Each lot must contain a satisfactory building site and conform
to County Health Board regulations, applicable zoning regulations, and these
regulations below:
      (1)   No single lot may be divided by a municipal or town boundary line;
      (2)   No single lot may be divided by a public road, alley, or utility
right-of-way or easement;
      (3)   Each lot must abut and have access to a public or private street or
road. Alleys may not be used to provide the primary means of access to a lot;
      (4)   Corner lots must have driveway access to the same street or road as
interior lots;
      (5)   Corner lots must be of sufficient area to provide acceptable
visibility for traffic safety;
      (6)   No lot may have an average depth greater than three times its
average width;
      (7)   Side lot lines must be at substantially right angles to street or
road lines, and radial to curved street or road lines; and
      (8)   Through lots are prohibited, except where essential to provide
separation of residential development from traffic arteries, or to overcome
specific disadvantages of topography or orientation.
   (H)   Blocks. Blocks must be designed to assure traffic safety and ease of
traffic control and circulation, to accommodate the special needs of the use
contemplated, and to take advantage of the limitations and opportunities of the
topography.
      (1)   Unless impractical, block length must not be more than 1,000 feet.
      (2)   Blocks must be wide enough to allow for two tiers of lots, except
where essential to provide separation of residential development from traffic
arteries, or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation,
or unless the Town Council approves the design of irregularly shaped blocks
indented by cul-de-sacs.
      (3)   Rights-of-way for pedestrian walks not less than ten feet wide must
be required where deemed essential to provide circulation or safe access to
schools, playgrounds, shopping, transportation, and other community facilities.
   (I)   Streets and roads; design. The arrangement, type, extent, width,
grade, and location of all streets must be considered in their relation to
existing and planned streets, topographical conditions, public convenience and
safety, and the proposed uses of the land to be served by them.
      (1)   Roads must meet the design specifications in division (K) below.
      (2)   Where streets terminate, either a cul-de-sac or “T” turnaround must
be provided at the terminus. Cul-de-sacs and “T” turnarounds must conform to
the design specifications in division (K) below.
      (3)   All streets must either be dedicated to the public, or be private
streets to be owned and maintained by an approved property owners’ association.
      (4)   Residential driveways must not have direct access to primary
highways. Any vehicular access onto a state highway must be approved by the
State Department of Transportation.
      (5)   Local streets must be designed so as to discourage through traffic.
      (6)   Whenever a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed
arterial highway or major thoroughfare, the Town Council may require frontage
roads or other treatment, as may be necessary to adequately protect residential
properties and to separate arterial and local traffic.
      (7)   Half-streets are prohibited except when they are essential to the
development of the subdivision, and when the Town Council is satisfied that the
other half of the street will be dedicated to the public when the adjoining
property is subdivided. When an existing half-street is adjacent to a tract to
be subdivided, the other half of the street must be platted within the new
subdivision.
      (8)   The alignment of all streets and roads must provide adequate sight
distances.
      (9)   The following requirements apply to intersections:
         (a)   Streets must intersect at 90 degree angles except when
topography prohibits this alignment. In no case may the angle of an
intersection be less than 60 degrees to the center line of the roadway being
intersected;
         (b)   Two streets meeting a third street from opposite sides must be
offset at least 125 feet for local roads and 300 feet for arterials or
collectors;
         (c)   More than two streets may intersect at one point;
         (d)   Intersections of local streets with major arterials or highways
must be avoided;
         (e)   Intersections must be designed to provide adequate visibility
for traffic safety based on the designed operating speeds of the intersecting
roadways;
         (f)   Top intersections are prohibited, unless no alternatives exist.
Intersections on local roads within 100 feet of a hilltop are prohibited.
Intersections on arterial and collector roads within 200 feet of a hilltop are
prohibited. If no alternative to a hilltop intersection exists, additional
traffic control devices will be required;
         (g)   Grade of approaches to major highways may not exceed 3%; and
         (h)   Any road which intersects a paved roadway shall be paved for a
minimum of 30 feet from paved road.
      (10)   Names of new streets or roads aligned with existing streets must
be the same as those of the existing streets. Proposed street names may not
duplicate or cause confusion with existing street names.
      (11)   Proposed road plans and profiles, as required by §
154.05, are subject to approval by the Public Works Director.
      (12)   To facilitate access by emergency vehicles, and to allow an escape
route for residents in emergency situations, the developer shall provide a
second access in major subdivisions.
   (J)   Streets and roads; improvements. All roadway improvements, including
pavement, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, and drainage, must be constructed in
accordance with the specifications and standards prescribed in these
regulations using materials approved by the Town Council.
      (1)   Roadway subgrades must be free of topsoil, sod, vegetation, or
organic matter, soft clay, and other substandard materials. Subgrades must be
properly rolled, shaped, and compacted, and must be approved by the Town
Council.
      (2)   Streets and roads must be designed to ensure proper drainage. This
may require surface crowning, culverts, curbs and gutters, drainage swales, and
storm drains.
      (3)   Where access from a public road to the subdivision will cross
properties not owned by the subdivider, the subdivider must obtain proper
easements of sufficient width to satisfy the requirements of division (K)
below.
         (a)   Easements must be granted by each property owner in a signed and
notarized document.
         (b)   The location of any road easement must be shown on the plat or
on a supplemental map. The existence of easements must be noted on the face of
the final plat and on any deeds, or other instruments conveying lots within the
subdivision.
      (4)   Existing trees and other vegetation must be preserved whenever
appropriate. Plantings may be required for buffering, screening, or prevention
of soil erosion, and are subject to approval by the Town Council.
      (5)   Street lights will be required in subdivisions proposed within, or
adjacent to, areas with existing street lighting. Street lighting may be
required in other areas when necessary to protect public safety.
      (6)   Street or road signs and traffic control devices of the size,
shape, and height approved by the Town Council must be placed at all
intersections. Traffic control devices must conform to the standards contained
in the Manual on Uniform Control Devices available from the State Department of
Transportation.
      (7)   When required by the United States Postal Service, the developer
must provide an off-street area for mail delivery. Responsibility for
maintenance may be included as part of the public improvements agreement.
      (8)   An addressing system must be developed in conformance with the
addressing requirements of the town.
   (K)   Road design standards for subdivisions.
Minimum Design Standards Minor Collector Local Road
Minimum Design Standards                          Minor Collector Local Road
   Minimum right-of-way width                  60 feet
   a. Level terrain                                            50 feet
   b. Hilly terrain                                            60 feet
   Minimum roadway width¹                     26 feet         24 feet
   Minimum curb radius or edge of pavement at  25 feet         15 feet
intersection
   Maximum grades                              8%              10%
   Approaches on public roads
   a. Minimum sight distance                   200 feet        150 feet
   b. Minimum width                            35 feet         30 feet
   c. Maximum grade for 20 feet                5%              5%
   Curvature²
   a. Design speed                             30 mph          20 mph
   b. Maximum curve                            23              53.5
   c. Minimum radius                           249 feet        107 feet
   Cul-de-sac/turnarounds
   a. Maximum road length                      -               1,000 feet
   b. Cul-de-sac: minimum outside right-of-way -               40 feet
radius
   c. Cul-de-sac: minimum outside roadway radiu-               35 feet
   d. “T” turnaround: backup lengths (two  -               30 feet each
required)
   New bridges
   a. Curb-to-curb widths³                    26 feet         24 feet
   b. Design load capacity                     20 tons         20 tons
   c. Vertical clearance                       14.5 feet       14.5 feet
   Notes to table:
   ¹ Where parking will be permitted, add eight feet on each side. If
guardrail installation is required or a shoulder is desired, add two feet to
each side of roadway.
   ² Curvature is based on a super-elevation of 0.08/feet.
   ³ Width of the bridge roadway surface should match the width of the roadway
system it joins.
 
   (L)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/55e863fff6a93ebd0eda1002b6ce4c7d065fe48d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1063.png]
 
   (M)   Drainage facilities. The drainage system and facilities required for
storm run-off affecting the subdivision are subject to approval by the Town
Council. Subdivisions containing lots less than 20 acres in size also must be
reviewed and approved under MCA Title 76, Chapter 4, by the DEQ.
      (1)   A grading and drainage plan, as required by §
154.05, is subject to approval by the Public Works Director.
      (2)   Curbs and gutters or swales will be required based on the character
of the area, density of development, and nature of adjoining properties. Curbs
and gutters of adjoining properties must be extended according to current
specifications of local and state authorities.
      (3)   Culverts or bridges of adequate size must be provided and installed
by the subdivider where drainage channels intersect any street or road right-
of-way, or easement. All culverts must extend at least across the entire width
of the base of the fill; the amount of backfill to be placed over the culvert
and the culvert’s capacity must be determined by a professional engineer. The
plan must include arrangements for driveway culverts.
      (4)   The subdivider must provide suitable drainage facilities for any
surface runoff affecting the subdivision; these facilities must be located in
street rights-of-way or in perpetual easements of appropriate widths.
      (5)   Each culvert or other drainage facility must be large enough to
accommodate potential runoff from upstream drainage areas.
      (6)   Drainage systems must not discharge into any sanitary sewer
facility.
      (7)   The grading and drainage system must be designed and certified by a
professional engineer.
      (8)   The Town Council may require the subdivider to grant easements to
prevent encroachment or disruption of drainage ways or facilities. Drainage
easements must be drawn on the plat, and a signed statement granting the
easements must appear on the plat.
   (N)   Water supply systems. All water systems are subject to approval by the
Town Council. Systems for subdivision lots must meet the minimum standards of
the DEQ and contained in the Administrative Rules of Montana (ARM), which are
incorporated into, and made a part of, these regulations by this reference. The
Town Council may not approve the final plat of a subdivision containing lots
less than 20 acres in size, unless the subdivision has been approved by DEQ
under the Sanitation in Subdivision Act, MCA §§ 76-4-101 et seq.
      (1)   The Town Council will require that any proposed central system
provide adequate and accessible water for fire protection.
      (2)   Where the subdivision is within the service area of a public water
supply system, the subdivider must install complete water system facilities in
accordance with the requirements of the jurisdiction involved and the DEQ. The
subdivider must submit plans and specifications for the proposed facilities to
the jurisdiction involved and to the DEQ, and must obtain their approval prior
to undertaking any construction.
   (O)   Sewage treatment systems.
      (1)   All sewage treatment systems are subject to the approval of the
Town Council. Systems for subdivision lots less than 20 acres in size also must
meet the minimum standards of the DEQ which are incorporated into, and made a
part of, these regulations by this reference. For subdivisions that will create
one or more parcels containing less than 20 acres, the subdivision must have
been approved by DEQ under the Sanitation in Subdivision Act, MCA §§ 76-4-101
et seq., before the Town Council can approve the final plat.
      (2)   Where the subdivision is within the service area of a public
sanitary sewer system, the subdivider must install complete sanitary sewer
system facilities in accordance with the requirements of the jurisdiction
involved and the DEQ. The subdivider must submit plans and specifications for
the proposed facilities to the jurisdiction involved and to the DEQ, and must
obtain their approvals prior to undertaking any construction.
   (P) Solid waste. The subdivider must provide for collection and disposal of
solid waste that meet the regulations and minimum standards of the DEQ. The
means for solid waste collection and disposal are to be subject to approval by
the Town Council.
   (Q)   Utilities. The subdivider must provide adequate and appropriate
easements for the construction of utilities within the subdivision. The
subdivider must obtain any easements necessary to extend utilities to the
subdivision.
      (1)   Utilities must be placed underground, wherever practical.
Underground utilities, if placed in the street right-of-way, must be located
between the roadway and the right-of-way line to simplify location and repair
of lines. Such underground facilities must be installed after the street has
been brought to grade and before it is surfaced, to eliminate disturbance of
the surfacing for the connection of individual services.
      (2)   Overhead utility lines must be located at the rear property line,
where practical.
      (3)   Utility facilities must be designed by utility firms in cooperation
with the subdivider, subject, however, to all applicable laws and all rules and
regulations of any appropriate regulatory authority having jurisdiction over
such facilities.
      (4)   Utility easements must be centered on side and rear lot lines
wherever necessary and, if placed in the street, be located between the roadway
and the right-of-way line.
      (5)   Utility easements must be a minimum of 15 feet wide unless
otherwise specified by a utility company or the Commission.
      (6)   When a utility is to be located in an existing, dedicated right-of-
way, a notice of utility occupancy must be obtained from the Town Council, or
local or state highway department.
      (7)   In addition to showing the location of the utility easement on the
plat with dashed lines, the following statement must be on the final plat: “The
undersigned hereby grants unto each and every person, firm, or corporation,
whether public or private, providing or offering to provide telephone,
telegraph, electric power, gas, cable television, water, or sewer service to
the public, the right to the joint use of an easement for the construction,
maintenance, repair and removal of their lines and other facilities, in, over,
under and across each area designated on this plat as ‘Utility Easement’ to
have and to hold forever.”
   (R)   Watercourse and irrigation easements.
      (1)   Except as noted in division (R)(1)(b) below, the subdivider shall
establish within the subdivision ditch easements that:
         (a)   Are in locations of appropriate topographic characteristics and
sufficient width to allow the physical placement and unobstructed maintenance
of open ditches, or below ground pipelines for the delivery of water for
irrigation to persons and land legally entitled to the water under an
appropriated water right or permit of an irrigation district, or other private
or public entity formed to provide for the use of the water right on the
subdivision lots;
         (b)   Are a sufficient distance from the centerline of the ditch to
allow for construction, repair, maintenance, and inspection of the ditch; and
         (c)   Prohibit the placement of structures, or the planting of
vegetation other than grass, within the ditch easement without the written
permission of the ditch owner.
      (2)   The subdivider need not establish irrigation easements as provided
above if:
         (a)   The average lot size in the proposed subdivision will be one
acre or less, and the subdivider provides for disclosure, in a manner
acceptable to the Town Council, notifying potential buyers that lots within the
subdivision are classified as irrigated land and may continue to be assessed
for irrigation water delivery, even though the water may not be deliverable to
the lots;
         (b)   The water rights have been removed from the land within the
subdivision, or the process has been initiated to remove the water rights from
the subdivided land; and/or
         (c)   The fact the water rights have been, or will be, removed from
the land within the subdivision is denoted on the preliminary plat. If the
removal of water rights has not been completed at the time the final plat is
filed, the subdivider shall provide written notification to prospective buyers
of the subdivider’s intention to remove the water right, and shall document
that intent, when applicable, in agreements and legal documents for related
sales transactions.
      (3)   The subdivider shall, unless otherwise provided under separate
written agreement or filed easement, show on the preliminary and final plat,
and file and record with the County Clerk and Recorder, ditch easements for the
unobstructed use and maintenance of existing water delivery ditches, pipelines,
and facilities in the proposed subdivision that are necessary to convey water
through the subdivision to lands adjacent to or beyond the subdivision
boundaries in quantities, and in a manner that are consistent with historic and
legal rights. A minimum width of ten feet is required on each side of
irrigation canals and ditches for maintenance purposes.
   (S)   Disposition of water rights. If a subdivision will create lots
averaging less than five acres in size, the subdivider shall submit evidence
with the final plat that the subdivider has:
      (1)   Reserved all or a portion of the appropriation water rights owned
by the owner of the land to be subdivided, and transfer these water rights to a
single entity for use by landowners within the subdivision who have a legal
right to the water and reserved, and severed any remaining surface water rights
from the land;
      (2)   If the land to be subdivided is subject to a contract, or interest
in a public or private entity formed, to provide for the use of a water right
on the subdivision lots, established a landowner’s water use agreement
administered through a single entity. This agreement must specify how the water
rights will be administered, and describe the rights and responsibilities of
landowners within the subdivision who have a legal right and access to the
water; or
      (3)   Reserved and severed all surface water rights from the land
proposed for subdivision.
   (T)   Park land dedication; cash in lieu; waivers; administration.
      (1)   Except as provided below, the final plat of a residential
subdivision must show that the subdivider has dedicated to the Town Council a
cash or land donation equal to:
         (a)   Eleven percent of the area of the land proposed to be subdivided
into parcels of one-half acre or smaller;
         (b)   Seven and a half percent of the area of the land proposed to be
subdivided into parcels larger than one-half acre and not larger than one acre;
         (c)   Five percent of the area of the land proposed to be subdivided
into parcels larger than one acre and not larger than three acres; and
         (d)   Two and a half percent of the area of the land proposed to be
subdivided into parcels larger than three acres and not larger than five acres.
      (2)   A park dedication is not required for:
         (a)   Minor subdivisions;
         (b)   Subdivision lots larger than five acres;
         (c)   Non-residential subdivision lots;
         (d)   Subdivisions in which parcels of land will not be created, other
than subdivisions that will provide permanent multiple spaces for recreational
camping vehicles, mobile homes, or condominiums; or
         (e)   Subdivisions which will create only one additional parcel.
      (3)   The Town Council, in consultation with the subdivider and the
Planning Board, may determine suitable locations for parks and playgrounds and,
giving due weight and consideration to the expressed preference of the
subdivider, may determine whether the park dedication must be a land donation,
cash donation, or a combination of both. When a combination of land donation
and cash donation is required, the cash donation may not exceed the
proportional amount not covered by the land donation. The land dedicated for
park use may be inside or outside the boundaries of the proposed subdivision.
      (4)   The Town Council will waive the park dedication requirement if it
determines that:
         (a)   The preliminary plat provides for a planned unit development or
other development, with land permanently set aside for park and recreational
uses sufficient to meet the needs of the persons who will ultimately reside in
the development;
         (b)   The area of the land and any improvements set aside for park and
recreational purposes equals or exceeds the area of the dedication required
under division (T)(4) above;
         (c)   The proposed subdivision will provide for the long-term
protection of critical wildlife habitat; cultural, historical, or natural
resources; agricultural interests; or aesthetic values;
         (d)   The provision of this long-term protection will result in the
reduction of the area of the land proposed to be subdivided by an amount equal
to or exceeding the area that would have had to be dedicated under division (T)
(1)(a) above;
         (e)   The area of the land proposed to be subdivided, by virtue of a
combination of the provisions of divisions (T)(4)(a) and (T)(4)(b) above, is
reduced by an amount equal to or exceeding the area of the dedication required
under division (T)(1)(a) above;
         (f)   The subdivider provides for land outside of the subdivision to
be set aside for park and recreational uses sufficient to meet the needs of the
persons who will ultimately reside in the subdivision; and
         (g)   The area of the land and any improvements set aside for park and
recreational uses equals or exceeds the area of dedication required under
division (T)(1) above.
      (5)   The Town Council may waive the park dedication requirement if:
         (a)   The subdivider provides land outside the subdivision that
affords long-term protections of critical wildlife habitat, cultural,
historical, or natural resources, agricultural interests, or aesthetic values;
and
         (b)   The area of land to be subject to long-term protection, as
provided in division (T)(5)(a) above, equals or exceeds the area of dedication
required under division (T)(1) above.
      (6)   Subject to the approval of the local Town Council, and acceptance
by the school district trustees, a subdivider may dedicate a land donation
provided under division (T)(3) to a school district, adequate to be used for
school facilities or buildings.
      (7)    Town Council will administer funds dedicated to the public under
this section in accordance with MCA § 76-3-621.
      (8)   For the purposes of this park dedication requirement:
         (a) “Cash donation” means the fair market value of the unsubdivided,
unimproved land; and
         (b)   DWELLING UNIT. A residential structure in which a person or
persons reside.
   (U)   Fire protection. All subdivisions must be planned, designed,
constructed, and maintained so as to minimize the risk of fire, and to permit
the effective and efficient suppression of fires in order to protect persons,
property, grazing lands, and forested areas. Subdivisions within established
fire service areas or fire districts shall comply with the Uniform Fire Code
and local fire codes. Measures must also include:
       (1)   Interior and exterior roads that provide two entrances/exits to
assure more than one escape route for residents and access routes by emergency
vehicles and fire suppression equipment. Fire suppression equipment includes,
but is not limited to, wildland fire engines, structural fire engines, water
tenders, heavy equipment, and trucks used for hauling heavy equipment;
       (2)   Roads, bridges, culverts, and streets which are designed to allow
access by fire equipment;
       (3)   The placement of residences and other structures in such a manner
as to minimize the potential for flame spread and to permit efficient access
for fire fighting equipment;
       (4)   Provisions for defensible space around structures and fire
protection facilities (see “Fire Protection Guidelines For Wildland Residential
Interface Development, Montana Departments of Natural Resources and
Conservation/Justice”);
       (5)   The presence of adequate fire fighting facilities on site,
including an adequate water supply and water distribution system to fight fires
on site. A water supply of sufficient volume for effective fire control must be
provided in accordance with standards set by the appropriate local fire
protection authority. In absence of such standards, a water supply of
sufficient volume for effective fire control must, at a minimum, provide as
follows:
         (a)   A central water system with a minimum flow of 1,000 gallons per
minute; or
         (b)   Where no central water system exists, cisterns, reservoirs, or
fill ponds with dry hydrants must be provided at appropriate locations:
            1.   For single family dwellings: minimum capacity of 2,500 gallons
per dwelling;
            2.   For five or more dwellings per unit: minimum capacity of 500
gallons per dwelling;
            3.   Water storage facilities must be all-season and accessible by
fire equipment. On level ground, fire engines must be able to get within ten
feet of the water source; turn-arounds in all weather roads must be provided
for continuous forward movement of fire engines; and
            4.   Dry hydrants must be a minimum of six-inch diameter with
appropriate attachment fixtures for fire engines, portable pumps, and other
pumping apparatus. Enclosed cisterns must be properly vented.
       (6)   The availability, through a fire protection district, fire service
area, or other means of fire protection services adequate to respond to fires
that may occur within a subdivision;
       (7)   Alternative backup power source for water sources that are
dependent on electric power for pumping;
       (8)   Domestic water wells with a minimum capacity of ten gallons per
minute when used in a fire suppression plan. Water hydrants must be located
near each structure; and
      (9)   Subdivisions located outside established fire service areas are
considered high fire hazard areas and must comply with the Uniform Fire Code
and division (V) below of these regulations.
   (V)   Special standards for subdivisions proposed in high fire hazard areas.
High fire hazard areas include heads of draws, excessive slopes, dense fuel
growth, or other hazardous components. Areas not under the protection of a fire
district or a fire service area are considered high fire hazard areas. For
subdivisions proposed in areas subject to high wildfire hazard as determined by
the Commission, the local fire protection authority, U.S. Forest Service, or
the Forestry Division of the State Department of Natural Resources and
Conservation, the following standards apply (also see the Uniform Fire Code and
the “Fire Protection Guidelines For Wildland Residential Interface Development,
Montana Departments of Natural Resources and Conservation/Justice”):
      (1)   At least two entrance-exit roads must be provided to assure more
than one escape route for residents and access routes for fire fighting
vehicles;
      (2)   Road rights-of-way must be maintained free of slash, trees, tall
grass or weeds, and other fire fuels;
       (3)   Roads, bridges, culverts, and streets must be designed to allow
access by fire equipment;
      (4)   Building sites must be prohibited on slopes greater than 25% and at
the apex of “fire chimneys” (topographic features, usually drainage ways or
swales, which tend to funnel or otherwise concentrate fire toward the top of
steep slopes);
        (5)   Densities in areas of steep slopes or dense forest growth must be
reduced through minimum lot standards as follows:
 
Minimum Lot Size (acres)
Slope Percentage Open Grass Forest and Brush
0-10             1          2
10-20            2          3
20-25            3          4
over 25          5          not permitted
 
      (6)   Open space, park land, and recreation areas (including green belts,
riding, or hiking trails) should be located, where appropriate, to separate
residences and other buildings from densely forested areas;
      (7)   A water supply of sufficient volume for effective fire control must
be provided in accordance with standards set by the appropriate local fire
protection authority. In the absence of such standards, a water supply of
sufficient volume for effective fire control must, at a minimum, provide as
follows:
         (a)   A central water system with a minimum flow of 1,000 gallons per
minute; or
         (b)   Where no central water system exists, cisterns, reservoirs, or
fill ponds with dry hydrants must be provided at appropriate locations:
            1.   For single-family dwellings: minimum capacity of 3,500 gallons
per dwelling;
            2.   For five or more dwellings per unit: minimum capacity of 700
gallons per dwelling;
            3.   Water storage facilities must be all-season and accessible by
fire equipment. On level ground, fire engines must be able to get within ten
feet of the water source; turn-arounds in all weather roads must be provided
for continuous forward movement of fire engines at all draft sites; and
            4.   Dry hydrants must be a minimum of six-inch diameter with
appropriate attachment fixtures for fire engines, portable pumps, and other
pumping apparatus. Enclosed cisterns must be properly vented.
      (8)   Water sources that are dependent on electric power for pumping must
have an alternative backup source of power;
      (9)   Domestic water wells must have a minimum capacity of ten gallons
per minute when used in a fire suppression plan. Water hydrants must be located
near each structure; and
      (10)   Defensible space shall be provided around structures and fire
protection facilities (see “Fire Protection Guidelines For Wildland Residential
Interface Development”).
   (W)   Restrictive covenants. Restrictive covenants are required in a
subdivision to ensure that the subdivision remains attractive to all lot
owners, and that the subdivision does not become a burden to surrounding
property owners. Enforcement of restrictive covenants is the responsibility of
the homeowners association, but may also include the Town Council, if
specifically provided as a condition of approval. Violation of restrictive
covenants is considered a violation of the State Subdivision and Platting Act,
being MCA Title 76 Chapter 3, under which the subdivision was approved.
Restrictive covenants must include an enforcement/penalty clause.
      (1)   For residential subdivisions, restrictive covenants must include
prohibitions against:
         (a)   At large dogs or other animals;
         (b)   Noxious weeds; and
         (c)   Infringement on established water rights (if located on a
stream).
      (2)   For residential subdivisions, restrictive covenants may include
prohibitions against:
         (a)   Junk vehicles;
         (b)   Domestic farm or pleasure animals;
         (c)   Exotic animals;
         (d)   Housing without permanent foundations, unless the subdivision is
specifically for mobile homes;
         (e)   Activities that produce sights, sounds, and odors that may be
offensive to neighbors;
         (f)   Activities that may harm the natural environment, including
ground cover, trees, soils, and water;
         (g)   Further reductions in lot sizes; and
         (h)   Overhead utilities.
      (3)   Restrictive covenants may be used to encourage a desired
atmosphere. Such covenants may include:
         (a)   Landscaping requirements;
         (b)   Lot maintenance standards;
         (c)   Screening of unsightly storage areas; and
         (d)   Design and construction standards for the primary structure and
any supplementary structures.
   (X)   Noxious weeds. A weed control plan shall be developed and implemented
for every new subdivision. An agreement with the County Weed Control Board
shall be signed and notarized by the subdivider, and the agreement must be
recorded with the final plat.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-28)
§ 154.09 SPACES FOR RECREATIONAL CAMPING VEHICLES, MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Definition. A SUBDIVISION created by rent or lease, including a mobile
home/manufactured home or recreational vehicle park, is any tract of land
divided by renting or leasing portions of it. The land is owned, however, as
one parcel under single ownership (which can include a number of persons owning
property in common). Plans, not plats, are submitted to the Subdivision
Administrator for review. The plan shows spaces, not lots. The plan must comply
with applicable zoning.
   (B)   Subdivisions that will provide multiple spaces for recreational
camping vehicles or mobile/manufactured homes.
      (1)   Recreational camping vehicles. Developments which are subject to
subdivision review because they will provide two or more spaces for
recreational camping vehicles will be reviewed under division (F) below.
      (2)   Mobile/manufactured homes. Developments which are subject to
subdivision review because they will provide two or more spaces for mobile/
manufactured homes will be reviewed under division (E) below.
      (3)   Subdivisions for lease or rent, generally.
         (a)   Land subdivision created by rent or lease will be reviewed under
the procedures described in §§
154.45 or
154.48, as may be appropriate, except that the subdivider shall submit an
unsurveyed final plan drawn to scale, rather than a final plat, following §
154.05.
         (b)   Land subdivisions created by rent or lease are subject to the
applicable standards contained in §
154.08.
   (C)   Procedures for review.
      (1)   Review and approval. Subdivisions which will provide multiple
spaces for recreational camping vehicles or mobile homes, and subdivisions
created for rent or lease are exempt from the surveying and filing requirements
of the MSPA. However, these subdivisions must be submitted for review and
approved by the Town Council before portions of the subdivision may be rented
or leased.
 
         (a)   Submittal. The subdivider shall submit a completed application
in accordance with §
154.05 and a plan of the proposed development, conforming to the requirements
for preliminary plats.
         (b)   Review. The procedure used to review subdivisions for rent or
lease will depend on the number of spaces within the proposed subdivision.
Proposed subdivisions containing six or more spaces must be reviewed pursuant
to §
154.45 of these regulations. Proposed subdivisions containing five or fewer
spaces must be reviewed pursuant to §
154.46 of these regulations. The subdivider shall submit to the Subdivision
Administrator the preliminary plans, profiles, tentative grades, and
specifications for proposed improvements. The plan must show the space layout
and the proposed location of the mobile home, recreational vehicle, or other
unit on the land included in the plan.
      (2)   Improvements. The subdivider shall install all required
improvements before renting or leasing any portion of the subdivision. The Town
Council or its agents will inspect all required improvements in order to assure
conformance with the approved construction plans and specifications.
      (3)   Final plan review. In lieu of filing a final plat, the subdivider
shall submit a final plan to the Subdivision Administrator complying with the
requirements of §
154.05. The final plan will be reviewed to assure that it conforms to the
approved preliminary plan. The approved plan shall be maintained in the office
of the Town Clerk, planning or other.
      (4)   DPHHS license. If a subdivision that will provide multiple spaces
for recreational camping vehicles or mobile homes is also a “trailer court”,
“work camp”, “youth camp”, or “campground” as those terms are defined in MCA §
50-52-102, the Town Council will not grant final approval of the subdivision
until the subdivider obtains a license for the facility from the Montana
Department of Public Health and Human Services under MCA Title 50, Chapter 52.
   (D)   Design standards for subdivision spaces created by rent or lease.
      (1)   Design standards subdivisions created by rent or lease must comply
with the provisions of §
154.08.
      (2)   Additional provisions that the Town Council may require provision
for:
         (a)   Storage facilities on the lot or in compounds located within a
reasonable distance;
         (b)   A central area for storage or parking of boats, trailers, or
other recreational vehicles;
         (c)   Landscaping or fencing to serve as a buffer between the
development and adjacent properties;
         (d)   An off-street area for mail delivery; and
         (e)   Street lighting.
   (E)   Mobile/manufactured home park standards.
      (1)   Mobile/manufactured home spaces.
         (a)   Mobile/manufactured home spaces must be arranged to permit the
safe and practical placement and removal of mobile homes.
         (b)   All mobile/manufactured homes must be located at least 25 feet
from any property boundary line abutting upon a public street or highway right-
of-way, and at least 15 feet from other boundary lines of the park.
         (c)   The mobile/manufactured home pad must be located at least ten
feet from the street that serves it.
         (d)   The size of the mobile/manufactured home pad must be suitable
for the general market to be served, and must fit the dimensions of mobile/
manufactured homes anticipated.
         (e)   A mobile/manufactured home pad may not occupy more than one-
third of the area of its space. The total area occupied by a mobile home and
its roofed accessory buildings and structures may not exceed two-thirds of the
area of a space.
         (f)   The Town Council may require that the mobile/manufactured home
pad be improved to provide adequate support for the placement and tie-down of
the mobile home.
         (g)   No mobile/manufactured home or its attached structures, such as
awnings and carports, may be located within 20 feet of any other mobile home or
its attached structures.
         (h)   No detached structure, such as a storage shed, may be located
within five feet of any mobile/manufactured home or its attached structures.
         (i)   A minimum of two off-street parking spaces must be provided on
or adjacent to each mobile/manufactured home space. The driveway must be
located to allow for convenient access to the mobile/manufactured home, and be
a minimum of ten feet wide.
         (j)   One guest parking space must be provided for each ten mobile/
manufactured home spaces. Group parking may be provided.
         (k)   The limits of each mobile/manufactured home space must be
clearly marked on the ground by permanent flush stakes, markers or other
suitable means. Location of space limits on the ground must be approximately
the same as those shown on the approved plans. Precise engineering of space
limits is not required either on the plans or on the ground.
         (l)   Each mobile/manufactured home must be skirted within 30 days
after it is moved to a space within the mobile/manufactured home park. The
skirting must be of a fire-resistant material similar to that of the mobile/
manufactured home exterior.
      (2)   Streets. Streets within a mobile/manufactured home park must meet
the standards specified in §
154.08(I)(J). Streets must be designed to allow safe placement and removal of
mobile homes.
         (a)   Streets must be designed to provide safe access to public roads.
         (b)   Roads within the mobile/manufactured home park must be designed
to provide safe traffic circulation and parking.
         (c)   One-way roads must be at least 15 feet wide; two-way roads must
be at least 24 feet wide.
      (3)   Electrical systems. Electrical systems must be designed and
installed in accordance with the applicable codes adopted by the authority
having jurisdiction. Where the state or other political subdivision does not
assume jurisdiction, such installations must be designed and constructed in
accordance with the applicable state electrical standards.
      (4)   Gas systems.
         (a)   Gas equipment and installations must be designed and constructed
in accordance with the applicable codes adopted by the authority having
jurisdiction. Where the state or other political subdivision does not assume
jurisdiction, such installation must be designed and constructed in accordance
with the applicable provisions of the “National Fuel Gas Code” (NFPA Pamphlet
54-1981) and the “Standard for the Storage and Handling of Liquefied Petroleum
Gases” (NFPA Pamphlet 58-1981).
         (b)   A readily accessible and identified shutoff valve controlling
the flow of gas to the entire gas piping system must be installed near to the
point of connection of the liquefied petroleum gas container.
         (c)   Each mobile/manufactured home lot must have an accessible,
listed gas shutoff installed. This valve must not be located under a mobile
home. Whenever the mobile home lot gas outlet is not in use, the shutoff valve
must be plugged to prevent accidental discharge.
   (F)   Recreational vehicle park standards.
      (1)   Recreational vehicle spaces.
         (a)   Spaces in recreational vehicle parks must be arranged to allow
for the safe movement of traffic and access to spaces.
         (b)   Roads within recreational vehicle parks must be designed to
provide safe traffic circulation and parking.
         (c)   Recreational vehicles must be separated from each other and from
other structures by at least 15 feet. Any accessory structures, such as
attached awnings, must, for purposes of this separation requirement, be
considered part of the recreational vehicle.
         (d)   No recreational vehicle space may be located less than 25 feet
from any public street or highway right-of-way.
      (2)   Density. The density of a recreational vehicle park must not exceed
25 recreational vehicle spaces per acre of gross site area.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-29)
§ 154.10 UNIFORM STANDARDS; MONUMENTATION.
   The following standards govern the monumentation of land surveys.
   (A)   The terms MONUMENT and PERMANENT MONUMENT, as used in these
regulations, mean any structure of masonry, metal or other permanent, durable
material placed in the ground, which is exclusively identifiable as a monument
to a survey point, expressly placed for surveying reference.
   (B)   All metal monuments must be at least one-half inch in diameter and 18
inches in length with a cap not less than one inch in diameter marked in a
permanent manner with the license number of the surveyor in charge of the
survey, and either the name of the surveyor or the company employing the
surveyor. Metal monuments marking a public land survey corner, as described in
MCA § 70-22-101, must be at least 24 inches long and five-eighths inch in
diameter, with an appropriately stamped metal cap at least two inches in
diameter. A monument marking a public land survey corner may also consist of a
cap, as described in this division, set firmly in concrete.
   (C)   Before a subdivision plat or certificate of survey may be filed for
record the surveyor shall confirm the location of as many monuments as, in the
surveyor’s professional judgment, are necessary to reasonably assure the
perpetuation of any corner or boundary established by the survey, and to enable
other surveyors to reestablish those corners and boundaries, and retrace the
survey. The surveyor shall clearly identify on the face of the plat or
certificate of survey all monuments pertinent to the survey, and the
descriptions of these monuments must be sufficient to identify the monuments.
   (D)   The surveyor shall set all monuments prior to the filing of a plat or
certificate of survey except those monuments that will be disturbed by the
installation of improvements or that, because of severe weather conditions,
may, in the surveyor’s judgment, be more appropriately and accurately set after
the weather has improved. In these two circumstances, the surveyor may set
monuments after the survey document is filed if the surveyor certifies on the
survey document that the monuments will be set by a specified date. The
surveyor shall set monuments, the placement of which has been deferred because
of severe weather conditions, within 240 days of the date on which the survey
document was filed.
      (1)   If, during the later monumentation of the corners of a plat or
certificate of survey that were not monumented before the plat or certificate
was filed, the surveyor finds that it is necessary to set a reference monument
to a corner, the surveyor shall prepare and file an amended certificate of
survey or subdivision plat.
      (2)   The failure of the surveyor to set the monuments by the date
certified on the record of survey will be deemed a violation of this section.
   (E)   The surveyor shall set monuments at the following locations:
      (1)   At each corner and angle point of all lots, blocks and parcels of
land created by the survey;
      (2)   At every point of intersection of the outer boundary of a
subdivision with an existing road right-of-way line of record, or a road right-
of-way line created by the survey;
      (3)   At every point of curve, point of tangency, point of reversed
curve, point of compounded curve, and point of intersection on each road right-
of-way line created by the survey; and
      (4)   At the intersection of a boundary line and a meander line. Meander
line angle points need not otherwise be monumented.
   (F)   If the placement of a required monument at its proper location is
physically impractical, the surveyor may set a reference or witness monument.
This monument has the same status as other monuments of record if its location
is properly shown. If the surveyor relies upon any existing monument in
conducting a survey, he or she shall confirm the location of the monument and
show and describe it on the resulting certificate of survey or subdivision
plat.
(Prior Code, Title XI, Chapter 4, Appendix A, § 24.183.1101) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.11 UNIFORM STANDARDS; CERTIFICATES OF SURVEY.
   A certificate of survey may not be filed by a County Clerk and Recorder
unless it complies with the following requirements.
   (A)   A certificate of survey must be legibly drawn with permanent ink or
printed, or reproduced, by a process guaranteeing a permanent record, and must
be 18 inches by 24 inches, or 24 inches by 36 inches, overall to include a one
and a half inch margin on the binding side.
   (B)   One signed copy on cloth-backed material or on three mil or heavier
matte stable-base polyester film, or equivalent, and one signed reproducible
copy on a stable-base polyester film or equivalent must be submitted.
   (C)   If more than one sheet must be used to adequately depict the land
surveyed, each sheet must show the number of that sheet and the total number of
sheets included. All certifications must be placed or referred to on one sheet.
   (D)   A certificate of survey must show or contain on its face, or on
separate sheets referred to on its face the following information. The surveyor
may, at his or her discretion, provide additional information regarding the
survey:
      (1)   A title or title block including the quarter-section, section,
township, range, principal meridian and county, and, if applicable, city or
town in which the surveyed land is located. Except as provided in division (F)
(5) below, a certificate of survey must not bear the title “plat”,
“subdivision”, or any title other than “certificate of survey”;
      (2)   The name(s) of the person(s) who commissioned the survey and the
names of any adjoining platted subdivisions, and the numbers of any adjoining
certificates of survey previously filed;
      (3)    The date the survey was completed and a brief explanation of why
the certificate of survey was prepared, such as to create a new parcel, retrace
a section line, or retrace an existing parcel of land;
      (4)   A north arrow;
      (5)   A scale bar. The scale must be sufficient to legibly represent the
required information and data;
      (6)   The location of, and other information relating to all monuments
found, set, reset, replaced, or removed, as required by ARM § 24.183.1101(1)
(c).
         (a)   If additional monuments are to be set after the certificate of
survey is filed, these monuments must be shown by a distinct symbol, and the
certificate of survey must bear a certification by the surveyor as to which
they will be set.
         (b)   All monuments found during a retracement that influenced the
position of any corner or boundary indicated on the certificate of survey must
be clearly shown as required by ARM § 24.183.1101(1)(c).
      (7)   The location of any section corners or corners of divisions of
sections the surveyor deems to be pertinent to the survey;
      (8)   Witness and reference monuments, and basis of bearings. For
purposes of this section, the term BASIS OF BEARINGS means the surveyor’s
statement as to the origin of the bearings shown in the certificate of survey.
The BASIS OF BEARINGS may refer to a particular line between monumented points
in a previously filed survey document. If the certificate of survey shows true
bearings, the BASIS OF BEARINGS must describe the method by which these true
bearings were determined;
      (9)   The bearings, distances, and curve data of all boundary lines. If
the parcel surveyed is bounded by an irregular shoreline or a body of water,
the bearings and distances of a meander traverse generally paralleling the
riparian boundary must be given.
         (a)   The courses along a meander line are shown solely to provide a
basis for calculating the acreage of a parcel that has one or more riparian
boundaries as the parcel existed at the time of survey.
         (b)   For purposes of this section, a line that indicates a fixed
boundary of a parcel is not a “meander” or “meander line”, and may not be
designated as one.
      (10)   Data on all curves sufficient to enable the re-establishment of
the curves on the ground. For circular curves, these data must at least include
radius and arc length. For non-tangent curves, which must be so labeled, the
certificate of survey must include the bearings of radial lines or chord length
and bearing;
      (11)   Lengths of all lines shown to at least a tenth of a foot, and all
angles and bearings shown to at least the nearest minute. Distance measurements
must be stated in English units, but their metric equivalents, shown to the
nearest hundredth of a meter, may be noted parenthetically;
      (12)   A narrative legal description of the parcel surveyed as follows.
         (a)   If the parcel surveyed is either an aliquot part of a U.S.
government section or a U.S. government lot, the information required by this
section is the aliquot or government lot description of the parcel.
         (b)   If the survey depicts the retracement or division of a parcel or
lot that is shown on a filed certificate of survey or subdivision plat, the
information required by this section is the number or name of the certificate
of survey or plat, and the parcel or lot number of the parcel surveyed.
         (c)   If the parcel surveyed does not fall within divisions (D)(12)(a)
or (D)(12)(b) above, the information required by this section is the metes-and-
bounds description of the perimeter boundary of the parcel surveyed.
         (d)   If the certificate of survey establishes the boundary of a
parcel containing one or more interior parcels, the information required by
this section is the legal description of the encompassing parcel.
         (e)   The requirement of this section does not apply to certificates
of survey that depict a partial retracement of the boundaries of an existing
parcel, or establish the location of lines or corners that control the location
of an existing parcel.
      (13)   Except as provided by division (F)(4) below, all parcels created
by the survey, designated by number or letter, and the dimensions and area of
each parcel. Excepted parcels must be marked “Not included in this survey.” If
a parcel created by the survey is identifiable as a one thirty-second or larger
aliquot part of a U.S. government section or as a U.S. government lot, it may
be designated by number or letter, or by its aliquot part or government lot
identification;
      (14)   The location of any easement that will be created by reference to
the certificate of survey;
      (15)   The dated signature and the seal of the surveyor responsible for
the survey. The affixing of this seal constitutes a certification by the
surveyor that the certificate of survey has been prepared in conformance with
the State Subdivision and Platting Act and the regulations adopted under that
Act;
      (16)   A memorandum of any oaths administered under MCA § 76-3-405; and
      (17)   Space for the County Clerk and Recorder’s filing information;
   (E)   Certificates of survey that do not represent a division of land, such
as those depicting the retracement of an existing parcel and those prepared for
informational purposes, must bear a statement as to their purpose and must meet
applicable requirements of this section for form and content;
   (F)   Certificates of survey for divisions of land meeting the criteria set
out in MCA § 76-3-207 must meet the following requirements.
      (1)   A certificate of survey of a division of land that would otherwise
be a subdivision, but that is exempted from subdivision review under MCA § 76-
3-207, may not be filed by the County Clerk and Recorder unless it bears the
acknowledged certificate of the property owner stating that the division of
land is exempt from review as a subdivision, and citing the applicable
exemption.
      (2)   If the exemption relied upon requires that the property owner enter
into a covenant running with the land, the certificate of survey may not be
filed unless it bears a signed and acknowledged recitation of the covenant.
      (3)   If a certificate of survey invokes the exemption for gifts and
sales to members of the landowner’s immediate family, the certificate must
indicate the name of the proposed grantee, the relationship of the grantee to
the landowner, and the parcel to be conveyed to the grantee.
      (4)   If a certificate of survey invokes the exemption for the relocation
of common boundary lines:
         (a)   The certificate of survey must bear the signatures of all
landowners whose parcels will be altered by the proposed relocation. The
certificate of survey must show that the exemption was used only to change the
location of, or eliminate, a boundary line dividing two or more parcels, and
must clearly distinguish the prior boundary location (shown, for example, by a
dashed or broken line, or a notation) from the new boundary (shown, for
example, by a solid line or notation);
         (b)   The certificate of survey must show the boundaries of the area
that is being removed from one parcel and joined with another parcel. The
certificate of survey may, but is not required to, establish the exterior
boundaries of the resulting parcels. However, the certificate of survey must
show portions of the existing, unchanged boundaries sufficient to clearly
identify both the location and the extent of the boundary relocation; and
         (c)   If a boundary line will be completely eliminated, the
certificate must establish the boundary of the resulting parcel.
      (5)   A survey document that modifies lots in a platted and filed
subdivision, and invokes an exemption from subdivision review under MCA §§ 76-
3-201 or 76-3-207(1)(d) or (e), must be entitled “amended plat of the (name of
subdivision)”, but for all other purposes, is to be regarded as a certificate
of survey. The document must contain a statement signed by the property owner
that approval of the Town Council is not required, and citing the applicable
exemption;
      (6)   If the certificate of survey invokes an exemption from subdivision
review under MCA § 76-3-207, the certificate of survey must bear, or be
accompanied by, a certification by the County Treasurer that all taxes and
special assessments assessed and levied on the surveyed land have been paid;
      (7)   For purposes of (F)(1) above, when the parcel of land for which an
exemption from subdivision review is claimed is being conveyed under a
contract-for-deed, the terms PROPERTY OWNER, LANDOWNER, and OWNER mean the
seller of the parcel under the contract-for-deed.
   (G)   The divisions of land described in MCA §§ 76-3-201, 76-3-205, and 76-
3-209, and divisions of federally owned land made by a United States government
agency, are not required to be surveyed, nor must a certificate of survey or
subdivision plat showing these divisions be filed with the County Clerk and
Recorder. A certificate of survey of one of these divisions may, however, be
filed with the County Clerk and Recorder if the certificate of survey meets the
requirements for form and content for certificates of survey contained in this
section, and bears a certificate of the surveyor performing the survey, citing
the applicable exemption from the Act or, when applicable, that the land
surveyed is owned by the federal government.
(Prior Code, Title XI, Chapter 4, Appendix A, § 24.183.1104)
Statutory reference:
   Uniform standards for certificate of survey, see MCA §§ 76-3-101 through 76-
3-625
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
§ 154.25 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Town Council may grant variances from §
154.08 of these regulations when, due to the characteristics of land proposed
for subdivision, strict compliance with these standards would result in undue
hardship and would not be essential to the public welfare. A variance will not
be granted if it would have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of
these regulations.
   (B)   The Town Council will not approve a variance unless it finds that:
      (1)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety, or general welfare, or injurious to other adjoining properties;
      (2)   Due to the physical surroundings, shape, or topographical
conditions of the property involved, strict compliance with the regulations
will impose an undue hardship on the owner. Undue hardship does not include
personal or financial hardship, or any hardship that is self imposed;
      (3)   The variance will not cause a substantial increase in public costs;
and
      (4)   The variance will not place the subdivision in nonconformance with
any adopted zoning regulations.
   (C)   The Town Council will not, by variance, permit subdivision for
building purposes in areas located within the floodway of a flood of 100-year
frequency, as defined by MCA Title 76, Chapter 5.
   (D)   The subdivider shall include, with the submission of the preliminary
plat, a written statement describing and justifying the requested variance. The
Planning Board will consider the requested variance and recommend its approval
or denial to the Town Council.
   (E)   In granting variances, the Town Council may impose reasonable
conditions to secure the objectives of these regulations.
   (F)   When a variance is granted, the motion to approve the proposed
subdivision must contain a statement describing the variance, and the facts and
conditions upon which the issuance of the variance is based.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-32)
§ 154.26 AMENDMENT OF REGULATIONS.
   Before the Town Council amends these regulations, it will hold a public
hearing on the proposed amendment. Notice of the time and place of the public
hearing must be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county
not less than 15 days, or more than 30 days, before the date of the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-32)
§ 154.27 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Except as provided in MCA § 76-3-207 and these regulations, every
final subdivision plat must be filed for record with the County Clerk and
Recorder before title to the subdivided land can be sold or transferred in any
manner. If unlawful transfers are made, the County Attorney shall commence
action to enjoin further sales or transfers, and compel compliance with all
provisions of the MSPA and these regulations. The cost of this action shall be
imposed against the party not prevailing.
   (B)   A person who has filed with the Town Council an application for a
subdivision under the MSPA and these regulations may bring an action in
district court to sue the Town Council to recover actual damages caused by a
final action, decision, or order of the Town Council, or a regulation adopted
pursuant to the MSPA that is arbitrary or capricious.
      (1)   A party identified in division (B)(3) below who is aggrieved by a
decision of the Town Council to approve, conditionally approve, or deny an
application and preliminary plat for a proposed subdivision or a final
subdivision plat may, within 30 days after the decision, appeal to the district
court in the county in which the property involved is located. The petition
must specify the grounds upon which the appeal is made.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, AGGRIEVED means a person who can
demonstrate a specific personal and legal interest, as distinguished from a
general interest, who has been, or is likely to be, specially and injuriously
affected by the decision.
      (3)   The following parties may appeal under the provisions of division
(B)(2) above:
         (a)   The subdivider;
         (b)   A landowner with a property boundary contiguous to the proposed
subdivision or a private landowner with property within the county or
municipality where the subdivision is proposed if that landowner can show a
likelihood of material injury to the landowner’s property or its value;
         (c)   The County Commissioners of the county where the subdivision is
proposed; and
         (d)   One of the following municipalities:
            1.   A first-class municipality, as described in MCA § 7-1-4111, if
a subdivision is proposed within three miles of its limits;
            2.   A second-class municipality, as described in MCA § 7-1-4111,
if a subdivision is proposed within two miles of its limits; or
            3.   A third-class municipality, as described in MCA § 7-1-4111, if
a subdivision is proposed within one mile of its limits.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-32) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.28 SUBDIVISION APPLICATION; PRELIMINARY PLAT SUBMITTAL.
   The subdivider shall submit to the Subdivision Administrator a subdivision
application addressing the division of land, and containing the following
materials, all described in more detail in forms provided by the Subdivision
Administrator, as applicable:
   (A)   A completed and signed subdivision application form;
   (B)   The required review fee;
   (C)   Ten copies of the preliminary plat;
   (D)   A vicinity sketch;
   (E)   A topographic map;
   (F)   A grading and drainage plan;
   (G)   Engineering plans for all public and private improvements;
   (H)   Overall development plan if development is in phases;
   (I)   Abstract of title (or title report);
   (J)   Lienholders’ acknowledgement of subdivision;
   (K)   Documentation of legal and physical access;
   (L)   Documentation of existing easements, including those for agricultural
water user facilities;
   (M)   Existing covenants and deed restrictions;
   (N)   Existing water rights;
   (O)   Existing mineral rights;
   (P)   Names and addresses of all adjoining property owners;
   (Q)   Proposed road plans and profiles;
   (R)   Encroachment permits from the state Department of Transportation or
the local jurisdiction;
   (S)   Proposed easements;
   (T)   Proposed disposition of water rights;
   (U)   Proposed disposition of mineral rights;
   (V)   Parkland dedication calculations;
   (W)   Environmental assessment and/or summary of probable impacts;
   (X)   Transportation impact analysis or transportation plan;
   (Y)   Fire risk rating analysis and fire prevention plan;
   (Z)   Noxious weed management plan and re-vegetation plan;
   (AA)   Property owners’ association documents, including draft articles of
incorporation, declaration, and bylaws;
   (BB)   FIRM or FEMA panel map and letter identifying floodplain status;
   (CC)   Required water and sanitation information;
   (DD)   A form of subdivision improvements agreement, if proposed;
   (EE)   Letter requesting a revocation of agricultural covenants;
   (FF)   Letter indicating locations of cultural or historic resources;
   (GG)   Variance request or approval;
   (HH)   Re-zoning application or approval;
   (II)   Flood hazard evaluation;
   (JJ)   Letter identifying and proposing mitigation for potential hazards, or
other adverse impacts, as identified in the pre-application meeting, and not
covered by any of the above required materials; and
   (KK)   Such additional relevant and reasonable information as identified by
the Subdivision Administrator during the pre-application meeting that is
pertinent to the required elements of this section.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-8)
§ 154.29 REVIEW PROCESS.
   For both minor and major subdivisions, the initial review process is as
follows.
   (A)   Within five working days of receipt of a subdivision application and
fee, the Subdivision Administrator shall determine whether the application
contains all of the applicable materials required by §
154.28, and shall give written notice to the subdivider of the Subdivision
Administrator’s determination.
      (1)   If the Subdivision Administrator determines that elements are
missing from the application, he or she shall return the application and
identify those elements in the notification, and no further action shall be
taken on the application by the Subdivision Administrator until the application
is resubmitted.
      (2)   The subdivider may correct the deficiencies and resubmit the
application.
      (3)   If the subdivider corrects the deficiencies and resubmits the
application, the Subdivision Administrator shall have five working days to
notify the subdivider whether the resubmitted application contains all the
materials required by §
154.28, as applicable.
      (4)   This process shall be repeated until the subdivider submits an
application containing all the materials required by §
154.28, or the application is withdrawn.
   (B)   Within 15 working days after the Subdivision Administrator notifies
the subdivider that the application contains all of the required elements as
provided in division (A) above, the Subdivision Administrator shall determine
whether the application and required elements contain detailed, supporting
information that is sufficient to allow for the review of the proposed
subdivision under these regulations, and shall give written notification to the
subdivider of the Subdivision Administrator’s determination.
      (1)   If the Subdivision Administrator determines that the information in
the application is not sufficient to allow for review of the proposed
subdivision, the Subdivision Administrator shall identify specific required
information in its notification and return the application to the subdivider,
and no further action shall be taken on the application by the Subdivision
Administrator until the material is resubmitted.
      (2)   The subdivider may correct the deficiencies and resubmit the
application, or withdraw the application.
      (3)   If the subdivider corrects the deficiencies and resubmits the
application in accordance with division (A)(2) above, the Subdivision
Administrator shall have 15 working days to notify the subdivider whether the
resubmitted application and required elements contain detailed, supporting
information that is sufficient to allow for review of the proposed subdivision
under these regulations.
      (4)   This process shall be repeated until the subdivider submits an
application that contains detailed, supporting information that is sufficient
for review of the proposed subdivision under the provisions of these
regulations, or the application is withdrawn.
      (5)   A determination that an application contains sufficient information
for review as provided in this division does not ensure that the proposed
subdivision will be approved or conditionally approved by the Town Council, and
does not limit the ability of the Subdivision Administrator, Planning Board, or
the Town Council to request additional information during the review process.
      (6)   A determination of sufficiency by the Subdivision Administrator
pursuant to this section does not limit the DEQ from requiring additional water
and sanitation information as part of the DEQ review of water and sanitation
information.
   (C)   Subdivision review and approval, conditional approval, or denial shall
be based on those regulations in effect at the time a subdivision application
and preliminary plat is deemed to contain sufficient information for review. If
regulations change during the element or sufficiency review, the determination
of whether the application contains the required elements and sufficient
information, and the subdivision review shall be based on the new regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-9)
§ 154.30 PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall hold a public hearing on the subdivision
application when a hearing is required by these regulations.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall give notice of the time, date, and location
of the hearing by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
county not less than 15 days prior to the dates of the hearing.
   (C)   At least 15 days prior to the date of the hearing, the Planning Board
shall give notice of the hearing by certified mail to the subdivider, each
adjoining landowner to the land included in the preliminary plat, and each
purchaser under contract-for-deed of property immediately adjoining the land
included in the preliminary plat.
   (D)   The subdivider shall post notices at conspicuous places on the site of
the proposed subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-14)
§ 154.31 PLANNING BOARD HEARING, CONSIDERATION, RECOMMENDATION.
   (A)   Hearing. After the subdivision application is deemed to have all the
required elements and contain detailed, supporting information that is
sufficient to allow for review, and the Subdivision Administrator has prepared
a staff report, the Planning Board shall schedule and hold a public hearing on
the subdivision application.
   (B)   Recommendation.
      (1)   In recommending approval, conditional approval, or denial of the
subdivision application and preliminary plat, the Planning Board shall base its
recommendation on compliance of the subdivision application with the following:
         (a)   These regulations, including, but not limited to, the standards
set forth in §
154.08;
         (b)   Applicable zoning regulations;
         (c)   The MSPA, including, but not limited to, MCA § 76-3-608(3), as
delineated in sections IV-A-8(a) and (b)(iv) of these regulations; and
         (d)   Other applicable regulations.
      (2)   In recommending approval, conditional approval, or denial of the
subdivision application and preliminary plat, the Planning Board may consider,
without limitation, the following (as applicable):
         (a)   The subdivision application and preliminary plat;
         (b)   The environmental assessment;
         (c)   The summary of probable impacts and proposed mitigation;
         (d)   An officially adopted growth policy;
         (e)   Information provided at public hearing(s);
         (f)   The Subdivision Administrator’s staff report and recommendation;
and
         (g)   Any additional information authorized by law.
      (3)   Within ten working days after the public hearing, the Planning
Board shall submit the following, in writing, to the subdivider and the Town
Council:
         (a)   Recommended findings of fact based on the evidence in division
(B)(2) above that discuss and consider the subdivision’s compliance with, and
impact on, the items listed in division (B)(1) above of these regulations;
         (b)   A recommendation for approval, conditional approval (including
any recommended conditions and/or mitigation measures), or denial of the
subdivision application and preliminary plat; and
         (c)   A recommendation for approval or denial of any requested
variances (see § 154.25).
   (C)   Water and sanitation information. The Planning Board or Planning Staff
shall collect public comment regarding the water and sanitation information
required by the MSPA and these regulations. The Planning Board shall forward
all comments regarding water and sanitation to the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-15)
§ 154.32 SUBDIVIDER’S PREFERENCE; MITIGATION.
   No later than two working days before the meeting or hearing at which the
Town Council is to consider the subdivision application and preliminary plat,
the subdivider is encouraged to submit, in writing, to the Subdivision
Administrator the subdivider’s comments on, and responses to, the Planning
Board’s recommendations, as well as any proposed mitigation measures not
already discussed with the Planning Board. The Town Council will consult with
the subdivider, and will give due weight and consideration to the subdivider’s
expressed preference regarding mitigation.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-16)
Statutory reference:
   Subdivider’s preference for mititgation and the Town Council’s decision, see
MCA § 76-3-608(5)(b)
§ 154.33 TOWN COUNCIL MEETING.
   (A)   After the Planning Board makes its recommendation, the Town Council
shall hold a public meeting on the subdivision application.
   (B)   All comments and documents regarding the subdivision shall be
submitted to the Subdivision Administrator, rather than to the Town Council
directly, to be forwarded to the Town Council.
   (C)   Upon objection made at its meeting, the Town Council shall determine
whether public comments or documents presented for consideration at the Town
Council’s public meeting constitute either:
      (1)   Information, or analysis of information, that was presented at the
Planning Board hearing on the subdivision application that the public has had a
reasonable opportunity to examine, and on which the public has had a reasonable
opportunity to comment, in which case the Town Council shall proceed to its
decision whether to approve, conditionally approve, or deny the proposed
subdivision; or
      (2)   New information, or analysis of information, that has never been
submitted as evidence or considered by the Planning Board at a hearing on the
subdivision application, in which case the Town Council shall proceed as set
forth in division (D) below.
   (D)   If the Town Council determines that public comments or documents
presented at the meeting constitute new information, or an analysis of
information, regarding the subdivision application that has never been
submitted as evidence or considered by the Planning Board at the public hearing
on the subdivision application, the Town Council shall determine whether the
public comments or documents are relevant and credible with regard to the Town
Council’s decision, pursuant to divisions (E) and (F) below.
      (1)   If the Town Council determines the information, or analysis of
information, is either not relevant or not credible, then the Town Council
shall approve, conditionally approve, or deny the proposed subdivision without
basing its decision on the new information or analysis of information.
      (2)   If the Town Council determines the new information, or analysis of
information, is relevant and credible, then the Town Council shall direct the
Planning Board to schedule a subsequent public hearing pursuant to division (G)
below.
      (3)   At the subsequent hearing, the Planning Board shall consider only
the new information, or analysis of information, that may have an impact on the
findings and conclusions that the Town Council will rely upon in making its
decision on the proposed subdivision.
   (E)   New information, or analysis of information, is considered to be
relevant if it may have an impact on the findings and conclusions that the Town
Council will rely upon in making its decision on the proposed subdivision.
   (F)   New information, or analysis of information, is considered to be
credible if it is based on one or more of the following:
      (1)   Physical facts or evidence;
      (2)   Supported personal observations;
      (3)   Evidence provided by a person with professional competency in the
subject matter; or
      (4)   Scientific data supported by documentation.
   (G)   If a subsequent public hearing is held pursuant to division (F) above,
it must be held within 45 days of the Town Council’s determination to schedule
a subsequent hearing. The Planning Board shall consider only the new
information, or analysis of information, that may have an impact on the
findings and conclusions that the Town Council will rely upon in making its
decision on the proposed subdivision.
      (1)   Notice of the time, date, and location of the subsequent hearing
shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
county not less than 15 days prior to the date of the subsequent hearing.
      (2)   At least 15 days prior to the date of the subsequent hearing,
notice of the subsequent hearing shall be given by certified mail to the
subdivider, each adjoining landowner to the land included in the preliminary
plat, and each purchaser under contract for deed of property immediately
adjoining the land included in the preliminary plat.
      (3)   The Town Council shall require that notice be posted at a
conspicuous place on the site of the proposed subdivision.
   (H)   If a subsequent public hearing is held, the 60-working day review
period is suspended as of the date of the Town Council’s decision to schedule a
subsequent hearing. The 60-working day review period resumes on the date of the
Town Council’s next scheduled public meeting for which proper notice for the
public meeting on the subdivision application can be provided.
   (I)   The Town Council may not approve, or conditionally approve, a
subdivision application and preliminary plat unless the proposed subdivision:
      (1)   Provides easements for the location and installation of any planned
utilities;
      (2)   Provides legal and physical access to each parcel within the
subdivision, and the notation of that access on the applicable plat and any
instrument transferring the parcel;
      (3)   Assures that all required public or private improvements will be
installed before final plat approval, or that their installation after final
plat approval will be guaranteed, as provided by §
154.05 of these regulations;
      (4)   Assures that the requirements of MCA § 76-3-504(1)(j) regarding the
disclosure and disposition of water rights, as set forth in §
154.08(S), have been considered and will be accomplished before the final plat
is submitted;
      (5)   Assures that the requirements of MCA § 76-3-504(1)(k) regarding
watercourse and irrigation easements, as set forth in §
154.08(R), have been considered and will be accomplished before the final plat
is submitted; and
      (6)   Provides for the appropriate park dedication or cash-in-lieu.
   (J)   In approving, conditionally approving, or denying a subdivision
application and preliminary plat, the Town Council shall consider division (A)
above, and whether the proposed subdivision complies with:
      (1)   These regulations, including, but not limited to, the standards set
forth in §
154.08;
      (2)   Applicable zoning regulations;
      (3)   Other applicable regulations;
      (4)   The MSPA, including, but not limited to, the following impacts:
         (a)   Impact on agriculture;
         (b)   Impact on agricultural water user facilities;
         (c)   Impact on local services;
         (d)   Impact on the natural environment;
         (e)   Impact on wildlife and wildlife habitat; and
         (f)   Impact on public health and safety.
      (5)   Proposed mitigation.
   (K)   In making its decision to approve, conditionally approve, or deny a
proposed subdivision, the Town Council may consider and weigh the following, as
applicable:
      (1)   The subdivision application and preliminary plat;
      (2)   The environmental assessment;
      (3)   The summary of probable impacts and mitigation;
      (4)   An officially adopted growth policy;
      (5)   Comments, evidence, and discussions at the public hearing;
      (6)   The Subdivision Administrator’s staff report and recommendations;
      (7)   The Planning Board recommendation; and
      (8)   Any additional information authorized by law.
   (L)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Town Council may not consider any
information regarding the subdivision application that is presented after the
final public hearing (which may include a subsequent hearing, if any) when
making its decision to approve, conditionally approve, or deny the proposed
subdivision.
   (M)   Water and sanitation information provided in the application, and
public comment given about this information during the review process, may be
used as a basis for a conditional approval or denial of a subdivision only if
the Town Council finds that information provided in the application, or
submitted during public comment, indicates the proposal does not comply with
previously adopted subdivision, zoning, floodplain, or other regulations.
      (1)   For a proposed subdivision that will create one or more parcels
containing less than 20 acres, the subdivider shall obtain approval by the DEQ
as a condition of approval of the final plat. This approval applies to the
development of lots at the time of the approval, and is no guarantee that a
source of water or a location for a septic system or drain fields will be
available when the lots are actually developed.
      (2)   For a proposed subdivision that will create one or more parcels
containing 20 acres or more, the subdivider shall demonstrate that there is an
adequate water source, and at least one area for a septic system and a
replacement drain field for each lot. This demonstration to the local reviewing
authority is to evaluate the ability to develop lots at the platting stage, and
is no guarantee that a source of water, or a location for a septic system or
drain fields, will be available when the lots are actually developed.
      (3)   The Town Council shall collect public comments submitted regarding
water and sanitation information, and shall make any comments submitted, or a
summary of the comments submitted, available to the subdivider within 30 days
after conditional approval or approval of the subdivision application and
preliminary plat.
      (4)   The subdivider shall, as part of the subdivider’s application for
sanitation approval, forward the comments or the summary provided by the Town
Council to the:
         (a)   Reviewing authority provided in MCA Title 76, Chapter 4, for
subdivisions that will create one or more parcels containing less than 20
acres; and
         (b)   Local health department or board of health for proposed
subdivisions that will create one or more parcels containing 20 acres or more,
and less than 160 acres.
   (N)   In rendering its decision to approve, conditionally approve, or deny
the proposed subdivision, the Town Council shall issue written findings of fact
that discuss and weigh the proposed subdivision’s compliance with the preceding
subsections.
      (1)   When the Town Council denies or conditionally approves the proposed
subdivision, it shall send the subdivider a letter with the appropriate
signature, and make the letter available to the public. The letter shall:
         (a)   Contain information regarding the appeal process for the denial
or imposition of conditions;
         (b)   Identify the regulations and statutes that are used in reaching
the decision to approve, deny, or impose conditions, and explain how they apply
to the decision;
         (c)   Provide the facts and conclusions that the Town Council relied
upon in making its decision, and reference documents, testimony, or other
materials that form the basis of the decision;
         (d)   Provide the conditions that apply to the preliminary plat
approval and that must be satisfied before the final plat may be approved; and
         (e)   Set forth the time limit for approval, pursuant to division (O)
below.
   (O)   Upon approval or conditional approval of the preliminary plat, the
Town Council shall provide the subdivider with a dated and signed statement of
approval. The approval shall be in force for no more than three calendar years.
      (1)   At least 30 days prior to the expiration of the preliminary plat
approval, the Town Council may, at its discretion, and at the written request
of the subdivider, extend its approval for a period of one additional year.
      (2)   The Town Council may extend the approval for more than one year if
a longer approval period is included as a specific condition of a written
subdivision improvements agreement between the Town Council and the subdivider,
provided for in §
154.05.
      (3)   After the application and preliminary plat are approved, the Town
Council may not impose any additional conditions as a prerequisite to final
plat approval unless the preliminary plat approval expires, at which time a new
application shall be required.
      (4)   The Town Council may withdraw approval or conditional approval of
an application and preliminary plat if it determines that information provided
by the subdivider, and upon which the approval or conditional approval was
based, is inaccurate.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-17)
§ 154.34 AMENDED APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   If the subdivider changes the subdivision application or preliminary
plat after the Subdivision Administrator makes a determination of sufficiency
pursuant to §
154.05, but before the Planning Board hearing, the subdivider shall submit the
amended application to the Subdivision Administrator for review.
      (1)   Within five working days of receiving the amended application or
preliminary plat, the Subdivision Administrator shall determine whether the
changes to the subdivision application or preliminary plat are material,
pursuant to division (D) below.
      (2)   The 60-working day review period is suspended while the Subdivision
Administrator considers whether the changes to the subdivision application or
preliminary plat are material.
      (3)   If the Subdivision Administrator determines the changes are not
material, the 60-working day review period resumes when the Subdivision
Administrator mails notice of the decision to the subdivider.
      (4)   If the Subdivision Administrator determines the changes are
material, he or she shall either require the subdivider to schedule a new pre-
application meeting and resubmit the application as a new subdivision
application, or proceed with the 60-working day review period upon
certification from the Subdivision Administrator that the application is
sufficient for review.
   (B)   If the subdivider changes the subdivision application or preliminary
plat after the Planning Board hearing, but before the Town Council meeting, the
subdivider shall submit the amended application or preliminary plat to the
Subdivision Administrator for review.
      (1)   Within five working days of receiving the amended application or
preliminary plat, the Subdivision Administrator shall determine whether the
changes to the subdivision application or preliminary plat are material
pursuant to division (D) below.
      (2)   The 60-working day review period is suspended while the Subdivision
Administrator considers whether the changes to the subdivision application or
preliminary plat are material.
      (3)   If the Subdivision Administrator determines the changes are not
material, the 60-working day review period resumes when the Subdivision
Administrator mails notice of the decision to the subdivider.
      (4)   If the Subdivision Administrator determines the changes are
material, he or she shall either:
         (a)   Require the subdivider to begin the subdivision review process
again, starting with the pre-application meeting, and require payment of a new
application fee; or
         (b)   Schedule a new Planning Board hearing to take comment on the
amended application or preliminary plat. Notice of the Subdivision
Administrator’s determination to schedule a new Planning Board hearing shall be
provided as set forth in section IV-A-3. A supplemental staff report shall be
prepared to address the changes to the original application.
      (5)   If a new Planning Board hearing is held pursuant to division (B)(4)
(b) above, the 60-working day review period is suspended for the time period
between notice of the Subdivision Administrator’s determination, and ten
working days after the date of the second Planning Board hearing.
   (C)   By making changes to a pending subdivision application or preliminary
plat, the subdivider consents to suspension of the review period as provided in
divisions (A)(2) and (B)(2) above.
   (D)   The following changes, although not an exhaustive list, may be
considered material:
      (1)   Configuration or number of lots;
      (2)   Road layout;
      (3)   Water and/or septic proposals;
      (4)   Configuration of park land or open spaces;
      (5)   Easement provisions;
      (6)   Changes to proposed covenants; or
      (7)   Designated access.
   (E)   A subdivider whose subdivision application or preliminary plat has
been deemed materially changed by the Subdivision Administrator may appeal the
Subdivision Administrator’s decision to the Town Council by written notice
within ten working days. The subdivider may request a hearing, and may submit
additional evidence to show that the changes to the preliminary plat are not
material.
      (1)   The 60-working day review period is suspended until the Town
Council decision on the appeal is made.
      (2)   If the Town Council concludes that the evidence and information
demonstrate that the changes to the subdivision application or preliminary plat
are material, the Town Council shall determine whether the subdivision
application should be resubmitted or scheduled for rehearing in front of the
Planning Board pursuant to divisions (B)(4)(a) or (B)(4)(b) above.
      (3)   If the Town Council concludes that the evidence and information
demonstrate that the changes to the subdivision application or preliminary plat
are not material, the 60-working day review period resumes as of the date of
the decision.
      (4)   By appealing the decision of the Subdivision Administrator, the
subdivider agrees to suspension of the 60-working day review period provided in
division (E)(1) above.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-18)
MAJOR AND MINOR SUBDIVISIONS; CONDOMINIUMS
§ 154.45 MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Review and approval procedures for major subdivisions. Subdivisions
that qualify for major subdivision review are those divisions of land
containing six or more lots. The pre-application process and initial review
process set forth in §
154.04 apply to this section.
   (B)   Subdivision application and preliminary plat submittal.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit to the Town Council or to the
subdivision a subdivision application containing the materials identified in §
154.04 at the pre-application meeting.
      (2)   The requirement for preparing an environmental assessment does not
apply, pursuant to MCA § 76-3-616, when:
         (a)   The proposed subdivision is totally within an area covered by a
growth policy adopted pursuant to MCA §§ 76-1-601 through 76-1-606;
         (b)   The Town Council has adopted zoning regulations pursuant to MCA
§§ 76-2-301 through 76-2-328 (municipal zoning); MCA §§ 76-2-201 through 76-2-
240 (county zoning pursuant to a growth policy); and
         (c)   The Town Council has adopted a strategy for development,
maintenance, and replacement of public infrastructure pursuant to MCA § 76-1-
601(3)(e).
      (3)   The Planning Board may waive the requirement for preparing any
portion of the environmental assessment when the proposed subdivision is in an
area covered by a growth policy adopted pursuant to MCA §§ 76-1-601 through 76-
1-606, and the proposed subdivision will be in compliance with the policy.
      (4)   When an exemption from preparing any portion of the environmental
assessment is sought, the applicant shall meet with the Planning Board, explain
why the exemption is appropriate, and if granted the Planning Board shall
prepare and certify a written statement of the reasons for granting the
exemption. A copy of this statement must accompany the preliminary plat of the
subdivision when it is submitted for review and shall be filed with the final
plat.
   (C)   Time period for approval, conditional approval, or denial. Within 60
working days, the Town Council shall approve, conditionally approve, or deny
the proposed subdivision according to Section IV-A-8 of these regulations,
unless the subdivider and the Subdivision Administrator agree to an extension
or suspension of the review period, or a subsequent public hearing is held
pursuant to Section IV-A-7 of these regulations. The review period of 60
working days begins the day after the Subdivision Administrator notifies the
subdivider or the subdivider’s agent in writing that the subdivision
application is sufficient for review.
   (D)   Public agency and utility review. Review and comment by public
agencies or utilities may not delay the Town Council’s action on the
subdivision application beyond the 60-working day review period. The Town
Council will make these comments available to the subdivider and to the general
public upon request. If, during the review of the application, the Subdivision
Administrator or the Planning Board contacts a public utility, agency, or other
entity that was not included on the list provided during the pre-application
meeting, the Subdivision Administrator shall notify the subdivider of the
contact and the timeframe for response.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-13)
§ 154.46 REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   General. Subdivisions containing five or fewer parcels shall be
reviewed as set forth in this section. Generally, all minor subdivisions shall
be reviewed pursuant to division (B) below, as provided for in MCA § 76-3-609
(4). Expedited minor subdivisions shall be reviewed pursuant to division (C)
below.
   (B)   Minor subdivision review. The pre-application process and initial
review process set forth in §
154.04 apply to this section.
   (C)   Minor subdivision application and preliminary plat submittal. The
subdivider shall submit to the Town Council or to the Subdivision Administrator
a subdivision application containing the materials identified in §
154.28 and in the pre-application meeting.
   (D)   Minor subdivision exceptions. The following do not apply to minor
subdivisions:
      (1)   Preparation of an environmental assessment;
      (2)   Parkland dedication; and
      (3)   Public hearing requirements.
   (E)   Minor subdivision review process.
      (1)   Within 35 working days, the Town Council shall approve,
conditionally approve, or deny the proposed subdivision according to division
(G) below of these regulations, unless the subdivider and the Subdivision
Administrator agree to an extension or suspension of the review period, not to
exceed one year. The review period of 35 working days begins the day the
Subdivision Administrator notifies the subdivider or the subdivider’s agent in
writing that the subdivision application is sufficient for review.
      (2)   Review and comment by public agencies or utilities may not delay
the Town Council’s action on the subdivision application beyond the 35-working
day review period. The Town Council will make these comments available to the
subdivider and to the general public upon request. If, during the review of the
application, the Subdivision Administrator or the Planning Board contacts a
public utility, agency, or other entity that was not included on the list
provided during the pre-application meeting, the Subdivision Administrator
shall notify the subdivider of the contact and the timeframe for response.
   (F)   Minor subdivision Planning Board consideration and recommendation.
      (1)   In recommending approval, conditional approval, or denial of the
subdivision application and preliminary plat, the Planning Board shall base its
recommendation on compliance of the subdivision application and preliminary
plat with the following:
         (a)   These regulations, including, but not limited to, the standards
set forth in Section 1-4-13;
         (b)   Applicable zoning regulations;
         (c)   MSPA, including, but not limited to, § 76-3-608(3), as
delineated in divisions (G) below and (F)(2)(d) below of these regulations; and
         (d)   Other applicable regulations.
      (2)   In recommending approval, conditional approval, or denial of the
subdivision application and preliminary plat, the Planning Board may consider,
without limitation, the following (as applicable):
         (a)   The subdivision application and preliminary plat;
         (b)   The summary of probable impacts and proposed mitigation;
         (c)   An officially adopted growth policy;
         (d)   Subdivision Administrator’s staff report and recommendation; and
         (e)   Any additional information authorized by law.
      (3)   Within ten working days after the public meeting, the Planning
Board shall submit the following, in writing, to the subdivider and the Town
Council:
         (a)   Recommended findings of fact based on the evidence in division
(F)(1) above that discuss and consider the subdivision’s compliance with, and
impact on, the items listed in division (F)(2) above of these regulations;
         (b)   A recommendation for approval, conditional approval (including
any recommended conditions and/or mitigation measures), or denial of the
subdivision application and preliminary plat; and
         (c)   A recommendation for approval or denial of any requested
variances (see §
154.25).
      (4)   The Planning Board or Subdivision Administrator shall collect
public comment regarding the water and sanitation information required by the
MSPA and these regulations. The Planning Board shall forward all comments
regarding water and sanitation to the Town Council.
   (G)   Subdivider’s preference for mitigation. No later than two working days
before the meeting at which the Town Council is to consider the subdivision
application and preliminary plat, the subdivider is encouraged to submit, in
writing, to the Subdivision Administrator the subdivider’s comments on, and
responses to, the Planning Board’s recommendations, as well as any proposed
mitigation measures not already discussed with the Planning Board. The Town
Council will consult with the subdivider and will give due weight and
consideration to the subdivider’s expressed preferences regarding mitigation.
   (H)   Minor subdivision decision and documentation.
      (1)   The Town Council may not approve or conditionally approve a
subdivision application and preliminary plat unless the proposed subdivision:
         (a)   Provides easements for the location and installation of any
planned utilities, both on and off site;
         (b)   Provides legal and physical access to each parcel within the
subdivision, and the notation of that access on the applicable plat and any
instrument transferring the parcel;
         (c)   Assures that all required public or private improvements will be
installed before final plat approval, or that their installation after final
plat approval will be guaranteed as provided by §
154.05 of these regulations;
         (d)   Assures that the requirements of MCA § 76-3-504 (1)(j) regarding
the disclosure and disposition of water rights, as set forth in §
154.08(S), have been considered and will be accomplished before the final plat
is submitted; and
         (e)   Assures that the requirements of MCA § 76-3-504(1)(k) regarding
watercourse and irrigation easements, as set forth in §
154.08(R), have been considered and will be accomplished before the final plat
is submitted.
      (2)   In approving, conditionally approving, or denying a first minor
subdivision application, the Town Council shall consider division (A) above and
whether the proposed subdivision complies with:
         (a)   These regulations, including, but not limited to, the standards
set forth in §
154.08;
         (b)   Applicable zoning regulations;
         (c)   Other applicable regulations; and
         (d)   The MSPA, including, but not limited to the following impacts:
            1.   Impact on agriculture;
            2.   Impact on agricultural water user facilities;
            3.   Impact on local services;
            4.   Impact on the natural environment;
            5.   Impact on wildlife and wildlife habitat;
            6.   Impact on public health and safety; and
            7.   Proposed mitigation.
      (3)   In making its decision to approve, conditionally approve, or deny a
proposed minor subdivision the Town Council may consider and weigh the
following, as applicable:
         (a)   The subdivision application and preliminary plat;
         (b)   The summary of probable impacts and mitigation;
         (c)   An officially adopted growth policy;
         (d)   The Subdivision Administrator’s staff report and
recommendations;
         (e)   The Planning Board recommendation; and
         (f)   Any additional information authorized by law.
      (4)   Water and sanitation information provided in the application and
public comment given about this information during the review process may be
used as a basis for a conditional approval or denial of a subdivision only if
the Town Council finds that information provided in the application, or
submitted during public comment, indicates the proposal does not comply with
previously adopted subdivision, zoning, floodplain, or other regulations.
         (a)   For a proposed subdivision that will create one or more parcels
containing less than 20 acres, the subdivider shall obtain approval by the DEQ
as a condition of approval of the final plat.
         (b)   For a proposed subdivision that will create one or more parcels
containing 20 acres or more, the subdivider shall provide water and sanitation
accessibility to all lots in order to obtain final plat approval.
         (c)   The Town Council shall collect public comments regarding water
and sanitation information and shall make any comments submitted, or a summary
of the comments submitted, available to the subdivider within 30 days after
conditional approval or approval of the subdivision application and preliminary
plat.
         (d)   The subdivider shall, as part of the subdivider’s application
for sanitation approval, forward the comments or the summary provided by the
Town Council to the:
            1.   Reviewing authority provided in MCA Title 76, Chapter 4, for
subdivisions that will create one or more parcels containing less than 20
acres; or
            2.   Local health department or board of health for proposed
subdivisions that will create one or more parcels containing 20 acres or more,
and less than 160 acres.
   (I)   Documentation of Town Council decision.
      (1)   In rendering its decision to approve, conditionally approve, or
deny the proposed subdivision, the Town Council shall issue written findings of
fact that discuss and weigh the proposed subdivision’s compliance with the
above divisions.
      (2)   When the Town Council denies or conditionally approves the proposed
subdivision, it shall send the subdivider a letter with the appropriate
signature, and make the letter available to the public. The letter shall:
         (a)   Contain information regarding the appeal process for the denial
or imposition of conditions;
         (b)   Identify the regulations and statutes that are used in reaching
the decision to approve, deny, or impose conditions and explain how they apply
to the decision;
         (c)   Provide the facts and conclusions that the Town Council relied
upon in making its decision and reference documents, testimony, or other
materials that form the basis of the decision;
         (d)   Provide the conditions that apply to the preliminary plat
approval and that must be satisfied before the final plat may be approved; and
         (e)   Set forth the time limit for approval, pursuant to division (J)
below.
   (J)   Subdivision application and preliminary plat approval period.
      (1)   Upon approval or conditional approval of the preliminary plat, the
Town Council shall provide the subdivider with a dated and signed statement of
approval. The approval shall be in force for no more than three calendar years.
         (a)   At least 30 days prior to the expiration of the preliminary plat
approval, the Town Council may, at its discretion, and at the written request
of the subdivider, extend its approval for a period of one additional year.
         (b)   The Town Council may extend the approval for more than one year
if that approval period is included as a specific condition of a written
subdivision improvements agreement between the Town Council and the subdivider,
provided for in §
154.04.
      (2)   After the application and preliminary plat are approved, the Town
Council may not impose any additional conditions as a prerequisite to final
plat approval unless the preliminary plat approval expires.
      (3)   The Town Council may withdraw approval or conditional approval of
an application and preliminary plat if it determines that information provided
by the subdivider, and upon which the approval or conditional approval was
based, is inaccurate.
   (K)   Minor subdivisions, amended application.
      (1)   If the subdivider changes the subdivision application or
preliminary plat before the Town Council makes its decision, the subdivider
shall submit the amended application or preliminary plat to the Subdivision
Administrator for review.
         (a)   Within five working days of receiving the amended application or
preliminary plat, the Subdivision Administrator shall determine whether the
changes to the subdivision application or preliminary plat are material, as
determined in division (K)(1)(c) below.
         (b)   The 35-working day review period is suspended while the
Subdivision Administrator considers the amended application or preliminary
plat.
         (c)   If the Subdivision Administrator determines the changes are not
material, the 35-working day review period resumes when the Subdivision
Administrator mails notice of the decision to the subdivider.
         (d)   If the Subdivision Administrator determines the changes are
material, the Subdivision Administrator may require the subdivider to schedule
a new pre-application meeting, and resubmit the application and preliminary
plat as a new subdivision application.
      (2)   By making changes to a pending subdivision application or
preliminary plat, the subdivider consents to suspension of the review period as
provided in division (K)(1)(b) above.
      (3)   The following changes, although not an exhaustive list, may be
considered material:
         (a)   Configuration or number of lots;
         (b)   Road layout;
         (c)   Water and/or septic proposals;
         (d)   Configuration of park land or open spaces;
         (e)   Easement provisions;
         (f)   Changes to proposed covenants; or
         (g)   Designated access.
      (4)   A subdivider whose subdivision application or preliminary plat has
been deemed materially changed by the Subdivision Administrator may appeal the
Subdivision Administrator’s decision to the Town Council. The subdivider may
request a hearing, and may submit additional evidence to show that the changes
to the preliminary plat are not material.
         (a)   The 35-working day review period is suspended until the Town
Council decision on the appeal is made.
         (b)   If the Town Council concludes that the evidence and information
demonstrate that the changes to the subdivision application or preliminary plat
are material, the Town Council shall require the subdivision application and
preliminary plat to be resubmitted pursuant to division (K)(4) above.
         (c)   If the Town Council concludes that the evidence and information
demonstrate that the changes to the subdivision application or preliminary plat
are not material, the 35-working day review period resumes as of the date of
the decision.
         (d)   By appealing the decision of the Subdivision Administrator, the
subdivider agrees to suspension of the 35-working day review period provided in
division (E)(1) above.
   (L)   Minor subdivision final plat. The final plat must include the
contents, and be submitted and reviewed in accordance with the appropriate
requirements contained in §
154.05.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-11)
Statutory reference:
   Review procedures for minor subdivisions, see MCA § 76-3-608(5)(b)
§ 154.47 PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to provide flexibility in applying
certain subdivision standards, allowing the subdivider creativity in
subdivision design. MCA § 76-3-103(10) defines a PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD)
as a land development project consisting of residential clusters, industrial
parks, shopping centers, or office building parks that compose a planned
mixture of land uses built in a prearranged relationship to each other, and
having open space and community facilities in common ownership or use.
   (B)   If the Town Council designates a proposed development plan as a PUD,
the preliminary plat may then be submitted for review. Submittal must comply
with requirements and procedures contained in the following (for major
subdivisions).
      (1)   Applicable sections for final plats; design standards. PUDs must
comply with the standards contained in §
154.08. However, the Town Council may modify the design and improvement
standards contained in §§
154.08(G), (H), and (T), upon request of the subdivider when the plan for a PUD
includes provisions for efficient traffic circulation, adequate light, air, and
open space. In such cases, no application for a variance under §
154.25 of these regulations is necessary.
      (2)   Streets. The arrangement, type, extent, width, grade, and location
of all streets must be considered in their relation to existing and planned
streets, to topographical conditions, and to public convenience and safety.
      (3)   Open space. Each PUD must comply with the requirements of §
154.08 of these regulations. The open space must be:
         (a)   Owned by a property owners’ association; or
         (b)   Dedicated to public use, if acceptable, to the Town Council; or
         (c)   A combination of (B)(3)(a) and (B)(3)(b) above.
      (4)   Waiving dedication or cash donation. The Town Council may waive
dedication or cash donation requirements when the subdivider agrees to create a
property owners’ association for the proposed subdivision and deed to the
association land to be held in perpetuity for use as parks or playgrounds.
(Prior Code, § 11-14-30)
§ 154.48 EXPEDITED REVIEW; MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Criteria. A minor subdivision application qualifies for expedited
review if the proposed subdivision meets the following criteria:
      (1)   No more than one additional lot is created, and the remaining land
is greater than 160 acres in size, or two lots are created from a tract of
record;
      (2)   No land is dedicated to the public for parkland, playgrounds, or
other public uses, and no additional streets will be dedicated to public use;
      (3)   Each lot created, plus the remainder lot, has legal and physical
access pursuant to town standards;
      (4)   The proposed subdivision does not pose significant issues
concerning public health, safety, or welfare;
      (5)   Approval from the DEQ, as applicable, has already been obtained and
is submitted as part of the application; and
      (6)   The proposed subdivision complies with these regulations and any
applicable zoning laws.
   (B)   Procedures.
      (1)   The applicant shall request, in writing, consideration for
expedited review at the time a pre-application meeting is requested.
      (2)   The Subdivision Administrator shall initially determine whether the
application qualifies for expedited review at the pre-application meeting. If
the Subdivision Administrator later determines that the subdivision application
does not meet the expedited review criteria, the Subdivision Administrator
shall notify the subdivider of the decision within five working days of making
that determination.
      (3)   After the pre-application meeting, the Subdivision Administrator
shall provide a letter to DEQ, if appropriate, advising it that the application
qualifies for expedited review, so no public hearing is required and no public
comments are available.
      (4)   After receiving DEQ approval, if required, the applicant shall
submit all required application materials identified in §
154.05 of these regulations, along with the DEQ approval for element review in
accordance with the application deadline in these regulations.
      (5)   The application will be reviewed for the required elements and
sufficient information, as identified in §
154.05.
      (6)   The day after the Subdivision Administrator notifies the subdivider
or the subdivider’s agent that the subdivision application is sufficient for
review, the review period begins. The Subdivision Administrator shall review
the application and make a recommendation for approval, conditional approval,
or denial. The recommendation shall be forwarded to the applicant and the Town
Council no more than 15 working days after the application is deemed sufficient
for review.
   (C)   Approval.
      (1)   After receiving the recommendation from the Subdivision
Administrator, the Town Council shall adopt findings of fact for approval,
conditional approval, or denial no later than 35 working days after the
application is deemed sufficient for review.
      (2)   The Town Council decision shall be documented pursuant to Section
III-A-6.e.
      (3)   A dated and signed statement of approval shall be provided to the
subdivider pursuant to Section III-A-6.f.
   (D)   Final plat filing. Once an application has been approved by the Town
Council, or all conditions have been met if conditional approval was granted,
the final plat can be prepared and filed in accordance with §
154.05 and Section III-A-6.f.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-12)
§ 154.49 CONDOMINIUMS.
   (A)   Procedures. Unless exempted by MCA § 76-3-203, all condominium
developments are subdivisions subject to the terms of the MSPA as follows:
      (1)   If no division of land will be created by a condominium
subdivision, the subdivision must be reviewed under the procedures contained in
§
154.09(D), with the following exception: final approval will not be given until
the subdivider has either installed all required improvements, or has entered
into a subdivision improvements agreement pursuant to §
154.05(E).
      (2)   If a proposed condominium development will involve a division of
land, the subdivision must be reviewed under the procedures contained in §§
154.46 and
154.47(B)(1)(a).
   (B)   Design standards. Condominium developments must comply with applicable
standards contained in §
154.08.
   (C)   Unit ownership act. Condominium developments must comply with all
provisions of the Unit Ownership Act, MCA §§ 70-23-101 through 70-23-1105.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-31)
EXEMPTIONS.
§ 154.60 DIVISIONS OF LAND EXEMPT FROM SUBDIVISION REVIEW.
   (A)   Purpose. The MSPA provides that certain divisions of land, which would
otherwise constitute subdivisions, are exempt from local subdivision review and
approval (some may still be required to be surveyed), unless the use of the
exemption is an attempt to evade the MSPA. The exemptions are found in Part 2
of Title 76, Chapter 3. These regulations address the more commonly used
exemptions.
   (B)   General criteria to determine whether a proposal is an attempt to
evade the MSPA. The Town Council and its agent(s), when determining whether an
exemption is claimed for the purpose of evading the MSPA, shall consider all of
the surrounding circumstances. These circumstances include the nature of the
claimant’s business, the prior history of the particular tract in question, the
proposed configuration of the tracts if the proposed exempt transaction is
completed, and any pattern of exempt transactions that will result in the
equivalent of a subdivision without local government review.
   (C)   Divisions of land exempt from the requirements of these regulations.
The Town Council and its agent(s) will examine the divisions of land set forth
in this section to determine whether or not the requirements of the MSPA and
these regulations apply to the division. The fee for this examination is set
forth in a fee schedule adopted by the Town Council. The requirements of these
regulations and the MSPA do not apply unless the method of disposition is
adopted for the purpose of evading these regulations or the MSPA, or as
otherwise specifically provided, when:
      (1)   A division of land is created by order of any court of record in
this state or by operation of law or that, in the absence of agreement between
the parties to the sale, could be created by an order of any court in the state
pursuant to the law of eminent domain, Title 70, Chapter 30, being MCA §§ 70-
30-101 through 70-30-323. Before a court of record orders a division of land,
the court shall notify the Town Council of the pending division and allow the
Town Council to present written comments on the subdivision.
      (2)   A division of land is created to provide security for mortgages,
liens, or trust indentures for the purpose of construction, improvements to the
land being divided, or refinancing purposes. This exemption applies:
         (a)   To a division of land of any size;
         (b)   If the land that is divided is only conveyed to the financial or
lending institution to which the mortgage, lien, or trust indenture was given,
or to a purchaser upon foreclosure of the mortgage, lien, or trust indenture. A
transfer of the divided land, by the owner of the property at the time the land
was divided, to any party other than those identified in the preceding sentence
subjects the division of land to the requirements of the MSPA, and these
regulations; and
         (c)   To a parcel that is created to provide security under this
section. The remainder of the tract of land, if applicable, is subject to the
provisions of the MSPA and these regulations.
   (D)   Statement of intent. Under policies by many lending institutions and
federal home loan guaranty programs, a landowner who is buying a tract with
financing or through a contract-for-deed is required to hold title to the
specific site on which the residence will be built. The intended purpose of
this exemption is to allow a person who is buying a tract using financing or
contract-for-deed to segregate a smaller parcel from the tract for security for
financing construction of a home on the property.
   (E)   Use of exemption. This exemption is not available to simply create a
parcel without review by claiming that the parcel will be used for security to
finance construction of a home or other structure on the proposed lot. This
exemption may not be properly invoked unless the claimant is purchasing a
larger tract through financing or a contract-for-deed (and thus does not hold
title), and a lending institution requires the landowner to hold title to a
small parcel of the tract because the smaller tract is required as security for
a building construction loan.
   (F)   Required materials. When this exemption is to be used, the landowner
must submit to the Subdivision Administrator:
      (1)   A statement of how many interests within the original tract will be
created by use of the exemption;
      (2)   The deed, trust indenture, or mortgage for the exempted interest,
which states that the interest is being created only to secure a construction
mortgage, lien, or trust indenture;
      (3)   A statement explaining who will have title to, and possession of,
the balance of the original parcel after title to the exempted interest is
conveyed; and
      (4)   A signed statement from a lending institution that the creation of
the interest is necessary to secure a loan.
   (G)   Rebuttable presumptions. The use of this exemption is presumed to have
been adopted for the purpose of evading the Act if:
      (1)   It will create more than one new building site;
      (2)   The financing is not for construction or improvements on the
exempted parcel, or for re-financing;
      (3)   The person named in the statement explaining who would have
possession of the remainder parcel if title to the exempted parcel is conveyed
is anyone other than the borrower of funds for construction;
      (4)   Title to the exempted interest will not be initially obtained by
the lending institution if foreclosure occurs;
      (5)   There exists a prior agreement to default, or a prior agreement to
purchase only a portion of the original tract;
      (6)   It appears that the principal reason the interest is being created
is to create a building site, and using the interest to secure a loan is a
secondary purpose;
      (7)   The division of land is created for the purpose of conveyance to
any entity other than the financial or lending institution to which the
mortgage, lien, or trust indenture was given, or to a purchaser upon
foreclosure of the mortgage, lien, or trust indenture;
      (8)   A division of land creates an interest in oil, gas, minerals, or
water that is severed from the surface ownership of real property;
      (9)   A division of land creates cemetery lots;
      (10)   A division of land is created by the reservation of a life estate;
      (11)   A division of land is created by lease or rental for farming and
agricultural purposes;
      (12)   A division of land is in a location over which the state does not
have jurisdiction; or
      (13)   A division of land is created for public rights-of-way or public
utility sites. A subsequent change in the use of the land to a residential,
commercial, or industrial use is subject to the requirements of the MSPA and
these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-20)
§ 154.61 DIVISIONS OF LAND EXEMPT FROM REVIEW AND SURVEYING.
   (A)   Generally, condominiums are subject to review as subdivisions, but
under certain circumstances they may be exempt from review, provided they are
constructed on land divided in compliance with these regulations and the MSPA,
and:
      (1)   The approval of the original division of land expressly
contemplated the construction of the condominiums and MCA § 76-3-621, is
complied with; or
      (2)   The condominium proposal is in conformance with applicable zoning
regulations where local zoning regulations are in effect.
   (B)   Generally, subdivisions created by rent or lease are exempt from the
surveying and filing requirements of the MSPA and these regulations, but must
be submitted for review and approved by the Town Council before portions may be
rented or leased.
      (1)   When the land upon which an improvement is situated has been
subdivided in compliance with the MSPA, the sale, rent, lease, or other
conveyance of one or more parts of a building, structure, or other improvement
situated on one or more parcels of land is not a division of land, and is not
subject to the MSPA or these regulations.
      (2)   The sale, rent, lease, or other conveyance of one or more parts of
a building, structure, or other improvement, whether existing or proposed, is
not a division of land, and is not subject to the requirements of the MSPA or
these regulations.
   (C)   A division of land created by lease or rental of contiguous airport-
related land owned by a city, county, the state, or a municipal, or regional
airport authority is not subject to the MSPA or these regulations, provided
that the lease or rental is for onsite weather or air navigation facilities,
the manufacture, maintenance, and storage of aircraft, or air carrier-related
activities.
   (D)   A division of state-owned land is not subject to the MSPA or these
regulations unless the division creates a second or subsequent parcel from a
single tract for sale, rent, or lease for residential purposes after July 1,
1974.
   (E)   The MSPA and these regulations do not apply to deeds, contracts,
leases, or other conveyances which were executed prior to July 1, 1974.
   (F)   Instruments of transfer of land which is acquired for state highways
may refer by parcel and project number to state highway plans which have been
recorded in compliance with MCA § 60-2-209, and are exempted from the surveying
and platting requirements of the MSPA and these regulations. A survey or plat
for the recordation of an instrument transferring title to a remainder that was
created when the state obtained property for a highway right-of-way is not
required (44 A.G. Op. 25 (1992)). If such parcels are not shown on highway
plans of record, instruments of transfer of such parcels shall be accompanied
by, and refer to, appropriate certificates of survey and plats when presented
for recording.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-21)
§ 154.62 LAND EXEMPT FROM REVIEW; SUBJECT TO SURVEY REQUIREMENTS; ZONING
REGULATIONS.
   Unless the method of disposition is adopted for the purpose of evading these
regulations or the MSPA, the following divisions of land are not subdivisions
under these regulations and the MSPA, but are subject to the surveying
requirements of MCA § 76-3-401, and zoning regulations adopted under MCA Title
76, Chapters 2 or 3. A division of land may not be made under this section
unless the County Treasurer has certified that all real property taxes and
special assessments assessed and levied on the land to be divided have been
paid. The Clerk and Recorder shall notify the Subdivision Administrator if a
land division described in this section or MCA § 76-3-207(1) is submitted to
the County Clerk and Recorder prior to the survey being submitted to the
Subdivision Administrator for evasion review.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-22)
§ 154.63 RELOCATION OF COMMON BOUNDARY.
   (A)   Statement of intent. The intended purpose of this exemption is to
allow a change in the location or the elimination of a boundary line between
adjoining properties outside of a platted subdivision, and to allow a one-time
transfer of a tract to effect that relocation or elimination without
subdivision review.
   (B)   Required information. Certificates of survey claiming this exemption
must clearly distinguish between the existing boundary location and, in case of
a relocation, the new boundary. This must be accomplished by representing the
existing boundary with a dashed line and the new boundary, if applicable, with
a solid line. The appropriate certification set forth in ARM § 24.183.1104(1)
(f), must be included on the certificate of survey. Certificates of survey
showing the relocation of common boundary lines must be accompanied by a quit
claim or warranty deed, or recordable agreement from adjoining property owners
for the entire newly described parcel(s), or that portion of the tract(s) that
is being affected. If the same owner owns both parcels affected by the
relocation, documentation showing the need or reason for the relations (such as
a structure encroachment of surveyor error) shall be recorded, and may be
entitled “Notice of Boundary Line Relocation with No Transfer”.
   (C)   Use of exemption. The proper use of the exemption for relocating
common boundary lines is to establish a new boundary between adjoining parcels
of land outside of a platted subdivision, without creating an additional
parcel. The exemption may not be used if the division of land would result in
the permanent creation of one or more additional parcels of land.
   (D)   Rebuttable presumption. The use of this exemption is presumed to have
been adopted for the purpose of evading the MSPA if:
      (1)   The reviewing agent determines that the documentation submitted,
according to this section, does not support the stated reason for relocation;
or
      (2)   The proposed relocation creates a parcel of less than 160 acres
which, prior to the relocation, included more than 160 acres.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-23)
§ 154.64 RELOCATION OF COMMON BOUNDARY; PLATTED SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Statement of intent.
      (1)   The MSPA allows certain revisions to subdivisions platted since
July 1, 1973, which include relocation of common boundaries and the aggregation
of lots for five or fewer lots within a platted subdivision, or the relocation
of a common boundary between a single lot in a platted subdivision and
adjoining land outside a platted subdivision (but a restriction or requirement
on either continues to apply), without review.
      (2)   If a change is made to a platted subdivision which results in an
increase in the number of lots or redesigns, or rearranges six or more lots,
the Town Council must review and approve the amended plat, and an amended plat
must be filed with the County Clerk and Recorder.
   (B)   Use of exemption. Relocation of a common boundary between a single lot
in a platted subdivision and adjoining land outside a platted subdivision is
allowed because no additional parcels are created. Subdivision review is not
necessary because the relocation does not create any additional division of
land.
   (C)   Rebuttable presumption.
      (1)   If the resulting lots are inconsistent with the approved
subdivision and the uses in it, the use of the exemption will be presumed to
have been adopted for the purpose of evading the MSPA.
      (2)   If the resulting lots do not comply with existing zoning,
covenants, and/or deed restrictions, the use of the exemption will be presumed
to have been adopted for the purpose of evading the MSPA.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-26)
Statutory reference:
   Relocation of a common boundary on a platted subdivision, see MCA § 76-3-207
(1)(e)
§ 154.65 GIFT OR SALE; MEMBER OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY.
   (A)   Statement of intent. The intent of this exemption is to allow a
landowner to convey one parcel outside of a platted subdivision to each member
of his or her immediate family without local subdivision review. A single
parcel may be conveyed to each member of the immediate family under this
exemption in each county where the landowner owns property. The term IMMEDIATE
FAMILY means the spouse, children (by blood or adoption), or parents of the
grantor. This exemption may be used only by grantors who are natural persons
and not by non-corporal legal entities such as corporations, partnerships, and
trusts.
   (B)   Required information. A certificate of survey (or recording of an
instrument of conveyance) that uses this exemption to create a parcel for
conveyance to a family member must show the name of the grantee, relationship
to the landowner, and the parcel to be conveyed under this exemption, and the
landowner’s certification of compliance. Also, the certificate of survey or
instrument of conveyance must be accompanied by a deed or other conveying
document.
   (C)   Use of exemption. One conveyance of a parcel to each member of the
landowner’s immediate family is eligible for exemption from subdivision review
under the MSPA and these regulations. However, the use of the exemption may not
create more than one new parcel per eligible family member.
   (D)   Access. In order to protect the public health and safety, physical and
legal access must be provided to each parcel created by this exemption.
   (E)   Rebuttable presumptions.
      (1)   Any proposed use of the family gift or sale exemption to divide a
tract that was previously created through the use of an exemption will be
presumed to be adopted for purposes of evading the MSPA.
      (2)   The use of the family gift or sale exemption to divide tracts that
were created as part of an overall development plan with such characteristics
as common roads, utility easements, restrictive covenants, open space, or
common marketing or promotional plan raises a rebuttable, presumption that the
use of the exemption is adopted for purposes of evading the MSPA.
      (3)   A transfer of a parcel of land by one family member to another by
quitclaim deed, followed by an attempted use of this exemption, will result in
the presumption the method of disposition is adopted for the purpose of evading
the MSPA and these regulations.
      (4)   The use of the exemption to create more than one additional or
remaining parcel of less than 160 acres in size is presumed to be adopted for
the purpose of evading the MSPA and these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-24)
Statutory references:
   Gift or sale of land to an immediate family member, see MCA § 76-3-103(8),
ARM § 24.183.1104(1)(f), Appendix A
§ 154.66 DIVISIONS OF LAND; AGRICULTURAL USE.
   (A)   Statement of intent. This exemption is intended to allow a landowner
to create a parcel for gift, sale, or agreement to buy and sell, outside a
platted subdivision, without local review, if the parcel will be used only for
the production of livestock or agricultural crops and no residential,
commercial, or industrial buildings, which require water or sewer, will be
built on it.
   (B)   Required information. A certificate of survey that uses this exemption
to create a parcel for agricultural use only requires a covenant running with
the land in accordance with MCA § 76-3-207(1)(c), and a signed and acknowledged
recitation of the covenant on the face of the survey. The certificate of survey
must be accompanied by a separate, recordable document reciting the covenant.
   (C)   Use of exemption.
      (1)   AGRICULTURAL PURPOSE. The use of land for raising crops, livestock,
or timber, and specifically excludes residential structures and facilities for
commercially processing agricultural products. Agricultural lands are exempt
from review by the DEQ, provided the applicable exemption under the Sanitation
in Subdivisions Act, (being Title 70, Chapter 30, MCA §§ 70-30-101 through 70-
30-323), is properly invoked by the property owner.
      (2)   Any change in use of the land for anything other than agricultural
purposes subjects the parcel to review as a minor subdivision.
      (3)   Residential, commercial, or industrial structures, including
facilities for commercial processing of agricultural products, may not be
utilized, constructed, or erected on parcels created under this exemption
unless the covenant is revoked.
   (D)   Rebuttable presumptions. The following conditions must be met, or the
use of the exemption will be presumed to have been adopted for the purpose of
evading the MSPA:
      (1)   The parties to the transaction must enter into a covenant running
with the land, and revocable only by mutual consent of the Town Council and the
property owner that the divided land will be used exclusively for agricultural
purposes. The covenant must be signed by the property owner, the buyer, and the
members of the Town Council.
      (2)   The landowner must demonstrate that the planned use of the exempted
parcel is for agricultural purposes, and that no residential, commercial, or
industrial buildings have been, or will be, built on it.
      (3)   The parcel must meet the criteria for an agricultural designation
under MCA § 15-7-202.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-25)
Statutory reference:
   Division of land for agricultural use, see ARM § 24.183.1104(1)(f)
§ 154.67 REVIEW AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Submittal. Any person seeking exemption from the requirements of the
MSPA shall submit to the Subdivision Administrator a certificate of survey or,
if a survey is not required, an instrument of conveyance, and evidence of, and
an affidavit affirming entitlement to the claimed exemption. For purposes of
MCA § 76-3-207, when a parcel of land for which an exemption from subdivision
review is claimed is being conveyed under a contract-for-deed, the terms
PROPERTY OWNER, LANDOWNER, and OWNER mean the seller of the parcel under the
contract-for-deed.
   (B)   Review. When a division of land for which an exemption is claimed is
submitted to the Subdivision Administrator, he or she shall cause the documents
to be reviewed by the designated agents of the Town Council (such as Town
Attorney, Sanitarian, Treasurer, and Clerk and Recorder). The Subdivision
Administrator and Town Council agents shall review the claimed exemption to
verify that it is the proper use of the claimed exemption and complies with the
requirements set forth in the MSPA, the Montana Sanitation in Subdivisions Act,
and these regulations.
      (1)   Landowners, or his or her agents, are encouraged to meet with the
Subdivision Administrator to discuss whether a proposed land division or use of
an exemption is in compliance with the criteria in this section.
      (2)   The Subdivision Administrator shall make a written determination of
whether the use of the exemption is intended to evade the purposes of the MSPA,
explaining the reasons for the determination.
      (3)   If the Subdivision Administrator finds that the proposed use of the
exemption complies with the statutes and the criteria set forth in this
section, the Subdivision Administrator shall notify the Town Council and advise
the County Clerk and Recorder to file the certificate of survey, or record the
instrument of conveyance, and accompanying documents. If the Subdivision
Administrator finds that the proposed use of the exemption does not comply with
the statutes and the criteria in this section, the Subdivision Administrator
shall advise the County Clerk and Recorder not to file or record the documents,
and the materials will be returned to the landowner.
      (4)   The Subdivision Administrator shall consider all of the surrounding
circumstances when determining whether an exemption is claimed for the purpose
of evading the MSPA. These circumstances may include, but are not limited to:
the nature of the claimant’s business; the prior history of the particular
tract in question; the proposed configuration of the tracts if the proposed
exempt transaction is completed; and any pattern of exempt transactions that
will result in the equivalent of a subdivision without local government review.
   (C)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any person whose proposed use of an exemption has been denied by
the Subdivision Administrator because the proposed division of land has been
deemed an attempt to evade the MSPA and these regulations may appeal the
Subdivision Administrator’s decision to the Town Council. The person may
request a hearing, and may submit additional evidence to show that the use of
the exemption in question is not intended to evade the MSPA or these
regulations and, thereby, rebut a presumption.
      (2)   If the Town Council concludes that the evidence and information
overcome the presumption that the exemption is being invoked to evade the MSPA
or these regulations, it may authorize the use of the exemption in writing. A
certificate of survey claiming an exemption from subdivision review, which
otherwise is in proper form, and which the Town Council has found not to be an
attempt to evade the MSPA or these regulations, may be filed (or an instrument
of conveyance recorded) if it is accompanied by written authorization of the
Town Council.
      (3)   If the person proposing to use an exemption chooses not to rebut a
presumption when the Subdivision Administrator deems the use of the exemption
an attempt to evade the MSPA and these regulations, or if the Town Council
determines that the proposed use of an exemption was for the purpose of evading
the MSPA or these regulations, the landowner proposing to use the exemption may
submit a subdivision application for the proposed land division.
   (D)   Remaining parcels of land. Occasionally parcels of land are created
after the rest of the land has been subdivided or after an exemption is used to
divide the land. The term “remainder” has been used to refer to that portion of
an original tract which is not itself created for transfer but which is left
after other parcels are segregated for transfer.
      (1)   A “remainder” less than 160 acres in size, contiguous to a proposed
subdivision, will be considered a lot in that subdivision, and will not evade
review as a “remainder”. If an exemption by a certificate of survey is used,
the remaining tract of land is a separate parcel which must be surveyed.
      (2)   A landowner claiming that a parcel is a “remainder” shall present
evidence that the parcel is, in fact, intended to be retained and not to be
transferred. Examples of such evidence include the existence of the landowner’s
residence on the parcel or building plans for a structure to be built by, or
for, the landowner.
   (E)   Identification codes. To assist in the implementation of this review
process, and to monitor those parcels by exemption, the Clerk and Recorder may
cause the following identification codes to be added to the numbering of
recorded certificates of survey filed after the effective date of these
regulations:
      (1)   CO: Court order;
      (2)   ME: Mortgage Exemption;
      (3)   LE: Life Estate;
      (4)   RB: Relocation of Common Boundary;
      (5)   FC: Family Conveyance;
      (6)   AE: Agricultural Exemption;
      (7)   OS: Occasional Sale (used prior to April 6, 1993); and
      (8)   AL: Aggregation of Lots.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-27)
Statutory reference:
   Review and procedure for land exemptions, see ARM § 24.183.1104, MCA § 76-3-
201(1)(a), MCA § 76-3-201(1)(b), MCA § 76-3-201(1)(e), MCA § 76-3-207(1)(a),
MCA § 76-3-207(1)(b), MCA § 76-3-207(1)(c), MCA § 76-3-207(e)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, corporation, or other entity who violates any of the
provisions of the MSPA or these regulations is guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not less than $100, nor more than $500, or by
imprisonment in jail for not more than three months, or by both fine and
imprisonment. Each sale, lease, or transfer, or offer of sale, lease, or
transfer of each separate parcel of land in violation of any provision of the
MSPA or these regulations shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-32)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Purpose
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   Official zoning map
   
155.04   Fire district limits
   
155.05   Application of regulations
   
155.06   Vacant buildings; repair, removal
   
155.07   Livestock, barns, and the like; prohibited
   
155.08   Water, sewer connection required; outside toilet prohibited
   
155.09   Non-conforming uses
   
155.10   Exceptions for “A” and “B” residence districts
   
155.11   Change in districts
   
155.12   Enforcements
   
155.13   Permits; certificates of occupancy
   
155.14   Accessory structures
Districts
   
155.25   Establishment of districts
   
155.26   Class “A” residence districts
   
155.27   Class “B” residence districts
   
155.28   Class “C” commercial districts
   
155.29   Class “I” industrial districts
   
155.30   Class “U” open agriculture
 
   
155.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Board of Adjustment, see §§
32.01 through
32.04
   Public Safety, see
Ch. 33
   Subdivision Regulations, see
Ch. 154
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the health, safety, and
general welfare of the town; to regulate and restrict the height, number of
stories, and size of yards, courts, and other open spaces, the density of
population, and the location and use of buildings, land and structures for
trade, industry, residence, or other purposes.
   (B)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion
of the public health, safety, welfare, and protection of the public.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-2) (Ord. passed 2-12-1991)
§ 155.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE OF BUILDING. A use or building customarily incidental to, and
accessory to, the principal and ordinary use of a building or premises, located
on the same premises with such principal use or building.
   ALLEY. A public way 20 feet in width which is not designed for general
travel, which is used as a means of access to the rear of residences and
business establishments, and affords only a secondary means of access to the
property abutting along its length.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. See DWELLING-MULTIPLE.
   AUTOMOBILE STORAGE. The storage of new and used cars which are capable of
immediate operation under their own power.
   AUTOMOBILE TOURIST COURT. A group of two or more units used either for
sleeping or housekeeping purposes, other than apartment courts, bungalow
courts, hotels, or lodging houses, for temporary use of motorists and
travelers. The term AUTOMOBILE TOURIST COURT shall also include, AUTOMOBILE
COTTAGE CAMP, TOURIST CAMP, MOTEL, or any other name which pertains to such
use.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building, other than a hotel or club, where meals are
regularly served for compensation to more than six persons not members of the
family there residing.
   BOULEVARD. Portion of the platted street width that abuts and extends toward
the property line.
   BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by walls, and when separated
by a party wall without openings, it shall be deemed a separate BUILDING.
   COMMUNITY GARAGE. A series of private garages of capacity of not more than
one automobile each, located jointly on a common lot, and having no public shop
or service in connection therewith.
   DISTRICT. A section of the town for which the regulations governing the
area, height and use of buildings and premises are the same.
   DWELLING. A building, or portion thereof, designed for occupancy by one or
more families.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building, or portion thereof, designed for, or
occupied as, the home of three or more families living independently of each
other, including tenement houses, apartment houses, and apartment hotels.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A detached or semi-detached building designed for, or
occupied exclusively by, one family living independently of each other.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A detached or semi-detached building designed for, or
occupied exclusively by, two families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single building, or portion thereof, providing complete
independent living facilities for one family, including permanent provisions
for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, adoption, or marriage,
exclusive of household servants, living and cooking together as a single
housekeeping unit.
   FILLING STATIONS. A building and appurtenances located on a lot where
gasoline and oil, and other liquids used in the operation of motor vehicles,
are retailed and usually delivered directly into such vehicles.
   FRONT LOT LINE. The line separating the lot from the street, as officially
platted out on the town map.
   FRONT YARD. An open space extending across the front of the lot from the
front line of the building proper to the property line, and occupied only by
uncovered steps and open porches.
   GENERALLY. Words used in the present tense include the future; words in the
singular number include the plural; words in the plural include the singular;
the word “building” includes the word “structure”; the word “person” includes a
corporation or other organization; the term “used” includes the terms
“arranged” or “intended to be used”, or “designed”; the word “shall” is
mandatory and not discretionary.
   HARDSHIP. A condition immediately brought upon a property owner by a zone
change, and not personal hardship growing out of owner’s infirmities or
financial standing.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance from the ground in front of the
building to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof; to the deck line of
a mansard roof; to the junction of the wall and eaves of a building with a
gable or hip roof.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A minor use of a home where there is no sign or display
that will indicate from the exterior that the building is being used, in whole
or in part, for any other purposes than of a dwelling; in connection with which
there is kept no stock in trade or commodity sold upon the premises; and in
which no person is employed other than a member of the family residing in the
home.
   HOTEL. A building in which lodging is provided with or without meals, and
open to transient guests.
   LODGING HOUSE. A building, other than a hotel, where lodging is provided for
six or more persons not members of the family.
   LOT. The land bounded by definite lines, and occupied by a building and its
accessory buildings, and including the open spaces required under these
regulations. It may, or may not, be a definite parcel as shown on the recorded
plat.
   LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot as defined herein.
   MOBILE HOME, MOBILE TRAILER, TRAILER. A structure, transportable in one or
more sections, which is eight body feet or more in width, and is 32 feet or
more in length, and which is built on a permanent foundation when connected to
the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning,
and electrical systems contained therein.
   MOBILE HOME COURT. A parcel of land that has been planned and improved for
the placement of one or more mobile homes on a tract of ground owned by person,
companies, or corporations other than the owner of the mobile home placed
thereon.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. A use of a building or premises that does not conform
with the regulations of the districts in which it is situated.
   NURSERY. A building, or part of a building, where six or more children not
members of the same family are cared for.
   NURSING HOME. A building, or part of a building, where six or more sick or
infirmed persons are cared for.
   OPEN PORCH. Any porch with a roof but without walls or glassed windows.
   PORCH. A covered entrance to a building, commonly enclosed in part,
projecting out from the main wall and having a separate roof.
   PRIVATE GARAGE. A garage with capacity of not more than four motor-driven
vehicles, and having no public shop or service in connection therewith, and if
it is attached to a dwelling it becomes a part of that residential building,
and is an accessory use to that building.
   REAR YARD. An open unoccupied space between the rear line of the building
and the rear lot line, for the full width of the lot, and unoccupied except by
accessory buildings. Measurements to the rear property lines for REAR YARDS
will be made from the most protruding appurtenance.
   SIDE YARD. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot as the building,
between the building and the side line of the lot, and extending through from
the front yard to the rear yard. Measurements to the side property lines for
SIDE YARDS will be made from the most protruding appurtenance.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare normally 66 feet in width which as been deeded
to the public use and which affords principle means of access to abutting
property.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, or girders, excepting such
alterations as may be required for the safety of the building.
   STRUCTURE. Any combination of materials so constructed or erected, which
requires location on the ground, or attached to something having location on
the ground, including, but not limited to, stadiums, platforms, radio towers,
sheds, storage bins, fences, signs, and billboards.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-3) (Ord. passed 2-12-1991)
§ 155.03 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   As shown by the official zoning map, the town is divided into five classes
of districts. The boundaries of these districts are hereby established as shown
on the official zoning map of the town, and said map and all notations,
references, and other information shown thereon shall be, and are, hereby made
a part of this chapter by reference. The official zoning map shall bear a
certificate signed by the Mayor and properly attested by signature of the Town
Clerk and date of adoption, and shall be and remain on file in the office of
the Town Clerk in the Town Hall.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-5) (Ord. passed 2-12-1991)
§ 155.04 FIRE DISTRICT LIMITS.
   The portion of the town within the following described boundaries, to wit:
beginning at a point being the quarter corner for said Sections 9 and 10;
thence along the east-west midsection line of said Section 10 N89°53'E, 2356.4
feet; to the westerly boundary of McCugh’s Addition to the Town of Circle
according to the plat thereof; thence along said westerly boundary N27°45'30"E,
418.9 feet; and N62°14'30"W, 100.0 feet; and N27°45'30"E, 374.2 feet; to the
north-south midsection line for said Section 10; thence N00°02'30"W, 1887.7
feet to the north quarter corner for said Section 10; thence along the north
line of said Section 10 S89°56E, 1905.6 feet; thence S00°02"30"E, 1402.5 feet;
thence S89°56'E, 743.0 feet to the east line of said Section 10; thence
S00°04'W, 1224.7 feet to the east quarter corner for said Section 10; thence
S00°04'W, 1315.6 feet to the south sixteenth (Sl/16) comer for Sections 10 and
11 of said Township and Range; thence along the south line of the northeast
quarter of the southeast quarter (NE1/4SE1/4) of said Section 10 S89°45'W,
1321.4 feet; thence along the east line of the southwest quarter of the
southeast quarter (SW1/4SE1/4) of said Section 10 S00°00'E, 990.0 feet; thence
S89°45'W, 991.0 feet; thence S00°00'W, 330.0 feet to the south line of said
Section 10; thence along said south line S89°45'E, 331.35 feet; thence
S00°05'W, 1318.69 feet to the south line of the north half of the north half
(N1/2N1/2) of said Section 15; thence along said south line S89°56'W, 1589.2
feet to the easterly boundary of the BNSF railroad right-of-way; thence along
said right-of-way S27°45'30"W, 373.12 feet; thence S89°55'19"W, 870.08 feet to
the southwest corner of Lot 2AP according to the amended plat of Wolff Minor
Subdivision, Lots 2 and 3; thence along the west line of said Lot 2AP
N00°01'41"W, 168.63 feet; and N30°14'54"E, 162.24 feet; and N17°22'20"E, 279.72
feet to the southwest corner of Hilstad Heights Subdivision Phase 2 according
to the final plat thereof; thence along the westerly boundary of said Hilstad
Heights Subdivision Phase 2 and the westerly boundary of Hilstad Heights
Subdivision Phase 1 N10°11'14”E, 240.03 feet; and N17°20'26”W, 480.07 feet; and
S72°38'26"W, 69.24 feet; and N00°27'42"W, 400.05 feet; to the south line of
said Section 10; thence along said south line S89°49'W, 72.7 feet; thence
N00°00'E, 382.2 feet; thence N89°52'E, 224.5 feet; thence S00°11 'W, 50.0 feet;
thence S89°52'E, 75.2 feet; thence N00°01'W, 619.1 feet to the south boundary
of the Kalberg Addition to the Town of Circle according to the plat thereof;
thence along said south line N89°57'W, 367.3 feet; thence N89°47'W, 520.9 feet
to the west line of said Section 10; thence N00°00'E, 276.5 feet to the
southeast corner of the Schwartz Addition to the Town of Circle according to
the Plat thereof; thence along the boundary of said Schwartz Addition N90°00'W,
491.0 feet and N00°00'E, 308.6 feet; and S90°00'E, 491.0 feet to the west line
of said Section 10; thence N00°00'E, 1096.8 feet to the point of beginning;
containing 481 acres, more or less.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-6) (Ord. 05-11-20-02, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 155.05 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No building or land shall be used or occupied, and no building or part
thereof shall be erected, moved, or altered, unless in conformity with the
regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located.
   (B)   No building shall be erected or altered:
      (1)   To exceed the height;
      (2)   To accommodate or house a greater number families;
      (3)   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area; or
      (4)   To have narrower or smaller front, rear, or side yards, inner or
outer courts, than are specified for the district in which such building is
located.
   (C)   No part of a yard or open space required about a building for the
purpose of complying with the provisions of this chapter shall be included as a
part of a yard or other open space similarly required for another building.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-7) (Ord. passed 2-12-1991) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.06 VACANT BUILDINGS; REPAIR, REMOVAL.
   In the event a building is vacant in excess of one year, and is allowed to
deteriorate and to become unsightly and dilapidated to such an extent that in
the opinion of the Site Inspector or Town Council such building is detrimental
to the health and welfare of the people, or the appearance of the town, the
Town Council may require the owner of said building to either repair or
maintain the building or remove it. In the event the owner cannot, with
reasonable diligence, be located, or is unable or refuses to comply with the
provisions of this section, the Town Council may declare said building a
nuisance and take appropriate action for its removal.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-13) (Ord. passed 4-13-1993)
§ 155.07 LIVESTOCK, BARNS, AND THE LIKE; PROHIBITED.
   No livestock, barns, rabbit hutches, poultry houses, or any other domestic
animals, or animal shelters, excluding dogs and cats, shall be picketed,
pastured, kept, or housed on classified areas of the town, or within or upon
any classified areas of the town. No pigs or swine shall be kept or housed
within corporate limits of the town, except at a licensed livestock dealer’s
yard, and then not to exceed one week.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-14) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.08 WATER, SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED; OUTSIDE TOILET PROHIBITED.
   Any building in which town water and sewer is available shall be connected
to same, accessory buildings not included. Outside toilets will not be
permitted to be erected within the corporate limits of the town after the
effective date of this code. Town Council permission is required for temporary
restroom facilities.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-15) (Ord. passed 12-12-2005) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.09 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   (1)   The lawful use of land by businesses existing at the time of the
effective date of this section, although such use does not conform to the
provisions hereof, may be continued, but if such non-conforming use is
discontinued for a period of six months or longer, any future use of said
premises shall be in conformity with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   The lawful use of a building existing at the time of the effective
date of this section may be continued, although such use does not conform with
the provisions hereof, and such use may be extended throughout the building
provided no alterations, except those required by this section are made. A
building being used for a non-conformity use may, upon approval of the Town
Council, be altered by improvements, provided, however, the use shall be in
conformity with the provisions of this section.
      (3)   When a district shall hereafter be changed, any then existing non-
conforming use in such changed district may be continued or changed to any use
permitted, provided that all other regulations governing the new use are
complied with.
      (4)   This section shall not apply to existing structures, nor to the
existing use of any buildings, but shall apply to any alteration of a building
to provide for its use for a purpose, or in any manner, different from the use
to which it was put before alteration; provided that, this section shall not be
construed to prevent the restoration of a building damaged not more than 50% of
its valuation by fire, explosion, act of God, or the public enemy, or prevent
the continuance of the use of such building, or part thereof, as such use
existed at the time of such damage, provided that such restoration shall be
begun, and diligently pursued, within one year, nor shall the same be construed
to prevent a change of such existing use under higher classification as herein
provided. No building, which has been damaged as above provided, to the extent
of more than 50% of its valuation, shall be rebuilt or repaired, except in
conformity with the regulations contained in this section.
      (5)   When the boundary line of any district divides a plot or area in
single ownership at the time of the adoption of this section, nothing herein
shall be construed to prevent the extension of the use existing on either
portion of such parcel of land for a distance of not greater than 25 feet.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-16)
   (B)   If, on any inspection, the condition of a building or premises, or its
use or occupancy, is found not to conform to the requirements of this section,
or the conditions of any existing certificate thereof, the Site Inspector
shall, at once, issue written notice to the owner, specifying the manner in
which the building or premises, or its use or occupancy, fails to conform, and
the owner shall immediately take steps to make it conform as directed by the
Site Inspector. If it is necessary for the proper protection of the occupants,
the Site Inspector shall order the use or premises vacated until its condition
is made satisfactory and conforms with the requirements of this section, at
which time a certificate will be issued as provided for new buildings, or the
use of premises.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-17) (Ord. passed 2-12-1991; Ord. passed 12-12-2005)
Penalty, see 155.99
§ 155.10 EXCEPTIONS FOR “A” AND “B” RESIDENCE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Property restrictions; visibility.
      (1)   Trees. For the purpose of insuring a reasonable visibility and
safety, the triangle of land formed on any corner lot measuring a distance of
ten feet along each of the lot property lines from their intersection on the
street side shall be free from structures. Trees in this area shall be trimmed
up to eight feet above the curb, and in the triangle shrubs shall not exceed
three feet in height.
      (2)   Fences; hedges. No fence or hedge exceeding four feet in height
shall be constructed, except in the following instances.
         (a)   On interior lots, a fence or hedge not to exceed six feet in
height may be constructed along the interior side yard and rear yard, provided
that no fence or hedge exceeding four feet in height shall be constructed
within ten feet from the property line intersection with an alley.
         (b)   On corner lots where the building fronts on a side street, a
fence or hedge not exceeding six feet in height may be constructed along that
portion of the rear yard adjacent to the alley, provided that no fence or hedge
exceeding four feet in height may be constructed within ten feet from the
property line intersection on the alley and side street.
         (c)   No fence or hedge shall be constructed except on or within
property lines, and shall in no manner obstruct the use of the streets and
alleys of the town.
      (3)   Sanitary district sewer connection. All buildings on property
within a sanitary district, and adjacent to a sewer system, must be connected
to the sewer system.
      (4)   Vehicles. No vehicle shall be parked on any town street for more
than 48 consecutive hours. All vehicles not used on a regular basis, campers,
trailers, and boats shall be removed from town streets for snow removal.
      (5)   Signs. No sign shall be erected that is not in working order or
daily use, constituting a nuisance to a nearby residential area.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-19)
   (B)   Height restrictions. 
      (1)   Height restrictions; structures. This section shall not be deemed
to limit or restrict the height of belfries, chimneys, clock towers, cooling
towers, or any similar appurtenances to buildings, but these structures shall
be subject to such restrictions and regulations as may be imposed by other town
regulations.
      (2)   Height restrictions; buildings. Churches, public or semi-public
buildings, hospitals, schools, colleges, and private clubs may exceed the
height restrictions of the district in which they are constructed, provided
such structures shall have side yards on both sides, complying with the area
regulations of the district, and in addition, the side yards shall be increased
one foot in width for each five feet that the height of the buildings exceed
the height regulations of the district.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-18) (Ord. passed 12-12-2006) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.11 CHANGE IN DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Changes in the boundaries of any district, or part thereof, may be
made by the Town Council or a new zone may be created.
   (B)   The following procedure shall be followed in the event that a resident
or group of residents desire a change in zoning.
      (1)   A petition requesting such change shall first be presented to the
Town Council, duly signed by the owners of 50% or more, either of the area of
the lots included within such change, or of the lots immediately adjacent in
the rear thereof, extending 150 feet therefrom, or of the lots directly
opposite thereto, extending 150 feet from the street frontage of such opposite
lots.
      (2)   Such petition shall be referred to the Town Council which shall
make a careful investigation of such proposed change. The Town Council shall
then cause notice to be published twice in the official newspaper of the town,
of the time and place set for the hearing upon such report. The first
publication of such notice shall be made not less than 15 days before the date
of such hearing. At such hearing, the Town Council shall hear all persons,
objections, and recommendations relative to such proposed change, and
thereafter action shall be taken by the Town Council, which shall be final and
conclusive as to all matters and things involved in the petition. In case of a
protest against such change signed by the owners of 20% or more, either of the
area of the lots included in such proposed change, or of those immediately
adjacent in the rear thereof, extending 150 feet therefrom, or of those
directly opposite thereof, extending 150 feet from the street frontage of such
opposite lots, such amendment shall not become effective except by the
favorable vote of three-fourths of all the members of the Town Council.
      (3)   When such proposed amendment has been rejected by the Town Council
neither it, nor one involving only the same property, shall be offered for
adoption within one year after such rejection.
      (4)   Changes in the regulations and restrictions in any district may be
made by the Town Council in the manner as is prescribed in the preceding
sections, except such action may be initiated without the presentation of a
petition requesting it.
      (5)   Filing fee as set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-20) (Ord. passed 12-12-2005)
§ 155.14 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure, the use of which is incidental to that
of the principal or main structure, and which structure is located on the same
lot or parcel as the main or principal building.
   (B)   Accessory structures in residential districts. The maximum height of
an accessory structure shall be 25 feet and shall comply with all applicable
minimum yard setback requirements, except that:
      (1)   An accessory structure ten feet or less in height may be setback a
minimum of five feet from a side yard line.
      (2)   An accessory structure that exceeds the height of the principal
residential structure located on the same lot or parcel, or on an adjacent lot
or parcel under common ownership shall be set back a minimum of 50 feet from
the front property line, ten feet from a side or rear property line, and 15
feet from a side street right of way for corner lots.
      (3)   Any enclosed or unenclosed accessory structure erected on a lot or
parcel shall be compatible with the existing principal building on the lot or
parcel and shall be anchored down. The following factors shall be taken into
consideration in evaluating an accessory structure’s compatibility with the
principal structure: color, exterior building materials, height, and building
design. All siding and roofing materials must have a painted or baked-on color
surface. Uncolored, galvanized, or corrugated metal material shall not be
permitted. Commercial storage or shipping containers shall not be permitted. A
zoning compliance permit shall be obtained before any accessory building is
placed on a lot or parcel. A zoning compliance permit may include conditions
requiring the modification of the accessory structure to minimize its
incompatibility with the principal structure.
   (C)   Accessory structures in commercial and industrial districts. The
height of accessory structures shall not exceed the height of the main or
principal structure and shall comply with all applicable minimum yard setback
requirements.
(Ord. 09-12-22-01, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 155.12 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-21) (Ord. passed 12-12-2005)
§ 155.13 PERMITS; CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No land shall be occupied or used, and no building or premises, or
part thereof, may hereafter be created, erected, changed, or converted, wholly
or in part, for any purpose whatsoever, until a zoning permit has been issued
by the Town Council stating that the building and premises, and use proposed,
comply with all the building and health laws and regulation of the town, and
with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Each application for a zoning permit must be accompanied by a plat
drawn to scale, and in such form as may be prescribed by the Town Council,
showing the actual size and dimensions of the lot, the size as may be necessary
to provide for the enforcement of the regulations contained in this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to allow any basement excavation, upon which a
building is not constructed, to be left unfilled or uncovered if construction
is not started within 60 days of excavation, and worked on continuously until
completed.
   (D)   No person shall demolish a building or move a building into the town,
or from one location to another, without first obtaining a zoning permit from
the town. Where buildings have been removed or demolished, the ground shall be
leveled to grade, and all debris removed within 30 days.
   (E)   The town shall maintain a file of each application and accompanying
papers together with a record of the action taken thereon. If the contemplated
construction, alteration, or moving is not commenced within one year from the
date of issuance, the zoning permit shall be deemed expired and void.
   (F)   All references to the zoning permits contained in this section shall
be considered as reference to the zoning permits required in §§
151.02 through
151.04 of this code. The provisions of §§
151.02 through
151.04 and the construction permits shall be read together and considered as
one for enforcement purposes of this section and §§
151.02 through
151.04.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-22) (Ord. passed 12-12-2005) Penalty, see §
155.99
DISTRICTS
§ 155.25 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of regulating, classifying, and restricting the location of
trades, industries, and enterprises, and the location of buildings designed,
erected, or altered for specified uses, and limiting the height and size of
such buildings, and the use of lot areas in the town, and regulating and
determining the area of the yards and other open spaces surrounding buildings
hereafter erected, and preventing additions to, and alterations or remodeling
of, existing buildings or structures in such manner as to avoid the
restrictions and limitations in this subchapter contained, the town is hereby
divided into five districts termed respectively as follows: “A”, residence
district; “B”, residence district; “C”, commercial district; “I”, industrial
district; and “U”, open agriculture.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-4)
§ 155.26 CLASS “A” RESIDENCE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Uses. No building, structure, or premises shall be used, and no
building or structure shall be erected, altered, or maintained, unless
otherwise provided in this section, except for one or more of the following
uses:
      (1)   One-family dwelling units to include manufactured factory assembled
homes, equipped with service connections necessary to attach to town sewer and
water.
         (a)   Motor homes, fifth wheel, and camper trailers are not allowed in
Class “A” districts.
         (b)   Manufactured factory-assembled homes that are ten years old and
less, and set up on a permanent foundation with no less than two anchors for
each one quarter length of the trailer or home (to be classified as real
property only). Permanent foundations are:
            1.   Poured concrete;
            2.   Poured concrete footings with wood frame coupled with uniform
skirting; and/or
            3.   Basement.
      (2)   Churches, temples, and places of worship and parochial schools;
      (3)   Libraries;
      (4)   Public schools;
      (5)   Parks and playgrounds;
      (6)   Accessory buildings and uses incidental to the above uses and
located on the same lot (not involving the conduct of a business) including a
private garage:
         (a)   A garage can provide for one motor vehicle for each 1,500 square
feet of total lot area; and
         (b)   No more than one commercial vehicle.
      (7)   Bulletin boards not exceeding 12 square feet in area may be
permitted on premises occupied by churches, temples, schools, parks, and
playgrounds.
      (8)   Uses otherwise permitted by law.
   (B)   Conditional uses. The following uses are permitted in the Class “A”
residential district after a finding by the Board of Adjustment that their mode
of conduct and location will not hinder the enjoyment and use of land and
resources:
      (1)   Water reservoirs, water storage, water pumping stations, and sewer
lift stations; and
      (2)   Electrical substations, provided that where transformers are
exposed there shall be an enclosed, non-climbable sight-obscuring fence at
least six feet high.
   (C)   Height of building. No building shall be erected in excess of 25 feet,
or two stories, in height.
   (D)   Lot area per dwelling. Shall not be less than 7,000 square feet.
   (E)   Front yard.
      (1)   Not less than 25 feet from the property lot line.
      (2)   Not more than 35 feet from the property lot line.
      (3)   If the structure fronts on a side yard (not parallel to an alley),
the front yard shall have a depth of not less than ten feet.
   (F)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less 25
feet, except where a garage is attached to the dwelling and located in the rear
yard, the rear yard may be reduced to ten feet.
      (1)   A garage with doors facing the alley must have a set back of 20
feet from the alley property lot line.
      (2)   A garage with doors perpendicular to the alley can be placed two
feet from the alley property lot line.
   (G)   Side yard.  
      (1)   Every lot shall have two side yards of not less than six feet.
      (2)   If a lot has a structure over 18 feet in height, the side yard will
be one-third the height of the building.
      (3)   A garage shall not be less than six feet from each side property
lot lines.
   (H)   Automobile storage or off-street parking. A minimum of one automobile
storage or off-street parking space shall be provided for each dwelling unit.
Any required front or side yard shall not be included in such storage or
parking area.
(Prior Code, § 11-18) (Ord. passed 12-12-2005; Ord. passed 5-11-2009)
§ 155.27 CLASS “B” RESIDENCE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Uses. No building, structure, or premises shall be used, erected,
altered, or maintained, unless otherwise provided in this section, except for
one or more of the following uses:
      (1)   Any use permitted in Class “A” residence district subject to all
the provisions therein;
      (2)   Multiple dwelling units, including lodging houses;
      (3)   House trailers and mobile homes will be permitted under the
following restrictions:
         (a)   A person may place a trailer house or mobile home on a lot,
provided that it is connected to the town sewer and water and commercial power
systems; and
         (b)   Such permit will be valid for one unit only, to be identified by
make, model, and serial number. If the owner replaces the trailer, a new permit
will be required. The Site Inspector will be notified of any such change;
however, residential provisions shall be applicable for accessory buildings and
uses. If a mobile home is moved, or vacant for six months, the permit is
expired.
      (4)   Hospitals and clinics;
      (5)   Nursing homes;
      (6)   Customary agricultural operations, including a garden, nursery, and
greenhouse, subject to the following restrictions:
         (a)   No storage of manure or odor dust producing substance or use
shall be permitted within 100 feet of any adjoining lot line; and
         (b)   No greenhouse heating plant shall be operated within 75 feet of
any adjoining lot line.
      (7)   A filling station (retail only) may be established or erected in
this district only along a primary highway, and shall not be operated as a
repair or body shop; and
      (8)   Accessory buildings and uses incidental to the above uses and
located on the same lot not involving the conduct of a business, including a
garage.
   (B)   Height of building. No building shall exceed or be erected in excess
of 40 feet, or three stories, in height.
   (C)   Lot area per family.
      (1)   Single-family dwelling: a lot area of not less than 5,000 square
feet;
      (2)   Duplex: a lot area of not less than 5,000 square feet; and
      (3)   Each additional family unit must have an additional 1,000 square
feet.
   (D)   Front yard.
      (1)   Not less than 20 feet from the property lot line;
      (2)   Not more than 30 feet from the property lot line; and
      (3)   If the structure fronts on a side yard (not parallel to an alley),
the front yard shall have a depth of not less than ten feet.
   (E)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
20 feet. Where the rear lot line coincides with an alley line, the depth shall
not be less than one-half of the height of the building, and where the lot is
occupied, other than a residential building, the depth of the rear yard need
not exceed six feet.
      (1)   A garage with doors facing the alley must have a setback of 20 feet
from the alley property lot line.
      (2)   A garage with doors perpendicular to the alley can be placed two
feet from the alley property line.
   (F)   Side yard.
      (1)   Every lot shall have two side yards of not less than six feet.
      (2)   If a lot has a structure over 18 feet in height, the side yard will
be one-third the height of the building.
      (3)   A garage shall not be less than six feet from each side property
lot line.
   (G)   Automobile storage or off-street parking. Automobile storage, or off-
street parking space, shall be provided on the lot or within 500 feet from the
lot. Each parking space shall not be less than nine feet by 20 feet for each
family unit of the first four dwelling units of a multiple dwelling. For every
three dwelling units that exceed the first four units of a multiple dwelling,
two parking spaces shall be provided, equal to the combined size of two parking
spaces as provided above. No front yard shall be used for the open air storage
or parking of any motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-9) (Ord. passed 12-12-2005; Ord. passed 5-11-2009)
§ 155.28 CLASS “C” COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Uses. No building, structure, or premises shall be used, erected,
altered, or maintained, unless otherwise provided in this section, and in the
event a public building complies with accessibility requirements of the
Americans with Disabilities Act, except for one of the following uses:
      (1)   All the uses permitted in Class “A” and “B” residence districts,
subject to all the provisions specified in such residence districts;
      (2)   Trailer and mobile home courts, provided that such courts shall be
built and operated in accordance with the State Board of Health and
Environmental Sciences rules and regulations, and shall be licensed by said
Board; and
      (3)   Other uses permitted:
         (a)   Amusement places;
         (b)   Auction rooms;
         (c)   Automobile tourist courts or motels;
         (d)   Bakeries, employing not more than five persons;
         (e)   Banks;
         (f)   Barber shops;
         (g)   Battery service stations;
         (h)   Boarding houses;
         (i)   Catering establishments;
         (j)   Dancing academies;
         (k)   Dressmaking establishments;
         (l)   Dyeing and cleaning works, employing not more than five persons;
         (m)   Electric repair shops;
         (n)   Employment agencies;
         (o)   Freight stations;
         (p)   Gasoline and oil stations;
         (q)   Greenhouses;
         (r)   Hotels;
         (s)   Laboratories;
         (t)   Laundries not employing more than five persons;
         (u)   Locksmith shops;
         (v)   Lodge halls;
         (w)   Lumber supply houses and building supply stores;
         (x)   Millinery shops;
         (y)   Offices;
         (z)   Painting or decorating shops;
         (aa)   Pasteurizes and pasteurizing plants;
         (bb)   Photograph galleries;
         (cc)   Plumbing shops;
         (dd)   Post offices;
         (ee)   Printing shops;
         (ff)   Public garages;
         (gg)   Recreation buildings and structures;
         (hh)   Restaurants;
         (ii)   Roofing and plastering shops;
         (jj)   Sales or showrooms;
         (kk)   Sharpening or grinding shops;
         (ll)   Shoe repair shops;
         (mm)   Stores and shops for the conduct of retail business;
         (nn)   Studios;
         (oo)   Tailor shops not employing more than five persons;
         (pp)   Telephone exchanges;
         (qq)   Tin-smithing shops;
         (rr)   Tire repairing shops;
         (ss)   Undertaking establishments;
         (tt)   Used car sales lots; and
         (uu)   Laminating, fabricating, and assembling shops.
      (4)   Any other business which, in the opinion of the Town Council, is of
the same general character as those listed above as permitted uses, and will
not be detrimental to the district.
   (B)   Storage combustible mixtures. The storage of petroleum and other
explosive, or combustible, mixtures shall be subject to conformance with
related state law, local fire or safety codes, and regulations issued by the
Fire Chief regulating storage of such products.
   (C)   Height of buildings. No building shall be erected in excess of 50
feet, or four stories, in height.
   (D)   Percentage of lot covered. No building, with its accessory buildings,
to be used for said commercial purposes, shall occupy in excess of 90% of the
area of the lot.
   (E)   Yard requirements. No front, rear, or side yards shall be required for
commercial buildings, but for residential buildings the yard requirements for
Class “B” residence district shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-10) (Ord. passed 12-12-2005)
§ 155.29 CLASS “I” INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Uses. All buildings and premises, except as otherwise provided in this
section, may be used for any use permitted in Class “C” commercial districts,
or for any other use, except the following:
      (1)   Any use permitted in Class “A” except an electrical substation as
provided in §
155.26(B)(2), and Class “B” residence districts; and
      (2)   All use of land, air, watercourses, buildings, and structures, or
industrial processes, that may be noxious or injurious by reason of the
production or emission of dust, smoke, refuse matter, odor, gas, fumes, noise,
vibration, or similar substances or conditions. Prohibited uses include, but
not limited to:
         (a)   Acid manufacture;
         (b)   Distillation of bones, coal, or wood;
         (c)   Explosive manufacturing or storage;
         (d)   Fat rendering;
         (e)   Fertilizer manufacture;
         (f)   Garbage, offal, or dead animal reduction;
         (g)   Glue manufacture;
         (h)   Petroleum refining;
         (i)   Smelting of tin, copper, zinc, or iron ores; and
         (j)   Stockyards or slaughtering of animals.
   (B)   Use location regulations. No building permit or occupancy certificate
shall be issued for any use permitted in Class “I” districts until, and unless,
the location of such use shall have been approved by the Town Council; and,
provided further, that the provisions of the present or hereafter adopted laws
of the town regulating the location are complied with.
   (C)   Junk yard and the like. Junk yard or automobile wrecking yard,
commercial scrap iron, or scrap paper operations must be enclosed within a
solid fence, or by other means wholly concealed as approved by the Town
Council.
   (D)   Height of buildings. Height restrictions must comply with federal
aviation regulations.
   (E)   Percentage of lot covered. There shall be no restriction as to the
portions of the lot that may or may not be occupied by buildings, accessory
buildings, or structures.
   (F)   Yards. There shall be no restrictions or requirements as to front,
rear, or side yards.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-11)
§ 155.30 CLASS “U” OPEN AGRICULTURE.
   All land within the town limits not otherwise zoned as residence districts,
commercial district, or industrial district shall be classified as agriculture
open space.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-12)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation owning, controlling, or managing any
building or premises wherein or whereon there shall be placed, or there exists,
anything in violation of the provisions of this chpater, or who shall assist in
the commission of any violation of these provisions, or builds contrary to the
plans and specifications submitted to, and approved by, the Town Council, or
who shall omit, neglect, or refuse to do any act required in these provisions,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a fine not exceeding
$500, or imprisonment not exceeding six months, or both. Each day that a
violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-23) (Ord. passed 12-12-2005)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No.         Date Passed Description
                             Mid-Rivers Telephone Cooperative, Inc.; expired
-                12-1-1974   12-1-1994.
                             (Prior Code, § 13-1-1)
Res. 01-13-20-03 - -2020     Codification agreement with American Legal
                             Publishing Corporation.
Res. 05-11-20-01 5-11-20     Consultant agreement with Great West Engineering
                             for zoning code administration.
                            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Montana Code Annotated
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MONTANA CODE ANNOTATED
MCA Cite Code Section
MCA Cite                    Code Section
1-1-216                     30.02
2-6-101                     37.01
2-6-1006                    37.01
3-1-302                     35.02
7-1-4111                    154.27
7-4-4112                    30.03
7-5-2501                    154.01
7-5-2502                    154.01
7-5-4101                    30.05
7-5-4102                    31.18
7-12-4221 to 7-12-4229      36.02
7-14-2616(1) and/or (2)     154.01
7-14-2617                   154.01
7-14-4115                   154.01
7-14-4114(1) and/or (2)     154.01
7-32-201 through 222        33.12
7-32-214                    33.12
15-7-202                    154.66
16-6-305                    110.09
19-3-101                    34.20
19-3-201                    34.20
23-2-601 through 23-2-657   71.03
Title 37, Chapter 42        32.16
Title 37, Chapter 67        154.01
45-5-624                    110.09
45-8-111                    90.28
45-8-201                    131.04
45-8-201(2)                 131.03
45-8-205(2)                 131.03
45-8-321                    130.06
Title 49                    34.73
Title 50, Chapter 52        154.09
50-52-102                   154.09
60-2-209                    154.61
61-8-102(2)(b)              90.41
61-8-102(2)(z)              Ch. 72 Schd. I
Title 61, Chapter 8         70.03
70-22-101                   154.10
Title 70, Chapter 23        154.01
70-23-102 through 70-23-703 154.49
70-30-101 through 70-30-323 154.60;
                            154.66
72-2-321(2)                 150.03
75-5-101 et seq.            154.01
Title 75, Chapters 5 and 6  51.01
Title 76, Chapter 1         154.01
76-2-240                    154.45
76-2-322                    32.02
76-2-323                    32.04
Title 76, Chapter 3         154.06
Title 76, Chapter 4         51.01
76-1-601 through 76-1-606   154.45
76-1-601(3)(e)              154.45
Title 76, Chapters 2 or 3   154.62
76-2-3                      32.01;
                            32.04
76-2-201 through 76-2-228   154.45
76-2-301 through 76-2-328   154.45
76-2-305(2)                 150.05
Title 76, Chapter 3         154.01
76-3-101 through 76-3-625   154.06;
                            154.11
76-3-102                    154.02
76-3-103(2)                 154.01
76-3-103(3)                 154.01
76-3-103(4)                 154.01
76-3-103(7)                 154.01
76-3-103(8)                 154.65
76-3-103(11)                154.01;
                            154.46
76-3-103(15)                154.01
76-3-103(16)                154.01
76-3-103(17)(a)             154.01
76-3-201                    154.06;
                            154.11
76-3-201(1)(a)              154.67
76-3-201(1)(b)              154.67
76-3-207(1)(c)              154.67
76-3-201(1)(e)              154.67
76-3-203                    154.49
76-3-205                    154.11
                            154.01;
                            154.04;
76-3-207                    154.11;
                            154.27;
                            154.67
76-3-207(1)                 154.62
76-3-207(1)(a)              154.67
76-3-207(1)(b)              154.67
76-3-207(1)(c)              154.66
76-3-207(1)(d) or (e)       154.06;
                            154.11
76-3-207(1)(e)              154.64
76-3-207(e)                 154.67
76-3-209                    154.11
76-3-303                    154.04;
                            154.27
76-3-305                    154.01
76-3-401                    154.62
76-3-405                    154.06;
                            154.11
76-3-504(1)(j)              154.33;
                            154.46
76-3-504(1)(k)              154.33;
                            154.46
76-3-507                    154.05
76-3-608(3)                 154.31
76-3-608(5)(b)              154.32;
                            154.46
76-3-609(4)                 154.46
76-3-616                    154.45
76-3-621                    154.08;
                            154.61
76-3-621(6)(a)              154.05
                            51.01;
                            154.01;
Title 76, Chapter 4         154.08;
                            154.33;
                            154.46
76-4-101 et seq.            154.08
76-4-121                    154.04
                            153.002;
Title 76, Chapter 5         154.08;
                            154.25
76-5-102                    153.005
76-5-103(1)                 153.017
76-5-103(2)                 153.017
76-5-103(4)                 153.017
76-5-103(5)                 153.017
76-5-103(7)                 153.017
76-5-103(8)                 154.01
76-5-103(9)                 153.017;
                            154.01
76-5-103(10)                153.017;
                            154.01
76-5-103(11)                153.017;
                            154.01
76-5-103(13)                153.017
76-5-105(1)                 153.021
76-5-105(2)                 153.021
76-5-108                    153.060
76-5-110                    153.999
                            153.003;
76-5-201 et seq.            153.006;
                            153.035
76-5-201 through 209        153.017
76-5-203                    153.037
                            153.002;
76-5-301                    153.038;
                            153.040
76-5-301(1)                 153.017
76-5-302                    153.003
76-5-401                    153.039
76-5-401(1)                 153.039
76-5-401(2)                 153.039
76-5-401(4)                 153.039
76-5-401(5)                 153.039
76-5-402(2)(b)              153.101
76-5-403(1)                 153.040
76-5-403(2)                 153.040
76-5-403(3)                 153.040
76-5-404                    153.055
76-5-404(1)                 153.055
                            153.017;
                            153.038;
76-5-404(3)                 153.039;
                            153.040;
                            153.041
                            153.016;
76-5-404(3)(b)              153.039;
                            153.055;
                            153.089
76-5-405                    153.119;
                            153.056
76-5-405(2)                 153.057;
                            153.060
76-5-406                    153.059
76-5-406(1)                 153.076
76-5-406(2)                 153.076
76-5-406(3)                 153.076;
                            153.118
76-5-406(4)                 153.076
76-5-406(5)                 153.076
76-5-406(6)                 153.076
76-5-406(7)                 153.076
                            
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2020 Code
Prior Code  2020 Code
1-1-6       10.99
1-2-1       37.02
1-3-1       11.01
1-4-1       11.02
1-5-1       37.03
1-5-2       37.03
1-6-1       30.02
1-6-2       30.02
1-6-3       30.02
1-6-4       30.02
1-6-5       30.02
1-7-1       10.13
2-1-1       30.01
2-1-2       30.01
2-1-3       30.01
2-1-4       30.01
2-1-5       30.03
2-1-6       30.03
2-1-7       30.03
2-1-8       30.04
2-1-9       30.05
2-1-10      30.06
2-2-1       31.15
2-2-2       31.15
2-2-3       31.15
2-2-4       31.16
2-2-5       31.16
2-2-6       31.16
2-2-7       31.17
2-2-8       31.18
2-3-1       31.35
2-3-2       31.36
2-4-1       31.50
2-4-2       31.50
2-4-3       31.51
2-5-1       31.65
2-5-2       31.66
2-6-1       31.01
2-6-2       31.01
2-6-3       31.01
2-7-1       31.02
2-8-1       34.35
2-8-2       34.36
2-8-3       34.37
2-8-4       34.38
2-8-5       34.39
2-8-6       34.39
2-8-7       34.40
2-9-1       34.55
2-9-2       34.56
2-9-3       34.57
2-9-4       34.58
2-9-5       34.59
2-9-6       34.60
2-9-7       34.61
2-9-8       34.62
2-9-9       34.63
3-1-1       34.01
3-1-2       34.02
3-1-3       34.03
3-1-4       34.04
3-1-5       34.05
3-2-1       36.01
3-3-1       34.20
3-3-2       34.21
3-4-1       36.02
3-4-2       36.02
3-4-3       36.02
3-4-4       36.02
3-5-1       36.04
3-5-2       36.04
3-6-1       36.05
3-6-2       36.05
3-6-3       36.05
3-6-4       36.05
3-7-1       36.03
3-7-2       36.03
3-7-3       36.03
4-1-1       33.01
4-1-2       33.02
4-1-3       33.03
4-1-4       33.04
4-1-5       33.05
4-1-6       33.05
4-1-7       33.06
4-1-8       33.07
4-1-9       33.08
4-1-10      33.09
4-1-11      33.10
4-1-12      33.11
4-1-13      33.12
4-1-14      33.12
4-1-15      33.13
4-2-1       33.25
4-2-2       33.26
4-2-3       33.27
4-2-4       33.28
4-2-5       33.28
4-2-6       33.29
4-2-7       33.30
4-2-8       33.31
4-2-9       33.32
4-2-10      33.33
4-3-1       32.15
4-3-2       32.16
4-3-3       32.17
4-3-4       51.01
4-3-5       51.02
4-3-6       51.03
4-3-7       51.04
4-3-8       51.05
4-3-9       51.06
4-3-10      51.07
4-3-11      51.08
4-3-12      51.09
4-3-13      51.10
4-3-14      51.11
4-3-15      51.12
4-3-16      51.13
4-3-17      51.14
4-3-18      51.14
4-3-19      51.15
4-3-20      51.15
4-3-21      51.15
4-3-22      51.16
4-3-23      51.17
4-3-24      51.17
4-3-25      51.04
4-3-26      51.18
4-4-1       32.01
4-4-2       32.02
4-4-3       32.03
4-4-4       32.04
4-5-1       150.01
5-1-1       110.01
5-1-2       110.02
5-1-3       110.03
5-1-4       110.04
5-1-5       110.05
5-1-6       110.06
5-1-7       110.07
5-1-8       110.08
5-1-9       110.09
5-1-10      110.10
5-1-11      110.11
5-1-12      110.12;
            110.99
5-1-13      110.13
5-1-14      110.14
5-1-15      110.15
5-1-16      110.16
5-1-17      110.99
5-2-1       111.01
5-2-2       111.02
5-2-3       111.03
5-2-4       111.04
5-2-5       111.05
5-2-6       111.06
5-2-7       111.07
5-2-8       111.08
5-2-9       111.09
5-2-10      111.10
5-2-11      111.11
5-2-12      111.11
5-2-13      111.12
5-2-14      111.13
5-2-15      111.14
5-2-16      111.15
5-2-17      111.16
6-1-1       35.01
6-1-2       35.02
6-1-3       35.03
6-1-4       35.03
6-1-5       35.04
6-1-6       35.05
6-1-7       35.06
6-1-8       35.07
6-1-9       35.08
7-1-2       90.01
7-1-3       90.02
7-1-4       90.03
7-1-5       90.04
7-1-6       90.05
7-1-7       90.06
7-1-8       90.07
7-1-9       90.08
7-1-10      90.09
7-1-11      90.10
7-2-1       90.25
7-2-2       90.26
7-2-3       90.27
7-2-4       90.28
7-2-5       90.29
7-2-6       90.29
7-3-1       50.01
7-3-2       50.02
7-3-3       50.02
7-3-4       50.02
7-3-5       50.02
7-3-2       50.02
7-3-6       50.02
7-3-7       50.02
7-3-8       50.02
7-3-9       50.02
7-3-10      50.03
7-3-11      50.04
7-3-12      50.05
7-3-13      50.06;
            50.13
7-3-14      50.07
7-3-15      50.06
7-3-16      50.08
7-3-17      50.09
7-3-18      50.10
7-3-19      50.11
7-3-20      50.12
7-4-1       151.20
7-4-2       151.21
7-4-3       151.22
7-4-4       151.23
7-4-5       151.24
7-4-6       151.25
7-4-7       151.26
7-4-8       151.27
7-4-9       151.28
8-1-1       91.01
8-1-2       91.02
8-1-3       91.03
8-1-4       91.04
8-1-5       91.05
8-1-6       91.06
8-1-7       91.07
8-2-1       91.20
8-2-2       91.21
8-2-3       91.22
8-2-4       91.23
8-2-5       91.24
8-2-6       91.26
8-2-7       91.27
8-2-8       91.28
8-2-9       91.29
8-2-10      91.30
8-2-11      91.25
8-2-12      91.31
9-1-2       130.01
9-1-3       130.02
9-1-4       130.03
9-1-5       130.04
9-1-6       130.04
9-1-7       130.05
9-1-8       130.06
9-1-9       130.07
9-1-10      130.08
9-2-2       131.01
9-2-3       131.02
9-2-4       131.03
9-2-5       131.04
9-2-6       131.05
9-2-7       131.06
9-3-1       132.01
9-3-2       132.02
9-3-3       132.03
9-3-4       132.04
9-3-5       132.05;
            132.99
9-4-2       133.01
9-4-3       133.02
9-4-4       133.03
9-4-5       133.04
9-4-6       133.05
9-4-7       133.06
9-4-8       133.07
9-4-9       133.07
9-4-10      133.08
            90.40;
            90.41;
9-4-11      90.42;
            90.43;
            90.44
9-5-1       131.07
9-5-2       131.07
9-5-3       131.99
10-1-1      70.01
10-1-2      70.02
10-1-3      70.03
10-1-4      71.99;
            Ch. 72, Schd. I
10-1-5      71.99;
            Ch. 72 Schd. IV
10-1-6      71.99;
            Ch. 72, Schd. II
            71.99;
10-1-7      Ch. 73 Schd. I;
            Ch. 73, Schd. II
10-2-1      71.01
10-2-2      71.02
10-2-3      71.03
10-2-4      71.04
10-2-5      71.04
10-2-6      71.04
10-2-7      71.05
10-2-8      71.06
10-2-9      71.07
10-2-10     71.08
10-2-11     71.09
10-2-12     71.06
10-2-13     71.99
10-3-1      71.99;
            Ch. 72, Schd. III
10-3-2      70.99
11-1-2      155.01
11-1-3      155.02
11-1-4      155.25
11-1-5      155.03
11-1-6      155.04
11-1-7      155.05
11-1-8      155.26
11-1-9      155.27
11-1-10     155.28
11-1-11     155.29
11-1-12     155.30
11-1-13     155.06
11-1-14     155.07
11-1-15     155.08
11-1-16     155.09
11-1-17     155.09
11-1-19     155.10
11-1-18     155.10
11-1-20     155.11
11-1-21     155.12
11-1-22     155.13
11-1-23     155.99
11-2(1.1)   153.001
11-2(1.2)   153.002
11-2(1.3)   153.003
11-2(1.4)   153.004
11-2(1.5)   153.005
11-2(1.6)   153.006
11-2(1.7)   153.007
11-2(1.8)   153.008
11-2(1.9)   153.009
11-2(1.10)  153.010
11-2(1.11)  153.011
11-2(1.13)  153.012
11-2(1.14)  153.013
11-2(1.15)  153.014
11-2(1.16)  153.015
11-2(1.17)  153.016
11-2(2)     153.017
11-2(3.1)   153.018
11-2(3.2)   153.018
11-2(4.1)   153.035
11-2(4.2)   153.036
11-2(4.3)   153.037
11-2(5.1)   153.038
11-2(5.2)   153.039
11-2(6.1)   153.040
11-2(6.2)   153.041
11-2(7.1)   153.055
11-2(7.2)   153.056
11-2(8.1)   153.057
11-2(8.2)   153.058
11-2(8.3)   153.059
11-2(8.4)   153.060
11-2(8.5)   153.061
11-2(9.1)   153.075
11-2(9.2)   153.076
11-2(9.3)   153.077
11-2(9.4)   153.078
11-2(9.5)   153.079
11-2(9.6)   153.080
11-2(9.7)   153.081
11-2(9.8)   153.082
11-2(9.9)   153.083
11-2(9.10)  153.084
11-2(9.11)  153.085
11-2(9.12)  153.086
11-2(9.13)  153.087
11-2(9.14)  153.088
11-2(9.15)  153.089
11-2(10.1)  153.100
11-2(10.2)  153.101
11-2(10.3)  153.102
11-2(10.4)  153.103
11-2(11.1)  153.019
11-2(11.2)  153.020
11-2(12.1)  153.115
11-2(12.2)  153.116
11-2(12.3)  153.117
11-2(12.4)  153.118
11-2(12.5)  153.119
11-2(12.6)  153.120
11-2(13.1)  153.130
11-2(13.2)  153.131
11-2(13.3)  153.132
11-2(13.4)  153.133
11-2(13.5)  153.134
11-2(14.1)  153.021
11-2(14.2)  153.021
11-2(14.3)  153.021
11-2(14.4)  153.021
11-2(14.5)  153.021
11-2(14.6)  153.021
11-2(14.7)  153.021
11-2(15.1)  153.999
11-2(15.2)  153.022
11-3-1      150.02
11-3-2      150.03
11-3-3      150.04
11-3-4      150.05
11-4-1      154.01
11-4-4      154.02
11-4-5      154.03
11-4-7      154.04
11-4-8      154.28
11-4-9      154.29
11-4-10     154.05
11-4-11     154.46
11-4-12     154.48
11-4-13     154.45
11-4-14     154.30
11-4-15     154.31
11-4-16     154.32
11-4-17     154.33
11-4-18     154.34
11-4-19     154.07
11-4-20     154.60
11-4-21     154.61
11-4-22     154.62
11-4-23     154.63
11-4-24     154.65
11-4-25     154.66
11-4-26     154.64
11-4-27     154.67
11-4-28     154.08
11-4-29     154.09
11-4-30     154.47
11-4-31     154.49
            154.25;
11-4-32     154.26;
            154.27;
            154.99
12-1-1      152.001
12-1-2      152.002
12-1-3      152.003
12-1-4      152.004
12-1-5      152.005
12-2-1      152.015
12-2-2      152.016
12-2-3      152.016
12-2-4      152.017
12-2-5      152.018
12-2-6      152.019
12-3-1      152.035
12-3-2      152.036
12-3-3      152.037
12-3-4      152.038
12-3-5      152.039
12-3-6      152.040
12-3-7      152.040
12-3-8      152.041
14-4-1      151.07
12-4-2      152.055
12-4-3      152.056
12-4-4      152.057
12-4-5      152.058
12-5-1      152.020
12-5-2      152.021
12-5-3      152.021
12-6-1      152.070
12-6-2      152.071
12-6-3      152.072
12-6-4      152.073
12-6-5      152.074
12-6-6      152.075
12-6-7      152.999
13-1-1      TSO Table I
14-1-1      151.01
            151.02;
14-1-2      151.03;
            151.04
14-2-1      151.05
14-3-1      151.06
14-3-2      151.06
14-3-3      151.06
24.183.1107 154.06
24.183.1101 154.10
24.183.1104 154.11
            
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.    Date Passed Code Section
10-11-10-2  - -         90.27
11-14-16-1  11-14-2016  36.06
11-14-16-2  11-14-2016  36.07
11-14-16-3  11-14-2016  36.08
11-14-16-5  11-14-2016  31.03
08-12-19-09 8-12-2019   37.01
01-13-20-03 - -2020     TSO Table I
05-11-20-01 5-11-2020   TSO Table I
05-11-20-04 7-13-2020   51.19
05-11-20-05 5-11-2020   34.80
08-10-20-04 8-10-2020   36.09
08-10-20-06 8-10-2020   34.70 -
                        34.73
08-10-20-07 8-10-2020   37.04
08-17-20-01 - -2020     51.19
10-13-20-02 10-13-20    51.19
                       
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.    Date Passed Code Section
10-13-87(1) - -         132.99
-           12-1-1974   TSO Table I
                        155.01-
-           2-12-1991   155.05;
                        155.09;
                        155.10
-           3-9-1993    51.17
-           4-13-1993   90.29;
                        155.06
-           6-8-1993    33.12;
                        33.13
-           2-8-1994    50.06
-           6-13-1995   90.04
-           11-11-1997  31.01;
                        31.02
-           10-9-2000   35.03
-           10-20-2003  132.03
-           5-10-2004   90.06
                        91.02;
-           8-8-2005    91.24;
                        91.29
-           11-28-2005  91.21
                        155.08;
                        155.09;
                        155.11-
-           12-12-2005  155.13;
                        155.26-
                        155.28;
                        155.99
                        30.02;
-           5-22-2006   31.18;
                        31.51;
                        37.03
                        33.03;
                        33.05;
                        33.07;
                        33.08;
                        33.30;
                        33.33;
                        34.04;
-           8-28-2006   34.05;
                        34.21;
                        36.02;
                        51.04;
                        51.05;
                        51.07;
                        51.10;
                        51.18;
                        110.04
-           9-11-2006   111.04
                        71.99;
                        Ch. 72 Schd. I;
-           12-21-2006  Ch. 72 Schd. II;
                        Ch. 72 Schd. IV;
                        Ch. 73 Schd. II
                        152.001;
-           5-14-2007   152.021;
                        152.036;
                        152.999
-           5-11-2009   155.26;
                        155.27
10-12-09-1  10-12-2009  90.27
12-14-09-1  12-14-2009  90.27
                        91.21;
-           7-25-2011   91.24;
                        91.26;
                        91.28
-           9-10-2012   Ch. 72 Schd. III
12-10-12-1  1-14-2013   30.01
-           12-10-2018  10.99
05-11-20-02 6-8-2020    37.02,
                        155.04
09-12-22-01 10-17-2022  155.14
11-14-22-01 12-12-2022  90.09
03-13-23-02 4-10-2023   91.40-
                        91.43
03-13-23-03 4-10-2023   91.31
                        91.20;
02-12-24-01 3-11-2024   91.26-
                        91.29
02-12-24-04 3-11-2024   36.07;
                        36.08
                       
 
 
