CITY CODE
of
COLSTRIP, MONTANA
2003
Code current through:
Ord. 2022-01, passed January 11, 2022
Published by:
STERLING CODIFIERS
an
American Legal Publishing Company
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Colstrip, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 2022-01, passed January 11, 2022. Ordinances of the
City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
Sterling Codifiers
Coeur d'Alene, Idaho
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the council, this city code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Colstrip. This city code
of ordinances shall be known and cited as the COLSTRIP CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the council and shall be supplemented to incorporate
the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this city code by title in any legal documents. (2003 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2003 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement that no
ordinance or any section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance sets forth the revised ordinance or amended section in full. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and such ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in its
proper place in each copy of this city code. Each such replacement page shall
be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the
city code. (2003 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this city code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
council. The city clerk-treasurer shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk-
treasurer. Any person having custody of a copy of the city code shall make
every effort to maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances
passed. Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement
pages when such are delivered or made available to such person through the
office of the city clerk-treasurer. Such code books, while in actual possession
of officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of
the city and shall be returned to the office of the city clerk-treasurer when
directed so to do by order of the council. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this city
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this city code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances. (2003 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this city code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2003 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceedings, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Currently Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this city code. (2003 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this city code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The council hereby
declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision,
paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any
one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses
or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this city code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this city code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
city code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been
changed in the content of this city code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2003 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The city of Colstrip, county of Rosebud, state of Montana.
CODE: The municipal code of the city of Colstrip.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of the city of Colstrip.
COUNTY: The county of Rosebud, state of Montana.
ELECTOR: A resident of the city qualified and registered to vote under state
law.
EMPLOYEE: A person other than an officer who is employed by the city. Whenever
reference is made in this code to a city employee by title only, this shall be
construed as though followed by the words "of the city of Colstrip".
EXECUTIVE BRANCH: That part of the city, including departments, officers, and
boards, charged with implementing actions approved and administering policies
adopted by the city council or performing the duties required by law.
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
GOVERNING BODY: The mayor and city council of the city of Colstrip.
GUIDELINE: A suggested or recommended standard or procedure to serve as an
index or comparison and is not enforceable as a regulations.
LAW: A statute enacted by the legislature of Montana and approved and signed by
the governor or a statute adopted by the people of Montana through statutory
initiative procedures.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MCA: Abbreviation for Montana Code Annotated.
MAY: Is permissive.
MUNICIPALITY OR MUNICIPAL: The city of Colstrip.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OATH: Includes affirmation.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICE OF MUNICIPALITY: The permanent location from which the city clerk-
treasurer carries out her duties.
OFFICER: A person holding a position with the city which is ordinarily filled
by election. Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Colstrip".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
ORDINANCE: An act adopted and approved by the city council having effect with
the jurisdiction of the city council.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any natural person, firm, association, joint venture, joint stock
company, partnership, organization, club, fraternal organization, company,
corporation, business, trust, or their manager, lessee, agent, servant,
officer, or employee or any of them.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
POLITICAL SUBDIVISION: Refers to a local government, authority, school
district, or multicounty agency.
POPULATION: The number of inhabitants as determined by an official federal,
state, or local census or official population estimate approved by the
department of commerce.
PRINTED: The act of reproducing a design on a surface by any process as defined
in Montana Code Annotated section 1-1-203(3).
PUBLIC AGENCY: A political subdivision, Indian tribal council, state or federal
department or office of the dominion of Canada or any provincial department or
office or political subdivision thereof.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any and all property owned by the city or held in the name of
the city by any department, board, or authority.
PUBLIC THOROUGHFARE: Shall include streets, alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards,
public ways, public squares, public places and sidewalks.
REAL PROPERTY: Lands, structures, buildings, and interests in land, including
lands under water and riparian rights, and all things and rights usually
included within the term "real property", including not only fee simple
absolute but also all lesser interests such as easements, rights of way, uses,
leases, licenses, and all other incorporeal hereditaments and every estate,
interest, or right legal or equitable, pertaining to real property.
RESOLUTION: A statement or policy by the city council or an order by the city
council that a specific action be taken.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
SERVICE: An authorized function or activity performed by the city.
SHALL: Is mandatory.
STATE: The state of Montana.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
STRUCTURE: The entire organization through which the city government carries
out its duties, functions, and responsibilities.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (Ord. 99-03, 4-20-1999; amd. 2003 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Jurisdiction
1-4-2: General Penalty
1-4-3: Judgment As Lien
1-4-4: Execution On Fine
1-4-5: Reimbursement For Cost Of Court Appointed Counsel
1-4-6: Application Of Provisions
1-4-7: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: JURISDICTION 1 :
   A.   Corporate Limits: The city has jurisdiction to impose penalties and
fines within its corporate limits.
   B.   Control Over Territory Occupied By Public Works: Measures of a
regulatory or penal nature may be imposed by the city over the territory
occupied by the city public works, and over and along the line of reservoirs,
streams, trenches, pipes, drains, and other appurtenances used in the
construction and operation of such works.
   C.   Control Of Disturbances Of Peace: Ordinances to prevent and punish
intoxication (subject to the limits established in Montana Code Annotated
section 53-24-106), fights, riots, loud noises, disorderly conduct, obscenity,
and acts or conduct calculated to disturb the public peace or which are
offensive to public morals may be enforced within the city and within three (3)
miles of the limits thereof.
   D.   Health And Quarantine: Health and quarantine ordinances and regulations
may be enforced in and over all places within five (5) miles of the boundaries
of the city, subject to provisions of Montana state law.
   E.   Arrests: The police of the city may make arrests of persons charged
with a crime within the limits of the city and within five (5) miles thereof,
and along the line of the water supply of the city. (2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA §§ 7-4-4306, 7-5-4207, 7-32-4301, 7-32-4302 and 7-32-4406.
1-4-2: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
Unless a different penalty is specifically provided for in the text of an
ordinance in this code, any person who violates any provision of this code
shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not exceeding five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for a period not exceeding six (6) months
in the county jail, or both. Every day a violation continues after the first
day of the violation, it shall be considered a separate offense unless
otherwise noted. (Ord. 00-14, 12-12-2000, eff. 1-12-2001)
 
Notes
1 2. MCA §§ 7-5-109 and 7-5-4207.
1-4-3: JUDGMENT AS LIEN 1 :
The defendant's fine or cost shall constitute a lien upon the real estate of
the defendant, which lien dates from the date the complaint was first filed or
the date of the defendant's arrest, whichever occurs first. (Ord. 00-14, 12-12-
2000, eff. 1-12-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. MCS § 46-18-601.
1-4-4: EXECUTION ON FINE:
If the judgment is for a fine alone, execution may issue thereon as on a
judgment in a civil case. (2003 Code)
1-4-5: REIMBURSEMENT FOR COST OF COURT APPOINTED COUNSEL:
Any defendant who is found guilty in city court of any misdemeanor violation or
other ordinance violation shall be responsible to reimburse the cost of court
appointed counsel to the city, unless the defendant is excused of his
obligation by the Colstrip city judge. (Ord. 00-14, 12-12-2000, eff. 1-12-2001)
1-4-6: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this city code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section.
   B.   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this city code, the prosecuting officer may
elect under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had
against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of
a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes
a breach of any section or provision of this city code and there shall be no
fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this
chapter shall apply. (2003 Code)
1-4-7: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS 1 :
No provision of this city code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 2-9-101 et seq.
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Membership
1-5-2: Oath Of Office
1-5-3: President Of Council
1-5-4: Quorum
1-5-5: Meetings
1-5-6: Veto Power Of Mayor
1-5-1: MEMBERSHIP 1 :
   A.   Council: The council shall be composed of four (4) council persons
elected at large from the city.
   B.   Mayor: The mayor shall be the presiding officer of the council. (Ord.
99-02, 4-20-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-3-4205. See chapter 8 of this title for provisions on election.
1-5-2: OATH OF OFFICE 1 :
Each of said officers shall, before entering upon his duties, severally take
and subscribe to an oath before some officer authorized to administer the same,
in the form prescribed by law, and shall file the same in the office of the
city clerk- treasurer. (Ord. 99-02, 4-20-1999)
 
Notes
1 2. MCA § 7-3-1259.
1-5-3: PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL 1 :
Immediately upon the first meeting, and following the annual election of each
year thereafter, the council shall elect one council person thereof as
president of the council who in the absence of the mayor shall be and act as
the presiding officer of the council, and who shall do and perform such other
duties as are prescribed elsewhere in this code. (Ord. 99-02, 4-20-1999)
 
Notes
1 3. MCA § 7-4-4403.
1-5-4: QUORUM 1 :
The mayor and two (2) council persons or three (3) council persons shall
constitute a quorum and the affirmative vote of the mayor and two (2) council
persons or the affirmative vote of three (3) council persons shall be necessary
to adopt or reject any motion, resolution, or ordinance or pass any measure.
(Ord. 99-02, 4-20-1999)
 
Notes
1 4. MCA § 7-4-4121(a).
1-5-5: MEETINGS 1 :
   A.   Regular Meetings: The council shall hold regular meetings on the second
and fourth Tuesdays of each month at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. The council may
adjourn a regular meeting at any specified time and such adjourned meeting for
the passage of ordinances shall be considered a regular meeting. (Ord. 99-02,
4-20-1999; amd. Ord. 00-11, 10-10-2000, eff. 11-6-2000)
   B.   Special Meetings: The council may hold special meetings at the call of
the mayor, and it shall be the duty of the mayor to call a special meeting
whenever requested to do so upon the written request of two (2) council
persons. Such special meeting shall be called by a written notice from the
mayor, stating the object of the meeting to be served upon each council person,
either by personal service, telephonic or electronic communication. (Ord. 99-
02, 4-20-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 1-7-2 of this title for provisions regarding open meetings.
1-5-6: VETO POWER OF MAYOR:
Procedures for the veto of a resolution or ordinance by the mayor are
established as follows:
   A.   The mayor has the authority to approve all ordinances or resolutions
adopted by the city council and sign the same. If the resolution or ordinance
does not meet the mayor's approval, the mayor may veto the document and will
return the same ordinance or resolution to the next regular meeting with the
mayor's objection(s) in writing.
   B.   In the event the mayor fails to either approve or submit written
objection(s) to the ordinance or resolution in writing, by the time of the next
city council meeting, the resolution or ordinance takes effect without further
action.
   C.   In the event an ordinance or resolution is vetoed by the mayor, it will
not take effect unless the same resolution or ordinance is approved by an
affirmation vote of three (3) council members at the next regular city council
meeting. (Ord. 2012-02, 3-27-2012, eff. 4-27-2012)
CHAPTER 6
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Appointment
1-6-2: Term Of Office
1-6-3: Bond Requirements
1-6-4: Rules Of Conduct; Conflict Of Interest
1-6-5: Nepotism
1-6-6: Job Descriptions
1-6-7: Removal From Office
1-6-8: Public Employees Retirement System
1-6-1: APPOINTMENT:
   A.   City Department Heads:
      1.   The mayor shall nominate and with consent of the city council
appoint department heads for the following positions:
         a.   City clerk-treasurer.
         b.   Chief of police.
         c.   Public works director.
         d.   Building inspector/zoning official/code enforcement officer.
      2.   The hiring and appointment of department heads as set forth in
subsection A1 of this section shall be done in accordance with the personnel
policies, procedures, and practices established and adopted by the city of
Colstrip.
   B.   City Officers: The mayor shall nominate and with the consent of the
city council appoint the following city officers:
      1.   City judge.
      2.   City attorney. (Ord. 2012-05, 10-9-2012, eff. 11-9-2012)
1-6-2: TERM OF OFFICE:
   A.   City Judge: The city judge is appointed to a term of four (4) years, as
set forth under the terms and conditions of the Colstrip city charter and
Montana state law. Nothing in this chapter shall conflict with the existing
city charter provisions.
   B.   City Attorney: The position of city attorney is appointed for a two (2)
year term in accordance with the provisions of the Colstrip city charter and
Montana state law, upon the recommendation of the mayor and approval of the
Colstrip city council. The city may enter into a contract with the attorney for
either/or legal and prosecution services, under the terms and conditions agreed
upon between the city and the contracting attorney. (Ord. 2012-05, 10-9-2012,
eff. 11-9-2012)
1-6-3: BOND REQUIREMENTS 1 :
   A.   Bond Required: The city clerk-treasurer, any assistant or deputy clerk-
treasurer or utility clerk and the city judge shall be bonded in the sum of
five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) each. (Ord. 99-15, 9-2-1999; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Condition Of Bond: The conditions of such surety bond must be that the
principal shall well, truly and faithfully perform all official duties required
of him/her by law and also such additional duties that may be imposed on him/
her by any law of the state or city subsequently enacted, and that he/she will
account for and pay over and deliver to the persons or officers entitled to
receive the same, all monies or other property that may come into his/her hands
as such officer.
   C.   Liability: The principal and sureties on the official bond are also, in
all cases, liable for the neglect, default or misconduct in office of any
deputy, clerk or employee appointed or employed by such principal.
   D.   Form: The form of the surety bond for city officers or employees must
be approved by the city attorney and filed and recorded in the office of the
city clerk-treasurer.
   E.   Insurance Company: Any surety bond purchased by the city shall be
executed by a responsible insurance security company authorized and admitted to
execute surety bonds in the state.
   F.   Premium: The premium for such surety bond shall be a proper charge
against the budget of the city general fund. (Ord. 99-15, 9-2-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA §§ 2-9-801 et seq., 7-4-4109.
1-6-4: RULES OF CONDUCT; CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
   A.   Public Officers And Employees:
      1.   A public officer or public employee may not:
         a.   Use public time, facilities, equipment, supplies, personnel, or
funds for the officer's or employee's private business purposes;
         b.   Engage in a substantial financial transaction for the officer's
or employee's private business purposes with a person whom the officer or
employee inspects or supervises in the course of official duties;
         c.   Assist any person for a fee or other compensation in obtaining a
contract, claim, license, or other economic benefit from the officer's or
employee's agency;
         d.   Assist any person for a contingent fee in obtaining a contract,
claim, license, or other economic benefit from any agency;
         e.   Perform an official act directly and substantially affecting to
its economic benefit a business or other undertaking in which the officer or
employee either has a substantial financial interest or is engaged as counsel,
consultant, representative, or agent; or
         f.   Solicit or accept employment, or engage in negotiations or
meetings to consider employment, with a person whom the officer or employee
regulates in the course of official duties without first giving written
notification to the officer's or employee's supervisor and department director.
      2.   A public officer or public employee may not use public time,
facilities, equipment, supplies, personnel, or funds for any campaign activity
persuading or affecting a political decision unless the use is:
         a.   Authorized by law; or
         b.   Properly incidental to another activity required or authorized by
law, such as the function of an elected public official, the official staff, or
the legislative staff in the normal course of duties.
      3.   The penalties or violation of this subsection are provided under
Montana Code Annotated section 2-2-121(8).
   B.   Local Government Officers And Employees:
      1.   A city officer and employee may not:
         a.   Engage in substantial financial transaction for the officer's who
are employee's private business purpose with the person whom the officer or
employee inspects or supervises in the course of official duties; or
         b.   Perform an official act directly and substantially affecting to
its economic benefit a business or other undertaking in which the officer or
employee either has substantial financial interest or is engaged as counsel,
consultant, representative, or agent. (Ord. 99-06, 4-20-1999)
      2.   Notwithstanding the above, a member of the city council may perform
an official act when the member's participation is necessary to obtain a quorum
or otherwise enable the council to act. The member shall disclose the conflict
of interest creating the appearance of impropriety. (Ord. 99-06, 4-20-1999;
amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Enforcement: Enforcement of violations of this section will be done in
accordance with Montana Code Annotated section 2-2-144.
   D.   Contracts Involving City Officers And Employees:
      1.   Prohibited: Elected officials, city officers and employees may not
be interested in any contract made by them in their official capacity, and
former employees may not, within six (6) months following termination of
employee, contract or be employed by an employer who contracts with the city.
      2.   Waiver: The city may waive the application of the above prohibition
for a present or former city officer and employee who, in an official capacity,
does not influence the decision making process or supervise a function
regarding the contract in question. The city council may grant a waiver under
this subsection only after publicly disclosing the nature of the conflict at a
public hearing held for this purpose. The factors for the city council to
consider, and whether to grant the waiver are contained in Montana Code
Annotated section 2-2-201.
      3.   City Officer As Vendor Or Purchaser: In addition, city officers must
not be purchaser at any sale or vendor of any purchase made by them in their
official capacity.
      4.   Voiding Of Contract: Any contract made in violation of the above
provisions may be voided at the instance of any party, except the officer
interested therein. (Ord. 99-06, 4-20-1999)
   E.   Employees May Not Hold Office: No Colstrip city employee, whether a
permanent full time or part time employee, may hold any political office in the
Colstrip city government, including the office of city council member or the
office of mayor while they are also an employee of the city of Colstrip. (Ord.
09-01, 12-8-2009, eff. 1-9-2010)
1-6-5: NEPOTISM:
   A.   Hire As Employee: It is unlawful for the mayor, council member, or any
employee with hiring authority for the city, to appoint to any position of
trust or emolument, (to receive compensation from) any person related or
connected by consanguinity within the fourth degree or by affinity within the
second degree.
   B.   Enter Into Agreement Or Promise: It is further unlawful, for the mayor,
council member, or any employee with hiring authority for the city to enter
into any agreement or any promise with other persons or any members of the
mayor's office, city council or any other individual with the authority to
hire, any position of trust or emolument any person or persons related to them
or connected with them by consanguinity within the fourth degree or by affinity
within the second degree.
   C.   Penalty: The penalty for the violation of this law, is provided in
Montana Code Annotated section 2-2-304 and that penalty provision is
incorporated by reference. (Ord. 99-08, 4-20-1999)
1-6-6: JOB DESCRIPTIONS:
Job descriptions for the various city officers and employees, as amended from
time to time by the city council, are on file in the office of the city clerk-
treasurer. (2003 Code)
1-6-7: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
   A.   Department Heads: Any removal from office of department heads will be
conducted in accordance with the Colstrip city policy and procedure manuals.
   B.   City Judge: The city judge may only be removed from office in
accordance of the provisions of Montana Code Annotated sections 3-1-1110 and 3-
1-1111.
   C.   City Attorney: The city attorney may be removed from office under the
terms of their contract or the provisions of Montana Code Annotated section 7-
4-4603. (Ord. 2012-05, 10-9-2012, eff. 11-9-2012)
1-6-8: PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM:
   A.   City To Participate: The city shall become a participant in the public
employees' retirement system and that the rights, benefits, memberships,
payments, duties and obligations with respect to membership and participation
shall apply to the employees of the city upon the identical terms and
conditions as set forth in said act for state employees, effective as of
October 1, 1999.
   B.   Authority To Execute Contract: The mayor is authorized to execute and
sign a contract carrying out the intent of this section with the public
employees' retirement board.
   C.   Employee Withholding: The city clerk-treasurer shall deduct and
withhold from the wage/salary payments earned and paid to all employees who are
eligible for membership in said retirement system, and all eligible employees
employed after the contract date, the membership fees and normal contributions
provided by Montana Code Annotated section 19-3-315, said deductions to be made
on each and every pay period for services rendered by said employee member from
and after October 1, 1999.
   D.   Monthly Contributions: The city agrees to promptly pay, at the end of
each calendar month, such member contributions to the board as set forth in
Montana Code Annotated section 19-3-315.
   E.   Employer Contributions: The clerk-treasurer is authorized to pay over
to the board the sum of employer contributions computed upon all salaries
earned and paid to employees who are members of said retirement system as set
forth in Montana Code Annotated section 19-3-316.
   F.   Amendment Of Contract: In the event subsequent legislative assemblies
of the state amend the public employees' retirement act as to its benefits,
rights, payments or the contribution rates, the contract hereby established and
set up shall be amended to correspond thereto and such amendments shall be made
a part of this section and contract thereunder. (Ord. 99-13, 9-2-1999; amd.
2003 Code)
ARTICLE A. CITY JUDGE
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Office Created
1-6A-2: Appointment; Term
1-6A-3: Part Time Position; Hours
1-6A-4: Compensation; Benefits; Expenses
1-6A-5: Qualifications
1-6A-6: Mandatory Training Sessions
1-6A-7: Jurisdiction
1-6A-1: OFFICE CREATED:
The office of city judge is hereby created. (Ord. 99-12, 8-5-1999; amd. 2001
Code)
1-6A-2: APPOINTMENT; TERM:
The city judge will be appointed for a term as set forth in subsection 1-6-2A
of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-05, 10-9-2012, eff. 11-9-2012)
1-6A-3: PART TIME POSITION; HOURS:
The position of city judge will be a part time position with a minimum of
sixteen (16) hours per week. In addition, the city judge will be required to
maintain office hours from nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00)
P.M., on Tuesday and Thursday of each week. City court will be closed on the
weekends and all state holidays. (Ord. 99-12, 8-15-1999; amd. 2003 Code)
1-6A-4: COMPENSATION; BENEFITS; EXPENSES:
   A.   Salary: The salary for the city judge will be set by resolution.
   B.   Benefits: Because it is a part time position, the city judge will be
eligible for city benefits and retirement prorated in accordance with personnel
policies and procedures.
   C.   Expenses: The city judge shall receive his/her actual and necessary
"travel expenses" as defined and provided for in Montana Code Annotated
sections 2-18-501 through 2-18-503. (Ord. 99-12, 8-15-1999; amd. 2003 Code)
1-6A-5: QUALIFICATIONS:
The city judge must meet the qualifications as set forth in Montana Code
Annotated section 3-11-202. The city judge must be a resident of the county.
(Ord. 99-12, 8-15-1999; amd. 2003 Code)
1-6A-6: MANDATORY TRAINING SESSIONS:
The city judge is required to attend all mandatory training sessions for judges
as set forth in Montana Code Annotated section 3-11-204. In the event the city
judge also serves as a judge for another jurisdiction, the city will pay one-
half (1/2) of the expenses incurred for the required training. (Ord. 99-12, 8-
15-1999)
1-6A-7: JURISDICTION:
The city judge has all jurisdiction granted through a city court under Montana
law. The city judge must abide by all provisions of Montana law for the conduct
of the city court and for such educational and ethical requirements. (Ord. 99-
12, 8-15-1999)
ARTICLE B. BUILDING INSPECTOR/ZONING OFFICER/CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER 1
SECTION:
1-6B-1: Creation Of Office
1-6B-2: Job Qualifications
1-6B-3: Supervision
1-6B-4: Term Of Employment
 
Notes
  1. See sections
1 7-1-3 and
  7-1-4 of this code for duties and authority.
1-6B-1: CREATION OF OFFICE:
The position of building inspector/zoning officer/code enforcement officer is
created upon adoption of this article. The position is that of an appointed
officer and serves at the will of the mayor, unless otherwise provided. (Ord.
00-18, 1-9-2001, eff. 2-8-2001)
1-6B-2: JOB QUALIFICATIONS:
The individual appointed for this office shall be able to perform the duties as
set forth in the job description as adopted by the city council. In addition,
the individual shall have all certifications as required by the state of
Montana to perform the duties. (Ord. 00-18, 1-9-2001, eff. 2-8-2001)
1-6B-3: SUPERVISION:
The building inspector/zoning officer/code enforcement officer shall work under
the direct supervision of the mayor and shall receive direction from, and when
requested, submit a report to the city council. (Ord. 00-18, 1-9-2001, eff. 2-
8-2001)
1-6B-4: TERM OF EMPLOYMENT:
The building inspector/zoning officer/code enforcement officer work schedule
shall be in accordance with the terms set forth in his employment agreement.
The city council will authorize a sufficient number of hours for the officer to
perform the necessary requirements of his or her duties. The term of officer
appointment shall run concurrent with the term of the mayor, and shall take
office the first Monday in January after the municipal election for mayor.
(Ord. 00-18, 1-9-2001, eff. 2-8-2001)
CHAPTER 7
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Ordinances And Resolutions
1-7-2: Meetings
1-7-1: ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS 1 :
   A.   Ordinances:
      1.   Ordinance Book; Numbering: All ordinances adopted by the city should
be recorded in a book kept by the city clerk-treasurer, entitled "The Ordinance
Book" and shall be numbered by a numerical decimal system in the order they are
passed. (Ord. 99-01, 4-20-1999; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Subject Matter: No ordinance shall be passed containing more than
one subject matter, which shall be clearly expressed in the title, except for
ordinances for the codification and revision of ordinances.
      3.   Posting Or Publication:
         a.   Posting Required: Subject to the exceptions listed below, copies
of every ordinance shall, as soon as practicable and after its passage, be
posted in the public places designated by ordinance, in addition to the
principle place where the municipality conducts business. Also, at its
discretion, the council may require publication of the ordinance.
         b.   Voluminous Ordinances: When circumstances where the volume of
ordinances passed, make posting of such ordinances impracticable, the clerk-
treasurer may post a notice listing the title of each ordinance which was
enacted and advising the public of their right and opportunity of inspection of
the ordinances at the principle place where the municipality maintains its
offices.
      4.   Effective Date: No ordinance passed by the council, or amendment of
an ordinance, shall become effective until thirty (30) days after its passage,
except general appropriation ordinances providing for the ordinary and current
expenses of the city, excepting also emergency measures, and in case of
emergency measures the emergency must be expressed in the preamble or in the
body of the measure, and the measure must receive a two- thirds (2/3) vote of
all members elected. In emergency ordinances, the resolutions shall include
only such measures as are immediately, necessary for the preservations of
peace, health and safety and shall not include:
         a.   A franchise or license to a corporation or individual;
         b.   Any provisions for the sale of real estate;
         c.   Any lease or letting of any property for a period exceeding one
year; or
         d.   The purchase or sale of personal property exceeding five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) in value.
   B.   Resolutions: All resolutions shall be immediately effective unless a
delayed effective date is specified.
   C.   Technical Codes: Technical codes may be adopted by the city in whole or
in part by reference. At least fifteen (15) days prior to final action by the
governing body of the city, notice of intent to adopt a technical code in whole
or in part by reference shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city. Three (3) copies of the code or the part to be adopted
shall be filed with the city clerk-treasurer for inspection by the public.
(Ord. 99-01, 4-20-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA §§ 7-3-4222 and 7-5-4201 et seq.
1-7-2: MEETINGS:
   A.   Open Meetings: All meetings of the city, boards, committees, and
agencies supported in whole or in part by public funds or expending public
funds must be open to the public.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   Individual Privacy: The presiding officer of any meeting may close
the meeting during the time the discussion relates to matters of individual
privacy and then if and only if the presiding officer determines that the
demands of individual privacy clearly exceeds the merits of public disclosure.
The right of individual privacy may be waived by the individual about whom the
discussion pertains and, in that event, the meeting must be open.
      2.   Litigation Strategy: Subject to state court decisions, the meeting
may also be closed to discuss the strategies to be followed with the respect of
litigation when an open meeting would have a detrimental effect of the
litigating position of the public agency, but a meeting may not be closed to
discuss the strategy to be followed in litigation in which the only parties are
public bodies or associations; provisions apply to any body formed by the city
council.
      3.   Press: Accredited press representatives may not be excluded from any
open meeting under this part and may not be prohibited from taking photographs,
televising or recording such meetings. The presiding officer may assure that
such activities do not interfere with the conduct of the meeting.
      4.   Minutes: Appropriate minutes of all meetings required by Montana
Code Annotated section 2-3-203 to be opened shall be kept and shall be
available for inspection by the public. Such minutes shall include, without
limitation, the date, time and place of meeting; a list of the individual
members of the public body, agency or organizations in attendance; all matters
proposed, discussed or decided; and at the request of any member, a record by
individual members of any votes taken. Any decision made in violation of the
open meeting law may be declared void by a district court having jurisdiction.
A suit to avoid any such decision must be commenced within thirty (30) days of
the decision. (Ord. 99-04, 4-20-1999)
   C.   Public Participation: On the agenda for any regular meeting of the city
council of the city of Colstrip, there shall be listed an agenda entry for a
time period for the members of the public to participate on any public matter
relating to the operation of the city government of the city of Colstrip. This
comment period is in addition to any regular scheduled agenda item(s) in which
the members of the public had previously made arrangements to be listed. Public
comments will be limited to three (3) minutes per individual.
The city council may not take action on a matter that is discussed during this
unscheduled public participation process, unless specific notice of that matter
is included on the agenda and proper comment from other members of the public
on the subject matter has also been allowed.
Public comment received at the meeting must be incorporated into the official
minutes of the meeting as set forth in Montana Code Annotated section 2-3-212.
For purposes of this subsection, "public matter" does not include contested
cases or other adjudicated proceedings. In addition, "public matter" does not
include matters in which the rights of individual privacy exceed the public
interest.
Any existing city ordinance which establishes rules of order for the conduct of
participants at a city council meeting remains in full force and effect. (Ord.
2003-05, 6-24-2003, eff. 7-25-2003)
CHAPTER 8
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Purpose; Application
1-8-2: Nonexclusive
1-8-3: Date Of Election
1-8-4: Qualifications Of Voter
1-8-5: Term Of Elected Officials
1-8-6: Council Persons Elected At Large
1-8-7: Primary Election
1-8-8: Elections Nonpartisan
1-8-1: PURPOSE; APPLICATION:
The purpose of this chapter is to set down rules for governing the conduct of
elections for the city. (Ord. 99-11, 6-24-1999)
1-8-2: NONEXCLUSIVE:
The provisions in this chapter for city elections are not exclusive and shall
be read in conjunction with Montana law for both general election requirements
and municipal elections. (Ord. 99-11, 6-24-1999)
1-8-3: DATE OF ELECTION:
The general election for city officers shall be held every odd numbered year,
commencing in 1999, on the first Tuesday after the first Monday of November,
when the term of the office will expire before the next scheduled election for
the office, or when one of the offices must be filled for an unexpired term as
provided for by law. (Ord. 99-11, 6-24-1999)
1-8-4: QUALIFICATIONS OF VOTER:
As defined in Montana Code Annotated section 13-1-111, the "voter" must also be
a resident of the city. (Ord. 99-11, 6-24-1999)
1-8-5: TERM OF ELECTED OFFICIALS:
All elected officials shall be elected for a term of four (4) years with two
(2) city council positions open each election. The terms of all elected
officers are to commence on the first Monday in January after the election.
(Ord. 99-11, 6-24-1999; amd. 2003 Code)
1-8-6: COUNCIL PERSONS ELECTED AT LARGE:
All candidates for city council shall be elected at an at large basis. The city
will not be divided into districts or wards. When voting at large, each voter
will be allowed to vote for up to two (2) individuals for the at large
positions. The two (2) highest vote getters of the eligible candidates will be
designated as the successful candidates. In the event a voter picks more then
two (2) candidates on their ballot, that ballot shall be considered rejected.
(Ord. 99-11, 6-24-1999)
1-8-7: PRIMARY ELECTION:
The city primary election, if required, shall be held on the Tuesday following
the second Monday in September. Whether or not there is a necessity for a
primary election shall be determined in accordance with Montana state law.
(Ord. 99-11, 6-24-1999)
1-8-8: ELECTIONS NONPARTISAN:
All elections for the city shall be conducted on a nonpartisan basis. (Ord. 99-
11, 6-24-1999)
CHAPTER 9
COMPREHENSIVE GROWTH POLICY
SECTION:
1-9-1: Adoption Of Policy
1-9-1: ADOPTION OF POLICY:
The "City of Colstrip, Montana, Comprehensive Growth Policy", dated June, 2001,
is hereby adopted by reference by the city council. (2003 Code)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
CITY PLANNING BOARD
SECTION:
2-1-1: Board Created
2-1-1: BOARD CREATED:
The city hereby creates a city planning board subject to the requirements and
constraints and empowered with the authority provided under Montana Code
Annotated title 76 chapter 1. (Ord. 00-04, 6-8-2000, eff. 7-9-2000)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSES AND PERMITS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Unlawful Activities
3-1-2: License Required
3-1-3: Application
3-1-4: Submission Of Application
3-1-5: License Fees
3-1-6: Penalty
3-1-1: UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES:
No provision contained in this title shall be construed so as to license any
trade, business, occupation, vocation, pursuit, profession, or entertainment
that is prohibited by any law of the United States, of the state, or prohibited
by the provisions of this code or other ordinance of the city. (Ord. 03-02, 4-
8-2003, eff. 5-9-2003)
3-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Required: No person shall conduct, operate, transact, engage in, or
carry on within the city any industries, trades, pursuits, professions,
vocations, or businesses without first applying for and obtaining a city
business license.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   Out Of Town Businesses: A city business license is not required for
any out of town businesses who are in Colstrip as a result of being directly
hired or contracted for a specific project by an existing business, individual
or governmental entities in Colstrip.
      2.   Repair Jobs: Subsection B1 of this section does not apply to
businesses or firms who actively solicit repair jobs within the area, i.e.,
roof repair, other repair for hail damage, siding jobs, house painting, storm
restoration, sidewalk repair, and other like projects. (Ord. 03-02, 4-8-2003,
eff. 5-9-2003)
3-1-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   Form: Every person desiring to conduct any business or other activity
in the city for which a license is required must file with the city clerk-
treasurer, on a form to be provided by the clerk-treasurer, an application for
the city business license in writing.
   B.   Fee: Through this chapter, there is a fee waiver for any business,
either new or established, with their fixed and principal location within the
city. All franchises, including, but not limited to, Northwest Power Company,
Qwest Communications, and Montana Rail Link, and any other utility franchise,
shall pay a two hundred dollar ($200.00) annual franchise fee. Any fee waiver
under this subsection does not relieve the business of their obligation to
apply for a license.
   C.   Signature; Contents: The application is submitted to a public office,
and/or public servant, with the representation of truthfulness. The application
shall set forth:
      1.   The name of the applicant.
      2.   Place of permanent residence.
      3.   Local business address, if different than residence address.
      4.   Description of the activity to be licensed and its location.
      5.   Whether the applicant shall act as principal or agent.
      6.   If acting as agent, the name and place of business of the principal
or employer.
   D.   Misrepresentation: No person shall wilfully misrepresent any material
fact in any license application made by him. Violation of this section is
unlawful and subjects the violator to the penalty section. (Ord. 03-02, 4-8-
2003, eff. 5-9-2003)
3-1-4: SUBMISSION OF APPLICATION:
The city clerk-treasurer or their staff may, upon receipt of application for a
business license, approve the application upon receipt and review. If the
clerk-treasurer has a reasonable basis to deny the application, the clerk-
treasurer may put the application on hold and set for the agenda at the next
city council meeting for the city council's determination for the approval or
denial of the application. (Ord. 03-02, 4-8-2003, eff. 5-9-2003)
3-1-5: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Clerk-Treasurer To Collect Fees: In the event there are any fees to be
collected for the city license program, the city clerk-treasurer shall be
charged with the collection of the fees of the business license as required by
this title.
   B.   Fees:
      1.   Annual Fees: Any new and/or established business with a fixed
location and doing business within the city limits is eligible for the fee
waiver.
      2.   Due Date; Penalty:
         a.   Established Businesses: Failure to submit an application for a
business license by October 1 of each year subjects a business to a twenty
dollar ($20.00) late assessment if license application is not submitted by that
date.
         b.   New Businesses: The application for a new business is required
within thirty (30) days of the opening of the business. Failure to file a
completed application, within this thirty (30) day period shall subject the new
owner to a twenty dollar ($20.00) late fee.
         c.   Operating Without A License: It is unlawful for any business to
operate without a current license, and any violation is subject to the penalty
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 03-02, 4-8-2003, eff. 5-9-2003)
3-1-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, which references the
penalty section, is guilty of a misdemeanor and is subject to the penalty as
provided for by the general penalty section of this code. (Ord. 03-02, 4-8-
2003, eff. 5-9-2003)
CHAPTER 2
SOCIAL, RECREATIONAL AND CULTURAL EVENTS 1
SECTION:
3-2-1: Scope
3-2-2: Unlawful Activities
3-2-3: Permit Required
3-2-4: Fees
3-2-5: Application
3-2-6: Examination Of Applicant
3-2-7: Grounds For Issuance Or Denial
3-2-8: Optional Permits
 
Notes
1 1. MCS §§ 7-5-4101, 7-21-4101 and 7-21-4201.
3-2-1: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter apply to the issuance of every kind of license
or permit authorized by the city. Whenever a provision of a particular
licensing ordinance shall be deemed in conflict with any phrase or section of
this chapter, the provision of the particular licensing ordinance shall
prevail. (Ord. 99-10, 6-24-1999)
3-2-2: UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES:
No provision contained in this title shall be construed so as to license any
trade, business, occupation, vocation, pursuit, profession, or entertainment
prohibited by any law of the United States, the state, or prohibited by the
provisions of this code or other ordinance of the city. (Ord. 99-10, 6-24-1999)
3-2-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Every person, group, organization, or corporation desiring to conduct any
social, recreational or culture event or any other activity on any street,
park, parking lot or other public place, within the city limits of the city is
required to file with the city clerk-treasurer on a form to be provided by the
city clerk- treasurer, an application for a permit to hold such an event. (Ord.
99-10, 6-24-1999)
3-2-4: FEES:
   A.   Fee: The city clerk-treasurer shall collect the permit fee. The permit
fee for profit and nonprofit organizations shall be as determined from time to
time by resolution of the city council. Fees, if any, for such permits, must
accompany the application.
   B.   Waiver Of Fee: The city council, upon their determination that the
holding of an event serves in the best interest of the city, may waive the fee.
(Ord. 99-10, 6-24-1999; amd. 2003 Code)
3-2-5: APPLICATION:
   A.   Signature And Contents: The application shall be subscribed and sworn
to by the applicant before an officer authorized to take an oaths and shall set
forth:
      1.   The name of the applicant, or name of organization.
      2.   The applicant's residence or the place of business of the
organization.
      3.   The length or residence for individual applicants or the length of
operation for local organizations or corporations.
      4.   Other city or county from which a previous license was issued, (if
applicable).
      5.   Description of activity to be permitted and its location.
      6.   Whether the applicant is acting on his own behalf or as a principal
or agent.
      7.   If the application is by an agent, they must state the name, place,
and what sort of authorization the applicant has to act on behalf of the
business or organizational entity.
   B.   Misrepresentation: No person shall wilfully or recklessly misrepresent
any material fact in a permit application. Such misrepresentation allows for
immediate cancellation of the permit.
   C.   Submission Of Application: On receipt of any application for a license
or other authorization to do business, the city clerk- treasurer shall submit
the same to the city council at its next regular or special session. (Ord. 99-
10, 6-24-1999)
3-2-6: EXAMINATION OF APPLICANT:
Appearance before the council, the city council may notify or cause to be
notified, in writing, the applicant to appear before the council. By making the
application the applicant authorizes a background and reference check. (Ord.
99-10, 6-24-1999)
3-2-7: GROUNDS FOR ISSUANCE OR DENIAL:
   A.   Issuance Or Denial: If the council, after review of the application,
determines that it is not in the best interest of the city to authorize the
event applied for, and that it may be detrimental to the public health, peace,
or general welfare of the city the application shall be denied; otherwise, the
application shall be granted.
   B.   Events Involving Sale Or Use Of Alcohol: In events that involve the
sale or use of alcohol, the following factors will also be considered:
      1.   The willingness and ability of the applicant to assume liability and
responsibility for the event.
      2.   The ability to post a sufficient deposit for additional law
enforcement personnel, if necessary.
      3.   The ability to clean up the park or the facility immediately
afterwards.
      4.   The ability to conduct the function without causing noise
disturbance to the adjacent landowners. Applicants are encouraged to acquire
written consent of the adjacent landowners in advance of any request.
All applicants will be required to follow the provisions of Montana law
concerning the sale or distribution of alcohol, as set forth under Montana Code
Annotated sections 16-6-301 through 16-6-305. (Ord. 99-10, 6-24-1999)
3-2-8: OPTIONAL PERMITS:
Any person, group or other entity who is holding an event on private property,
may seek an event permit under the same criteria as set forth above. Such
permit is encouraged for events that will be serving alcohol or providing
musical entertainment. In the event a permit is issued, failure to comply with
the terms subjects the permit to immediate cancellation as determined by the
Colstrip Police Department. (Ord. 2018-01, 3-27-2018)
CHAPTER 3
TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: License Required
3-3-3: Application
3-3-4: License Fee
3-3-5: Term
3-3-6: Issuance; Transferability
3-3-7: Exhibition Of License
3-3-8: Penalty
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context indicates otherwise, the following
definitions apply:
TEMPORARY PREMISES: Any hotel, rooming house, storeroom, building or part of
any building, tent, vacant lot, freight station, railroad car, automobile,
truck, trailer or trailer house, or public or quasi-public place, temporarily
occupied for such business as described in "transient retail merchant" as
defined herein.
TRANSIENT RETAIL MERCHANT: Every person, firm, or corporation acting for
himself or itself or representing any other person, firm, or corporation who or
which brings into temporary premises a stock of goods, wares, articles or
merchandise, notions, or other articles of trade and who or which solicits,
sells, offers to sell, or exhibits for sale such stock of goods, wares,
articles of merchandise, services, or other articles of trade at retail. (Ord.
03-02, 4-8-2003, eff. 5-9-2003)
3-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in a
business or a trade within the corporate limits of the city, without first
having obtained a license to do so. Violation of this section will subject the
violator to the penalty section of this chapter. (Ord. 03-02, 4-8-2003, eff. 5-
9-2003)
3-3-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   Required Information: Every transient merchant desiring to do business
in the city must, before commencing such business, file with the clerk-
treasurer, a written application. The application shall contain the information
required by section
3-1-3 of this title, and in addition, provide the following information:
      1.   Give a brief descriptive list of articles to be offered for sale or
services to be performed.
      2.   State whether payments or deposits of money are collected when
orders are taken, or in advance of final delivery.
      3.   Date of arrival in city.
      4.   The name, address, and telephone number of three (3) business
references.
   B.   Payment Of Fee: At the time of filing the application, such transient
merchant must accompany the application with the sum specified in section
3-3-4 of this chapter as a license fee. (Ord. 03-02, 4-8-2003, eff. 5-9-2003)
3-3-4: LICENSE FEE:
The fee for a city license to engage in business as a transient merchant is
fifty dollars ($50.00) per license. (Ord. 03-02, 4-8-2003, eff. 5-9-2003)
3-3-5: TERM:
The transient merchant license will be effective for one calendar year,
commencing with the date of issuance. The expiration date of the license will
be clearly marked. The transient merchant may extend this license on a year to
year basis, upon payment of the fee. (Ord. 06-04, 5-9-2006, eff. 6-9-2006)
3-3-6: ISSUANCE; TRANSFERABILITY:
Such license shall be nontransferable and shall have printed on the face
thereof in bold type, the words, "not transferable". (Ord. 03-02, 4-8-2003,
eff. 5-9-2003)
3-3-7: EXHIBITION OF LICENSE:
Every transient merchant doing business under the provisions of this chapter
must display their license for operating. It is unlawful for any transient
business to operate without a current license that is subject to the view of
the public and local officials. (Ord. 03-02, 4-8-2003, eff. 5-9-2003)
3-3-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, which references the
penalty section, is guilty of a misdemeanor and is subject to the penalty as
provided for by the general penalty section of this code. (Ord. 03-02, 4-8-
2003, eff. 5-9-2003)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-1-1: Definitions
4-1-2: Standards For Accumulation Of Garbage
4-1-3: Responsibilities
4-1-4: Unauthorized Deposits
4-1-5: Public Nuisance
4-1-6: Penalty
4-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions of terms shall apply unless the content clearly
indicates another meaning or unless elsewhere expressly stated for specific
application:
GARBAGE: Every accumulation of discarded food matter, newspapers, clothing,
rubbish, and other discarded items, which have been abandoned by the owner and
left for collection and removal.
GARBAGE COLLECTION: The process whereby the garbage containers containing
garbage are taken from any designated location on any premises and loaded into
a vehicle of any kind intended to transport the garbage from the premises to a
disposal area.
GARBAGE COLLECTOR: Any person, firm, agency, public entity (including the city
of Colstrip), or any employee, or agent thereof, who intends or is engaged in
collection and transportation of garbage, rubbish, and waste matter in any part
of the city.
GARBAGE CONTAINER: Any can or container, basket, hopper or any other article
constructed, purchased, installed or used for the purpose of holding an
accumulation of garbage pending collection and/or disposal. (Ord. 2000-15, 1-9-
2001, eff. 2-8-2001)
4-1-2: STANDARDS FOR ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE:
The following standards and requirements are established as a minimum for
sanitary accumulation and storage of garbage pending collection:
   A.   Garbage Containers: All garbage containers for other than bulk
accumulation shall be approved by and within the specifications of the city or
the garbage collector and shall not exceed ninety (90) gallons capacity, be in
good repair, and leakproof. The garbage container shall be fitted with tight
fitting covers, and such covers shall only be removed at the time of filling or
emptying. The size of the garbage containers shall be limited as follows:
      1.   Commercial containers should not exceed a three hundred (300) gallon
capacity.
      2.   Multi-unit (residential and trailers) containers should not exceed a
three hundred (300) gallon capacity. There shall be at least one three hundred
(300) gallon container for each three (3) residential units, except for
apartment complexes there shall be one such container for each four (4) units.
      3.   Single and double family residential containers should not exceed a
ninety (90) gallon capacity.
   B.   Placement Of Containers: The containers for the garbage collection
shall be placed in accordance with the specifications of the city or the
garbage collector for garbage collection, and shall be placed in their
designated place for collection immediately prior to the time of collection.
The place where containers are kept, pending collection, shall be clean, free
from spilled garbage, and free from smell, water or residue.
   C.   Home Incinerators Prohibited: No home incinerator or container shall be
used as a means of disposing of garbage.
   D.   Premises Being Provided Services: Trailer parks and apartment complexes
are considered to be businesses, owned by the landowner. A landowner is
required to provide for the removal of garbage for the benefit of his tenants,
unless there is a specific written agreement approved in advance by the city,
between the landowner and the tenant, specifying that the removal of garbage
will be the responsibility of the tenant. (Ord. 2000-15, 1-9-2001, eff. 2-8-
2001)
4-1-3: RESPONSIBILITIES:
Every person, occupant, owner, or permit holder shall have the duty of
maintaining the premises or equipment under his supervision and container
disposal area in compliance with this chapter. Failure to carry out such duties
required for the sanitary accumulation, collection, transportation or disposal
of garbage shall be deemed a misdemeanor. (Ord. 2000-15, 1-9-2001, eff. 2-8-
2001)
4-1-4: UNAUTHORIZED DEPOSITS:
No person shall deposit or cause redeposit of any refuse in any place not
authorized as a disposal area, nor shall any person deposit garbage in a
container of another residence or business, without the specific authorization
of the owner of that residence or business. (Ord. 2000-15, 1-9-2001, eff. 2-8-
2001)
4-1-5: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Violation of section
4-1-4 of this chapter may also be considered a public nuisance. After five (5)
days' written notice is given to any person violating the terms of this chapter
and failure to correct this said situation, the city is authorized to have the
condition corrected and to assess the cost against the record title holder of
the property and, if the same is not paid by the record title holder, to have
the cost levied against the next annual tax assessment and collect the
assessment in the same manner as real property taxes. (Ord. 2000-15, 1-9-2001,
eff. 2-8-2001)
4-1-6: PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor punished as set
forth under section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 2000-15, 1-9-2001, eff. 2-8-2001)
ARTICLE A. SOLID WASTE OPERATIONS
SECTION:
4-1A-1: Definitions
4-1A-2: Standards For Accumulation Of Refuse And Garbage
4-1A-3: Storage Of Rubbish
4-1A-4: Prohibition
4-1A-5: Storage Of Waste Matter
4-1A-6: Standards For The Collection Of Refuse And Garbage
4-1A-7: Responsibilities
4-1A-8: Penalties
4-1A-9: Fees And Charges Against Property
4-1A-10: Fees To Be Established
4-1A-11: Hearing Of Objections; Charges
4-1A-12: Refunds
4-1A-13: City As Exclusive Provider Of Garbage And Solid Waste Disposal
Services
4-1A-14: Miscellaneous Provisions
4-1A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions of terms shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates another meaning or unless elsewhere expressly stated for specific
application:
CITY OWNED CONTAINER: Any container supplied to residential or commercial
refuse generators by the city.
COMMERCIAL REFUSE GENERATOR: Any person in charge of, owning, leasing, renting
or occupying any multi-family dwelling unit in excess of three (3) units,
business, industrial or commercial building, including, but not limited to, an
apartment complex, store, office, factory, motel or hotel, that generates
refuse.
COMPOST: The product resulting from the decomposition of leaves, straw, grasses
and other such vegetable matter mixed or unmixed with well rotted manure, or
mixed or unmixed with inorganic materials ordinarily forming a part of the soil
such as sand or lime, loam and used, usable or intended to be used as a
fertilizer and soil conditioner.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: "Director of public works" or "public works
director", where stated in this code, shall mean the director of public works,
or his/her duly authorized representative.
GARBAGE: Every accumulation of animal, vegetable or other matter that attends
the preparation, consumption, decay, dealing in or storage of meats, fish,
fowl, birds, fruit or vegetables, including the cans, containers or wrappers
wasted along with such materials.
OCCUPANT: The person occupying a dwelling unit or the person operating,
managing or keeping any hotel, restaurant, food establishment, commercial
establishment, business establishment, school, church, institution or premises
wherein or whereon refuse accumulates or is likely to accumulate.
REFUSE: Any waste product solid or having the character of solids rather than
liquids in that it will not flow readily without additional liquid and which is
composed wholly or partly of such materials as garbage, swill, seepings,
cleanings, trash, rubbish, litter, industrial solid wastes or domestic solid
wastes; organic wastes or residue of animals sold as meat; fruit or other
vegetable or animal matter from kitchens, dining rooms, markets, food
establishments or any places dealing in or handling meat, fowl, fruits, grain
or vegetable offal, animal excreta, or the carcasses of animals; brick, plaster
or other waste matter resulting from the demolition, alteration or construction
of buildings or structures; accumulated waste material, cans, containers,
tires, junk, or other such substance which may become a nuisance.
REFUSE COLLECTION: The process whereby refuse and/or refuse containers
containing refuse are taken from designated locations on any premises and are
loaded into vehicles of any kind intended to transport refuse from the premises
to a disposal area, and whereby empty containers are returned to such
designated location.
REFUSE COLLECTOR: The person who is or intends to be engaged in the collection
and/or transportation of refuse, including garbage, rubbish or waste matter in
any part of the city.
REFUSE DISPOSAL: The complete process required for the disposal of any refuse
and shall include all tools, equipment, treatment space, buildings, structures,
appurtenances and materials required to take refuse from a refuse collector at
the premises line or other designated transfer point of a disposal area, and
transport, bury, incinerate, destroy or otherwise dispose of such refuse.
RESIDENTIAL REFUSE GENERATOR: Any person generating refuse other than a
"commercial refuse generator" as defined herein.
RUBBISH: Wood, leaves, trimmings from shrubs, dead trees or branches thereof,
shavings, sawdust, excelsior, woodenware, printed matter, paper, paperboard,
pasteboard, grass, rags, straw, boots, shoes, hats and all other combustible
material not included under the term "garbage".
TRANSPORTATION OF REFUSE: That portion of the refuse disposal operation which
provides for the hauling of refuse in bulk or in refuse containers to the
designated transfer point at a disposal area.
WASTE MATTER: Waste material composed of soil, earth, sand, clay, gravel, loam,
stone, bricks, plaster, crockery, glass, glassware, ashes, cinders, shells,
metals and all other noncombustible material which has been or is discarded or
is to be discarded. (Ord. 07-01, 3-13-2007, eff. 4-14-2007)
4-1A-2: STANDARDS FOR ACCUMULATION OF REFUSE AND GARBAGE:
The following standards and requirements are established as a minimum for the
sanitary accumulation and storage of refuse and garbage pending collection:
   A.   All refuse and garbage shall be placed in city owned containers, or
containers approved by the director of public works.
   B.   Residences having street frontage only: Residential containers for
solid waste shall be placed for collection at the street curb or edge of road
right of way by seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on the scheduled collection day.
Twice a week pick up will be maintained on holiday weeks; however the pick up
days may vary. Containers will be at least six feet (6') from any obstruction
such as automobiles, trailers, motor homes, fences, lampposts, portable
basketball hoops, mailboxes. Containers are not to block pedestrian access.
   C.   Residences with alleyway access: Residential containers for solid waste
shall be placed for collection adjacent to the alley property line, with direct
access from the alleyway by seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on scheduled collection
day. Twice a week pick up will be maintained on holiday weeks; however the pick
up days may vary. Containers will be at least six feet (6') from an
obstruction, such as automobiles, trailers, motor homes, fences, portable
basketball hoops, lampposts, or other automated containers.
   D.   Residences with private driveways: Residential containers shall be
placed as authorized by the public works director by seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
on scheduled collection days. Twice a week pick up will be maintained on
holiday weeks; however the pick up days may vary. Containers will be at least
six feet (6') from any obstructions, such as automobiles, trailers, motor
homes, fences, portable basketball hoops, lampposts, mailboxes, or other
automated containers. (Ord. 07-01, 3-13-2007, eff. 4-14-2007)
4-1A-3: STORAGE OF RUBBISH:
Rubbish shall be placed and stored in city owned containers or containers
approved by the director of public works. Materials that do not fit into city
owned containers shall be secured in neat bundles, easily handled by the
collector and not exceeding four feet (4') in length. Bundles shall be placed
neatly in a pile in the generator's portion of the alley (for alley service),
or adjacent to the generator's curb line (for street service). Refuse and
garbage containers and public rights of way shall not be blocked by placement
of said material.
Whenever possible, the refuse generator shall attempt to break down materials
so that they will readily fit into the container. Whenever special handling is
required, the refuse generator shall be responsible to contact the public works
department to arrange for special collection. (Ord. 07-01, 3-13-2007, eff. 4-
14-2007)
4-1A-4: PROHIBITION:
It is prohibited to place the following materials in a city owned container:
   A.   Large limbs or trimmings that do not allow the container lid to close.
   B.   Flammable liquids.
   C.   Large construction, demolition, or remodeling debris.
   D.   Concrete, dirt or plaster.
   E.   Appliances or other furniture that will not allow the container to
close.
   F.   Hot ashes.
   G.   Dead animals, or parts thereof.
   H.   Tires.
   I.   Lumber.
   J.   Ammunition.
   K.   Vehicle batteries and motor oil.
   L.   Hazardous waste and chemicals. (Ord. 07-01, 3-13-2007, eff. 4-14-2007)
4-1A-5: STORAGE OF WASTE MATTER:
Waste matter shall be placed in sturdy, well built containers, which will not
break, fall apart, rip or tear while being handled by the collector, or shall
be secured in neat bundles, easily handled by the collector, not exceeding four
feet (4') in length. Prohibited waste matter specified in section
4-1A-4 of this article shall not be placed in city owned containers. (Ord. 07-
01, 3-13-2007, eff. 4-14-2007)
4-1A-6: STANDARDS FOR THE COLLECTION OF REFUSE AND GARBAGE:
The following standards and requirements are established as a minimum for the
sanitary collection of refuse and garbage:
   A.   Every owner or occupant whose container, or the place where the
containers are kept pending collection, not meeting the requirements aforesaid,
shall be duly notified by mail or by personal contact by the public works
director.
   B.   Upon notifying the owner or occupant of the aforesaid violation, the
investigating representative shall establish an improvement deadline and shall
give the owner or occupant at least seven (7) days' written notice of the
improvement deadline. The public works director, at the time established for
correction, shall investigate, and if the condition has been found to continue,
said director shall declare it to be a misdemeanor. (Ord. 07-01, 3-13-2007,
eff. 4-14-2007)
4-1A-7: RESPONSIBILITIES:
Every person shall have the duty of maintaining premises or equipment under his
supervision, or of maintaining containers or disposal areas, in compliance with
the requirements of this article, and all applicable provisions of state law.
Every owner remains liable for violations imposed upon him by this code even
though an obligation is also imposed on the occupants of his buildings, and
even though the owner has, by agreement, imposed on the occupants the duty of
complying with all the requirements of this article.
   A.   Refuse and garbage shall be placed for collection and collected at a
frequency which precludes the possibility of unsightly, unclean and unhealthy
premises or the occurrence of a nuisance, and in no event shall placement and
collection be less than once a week.
   B.   Every vehicle used for the collection of refuse and garbage shall be of
a design and type suitably constructed for the intended use, and acceptable to
the director of public works.
   C.   No person may pick over, sort, segregate or salvage any garbage or
refuse deposited in an authorized disposal area.
   D.   No person, who is the owner, agent or occupant of a lot or premises
whereon a building of any kind may exist or of a vacant lot, shall allow any
collection of refuse, garbage, rubbish, waste matter or filth of any
description to remain on such lot or premises longer than three (3) days, or
any shorter period of time specified by the director of public works, after the
date of a written notice issued by the director of public works to remove the
offending material.
   E.   No refuse, garbage, rubbish, waste matter or manure shall be
transported along any public street, alley or public way unless such vehicle is
so constructed and loaded that no such material can fall through or out of such
vehicle.
   F.   All dead animals, or parts thereof, which are found on or in any public
street, alley, parkway, public way, or on public property, shall be reported to
the Colstrip police department, and unless it is necessary to maintain as
evidence, the carcass will be turned over to the public works department for
disposal of the carcass of such animal, such disposal should take place within
a day of the report. (Ord. 07-01, 3-13-2007, eff. 4-14-2007)
4-1A-8: PENALTIES:
Failure to carry out such duties herein or elsewhere required for the sanitary
accumulation, collection, transportation, and disposal of refuse in any place
or in any condition not meeting the requirements of this article is declared a
misdemeanor. Any person violating the provisions of this article shall be
punished as provided herein, may be issued a citation with a fine up to the
amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 07-01, 3-13-2007, eff. 4-14-
2007)
4-1A-9: FEES AND CHARGES AGAINST PROPERTY:
The fees established under this article, shall be assessed against the real
estate from which such garbage or refuse is collected unless otherwise
specifically provided herein or by the city council. Additional methods of
collection of fees may be established through resolution of the city council.
(Ord. 07-01, 3-13-2007, eff. 4-14-2007)
4-1A-10: FEES TO BE ESTABLISHED:
On or before August 15 of each year, the city council shall pass a resolution
of intention tentatively establishing fees for collection and disposal of
residential garbage and refuse in conformity with an established schedule. In
addition, said resolution of intention shall call for a public hearing to be
held within two (2) weeks of the passage of said resolution of intention, said
public hearing to concern itself with the establishment of said fees for
collection and disposal of garbage and refuse. (Ord. 07-01, 3-13-2007, eff. 4-
14-2007)
4-1A-11: HEARING OF OBJECTIONS; CHARGES:
At the time set for the public hearing on the proposed fees for the collection
and disposal of garbage and refuse in conformance with this article, or at such
time to which said hearing may be continued, the city council shall hear all
proponents and opponents concerning the establishment of the proposed fees for
the collection and disposal of garbage and refuse. Upon the conclusion of said
hearing, the city council shall either adopt said fees, or make such changes in
the assessments as it shall deem necessary and proper, and shall pass a
resolution establishing said fees for the collection and disposal of garbage
and refuse. Thereafter, the city clerk shall certify said list of charges to
the mayor. (Ord. 07-01, 3-13-2007, eff. 4-14-2007)
4-1A-12: REFUNDS:
No refunds of taxes collected under this article shall be made on objections
after the passage of the resolution referred to in section
4-1A-10 of this article, except in cases of obvious error, and such refunds
must be authorized by the city mayor. (Ord. 07-01, 3-13-2007, eff. 4-14-2007)
4-1A-13: CITY AS EXCLUSIVE PROVIDER OF GARBAGE AND SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
SERVICES:
Five (5) years from the effective date hereof, the city shall be the sole
provider of garbage and solid waste disposal services within the corporate
limits of the city, except for commercial refuse disposal, which is authorized
through a private contractor, which is authorized in advance by the city. (Ord.
07-01, 3-13-2007, eff. 4-14-2007)
4-1A-14: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   The city's public works department personnel shall not service
containers stored below the surface of the ground.
   B.   The city's public works department personnel shall not collect garbage
from above the first floor of any premises nor from any basement of any
premises.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to dump or place any material into or to
utilize a solid waste container without consent of the property owner or tenant
in charge of that property.
   D.   The public works supervisor shall have the authority to assess the
actual cost of the replacement of containers that have been damaged or
destroyed due to the customer's negligence or misuse. Failure to replace the
container may result in termination of service to the customer.
   E.   There will be no collection on the following holidays: New Year's Day,
Martin Luther King Day, Presidents' Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor
Day, Columbus Day, General Election Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day, and
Christmas Day. (Ord. 07-01, 3-13-2007, eff. 4-14-2007)
CHAPTER 2
WEEDS/OFFENDING VEGETATION 1
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Duty To Remove
4-2-3: Notice To Destroy
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-22-4101.
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
DEVELOPED PARCEL: Any parcel of land that has been used or is being used for
commercial or residential use with a principal structure covering over five
percent (5%) of the parcel.
OFFENDING VEGETATION: Vegetation that violates the sections of this chapter.
OWNER AND/OR OCCUPANT: Any person who alone, jointly, or severally with others:
   A.   Has a legal or equitable interest in a dwelling unit, with or without
accompanying actual possession thereof;
   B.   Acts as the agent of a person having a legal or equitable interest in a
dwelling or dwelling unit thereof; or
   C.   Is the general representative or fiduciary of an estate through which a
legal or equitable interest in a dwelling unit is administered.
OWNERSHIP: Ownership of land, which shall be deemed to exist from the
centerline of any abutting alley to and including the curb and gutter areas of
any abutting street of such lot or tract of land.
WEED: Any plant which:
   A.   Ordinarily grows without cultivation; and
   B.   Is not grown for the purposes of landscaping or food production.
WEEDS CUT OR REMOVED: Weeds that can normally be cut by the use of a push or
ride on mower.
UNDEVELOPED PARCEL OF LAND: Any parcel of land zoned for but not currently
being used for commercial or residential use. (Ord. 2000-06, 7-22-2000, eff. 7-
23-2000)
4-2-2: DUTY TO REMOVE:
   A.   Declared Nuisance: The existence of weeds or offensive vegetation in
violation of this chapter constitutes a public nuisance.
   B.   Developed Parcel: It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of a
developed parcel to cut, destroy or remove, or cause to be cut, destroyed, or
removed, all weeds in excess of nine inches (9") in height growing thereon and
upon one-half (1/2) of any road, street or alley abutting this property to a
height of four inches (4") or less.
   C.   Undeveloped Parcel: It shall be the duty of every owner of an
undeveloped parcel to cut, destroy or remove, or cause to be cut, destroyed, or
removed, all weeds in excess of twelve inches (12") in height growing thereon
and upon one-half (1/2) of any road, street or alley abutting this property to
a height of four inches (4") or less on property located within one hundred
fifty feet (150') of any developed parcel. (Ord. 2000-06, 7-22-2000, eff. 7-23-
2000)
4-2-3: NOTICE TO DESTROY:
The city clerk-treasurer shall give notice to destroy offending weeds within
the city limits by publishing notice to the public at least once each week for
two (2) consecutive weeks in a newspaper of wide circulation within the city.
Such notice shall, at a minimum, advise the public as follows:
   A.   Responsibility Of Property Owner: All owners of real property or agents
having control thereof are responsible for destroying all weeds in prohibited
areas by extermination, removal, or cutting not later than April 30 of each
year and to keep the areas free of weeds through October 31 of that year.
   B.   Failure To Remove: Failure to remove the offending weeds may cause the
city to remove the weeds and charge the cost thereof against the real property
together with an administrative cost equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the
removal cost and a penalty of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the first time
the city provides the cutting/removal, fifty dollars ($50.00) for the second
cutting/removal and seventy five dollars ($75.00) for the third and any
following time the city provides cutting/removal per season. Failure to pay
this charge within sixty (60) days shall constitute a lien on this property and
will be placed on the tax rolls as a special assessment.
   C.   Notice Of Violation: Upon determination that a violation of this
chapter exists, the name and mailing address of the owner of the premises and
description of the premises shall be ascertained. Written notice of violation
shall be served upon the owner directing that the nuisance weeds shall be cut
and removed from the premises within seven (7) days or the city will cause the
nuisance weeds to be removed with the costs described in subsection B of this
section charged against said owner. Notice of violation shall be made by either
posting a copy of the notice on the premises or mailing a copy of the notice to
the owner by first class United States mail. The notice shall be deemed
complete on the date the notice is posted or mailed. (Ord. 2000-06, 7-22-2000,
eff. 7-23-2000)
CHAPTER 3
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-3-1: Permit Required
4-3-2: Criteria For Issuance
4-3-3: Enforcement
4-3-4: Penalty
4-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any debris, garbage, tree limbs,
leaves or any other materials within the city limits without first obtaining a
permit from the Colstrip fire department. (Ord. 02-01, 5-28-2002, eff. 6-28-
2002)
4-3-2: CRITERIA FOR ISSUANCE:
Open burn permits will only be allowed when the applicant meets the following
criteria:
   A.   They fill out and complete an application with the Colstrip fire
department/Rosebud County sheriff's office.
   B.   They identify what party is responsible for operation of the burn.
   C.   They identify why it is not practical to have the materials taken to
the solid waste disposal area.
   D.   Weather and moisture conditions do not cause a safety hazard if open
burning is allowed. (Ord. 02-01, 5-28-2002, eff. 6-28-2002)
4-3-3: ENFORCEMENT:
This chapter shall be enforced by the Rosebud County sheriff's department or
any other law enforcement department responsible for providing general law
enforcement services to the city. (Ord. 02-01, 5-28-2002, eff. 6-28-2002)
4-3-4: PENALTY:
Any person who burns materials without obtaining a permit within the city is
guilty of a misdemeanor. Punishment will be in accordance with the standard
misdemeanor penalty set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 02-01, 5-28-2002, eff. 6-28-2002)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
CRIMINAL LAW AND TRAFFIC CODE
SECTION:
5-1-1: Criminal Code Adopted
5-1-2: Traffic Code Adopted
5-1-3: Parking Regulations
5-1-4: Criminal Procedure And Penalty Provision
5-1-5: Concurrent Jurisdiction
5-1-6: Reference To Statute
5-1-1: CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED:
The city council hereby adopts the following provisions of Montana criminal law
by reference:
   A.   General Preliminary Provisions: All general preliminary provisions of
the Montana criminal code, contained in Montana Code Annotated chapter 1, title
45.
   B.   General Principles Of Liability: All general principles of liability
contained in Montana Code Annotated chapter 2, title 45.
   C.   Justifiable Use Of Force: Provisions of justifiable use of force as
contained in Montana Code Annotated chapter 3, title 45.
   D.   Inchoate Offenses: All enumeration of offenses, considered "inchoate
offenses" as set forth in Montana Code Annotated chapter 4, title 45.
   E.   Offenses Against The Person: The following offenses named in Montana
Code Annotated chapter 5, title 45:
      1.   "Misdemeanor assault" as defined in Montana Code Annotated section
45-5-201;
      2.   Negligent vehicular assault in violation of Montana Code Annotated
section 45-5-205;
      3.   Partner of family member assault in violation of Montana Code
Annotated section 45-5-206;
      4.   Negligent endangerment in violation of Montana Code Annotated
section 45-5-208;
      5.   Assault upon a sports official in violation of Montana Code
Annotated section 45-5-211;
      6.   Stalking in violation of Montana Code Annotated section 45-5-220;
      7.   Sexual assault in violation of Montana Code Annotated section 45-5-
502;
      8.   Definition of "sexual assault" as set forth in Montana Code
Annotated section 45-5-501, with the adoption of the provisions of Montana Code
Annotated section 45-5-511;
      9.   Prostitution in violation of Montana Code Annotated section 45-5-
601;
      10.   Promoting prostitution in violation of Montana Code Annotated
section 45-5-602. The provisions of Montana Code Annotated section 45-5-604
will applicable to any offenses written under Montana Code Annotated section
45-5-601 or section 45-5-602;
      11.   Endangering welfare of children in violation of Montana Code
Annotated section 45-5-622;
      12.   Unlawful transactions with children in violation of Montana Code
Annotated section 45-5-623;
      13.   Unlawful attempt to purchase or possession of intoxicating
substance in violation of Montana Code Annotated section 45-5-624;
      14.   Violation of order of protection in violation of Montana Code
Annotated section 45-5-626;
      15.   Interference with parent/child contact in violation of Montana Code
Annotated section 45-5-631; and
      16.   Tobacco possession or consumption by persons under eighteen (18)
years of age in violation of Montana Code Annotated section 45-5-637.
   F.   Offenses Against Property: The following offenses named in Montana Code
Annotated chapter 6, title 45:
      1.   Misdemeanor criminal mischief in violation of Montana Code Annotated
section 45-6-101;
      2.   Negligent arson in violation of Montana Code Annotated section 45-6-
102;
      3.   Definition of "enter or remain unlawfully" as defined in Montana
Code Annotated section 45-6-201;
      4.   Criminal trespass to vehicles in violation of Montana Code Annotated
section 45-6-202;
      5.   Criminal trespass to property in violation of Montana Code Annotated
section 45-6-203;
      6.   Possession of burglary tools in violation of Montana Code Annotated
section 45-6-205;
      7.   Theft in violation of Montana Code Annotated section 45-6-301;
      8.   Theft of lost or mislaid property in violation of Montana Code
Annotated section 45-6-302;
      9.   Definition of "offender's interest in the property" as defined in
Montana Code Annotated section 45-6-303;
      10.   Theft of labor or services or use of property in violation of
Montana Code Annotated section 45-6-305;
      11.   Obtaining communication services with intent to defraud in
violation of Montana Code Annotated section 45-6-306;
      12.   Aiding the avoidance of telecommunications charges in violation of
Montana Code Annotated section 45-6-307;
      13.   Unauthorized use of motor vehicles in violation of Montana Code
Annotated section 45-6-308;
      14.   Failure to return rented or leased personal property in violation
of Montana Code Annotated section 45-6-309;
      15.   Definition of "computer use" as defined in Montana Code Annotated
section 45-6-310;
      16.   Unlawful use of a computer in violation of Montana Code Annotated
section 45-6-311;
      17.   Unauthorized acquisition or transfer of food stamps in violation of
Montana Code Annotated section 45-6-312;
      18.   Theft by disposal of stolen property in violation of Montana Code
Annotated section 45-6-314;
      19.   Defrauding creditors in violation of Montana Code Annotated section
45-6-315;
      20.   Issuing a bad check in violation of Montana Code Annotated section
45-6-316;
      21.   Deceptive practices in violation of Montana Code Annotated section
45-6-317;
      22.   Deceptive business practices in violation of Montana Code Annotated
section 45-6-318;
      23.   Chain distributor schemes in violation of Montana Code Annotated
section 45-6-319;
      24.   Forgery misdemeanor in violation of Montana Code Annotated section
45-6-325; and
      25.   Obscuring the identity of a machine in violation of Montana Code
Annotated section 45-6-326.
   G.   Offenses Against Public Administration: The following offenses named in
Montana Code Annotated chapter 7, title 45:
      1.   Gifts to public servants by persons subject to their jurisdiction in
violation of Montana Code Annotated section 45-7-104;
      2.   False swearing in violation of Montana Code Annotated section 45-7-
202;
      3.   Unsworn falsification to authorities in violation of Montana Code
Annotated section 45-7-203;
      4.   False alarms to agencies of public safety in violation of Montana
Code Annotated section 45-7-204;
      5.   False reports to law enforcement authorities in violation of Montana
Code Annotated section 45-7-205;
      6.   False claim to public agencies in violation of Montana Code
Annotated section 45-7-210;
      7.   Resisting arrest in violation of Montana Code Annotated section 45-
7-301;
      8.   Obstructing a peace officer in violation of Montana Code Annotated
section 45-7-302;
      9.   Misdemeanor obstruction of justice in violation of Montana Code
Annotated section 45-7-303;
      10.   Failure to aid a peace officer in violation of Montana Code
Annotated section 45-7-304;
      11.   Misdemeanor bail jumping in violation of Montana Code Annotated
section 45-7-308;
      12.   Criminal contempt in violation of Montana Code Annotated section
45-7-309; and
      13.   Official misconduct in violation of Montana Code Annotated section
45-7-401.
   H.   Offenses Against Public Order: The following offenses named in Montana
Code Annotated chapter 8, title 45:
      1.   Disorderly conduct in violation of Montana Code Annotated section
45-8-101 and section 45-8-102;
      2.   Public nuisance in violation of Montana Code Annotated section 45-8-
111;
      3.   Action to adopt public nuisance in violation of Montana Code
Annotated section 45-8-112;
      4.   Creating a hazard in violation of Montana Code Annotated section 45-
8-113;
      5.   Obscenely in violation of Montana Code Annotated section 45-8-201;
      6.   Definition in Montana Code Annotated section 45-8-205;
      7.   Public display or dissemination of obscene material in violation of
Montana Code Annotated section 45-8-206;
      8.   Notice provision of Montana Code Annotated section 45-8-207;
      9.   Criminal defamation in violation of Montana Code Annotated section
45-8-212;
      10.   "Privacy in communication" as defined in Montana Code Annotated
section 45-8-213.
   I.   Dangerous Drugs: The following offenses named in Montana Code Annotated
chapter 9, title 45:
      1.   Misdemeanor criminal possession of dangerous drugs in violation of
Montana Code Annotated section 45-9-102.
   J.   Model Drug Paraphernalia Act: The following offenses named in Montana
Code Annotated chapter 10, title 45:
      1.   Definition in Montana Code Annotated sections 45-10-101 and 45-10-
102;
      2.   Criminal possession of drug paraphernalia in violation of Montana
Code Annotated section 45-10-103;
      3.   Delivery of paraphernalia to a minor in violation of Montana Code
Annotated section 45-10-105. (Ord. 99-07, 4-20-1999)
5-1-2: TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption: The city council hereby adopts by reference all traffic
regulations and penalty provisions as designated in chapter 8, title 61,
Montana Code Annotated, parts 1 through 9 inclusive.
   B.   Enforcement: All enforcement provisions for operation of motor vehicles
as designated in title 61 of Montana Code Annotated and their related penalties
as set forth in chapters 5, 6, 7, 9, and 10. This includes all penalty
provisions and definitions contained in the above code sections. (Ord. 99-07,
4-20-1999)
5-1-3: PARKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Statute Adopted: The city hereby adopts by reference all of the
standards and the penalty provisions of the following Montana statutes:
      1.   Stopping, standing or parking outside of business or residence
districts, Montana Code Annotated section 61-8-353;
      2.   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited in specified places -
exceptions, Montana Code Annotated, 61-8-354;
      3.   Additional parking regulations, Montana Code Annotated, 61-8-355.
The adoption of those statutes as listed in this subsection shall constitute
the parking regulations and ordinances that are to be enforced within the
limits of the city; except that this section shall not be construed to
supersede any previous ordinance, nor to limit the adoption of future
ordinances.
   B.   Enforcement: Because the enforcement of the above cited statutes are
for the purpose of public health and safety, the primary responsibility for
enforcement should be the Rosebud County sheriff's department and/or any other
law enforcement agency which the city has contracted with or has been
established to perform law enforcement services within the city limits of the
city. (Ord. 01-08, 12-11-2001, eff. 1-11-2002)
5-1-4: CRIMINAL PROCEDURE AND PENALTY PROVISION:
The city council hereby adopts, by reference, in its entirety, all criminal
procedures applicable for misdemeanor violations as set forth in Montana Code
Annotated title 46, chapters 1 through 9, chapters 11 through 13, and chapters
15 through 19.
Unless otherwise designated by statute, or this code, the general penalty for
misdemeanor violations which occur in the city shall be as provided in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 99-07, 4-20-1999; amd. 2003 Code)
5-1-5: CONCURRENT JURISDICTION:
The city does not assert exclusive jurisdiction over criminal offenses which
occur within the city limits and concurrent jurisdiction exists with the
county. (Ord. 99-07, 4-20-1999)
5-1-6: REFERENCE TO STATUTE:
In the enforcement of any of the criminal laws set forth in this chapter, the
law enforcement officer shall designate the violation by the parallel legal
citation number designated in Montana Code Annotated as referenced in this
chapter. (Ord. 99-07, 4-20-1999)
CHAPTER 2
LOCAL REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
5-2-1: Procedure For Adoption Of Traffic Regulations
5-2-2: Speed Limits
5-2-3: Dynamic Braking Device (Rep. by Ord. 2004-03, 4-27-2004)
5-2-4: Truck Route
5-2-5: Snow Removal 2  (Rep. by Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
5-2-6: Abandoned And Junk Vehicles
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 61-12-101.
2 2. See subsection 6-1A-2B3 of this code.
5-2-1: PROCEDURE FOR ADOPTION OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
The following procedure is adopted to request a change or modification in
traffic regulations within the city limits:
   A.   Request:
      1.   Citizens Group: Any citizens group may present a request, by
petition with a minimum of ten (10) signatures, to the city clerk-treasurer to
change or make an addition to a local traffic regulation;
      2.   Law Enforcement Authority; Public Works Supervisor: The local law
enforcement authorities and/or city public works supervisor may make a written
request for a change or an addition to a local traffic regulation; or
      3.   Mayor Or City Council: Any member of city council or the mayor may
request a change or addition to a local traffic regulation.
   B.   Public Hearing Scheduled: After receipt of a request made by either
procedure in subsection A of this section, the city clerk- treasurer shall
schedule a public hearing on that request within thirty (30) days from the date
of submission.
   C.   Council Action: At the time of the hearing, the mayor and council will
hear evidence and comments from all interested parties as to whether the city
council should adopt the requested action. Taking into consideration the cost,
need, priority and all other relevant factors, the council shall decide whether
to adopt the requested action as submitted, adopt a modified request or reject
the request. (Ord. 2000-02, 4-5-2000, eff. 5-6-2000)
   D.   Adoption Of Ordinance: In the event the city council adopts the request
or modification, such request shall be put in ordinance form and shall be
adopted in accordance with the procedures for passing an ordinance for the
city. (Ord. 2000-02, 4-5-2000, eff. 5-6-2000; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Waiver Of Procedure: The above procedure may be waived in the event the
council determines that an emergency situation exists which requires a more
immediate adoption and enactment of a traffic regulation. (Ord. 2000-02, 4-5-
2000, eff. 5-6-2000)
5-2-2: SPEED LIMITS:
The speed limits for the following areas are modified and changed as follows:
   A.   Pinebutte Drive: The speed limit for Pinebutte Drive is reduced from
thirty five (35) miles per hour to twenty five (25) miles per hour for a
certain section of Pinebutte Drive, commencing from Power Road from the south
on through and continuing to a certain point of four hundred fifty feet (450')
north of Piedmont Drive.
   B.   Willow Avenue: The speed limit on Willow Avenue from Power Road to the
railroad tracks is increased from twenty five (25) miles per hour to thirty
five (35) miles per hour.
   C.   Yucca Drive: The speed limit for Yucca Drive off of Olive Drive is
reduced from twenty five (25) miles per hour to fifteen (15) miles per hour.
(Ord. 02-03, 10-22-2002, eff. 11-22-2002)
5-2-3: DYNAMIC BRAKING DEVICE:
(Rep. by Ord. 2004-03, 4-27-2004)
5-2-4: TRUCK ROUTE:
   A.   Unlawful Conduct: Any travel by a "commercial motor vehicle", as
defined in Montana Code Annotated section 61-1-134, shall be upon the truck
route as designated in exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified herein on
file in the office of the city clerk-treasurer. The truck route primarily
follows the street known as "Power Road". Failure to travel upon the designated
route is unlawful, and is a misdemeanor punishable under section
1-4-2 of this code.
   B.   Exemption: This section does not apply to the following categories:
      1.   Commercial Vehicles: Commercial vehicles making delivery to local
retail businesses that are not located on the truck route.
      2.   School Buses: To any "school bus" as defined in Montana Code
Annotated section 20-10-101.
      3.   Professional Movers: Professional movers contracted to either
deliver or remove residential furniture, appliances, and other large household
items.
   C.   Variance: Any commercial motor vehicle that is planning to make
deliveries within the city limits may apply for a variance, when exceptional
circumstances exist that would create a substantial hardship for the delivery
of goods and products to a Colstrip delivery point. Upon application, the
variance request can be approved or disapproved by either the city clerk-
treasurer or the mayor upon their determination that the criteria of this
section have been met. (Ord. 01-02, 3-27-2001, eff. 4-26-2001)
5-2-5: SNOW REMOVAL 1 :
(Rep. by Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 6-1A-2B3 of this code.
5-2-6: ABANDONED AND JUNK VEHICLES:
   A.   Storage And Accumulations Restricted:
      1.   Storage Prohibited: It is unlawful to park, store or leave upon the
public streets or rights of way of the city any licensed or unlicensed motor
vehicle of any kind for an excess of five (5) consecutive days, in which the
vehicle is rusted, wrecked, junked, dismantled, abandoned or is otherwise
inoperative.
      2.   Nuisance Declared; Removal: The accumulation of one or more of these
vehicles left unattended on a public street or right of way is hereby deemed as
a nuisance detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of inhabitants of the
city, and it shall be the duty of the registered owner of the vehicle to remove
the same.
   B.   Notice To Owner Of Vehicle:
      1.   Notice: In the event a vehicle has been observed to be inoperative
for more than five (5) consecutive days as set forth above and the owner has
not removed the vehicle, the city may give written notice to the registered
owner of the vehicle either at the address listed upon the registration or by
posting a written notice upon the vehicle.
      2.   Removal By City: In the event the vehicle is not removed within five
(5) days from the posting or delivery of that notice, the city, its agent or
its contractor may remove the vehicle for storage at the current storage and
towing rate, or the city may treat the vehicle as a junk vehicle in accordance
with the provisions of Montana law.
      3.   Penalty: In addition to the remedies provided for removal of the
junk vehicles, any person violating any other provisions of this section, upon
conviction, shall be deemed to have committed a misdemeanor and will be subject
to the penalty provision as provided in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 00-13, 12-12-2000, eff. 1-12-2001)
CHAPTER 3
CURFEW
SECTION:
5-3-1: Curfew Imposed
5-3-2: Parental Accountability
5-3-3: Violation; Penalty
5-3-1: CURFEW IMPOSED:
It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of eighteen (18) years to
loiter, idle, wander, stroll, or drive, operate, or ride in an automobile
randomly, purposelessly or aimlessly, in or upon the public streets, highways,
roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds, other public grounds, or other public places
or other unsupervised places, in the city between the hours of ten o'clock (10:
00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of the following day, official city time,
Sunday through Thursday, from September 1 to June 1, and between the hours of
twelve thirty o'clock (12:30) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of the
following day, official city time, Sunday through Thursday from June 1 to
September 1, and between twelve thirty o'clock (12:30) A.M. and five o'clock
(5:00) A.M. of the following day, on Friday and Saturday nights throughout the
year; provided, however, that the provisions of this section do not apply to a
minor accompanied by his parent, guardian, or other adult person having the
care and custody of the minor, or where the minor is upon an emergency errand
or legitimate business directed by his or her parent, guardian, or other adult
person having the care and custody of the minor. (Ord. 99-16, 11-4-1999, eff.
12-5-1999)
5-3-2: PARENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY:
Any parent, stepparent or other legal guardian of a minor in violation of
section
5-3-1 of this chapter shall be held accountable for the violation as authorized
under Montana Code Annotated subsection 45-2-302(2). (Ord. 99-16, 11-4-1999,
eff. 12-5-1999)
5-3-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Minor: Any minor found in violation of this offense shall be
adjudicated as set forth under the Montana youth court act of 1999, Montana
Code Annotated section 41-5-101, or any subsequent youth court act.
   B.   Parent, Stepparent Or Legal Guardian: Any parent, stepparent or other
legal guardian who violates section
5-3-2 of this chapter shall be fined as follows:
      1.   First offense: Fifty dollars ($50.00), plus surcharge;
      2.   Second offense: One hundred dollars ($100.00), plus surcharge;
      3.   Third and subsequent offenses: Three hundred dollars ($300.00), plus
surcharge. (Ord. 99-16, 11-4-1999, eff. 12-5-1999)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL 1
SECTION:
5-4-1: Nuisance Animals
5-4-2: Vicious Dogs
 
Notes
1 1. MCA title 7, ch. 23.
5-4-1: NUISANCE ANIMALS:
   A.   Definition: The term "animal" shall include dogs, cats and all other
types of animals.
   B.   Prohibited Animal Behavior:
      1.   Noise: It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to maintain a
dog or any other animal in or upon any premises within city limits, which such
dog or animal shall disturb the peace of any person by barking, howling,
whining, growling, biting or making any other kind of noise.
      2.   Dangerous Or Offensive Animals: Any person maintaining one or more
dogs, or any other animal of any kind within city limits which is injurious to
the health of others; indecent or offensive to the senses; or an obstruction to
the free use of property so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property, shall be guilty of maintaining a nuisance. (Ord. 99-17, 10-
21-1999, eff. 11-21-1999; amd. 2003 Code)
      3.   Animals Running At Large: It shall be unlawful for any person to
allow livestock to run at large within the Colstrip city limits at any time.
(Ord. 2013-02, 6-11-2013, eff. 7-11-2013)
   C.   Establishment Of Nuisance Criteria: Maintenance of a nuisance created
or caused by an animal may be established by proof that the nuisance condition
described emanates from the defendant's property or premises as above described
and that the nuisance condition is caused by an animal. It shall not be
required that an individual animal be identified but only that a defendant
maintained such animal and that the nuisance was created by an animal.
   D.   Violation; Penalty: A person convicted of violating this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor and may be sentenced up to six (6) months in the county
jail and/or fined up to five hundred dollars ($500.00) or in the alternative,
the enforcement authority may make an order or finding necessary to abate the
nuisance, including an order directing the humane death of the animal involved.
An order of abatement by the court may include a requirement that the owner or
possessor of such nuisance animal post a bond to assure compliance with the
order of the court. (Ord. 99-17, 10-21-1999, eff. 11-21-1999; amd. 2003 Code)
5-4-2: VICIOUS DOGS:
   A.   Definition: A "vicious dog" shall be defined as:
      1.   Any dog which, in a vicious or terrorizing manner, approaches any
person or domestic animal in apparent attitude of attack;
      2.   Any dog with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack,
to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human beings or animals;
or
      3.   Any dog which bites, inflicts injury, assaults or otherwise attacks
a human being or domestic animal on public or private property.
   B.   Unlawful To Own Or Possess: It shall be unlawful for any person to own
and possess a vicious dog within the city. Whenever a prosecution for this
offense is commenced under this section, the dog so involved may not be
redeemed, pursuant to the provisions of this section, while awaiting final
decision of the court as to the disposition to be made of such dog.
   C.   Nuisance Declared: Any dog which has bitten a person without
provocation or any dog that has a known propensity to attack or bite human
beings is hereby declared to be a nuisance and a menace to the public health
and safety and the dog may be taken up and impounded.
   D.   Disposition After Conviction: Upon the trial of any offense under this
section, the court may, upon conviction, order the animal control officer to
other authorized personnel of the city to put the dog to death or may order
such other disposition of the dog as will protect the inhabitants of the city.
(Ord. 99-18, 10-21-1999, eff. 11-21-1999; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE A. DOGS AND CATS 1
SECTION:
5-4A-1: Administration
5-4A-2: Possessor And Harborer Defined
5-4A-3: License And Vaccination Required
5-4A-4: License And Registration; Fee
5-4A-5: Tag And Collar
5-4A-6: Running At Large
5-4A-7: Impounding
5-4A-8: Animal Waste
5-4A-9: Prohibited And Unlawful Acts
 
Notes
1 1. MCA §§ 7-23-101 and 7-23-4102.
5-4A-1: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Enforcement Officers: All references to police officers, sheriff's
office, or animal control officer shall mean such officers as shall be employed
or contracted by the city to enforce the laws of the city, whether direct city
employees or officers of any law enforcement agency providing said service.
   B.   Powers: The animal control officer, the county sheriff and his
deputies, city police officer or any other person lawfully appointed and
employed by the city for the purpose of enforcing this article, is empowered to
take up and seize all dogs and cats in violation of this article and may pursue
such dogs or cats onto private property if a violation occurs in the presence
of said officer; further, such officers may enter upon any private property in
pursuit of a dog or cat suspected of being infected with rabies or in an effort
to apprehend any dog or cat directed by order of the city court to seize.
Persons other than law enforcement officers may file complaints in city court.
(Ord. 2001-06, 12-11-2001, eff. 1-11-2002)
5-4A-2: POSSESSOR AND HARBORER DEFINED:
Any person who shall permit a dog or cat to remain upon or about his/her
premises for the time of fifteen (15) days shall be deemed a possessor or
harborer of said animal and for all purposes herein shall be treated as the
owner of said animal. (Ord. 2001-06, 12-11-2001, eff. 1-11-2002)
5-4A-3: LICENSE AND VACCINATION REQUIRED:
Nothing herein contained shall excuse the owner, harborer or possessor of any
dog or cat within the corporate limits of the city from having vaccinated and
licensed such animal, regardless of where or how they are kept or maintained
within the city limits. (Ord. 2001-06, 12-11-2001, eff. 1-11-2002)
5-4A-4: LICENSE AND REGISTRATION; FEE:
   A.   Dogs:
      1.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep,
harbor or maintain in the city any dog over five (5) months of age unless such
dog is duly registered and licensed as herein provided. Licenses shall be
issued by the city clerk-treasurer or his/her designee only upon proof that the
dog has been vaccinated against rabies.
      2.   Fee Schedule: The fee schedule may be amended by resolution of the
city council.
Description Fee Per Year
Description                 Fee Per Year
Neutered male dog - 1 year  $ 5.00
Spayed female dog - 1 year  5.00
Neutered male dog - 2 years 10.00
Spayed female dog - 2 years 10.00
Female dog - 1 year         10.00
Male dog - 1 year           10.00
Female dog - 2 years        20.00
Male dog - 2 years          20.00
Duplicate tag               2.00
Late fee                    5.00
 
      3.   Term Of License: The license period shall commence February 1 of
each year. Any dog licensed on March 1 or after shall be subject to the late
fee, except for new residents.
      4.   Proof Of Spaying Or Neutering: If applicable, written proof that the
dog has been spayed or neutered must be submitted at the time of license
application.
      5.   Registration: Registration shall be in the form required by the city
clerk-treasurer to supply sufficient information to identify the dog and the
owner. Licenses shall not be issued to any person under the age of eighteen
(18) years unless a parent or guardian signs the application as co-owner.
      6.   New Residents: Fees for registration of dogs brought into the city
by new residents at any time of the current license year will be at the single
rate stated in subsection A2 of this section. New residents shall have thirty
(30) days in which to license their dog or the late fee shall apply.
      7.   Exemptions: Guide dogs for the blind or otherwise handicapped
persons and government service/police dogs will be licensed without charge upon
proof of rabies vaccination as hereinabove required.
   B.   Cats:
      1.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep,
harbor or maintain in the city any cat over five (5) months of age, unless such
cat is duly registered and licensed as herein provided. Licenses shall be
issued by the city clerk-treasurer or his/her designee only upon proof that the
cat has been vaccinated against rabies.
      2.   Fee Schedule: The fee schedule may be amended by resolution of the
city council.
Description Fee Per Year
Description                  Fee Per Year
Spayed/neutered cat - 1 year $ 5.00
Spayed/neutered cat - 2 year 10.00
Unaltered cat - 1 year       10.00
Unaltered cat - 2 year       20.00
Late fee                     5.00
Duplicate tag                2.00
 
      3.   Term Of License: The license period shall commence February 1 of
each year. Any cat licensed on March 1 or after shall be subject to the late
fee.
      4.   Proof Of Spaying Or Neutering: If applicable, written proof that the
cat has been spayed or neutered must be submitted at the time of license
application.
      5.   Registration: Registration shall be in the form required by the city
clerk-treasurer to supply sufficient information to identify the cat and the
owner. Licenses shall not be issued to any person under the age of eighteen
(18) years unless a parent or guardian signs the application as co-owner.
      6.   New Residents: Fees for registration of cats brought into the city
by new residents at any time of the current license year will be at the single
rate stated in subsection B2 of this section. New residents shall have thirty
(30) days in which to license their cat or the late fee shall apply. (Ord.
2001-06, 12-11-2001, eff. 1-11-2002)
5-4A-5: TAG AND COLLAR:
   A.   Issuance Of Tag; Duplicate Tag: Upon proper registration and payment of
the license fee, a license certificate and a metal tag will be issued to the
applicant. In the event a dog or cat tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate
shall be issued upon request and payment of the duplicate tag fee. License tags
are not transferable from one animal to another. No refund shall be made on a
dog or cat license fee because of the death of the animal or the removal of the
animal from the city.
   B.   Dog Collar Required: Every owner is required to provide each dog with a
collar to which the license tag shall be affixed at all times. Any dog found
off the owner's premises without a license tag shall be deemed unlicensed, even
though a license may have been issued for that dog.
   C.   Cat Collar Required: Each owner is required to provide each cat with a
collar to which the license tag shall be affixed. Cats found off the owner's
premises without a license tag are deemed to be in violation of this article.
Evidence that a license was in effect at the time of violation may be submitted
to support dismissal of the violation. (Ord. 2001-06, 12-11-2001, eff. 1-11-
2002)
5-4A-6: RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   Definition: "At large" means off the premises of the owner, harborer or
possessor and not then and there restrained by leash, cord, chain or otherwise
under immediate control.
   B.   Liability: It is declared to be the public policy of the city council
that no dog be off the premises of its owner, harborer or possessor at any
time, unless leashed or otherwise controlled and that the owner, harborer or
possessor shall be held strictly liable therefor, regardless of the
circumstances which may contribute to or result in the violation.
   C.   Violation: If any dog is found running at large within the city limits,
the owner, harborer or possessor of such animal shall be guilty of violation of
this article. It is no defense to a charge under this section that the owner,
harborer or possessor of such animal was unaware the animal was at large or
that such animal was released from the owner's premises by an overt act, error
or omission on the part of any person.
   D.   Impoundment: Any dog running at large shall be seized and impounded by
the city enforcement authority or other officer or official designated by the
city council, and a complaint may be filed charging the violation. (Ord. 2001-
06, 12-11-2001, eff. 1-11-2002)
5-4A-7: IMPOUNDING:
   A.   Duty To Impound: It shall be the duty of the animal control officer,
other law enforcement officers or persons employed or contracted by the city
for the purpose of enforcing these laws, to take up and impound any dog found
running at large, whether licensed or not; if such dog shall not be redeemed as
hereinafter provided within one hundred twenty (120) hours after such dog shall
have been impounded, said dog shall be put to death in a humane manner.
   B.   Impound Fees: The owner, harborer or possessor of any impounded animal
seized and impounded must pay a redemption fee of the prevailing rate of the
facility used for impounding. These fees shall be in addition to any fines or
costs assessed by the court upon conviction of the violation. No animal
impounded may be redeemed unless or until it is currently licensed and
vaccinated.
   C.   Redemption: In the event any dog is impounded, the owner shall redeem
the same within one hundred twenty (120) hours, without formal notice, or said
dog shall be subject to disposal as hereinabove provided. Any dog so impounded
shall be released upon presentation of proof that the dog is currently licensed
and that the dog has had a rabies shot within the current period recommended;
provided, if said dog has not been licensed and/or vaccinated, the owner or
interested party, in order to redeem the dog from impoundment, must immediately
make payment of the necessary amounts for vaccination and/or license. Said dog
will not be released solely upon payment of impoundment fees, as set forth
hereinafter, unless license and vaccination are both current.
   D.   Destruction Of Animal: No impounded animal will be destroyed until
after the expiration of one hundred twenty (120) hours. Reasonable effort will
be made to ascertain and notify the owner, harborer or possessor of such
animal, if identity can reasonably be determined. If an impounded dog is not
redeemed within the time period provided and any other person has expressed a
desire to redeem said animal, they may do so by paying the impoundment fees,
plus licensing and vaccination fees for said animal. (Ord. 2001-06, 12-11-2001,
eff. 1-11-2002)
5-4A-8: ANIMAL WASTE:
The owner or custodian of a dog is responsible for the immediate removal of any
excreta deposited by his/her animal on any public walk, park, boulevard,
street, recreation area or other public right of way, or any private property
outside the owner's or custodian's own property. A written complaint must be
received before the matter shall be prosecuted. (Ord. 2001-06, 12-11-2001, eff.
1-11-2002)
5-4A-9: PROHIBITED AND UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   Interference With Enforcement Officer: No person shall hinder or molest
the animal control officer or enforcement officer while such persons are
engaged in seizing or capturing and delivering any dog to the pound. Any person
who so interferes with any other person lawfully enforcing the provisions of
this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.   Kill; Deprive Of Collar Or Tag: Any person who shall kill or cause to
be killed any dog or cat licensed as herein provided without the consent of the
owner or possessor thereof, or who deprives a licensed dog of his collar or tag
or who puts a registered tag on a dog not registered, shall be deemed to have
committed a misdemeanor.
   C.   Cause Or Permit To Escape: It is unlawful for any person to knowingly
cause or permit any animal to escape confinement against the wishes of the
owner.
   D.   Provoke, Harangue, Tease Or Torment: It is unlawful for any person to
provoke, harangue, tease, torment or in any way disturb a dog or other animal
with the intent to cause it to bark or attack any person. (Ord. 2001-06, 12-11-
2001, eff. 1-11-2002)
CHAPTER 5
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Fireworks Defined
5-5-2: Priority Of Montana Law
5-5-3: Detonation, Combustion Or Display Restricted
5-5-4: Fireworks Display
5-5-1: FIREWORKS DEFINED:
The city adopts by reference the state of Montana definition of "fireworks" as
set forth in Montana Code Annotated section 50-37-101. (Ord. 08-02, 11-25-2008,
eff. 12-26-2008)
5-5-2: PRIORITY OF MONTANA LAW:
In the event that it is construed that there is a conflict between the
provisions of this chapter and Montana law, Montana law is controlling. (Ord.
08-02, 11-25-2008, eff. 12-26-2008)
5-5-3: DETONATION, COMBUSTION OR DISPLAY RESTRICTED:
   A.   Restriction On Sale Of Fireworks: A person, firm or corporation may
offer permissible fireworks as defined in Montana Code Annotated section 50-37-
105 of any kind for sale at retail only during the following period:
      1.   June 30 through July 4.
   B.   Dates And Hours: The times and dates that it is permissible to
detonate, combust or display legally authorized fireworks is from July 1
through July 4 from eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.,
except that fireworks will be allowed to be detonated until twelve o'clock (12:
00) midnight on July 4.
In addition, fireworks will be allowed to be detonated on New Year's Eve, from
eleven thirty o'clock (11:30) P.M. December 31 through twelve thirty o'clock
(12:30) A.M. January 1.
Fireworks are further allowed to be detonated, combusted or displayed during
the time period known as Colstrip Days, such authorization must be obtained in
advance through the special event permit process.
   C.   Detonation, Combustion Or Display Not Permitted: Except for the period
of time described above, no person shall combust, detonate or display any kind
of fireworks within the city limits.
   D.   Location: Fireworks may not be discharged on commercial, residential or
publicly owned property unless the individual or organization is either the
owner of the property, or has the express permission of the owner.
   E.   Safety: Anyone who discharges fireworks in a manner that creates a
substantial risk of bodily injury or damages to the property of others will be
in violation of this chapter.
Any person who detonates, combusts, or displays fireworks in violation of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of committing a misdemeanor and shall be
punished in accordance with the misdemeanor penalty provision provided for by
Montana law and section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 08-02, 11-25-2008, eff. 12-26-2008)
5-5-4: FIREWORKS DISPLAY:
   A.   Request For Variance: The city council, in its discretion, may allow a
variance from this chapter upon the application of an organization stating that
they intend to put on a fireworks display for the benefit of the general
public. Any request shall specify the time, place and purpose of such public
fireworks display.
   B.   Permit Process; Fee: Any request for a variance or exemption from this
chapter, under this section, shall be done in accordance with the permit
process as established by the city. No fee will be required for this permit.
(Ord. 2001-06, 12-11-2001, eff. 1-11-2002)
CHAPTER 6
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-6-1: Glass Beverage Containers Prohibited
5-6-2: Urinating And Defecating Prohibited
5-6-3: Public Display And/Or Consumption Of Medical Marijuana Prohibited
5-6-1: GLASS BEVERAGE CONTAINERS PROHIBITED:
   A.   At any event within the city limits in which a group of ten (10) or
more people are gathered for any social, recreational, or cultural event or
other activities being conducted at any street, alley, highway, parking lot, or
other publicly owned property, including parks and the golf course maintained
by the Colstrip park and recreation district, it is prohibited and unlawful for
any individual to be possessing or consuming from any beverage container made
from glass or other easily breakable materials.
   B.   This section also applies to all parking lots, both publicly and
privately owned that are open for the public's use.
   C.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the ability to
enforce any current Montana littering laws as set forth under Montana Code
Annotated section 75-10-212, and other related statutes.
   D.   The penalty for such violation is provided for in the general penalty
provision in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 2004-05, 5-11-2004, eff. 6-11-2004)
5-6-2: URINATING AND DEFECATING PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate in a public place
in the city, which is not specifically designated or intended for that use.
   B.   For the purpose of this section, the term "public place" includes those
areas generally visible to public view, but is not limited to, parks, schools,
playgrounds, restaurants, stores, filling stations, professional offices,
streets, sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots,
buildings open to the public, and the doorways and entrances to buildings or
dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
   C.   Violation of this section is a misdemeanor and is punishable under
section
1-4-2, "General Penalty", of this code. (Ord. 2004-06, 9-14-2004, eff. 10-15-
2004)
5-6-3: PUBLIC DISPLAY AND/OR CONSUMPTION OF MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROHIBITED:
It is prohibited and unlawful for any person to engage in the public display
and/or consumption of medical marijuana in public places within the city of
Colstrip.
A public place includes the streets, avenues, alleys, parks, and other places
in the city but does not include any private residence, medical offices or
other private places not within the public view. Public place further includes
any motor vehicle which is being operated on the ways of the state open to the
public. (Ord. 2010-03, 6-8-2010, eff. 7-9-2010; amd. Ord. 2022-01, 1-26-2022)
CHAPTER 7
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-7-1: Police Department Created
5-7-2: Chief Of Police
5-7-3: Functions
5-7-4: Establishment Of Police Commission
5-7-5: Application Of Montana Law
5-7-6: Police Jurisdiction
5-7-1: POLICE DEPARTMENT CREATED:
A police department is created which shall be under the direction of the chief
of police, subject to the general administrative direction of the mayor. (Ord.
06-01, 3-14-2006, eff. 4-14-2006)
5-7-2: CHIEF OF POLICE:
The chief of police, subject to the approval of the mayor, shall organize and
maintain such divisions in the department as the operations may in his or her
judgment require.
   A.   Appointment; Removal: The chief of police shall be appointed by the
mayor, with the consent of the city council, and applicable state of Montana
codes. The mayor may remove the chief of police under the same conditions as
other department heads in accordance with the charter of the city of Colstrip,
in addition to the city's personnel policies and procedures. Such removal from
office is subject to review by the police commission as set forth under Montana
Code Annotated section 7-32-4155.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: The chief of police shall be responsible
for the supervision and control of all divisions of the department and for the
performance of the functions herein assigned to the department. The chief of
police shall, subject to the provisions of the city charter, have all the
powers that are now or hereafter may be conferred upon sheriffs by the laws of
the state, and shall be entitled to the same protection, except the police
department is not authorized to serve process of civil documents.
   C.   Rule And Regulation Adoption: The chief of police, subject to the
approval of the mayor, shall have authority to adopt rules and regulations for
the administration, discipline, equipment and uniforms of the members and
officers of the department, fixing powers and duties and prescribing penalties
for violations of any such rules and regulations, and providing for their
enforcement. (Ord. 06-01, 3-14-2006, eff. 4-14-2006)
5-7-3: FUNCTIONS:
The functions of the police department are:
   A.   The maintenance of law and order in the city.
   B.   The enforcement in the city of all laws of the United States and of the
state of Montana, and all ordinances of the city, except when such enforcement
is by such law, ordinance or the charter of the city made the responsibility of
another officer or department, or when such enforcement is the responsibility
of a state or federal agency or officer.
   C.   The administration of the city detention facility and the care, custody
and control of prisoners.
   D.   The management of the parking enforcement function, which shall enforce
parking regulations in the city.
   E.   The operation of the communications center for police, fire and other
emergency communications.
   F.   Supervision of the performance and administration of the code
enforcement program and officer.
   G.   The administration and performance of the animal control program and
officer.
   H.   The performance of such other functions as may be assigned by the mayor
or prescribed by ordinance of the council or by applicable state law. (Ord. 06-
01, 3-14-2006, eff. 4-14-2006)
5-7-4: ESTABLISHMENT OF POLICE COMMISSION:
Commencing on May 14, 2012, the first regular meeting in May of the Colstrip
city council, the mayor will appoint three (3) police commission members to the
police commission board. The mayor will appoint one member for a one year term,
one member for a two (2) year term, and the final member for a three (3) year
term. After the expiration of each of those initial terms, in accordance with
Montana Code Annotated section 7-32-4152, any successive term will be for a
three (3) year period, to be appointed at the first regular meeting in May.
Members of the police commission will be paid fifty dollars ($50.00) per month,
for any month, in which they have a meeting of the commission. (Ord. 06-01, 3-
14-2006, eff. 4-14-2006; amd. Ord. 2012-01, 3-27-2012, eff. 4-27-2012)
5-7-5: APPLICATION OF MONTANA LAW:
Any of the above sections are intended to supplement existing Montana statutes
under Montana Code Annotated section 7-32-4101 et al., and are not meant to
supersede those statutes. In the event there is a conflict between the
provisions of this section and Montana statutes, the Montana statutes will
apply. (Ord. 06-01, 3-14-2006, eff. 4-14-2006)
5-7-6: POLICE JURISDICTION:
The city council of the city of Colstrip hereby authorizes, pursuant to Montana
Code Annotated section 7-32-4301, to extend the city police officers'
jurisdiction to make arrests of persons charged with a crime within five (5)
miles of the city limits of the city of Colstrip and along the line of the city
water supply. (Ord. 2004-07, 11-9-2004, eff. 12-9-2004; amd. Ord. 06-01, 3-14-
2006, eff. 4-14-2006)
ARTICLE A. BOARD OF APPEALS FOR POLICE OFFICERS
SECTION:
5-7A-1: Role Of Police Commission
5-7A-2: Officer's Appeal
5-7A-3: Response Of City
5-7A-4: Initial Review By Police Commission
5-7A-5: Reasonable Grounds
5-7A-6: Commission Hearing Civil Case
5-7A-7: Chairperson Of Commission
5-7A-8: Conduct Of Hearing
5-7A-9: Ex Parte Communications
5-7A-10: Burden Of Proof
5-7A-11: Rights Of Police Officer
5-7A-12: Open To Public
5-7A-13: Subpoena Authority Of Police Commission
5-7A-14: Written Decision
5-7A-15: City Clerk's Office To Serve As Police Commission Secretary
5-7A-16: Enforcement Of Order
5-7A-17: Appeal
5-7A-1: ROLE OF POLICE COMMISSION:
In addition to its other statutory duties, the police commission, under Montana
Code Annotated section 7-32-4155, shall herein decide appeals brought by a
member of the police department who has been disciplined, suspended, removed,
or discharged by order of the mayor, city manager, or chief executive. For
purposes of this article, discipline does not include oral reprimands or
corrective actions, but does include written reprimands. Grievance of
discipline may also be brought under the collective bargaining agreement. (Ord.
2012-03, 4-10-2012, eff. 5-10-2012)
5-7A-2: OFFICER'S APPEAL:
An appeal brought by a member of the police department must be in writing and
be submitted to the mayor within thirty (30) days of the formal disciplinary
action to the commissioner sections. The appeal must set forth the reasons for
appeal, and the appeal should be based on alleged facts, which indicates that
there was an abuse of discretion on the part of the mayor, chief of police, or
other disciplinary authority of the city.
An officer covered by a collective bargaining agreement may elect to follow the
grievance procedures of that agreement, but the officer is not afforded both
procedures 1 . (Ord. 2012-03, 4-10-2012, eff. 5-10-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-32-4164.
5-7A-3: RESPONSE OF CITY:
The city is allowed up to twenty (20) days from the date of filing the appeal
to file a written response. Such response is not mandatory. (Ord. 2012-03, 4-
10-2012, eff. 5-10-2012)
5-7A-4: INITIAL REVIEW BY POLICE COMMISSION:
After the expiration of the twenty (20) day period in section
5-7A-3 of this article, the police commission will make an initial review of
the written appeal and the response of the city. If the appeal does not contain
sufficient facts that show there is a reasonable basis for the claim of abuse
of discretion, the appeal shall be dismissed by the police commission without
hearing. Such decision by the commission is a final order of the commission,
and appealable to the district court. (Ord. 2012-03, 4-10-2012, eff. 5-10-2012)
5-7A-5: REASONABLE GROUNDS:
In the event the police commission believes there are sufficient and reasonable
grounds, the commission will set a time and place for hearing on the matter.
(Ord. 2012-03, 4-10-2012, eff. 5-10-2012)
5-7A-6: COMMISSION HEARING CIVIL CASE:
The police commission hearing is a civil case and not a criminal case. It is
administrative in nature, and neither the city nor the officer is entitled to a
trial by jury. The police commission's role is not to provide a forum for
individual complaints or disagreements with individual police officers, but is
limited to disciplinary action taken by the city of Colstrip. (Ord. 2012-03, 4-
10-2012, eff. 5-10-2012)
5-7A-7: CHAIRPERSON OF COMMISSION:
The hearing is conducted by the chairperson of the police commission although
the chairperson has the authority to designate legally trained personnel to
conduct the hearing.
The chairperson has the authority to hold a prehearing conference to discuss
legal issues, witness lists, exhibit lists, and proposed findings of fact and
conclusions of law, or other issues related to the hearing.
The chairperson has authority to grant continuances, such continuance to be
based upon good cause and should be in writing. The police commission is
responsible to notify all parties of any continuances. Unless waived by both
parties, the police commission shall record the testimony at the hearing. (Ord.
2012-03, 4-10-2012, eff. 5-10-2012)
5-7A-8: CONDUCT OF HEARING 1 :
A hearing opportunity shall be afforded all parties to respond and present
evidence and argument on all issues involved. The commission shall use rules of
evidence, both the common law and statutory rules. Evidentiary offers may be
made and shall be noted in the record. The hearing will be expedited in the
interest of the parties, will not be prejudiced substantially, and part of the
evidence may be received in written form.
   A.   Documentary evidence may be received in the form of copies or excerpts
if the original is not readily available. The requesting party shall be given
an opportunity to compare the copy with the original.
   B.   All testimony shall be given under oath or affirmation.
   C.   A party shall have the right to conduct cross examination required for
a full and true disclosure of facts including the right to cross examine the
author of any document prepared on behalf of the use of the parties. (Ord.
2012-03, 4-10-2012, eff. 5-10-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 2-4-612.
5-7A-9: EX PARTE COMMUNICATIONS 1 :
Unless required for disposition of ex parte matters authorized by law, the
person or persons who are charged with the duty of rendering a decision or to
make findings of fact and conclusions of law in a contested case, after
issuance of notice of hearing, may not communicate with any party or party's
representative in connection with any issue of fact or law in the case except
upon notice and opportunity for all parties to participate. (Ord. 2012-03, 4-
10-2012, eff. 5-10-2012)
 
Notes
1 2. MCA § 2-4-613.
5-7A-10: BURDEN OF PROOF:
The burden is on the appellant to show that the mayor, police chief, or
supervisor of the officer abused their discretion in disciplining, removing, or
discharging the officer. The police commission shall not reverse the decision
of the mayor, chief of police, or supervising officer, unless it is
satisfactorily shown by a preponderance of the evidence, the disciplinary
authority abused its discretion in ordering the action taken. (Ord. 2012-03, 4-
10-2012, eff. 5-10-2012)
5-7A-11: RIGHTS OF POLICE OFFICER 1 :
The appealing police officer has the right to be present at the hearing in
person and by counsel and to be heard and to give and furnish evidence in the
police officer's appeal. (Ord. 2012-03, 4-10-2012, eff. 5-10-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-32-4157.
5-7A-12: OPEN TO PUBLIC 1 :
All police commission hearings must be open to the public. (Ord. 2012-03, 4-10-
2012, eff. 5-10-2012)
 
Notes
1 2. MCA § 7-32-4158.
5-7A-13: SUBPOENA AUTHORITY OF POLICE COMMISSION 1 :
The presiding officer or acting presiding officer of the police commission may
issue subpoenas, attested in its name, to compel the attendance of witnesses at
the hearing, and any person served with a subpoena is bound to attend in
obedience to the subpoena. The police commission has the same authority to
enforce obedience to the subpoena and to punish the disobedience to the
subpoena as is possessed by a judge of the district court in similar cases.
However, punishment for disobedience is subject to review by the district court
of the proper county. (Ord. 2012-03, 4-10-2012, eff. 5-10-2012)
 
Notes
1 3. MCA § 7-32-4159.
5-7A-14: WRITTEN DECISION 1 :
A police commission shall, after the conclusion of the hearing, deliberate and
decide the appeal. The decision is made by a majority of the commission. They
have the power to uphold, modify, or overrule the disciplinary action taken by
the city of Colstrip. The commission should enter a written order within
fifteen (15) calendar days from the date of the deliberation. The recommended
format of the decision would be findings of fact and conclusions of law. The
findings and conclusions should be developed in accordance with the guidelines
established in the public safety officer standard, an agency of the state of
Montana department of justice. (Ord. 2012-03, 4-10-2012, eff. 5-10-2012)
 
Notes
1 4. MCA § 7-32-4160.
5-7A-15: CITY CLERK'S OFFICE TO SERVE AS POLICE COMMISSION SECRETARY:
The office of the city clerk is hereby designated to serve as the secretary for
the commission. (Ord. 2012-03, 4-10-2012, eff. 5-10-2012)
5-7A-16: ENFORCEMENT OF ORDER:
The mayor shall make an order enforcing the decision of the police commission.
The decision or order is subject to review by the district court of the proper
county on all questions of fact and all questions of law. (Ord. 2012-03, 4-10-
2012, eff. 5-10-2012)
5-7A-17: APPEAL:
A member of the police force who is disciplined, suspended, removed, or
discharged as a result of a decision by the mayor, city manager, or chief
executive has a right to appeal to the police commission. A final decision of
the police commission may be appealed to the district court of the proper
county. The district court has jurisdiction to review all questions of fact and
all questions of law in a suit brought by any officer or member of the police
force. A suit to review a decision or an order or for reinstatement to the
office may not be maintained unless the suit is begun within a period of sixty
(60) days after the written decision by the police commission has been filed
with the city clerk. (Ord. 2012-03, 4-10-2012, eff. 5-10-2012)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Definitions
6-1-2: General Provisions
6-1-3: Boulevards
6-1-4: Street And Sidewalk Service Areas
6-1-5: Street Maintenance Districts
6-1-6: Street/Alley Vacations
6-1-7: Street Regulations
6-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of the terms
used in these rules and regulations shall be as follows:
ALLEY: A narrow public thoroughfare, providing access to the rear of the
abutting properties.
BOULEVARD: Within the city is that area within any street, avenue or highway
right of way not occupied by street paving, curb and gutter, and sidewalks. An
"inside boulevard" is the boulevard area on the property line side of the
sidewalk. An "outside boulevard" is the boulevard area on the street side of
the sidewalk.
CURB CUT: The total street curbing that is removed to place a driveway and
slopes.
CURB RETURN: The curved portion of a street curb at drive approaches.
DRIVEWAY: That area on private property where vehicles are operated, parked, or
allowed to stand.
DRIVEWAY APRON: The area, construction or improvement between the curb cut or
proposed curb line and the back edge of walk or proposed walk line, to provide
ingress and egress for vehicles from the alley, street or roadway to a definite
area of the private property.
DRIVEWAY WIDTH: That portion of the street curbing that is removed excluding
curb returns or transitions to provide ingress to and egress from abutting
property.
EXCAVATION: Shall mean and include any ditch, trench, cut, hole or change of
grade, including changes made by road grading by means of a blade or other
device that removes, alters or adds dirt, gravel, or alters the crown of a
street or alley or affects drainage.
INTERSECTION: That area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
which join each other at, or approximately at, right angles, or the area within
which vehicles traveling upon different roadways joining at any other angle may
come in conflict.
OBSTACLE: Any strung wire or netting, any fence or railing, or any barrier or
structure of any kind whatsoever, but does not include trees, ornamental
lampposts, telephone or electric light poles, United States government
mailboxes, or other structures erected by permit to aid owners in caring for
the boulevards adjoining their property.
OBSTRUCTION: Clothing, fruit, or any kind of merchandise, boxes, crates,
trunks, racks, stands of every nature and description, and business signs.
PERSON: Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association, or corporation.
RIGHT OF WAY: Public property dedicated for streets, alleys or other public
uses.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street improved, designed, and customarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between curb lines or the outer lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
STREET: The entire width between the boundary lines of the right of way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, vehicles and other conveyances, either singly or
together, while using any street, alley or roadway for purposes of travel.
TRANSITIONS: The three foot (3') ramp sections along the street curb on each
side of a driveway apron. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
6-1-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Authority: These rules and regulations are enacted pursuant to the
authority granted to the city under Montana Code Annotated 69-7-201. These
rules and regulations are subsidiary to any state or federal laws or
regulations which may govern streets/sidewalks within the state of Montana. The
city of Colstrip also hereby adopts the most recent version of the "Montana
Public Works Standard Specifications" (MPWSS) for public works design.
   B.   Intent And Purpose: The intent and purpose of these rules and
regulations is:
      1.   To promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the
inhabitants of the city and its environs; and
      2.   To provide the inhabitants of the city and its environs with
efficient and economical street/sidewalk systems.
   C.   Jurisdiction: The jurisdictional area of these rules and regulations
shall include any territory within the corporate city limits.
   D.   Rates, Charges, And Fees; General: All rates, charges, and fees for
municipal street/sidewalk systems shall be adopted by the city council by
resolution as such may be lawfully changed from time to time. (Ord. 04-01, 2-
10-2004)
6-1-3: BOULEVARDS:
   A.   Adjoining Owners' Responsibility: It shall be the duty of the owners
and tenants of any premises within the limits of the right of way to maintain
the boulevard section, including trees, in front of and adjoining their
premises in safe and substantial condition. Any portion of the right of way
which is not occupied by roadway section, curb and gutter, driveway, sidewalk
or crosswalk shall be kept in appropriate landscaping. It is also the
responsibility of corner lot owners/tenants to maintain the clear vision
triangle.
   B.   Clear Vision Triangle: The clear vision triangle is the isosceles
triangle having a side of fifty feet (50') as measured along the back of the
curb section of each intersecting roadway. The triangle thus begins at the
point where the intersecting back of each curb line would meet, thence fifty
feet (50') along the back of each curb and diagonally across connecting the
curb lines.
      1.   Any signs, fences, plant material, or other items placed in this
area shall provide an unobstructed cross visibility at a level between three
feet (3') and eight feet (8') above street surface elevation. Trees having over
eight feet (8') of clear trunk as measured from the surface elevation with
limbs and foliage trimmed in such a manner as not to extend into the cross
visibility are permitted in the clear vision triangle.
      2.   It is the responsibility of the owner or tenant of a corner lot to
maintain the clear vision triangle by trimming or removing the cause of any
sight obstruction within the area described above.
      3.   No obstruction to cross visibility shall be exempted or excluded
from the application of this section because of the obstruction's existence at
the time of the adoption hereof.
   C.   Prohibited Vehicle Parking: No vehicle shall be parked upon any
boulevard area in the city except in the following instances:
      1.   Upon any lawfully constructed driveway, although no vehicle may be
parked upon any sidewalk or sidewalk area; and
      2.   Upon any boulevard area in a residential area if the boulevard area
has no curbing or has a curb cut access to the boulevard area.
   D.   Reserved.
   E.   Regulation Of Trees 1 : The owner of property adjoining a boulevard
shall be responsible for the care and maintenance of the boulevard and shall
keep the trees planted thereon trimmed and in a condition so that the same
shall not be a public nuisance; and, if necessary for the city to remove any
trees from such boulevard, the costs of such removal may be assessed against
the abutting property owner.
   F.   Violation; Penalty: Any violation of the provisions of this section
shall be considered a public offense punishable under the general penalty of
this code. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 5 of this title.
6-1-4: STREET AND SIDEWALK SERVICE AREAS:
   A.   Adoption Of Service Area: The official street and sidewalk service
areas for the city are those areas within the boundaries of the city. A map
depicting the service areas, and any enlargements that may be from time to time
approved by the city council, shall be made available at all times for public
inspection during regular working hours at city hall.
   B.   Annexation Requirements: All properties to be included within the
street and sidewalk service areas shall be annexed or an attempt at annexation
shall be made first and before any area enlargement applications may be
considered. Further, that whenever possible, the property being considered for
inclusion in the service areas shall be annexed to the city rather than
accepting waivers of the property owner's right to present annexation of said
property to the city. Waivers may be accepted by the city in its sole
discretion only in those particular cases where good and sufficient cause is
shown and a hardship would result if waivers were not accepted. Any waivers
must be in legal form as approved by the city attorney. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
6-1-5: STREET MAINTENANCE DISTRICTS:
   A.   Created: The city may create a street maintenance district which shall
be known as street maintenance district 1. The boundaries of district 1 shall
be as follows:
Any property within the city limits abutted by a currently maintained street.
   B.   Streets To Be Swept When: The streets and alleys within the above
described district 1 shall be swept during the year as the city shall deem
necessary.
   C.   Cost Assessment: The costs incurred in the maintenance of district 1
shall be assessed against all of the lots therein, prorated among the lots
according to the frontage each lot bears to the total frontage of the district.
(Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
6-1-6: STREET/ALLEY VACATIONS:
   A.   Petition Required: Upon proper petition to the city council and upon
notice as required by state statute, streets or alleys may be vacated or
abandoned.
   B.   Vacating Fee: A vacating fee will be charged to cover cost of notice
and administrative costs as set by resolution by the city council. (Ord. 04-01,
2-10-2004)
6-1-7: STREET REGULATIONS:
   A.   Restrictions:
      1.   The travel of commercial vehicles as defined in Montana Code
Annotated section 61-1-109(9) on the portion of Willow Avenue which runs
through the city of Colstrip is hereby prohibited. This restriction does not
apply toward commercial vehicles making local deliveries to retail and
governmental destinations within the city limits of Colstrip. Any owner,
person, or operator in violation of this provision shall be deemed to have
committed a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not less
than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) or more than three hundred dollars
($300.00) per occurrence. (Ord. 2013-03, 10-22-2013, eff. 11-21-2013)
ARTICLE A. CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
SECTION:
6-1A-1: Streets
6-1A-2: Sidewalks
6-1A-3: Sidewalks And Curbs
6-1A-4: Driveways
6-1A-5: Excavations
6-1A-6: Barricades And Warning Devices
6-1A-7: Street And Sidewalk Extensions In Subdivisions
6-1A-1: STREETS:
   A.   Supervision: All maintenance and repairs of public streets, alleys,
sidewalks and other public ways shall be under the supervision of the public
works supervisor.
   B.   Construction: It is unlawful to construct or lay any pavement on any
public street, sidewalk, alley or other public way, or to repair the same,
without having first secured a permit therefor. Applications for such permits
shall be made to the city clerk, and approved by the public works supervisor,
and shall state the location of the intended pavement or repair, the extent
thereof, and the person or firm who is to do the actual construction work. No
such permit shall be issued except where the work will conform to the
ordinances of the city.
   C.   Engineer Plans:
      1.   Each applicant for construction or reconstruction of any public
street, alley or other public way, shall file with the public works supervisor
engineering plans and specifications prepared by an engineer certified by the
state. No permit shall be issued until the engineering plans and specifications
are approved by the public works supervisor.
      2.   The city engineer may prepare the engineering plans and
specifications for construction or reconstruction of any public street.
Engineering plans and specifications preparation costs of the city engineer
shall be paid by the applicant.
   D.   Inspection: All street improvements shall be inspected during the
course of construction by an inspector appointed by the public works
supervisor, salaries and other costs in connection with such inspections to be
paid by the applicant.
   E.   Bond: Each contractor for construction or reconstruction of any public
street shall file a bond in the amount equal to the estimated cost of
construction of the improvement and conditioned to indemnify the city for any
loss or damage resulting from the work undertaken or the manner of doing the
same.
   F.   Specifications: All street and sidewalk pavements shall be made in
conformity with the MPWSS, latest edition.
   G.   Street Sweeping: All street sweeping by the city's public works
department will occur on normal business hours, which are Monday through Friday
from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to three thirty o'clock (3:30) P.M., unless
otherwise noted with signing. Signage will be used to inform residents as to
which day(s) the city will be in those areas. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
6-1A-2: SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Construction:
      1.   Without the formation of a special improvement district, the city
council may order sidewalks, curbs or gutters constructed in front of any lot
or parcel of land and may order alley approaches constructed or replaced
adjacent to any lot or parcel of land.
      2.   After the making of such order, written notice thereof shall be
given the owner or agent of the owner of such property or the owners or agents
of all adjacent owners having access to their properties by the alley approach,
as appropriate, in such manner as the council may direct.
      3.   If the owner or agent of the owner of such lot or parcel of land or
if the owners or agents of all adjacent owners having access to their property
by the alley approach fail or neglect for a period of thirty (30) days after
the date of service of the notice to cause such sidewalk, curb or gutter to be
constructed or to cause such alley approaches to be constructed or replaced,
the city may construct or cause the sidewalk, curb or gutter to be constructed
or may construct or cause the alley approach to be constructed and shall assess
the cost thereof, including engineering costs and the costs enumerated, against
the property in front of which the same is constructed or against the lots or
parcels of land having access via the constructed alley approaches.
      4.   When any sidewalk, curb or gutter or alley approach is constructed
by or under direction of the city council, payment for the construction may be
made by special warrants in such form as may be prescribed by ordinance and
drawn against a fund to be known as the special sidewalk, curb and gutter fund
or the special alley approach fund, as appropriate, and the council may provide
for the payment of interest annually. The warrants drawn on the special alley
approach fund shall bear interest at a rate of up to six percent (6%) a year.
      5.   The payment of assessments to defray the cost of construction of the
sidewalks, curbs and gutters or alley approach may be spread over a term of not
to exceed eight (8) years, payment to be made in equal annual installments.
   B.   Maintenance:
      1.   Obstruction Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person or persons,
firm or corporation to place, cause to be placed, or to permit any obstruction
to be placed or remain upon any of the sidewalks of the city of Colstrip.
Exceptions, with approval by the city, may include sidewalk business sales and
CPRD park functions or approved private construction.
      2.   Restricted Use: It is unlawful hereafter for any person or persons
to ride or drive any horse, mule or other animal, buggy, or other vehicle
along, over or on any of the sidewalks within the city, or to cause damage in
any way to the sidewalks.
      3.   Snow And Ice Removal:
         a.   Owner's Duty: It shall be the duty of the owner and tenant of any
premises within the limits of the city to keep the sidewalk in front of and
adjoining his premises free from obstructions.
         b.   Hours Designated For Completion: Snow, ice, and similar material
that has accumulated during the preceding hours shall be removed from sidewalks
within a reasonable time period. Once cleared, all sidewalks shall be kept
clear of snow, ice, and similar material.
         c.   Prohibited Depositing: Snow, ice, and similar material removed
from sidewalks shall not be deposited on the adjoining streets, avenues or
alleys.
      4.   Sanding; Owner's Duty: Polish or smoothness resulting from any cause
which renders a sidewalk dangerous and unsafe shall be sanded and where there
is permanent polish or smoothness on a sidewalk, the surface of the sidewalk
shall be repaired in accordance with the directions of the public works
supervisor.
      5.   Wet Cement; Trespassing Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to
tramp, step, or trespass unnecessarily upon any cement or concrete sidewalk in
course of construction before such sidewalk becomes set and firm.
      6.   Failure To Comply: If the owners or tenants of property adjoining a
sidewalk fail to comply with the provisions of this section, the city shall
cause any and all obstructions to be removed and shall bill the cost thereof,
together with a reasonable charge for the administration and supervision, to
the parties. If the charges are not paid within sixty (60) days, the city
council shall pass a resolution assessing the charges as a special tax against
the premises.
      7.   Violation: Violation of this section shall be deemed a misdemeanor
and any person violating the provisions of this section may be fined in an
amount not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment not to
exceed six (6) months for any one offense. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
6-1A-3: SIDEWALKS AND CURBS:
   A.   Improvements Permit Required: No improvement mentioned in this section
shall be made without a permit first having been obtained from the city clerk
by the person actually performing the construction. All applications therefor
shall be made on the form prepared by the city clerk who shall fix a reasonable
schedule of fees for services provided by the city.
Any applicant deeming himself aggrieved may appeal the decision to the city
council. However, the applicant shall do no such work pending the appeal,
except in strict accordance with the directions of the public works supervisor.
   B.   Construction:
      1.   Compliance With City Specifications: It is unlawful for any person
to build or construct any sidewalk, private work, or curb in any street,
avenue, alley or boulevard or to build or construct any parking or any
improvement of any nature whatsoever in any street, avenue, alley or boulevard
unless the same is constructed strictly in accordance with the current standard
specifications and plans for such work and under the supervision of the public
works supervisor.
      2.   Grade Conformance Required: Sidewalk construction on improved or
graded streets must conform with the established grade and sidewalk line; on
all other streets, sidewalks must be laid to the proper sidewalk line, and
otherwise to the satisfaction of the public works supervisor. Driveway
crossings into private grounds shall be of form and construction as specified
by the public works supervisor.
      3.   Width And Slope Designations: All sidewalks hereafter to be built or
constructed in the city shall be of the following width except where otherwise
ordered by the governing body:
Residential/commercial   5 foot width   4 inch thickness
      4.   Materials: Hereafter all sidewalks shall be constructed only of
solid cement concrete, or upon permission from the public works supervisor may
be constructed of a dense clay brick with a nonslip surface and having an
average saturation coefficient of 0.78 or less and meeting ASTM specifications
C216 and C62 grade SW placed on a concrete base and grouted with a Portland
cement grout all conforming to current specifications established by the public
works supervisor; provided, that the governing body may order temporary
sidewalks of other material to be constructed.
Hereafter all curbing shall be constructed only of solid cement concrete
provided that the governing body may order temporary curbing of other material.
      5.   Order; Notice To Owner: Whenever the governing body orders any
sidewalk or curb to be constructed, it shall be the duty of the city clerk to
enter such order upon the minutes of the governing body and shall name the
street along which the sidewalk or curb is to be constructed.
Whenever the governing body orders any sidewalk or curb to be constructed and
after the making of such order, it shall be the duty of the city clerk to give
written notice thereof to the owner or agent of such property in front of which
lot or parcel of land the governing body orders the sidewalk or curb to be
constructed, which written notice must be published for five (5) days in a
daily newspaper published in the city and by mailing a copy of such notice to
every person or the agent of such person having property in front of which such
sidewalk or curb is to be constructed at their last known address upon the same
day such notice is first published; the service of such notice to construct
such sidewalk or curb to be constructed shall be deemed complete on the date of
first publication and mailing.
      6.   Failure To Perform: If the owner or agent of such lot or parcel of
land fails or neglects for a period of thirty (30) days after the date of the
service of such notice to construct or cause such sidewalk or curb to be
constructed, the city shall construct or cause such sidewalk or curb to be
constructed and shall assess the cost thereof against the property in front of
which the same is constructed.
      7.   Notice Form: The written notice to be so published and mailed shall
be in substantially the following form:
   NOTICE FOR CONCRETE SIDEWALK AND CURB CONSTRUCTION
Department of
Public Works
Colstrip, Montana
Notice is hereby given that the Governing Body of the City of Colstrip, Montana
at its regular meeting on           , ordered concrete sidewalk and curb to be
constructed as follows:
The names of the streets along which said sidewalk and curb is ordered
constructed appears upon the minutes of the Governing Body of the above date to
which reference is hereby made.
All walk and curb remaining unbuilt at the expiration of thirty (30) days will
be built by the provisions of City and all costs assessed as a special tax to
the abutting property in accordance with the provisions of City law.
Public Works Supervisor
      8.   Annual Contract; Bid: The governing body shall annually let to the
lowest responsible bidder a contract for the construction of all concrete
sidewalks in accordance with the specifications prepared therefor by the public
works supervisor and approved by the governing body, which specifications shall
provide for the method of construction and the material contemplated during the
period of such contract.
The governing body shall, at the same time when it lets its contract for the
construction of concrete sidewalks, also let its contract for the construction
of concrete curbs, and the contract for the concrete sidewalks and concrete
curbs shall be let at the same time and for the same period to the same
contractor.
      9.   Cost; Assessment; Payment: The total cost of all concrete sidewalks
constructed by the city concrete sidewalk contractor in accordance with the
orders of the governing body which total costs shall include that of the
sidewalk proper as well as that of any notice, grading, handrailing, private
crossing and all other necessary expenses, shall be assessed as a special
assessment against the property in front of which such concrete sidewalk is
built or constructed. The property occupying street corners shall be assessed
for that part of such sidewalk thereon which is within the street intersection.
Such special assessments shall be payable in installments extending over a
period of eight (8) years, and the governing body for such sidewalk
improvements may issue special improvement warrants and levy and collect
assessments to pay the same. When any such installment payment becomes
delinquent, that installment payment, plus the interest due thereon, shall
become a lien against the property subject to such assessment, and the property
shall be subject to sale for delinquent payment of such special assessment the
same as other property is sold for delinquent special assessments.
      10.   Payment; Delinquency: Upon the payments after the first, the
controller shall collect simple interest per annum at the maximum rate allowed
on judgments under state law 1  from the date when the first payment becomes
delinquent, and shall receive payment in full and give receipts therefor for
the entire special assessment of any property with interest to the date of
payment, at any time the same may be tendered by the owner or agent.
   C.   Condemnation: Any sidewalks, which are now, or which may, by reason of
natural deterioration or decay, or by reason of unevenness, steps, rapid slopes
or from any cause whatsoever, become dangerous to the public safety, may be
condemned by the public works supervisor and may be immediately removed,
remodeled, rebuilt, repaired or newly built, as may be most expedient, and the
cost thereof shall be a lien upon the lot abutting upon such sidewalk and may
be enforced or the amount may be recovered against the owner by a suit before
any court of competent jurisdiction or may be assessed and collected as a
special tax against such lot.
   D.   Repair; Owner's Duty: It shall be the duty of the owners and tenants of
any premises within the limits of the city to keep the sidewalk in front of and
adjoining their premises in good, safe and substantial condition, and the
owners shall see that all breaks or unsoundness of any character resulting from
natural deterioration, or from any cause whatsoever, is repaired with all
possible dispatch and when by reason of the construction or repairs of
sidewalks from any cause whatsoever any sidewalk or section thereof is removed
or rendered dangerous or impassable to the public, such spaces or openings
shall be securely fenced, and from dark until sunrise, barricades shall be
maintained thereon, while such dangerous condition exists, and a plank walk not
less than two inches (2") in thickness and not less than three feet (3') in
width shall be constructed around such construction or dangerous walk, the same
to extend from sidewalk to sidewalk on each side of the opening or obstruction.
   E.   Special Fund Created: The city may create a fund to be known as the
"special sidewalk and curb fund". All monies hereafter collected from
assessments made for the construction of sidewalks and curbs ordered by the
governing body shall be placed to the credit of the special sidewalk and curb
fund.
   F.   Warrant Form: When any sidewalk or curb is constructed by or under the
direction of the governing body, payment for the construction thereof may be
made by special warrants, which shall be in substantially the following form
(regular city warrant form to be used):
   The Treasurer of the City of Colstrip, Montana No.             
DATE   WILL PAY TO   FUND   WARRANT NO.   AMOUNT
            Int.     
            Total     
         Mayor
         Clerk
   G.   Denomination: The special sidewalk and curb warrants may be issued in a
denomination of no more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) each. (Ord. 04-
01, 2-10-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA 25-9-205.
6-1A-4: DRIVEWAYS:
   A.   Construction:
      1.   Supervision: The construction of concrete driveways and concrete
crosswalks, within the street lines of the city, shall be under the supervision
and direction of the public works supervisor, authorized assistant or duly
appointed inspector. The design and concrete mixture shall conform to standard
specifications on file in the department of public works office of the city.
      2.   Permit Required:
         a.   It is unlawful for any person either as owner, agent, servant,
contractor or employee to cut, break, remove or alter any curbing, driveway
apron, or sidewalk, or cause to have cut, broken, or removed any curbing,
driveway apron or sidewalk, or to install or cause to have installed any
driveway, or any vehicular access, on any public right of way in the city
without a permit. Permits shall be issued to the property owners if the owner
is to perform the work or to properly licensed bonded contractors by the public
works supervisor/city engineer after payment of fees as provided for in this
section.
         b.   At the time the permit application is made, the public works
supervisor/city engineer shall be advised of any parking meters, traffic or
street signs, signal poles, streetlight poles, fireplugs, trees or obstructions
that will be affected by the placement or removal of the driveway or sidewalk.
         c.   All applications for permits for concrete driveways or concrete
crosswalks must give a description of the property to be served and such other
information as may be required by the public works supervisor, for the proper
direction of the work, and must be signed by the owner or authorized agent.
         d.   Before commencing the construction, modification or repair of any
concrete driveway or concrete crosswalk, the contractor shall first obtain a
written permit from the department of public works and such permit shall be
upon the ground at all times during the progress of the work and must be shown
to any office in authority, on demand.
         e.   For each and every permit a fee will be charged and collected by
the city clerk.
      3.   Inspector:
         a.   The public works supervisor shall furnish an inspector to inspect
every piece of curb, driveway and driveway apron to be constructed, whose
duties shall be to check the forms for alignment, grade and materials and to
see that the work is done in accordance with the specifications of the city at
the time of the issuance of the permit.
         b.   The city shall be notified at least twenty four (24) hours in
advance of the time when the work is proposed to be started.
      4.   Barricades Required: Excavations in streets shall be made in such
manner as to impede travel as little as possible, and the time that such
excavation is open may be limited by the public works supervisor, his assistant
or inspector. Barricades shall be erected by the contractor around all trenches
or embankments made within the limits of any street until the street has been
restored to a safe and passable condition. At no time during the progress of
the work shall sidewalks be unnecessarily blocked to travel.
      5.   Private Sidewalks: No private walk shall be built therein from the
curb line to the property line or from the sidewalk to either line unless the
same is made of concrete. Concrete private walks shall be of uniform width and
shall be built upon the established grade from the curb line to the property
line, and shall be not less than thirty six inches (36") in width or more than
forty eight inches (48") in width; provided, that in front of churches,
schoolhouses, and other public buildings, the concrete private walks may be of
greater width than above mentioned.
      6.   Conformance With National Regulations: Specific controls not defined
in this chapter shall be in accordance with the standards for private driveway
regulations established by the American Association of State Highway Officials
and as applied by the discretion of the public works supervisor.
      7.   Use Discontinuance; Sidewalk Restoration: Whenever the use of any
existing or future driveway is discontinued by reason of change in the use or
design of the private property served thereby, the owner of the private
property shall remove that portion of the driveway located within the city
right of way, and shall restore the sidewalk and curbing affected by the
driveway to their normal levels, all under the direction, supervision and
standards required by the public works supervisor. This section shall be
applicable to any existing driveway, the use of which is presently
discontinued. Upon the failure or refusal of the owner to restore the sidewalk
and curbing as provided in this section, the city council may order the
restoration of the sidewalk and curbing.
      8.   Cause For Revocation Of Permit:
         a.   Any permit issued under the authority of this chapter may be
revoked for failure of the permittee to perform the work in accordance with the
specifications, methods, or time limit required or approved by the city.
         b.   Any permittee whose permit is revoked may, upon request, receive
a hearing before the council. The council, after such hearing, may reinstate
the permit or take any other action it deems proper.
      9.   Permission To Deviate From Requirements: Permission to deviate from
the requirements and regulations of this section shall be granted by the city
council only where unusual conditions or strict adherence to this section would
cause undue and extreme hardship. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
6-1A-5: EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   Permit Required For Excavation: No person shall open up, dig into,
excavate or tunnel in any of the streets, avenues, public places or alleys of
the city, whether to connect with any of the mains or pipes, to connect with
any sewer, or for any other purpose, without first having obtained a permit
from the city.
   B.   Application For Permit: Any person desiring to excavate must give
notice to the city clerk at least forty eight (48) hours prior to commencement
of the proposed excavation, except that in the case of an excavation required
to repair an existing sewer line, the application need not be made forty eight
(48) hours in advance. The application shall be made on forms provided by the
city and shall contain the name and address of the person making the
excavation, a description of the location and the purpose of the excavation, a
map in sufficient detail to enable the clerk to determine that the excavation
will not endanger or interfere with city pipes, lines, wires or other
underground facilities, a statement as to how long the excavation will remain
open, and a pledge to restore the premises to their present condition.
   C.   Authority To Issue Permit: The clerk will review the application and,
upon being satisfied that the excavation presents no danger to any underground
facilities and that the applicant has a sufficient surety bond and proof of
insurance on file, the clerk may issue the permit. In all cases, the permit
will be reviewed by the public works supervisor.
   D.   Bond Required:
      1.   No permit may be issued unless the applicant shall have first filed
with the clerk a bond, issued by a surety company authorized to do business
within the state, guaranteeing the proper backfilling and restoration by the
applicant. The bond shall be in the amount of not less than two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00), or more than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00)
as determined by the public works supervisor. Any such bond shall continue in
force until released by the city.
      2.   Payment of inspection fees and posting of bonds is required of any
person, party, corporation, business, or utility desiring to perform
construction or maintenance work in roads, streets, alleys, or thoroughfares in
the city before such work may be started (i.e., street utility cuts for buried
cable, electrical, telephone, cable television and gas lines); however, the
city engineer may waive the bonding requirements for public utility companies,
telephone, or cable TV providers in appropriate cases.
      3.   The bond shall be executed by a surety company authorized to do
business in the state, conditioned to save the city harmless from any damage or
injury whatsoever to any person or property of any description, however owned,
by reason of leaving open any excavation or tunnel or by reason of failure to
properly guard any such excavation or tunnel or failure to place red lights at
such excavation or tunnel at night. Any person may furnish a yearly bond
conditioned as set forth in this section.
   E.   Proof Of Insurance Required: No excavation permit shall be issued
hereunder until the applicant has filed proof that he has in force a public
liability policy having a limit of not less than five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00). By signing and submitting his/her application, the applicant
agrees to save, indemnify and hold harmless the city from any loss from injury
or property damage resulting from the excavation.
   F.   Inspection: Upon completion of the excavation and backfilling and
restoration, the applicant may request inspection of the excavation site by the
city public works supervisor or designated official.
   G.   Release Of Bond: Upon inspection of an excavation site by the city, if
the city finds that the site has been backfilled and properly restored, the
city shall signify its approval on the permit and shall thereby release the
surety from any further liability on the bond.
   H.   Minimum Travel Interference Required: Excavations in streets and alleys
shall be made in such manner as to impede travel as little as possible. At no
time during the progress of the work shall sidewalks be unnecessarily blocked
to travel.
   I.   City May Limit Time For Open Excavation: The time that any street or
alley excavations are open may be limited by the public works supervisor or
other responsible official of the city.
   J.   Backfilling And Restoration Of Surface:
      1.   Required: After the completion of the laying of any pipe, line or
conduit, or the installation or repair of any facility for which the excavation
was undertaken, the excavator shall cause the work to be backfilled and
resurfaced in such a manner as to make the street in as good a condition as
before the excavation.
      2.   Restoration By Excavator: Any person making any excavation in any
street or alley, as set forth in this section, shall be fully responsible for
the maintenance of the excavation for a period of two (2) years after the
backfill thereof. If any settlement occurs in the area that was formerly
excavated, the excavator or person causing the excavation shall immediately
upon notice fill in the settling and put the street, alley, or avenue, in as
good a condition as possible for use by the public.
      3.   Restoration By City; Fees Required:
         a.   The city may at its option, upon request, agree to restore any
trench or excavation with asphalt paving material after a proper permit has
been obtained for the same.
         b.   The city will assess a fee for restoration whenever it agrees to
do the work. The council may from time to time establish a minimum fee to be
paid in advance for such restoration, based upon costs for equipment, wages and
materials.
         c.   If the actual cost to restore the street asphalt exceeds the
minimum amount deposited, then the excess will be billed to the person who
obtained the permit at a rate to be set from time to time by resolution of the
council.
   K.   Revocation Of Permit:
      1.   Any permit issued under authority of this section may be revoked for
failure of the permittee to perform the work in accordance with the
specifications, methods or time limit required or approved by the city.
      2.   Any permittee whose permit is revoked may, upon request, receive a
hearing before the city council or person designated by the council. The
council, after such hearing, may reinstate the permit or take any other action
it deems proper.
   L.   Penalty:
      1.   Any violation of the provisions of this section shall be considered
a public offense punishable under the general penalty of this code.
   M.   Indemnification: Any permittee shall hold harmless from all damage
caused by the execution of such work, and pay all costs and damages suffered by
the city by reasons of the failure of the permittee to either comply with the
specifications of the city, or by any negligence caused in the execution of the
work. Permittee shall furnish proof that the permittee has an existence of the
liability insurance policy protecting the permittee from liability to the
public, including the city.
   N.   Protection From Freezing: During the course of the construction
project, all pipes and mains exposed to freezing temperatures shall be
protected as to prevent freezing.
   O.   Arrangements With Owners: Before commencing the excavation, the
contractor shall determine what improvements exist within the limits of the
construction area and shall make arrangements with the owners for the
protection or replacement of such improvements. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
6-1A-6: BARRICADES AND WARNING DEVICES:
   A.   Required:
      1.   Whenever excavation work in any street in the city is in progress,
efficient barricades shall be erected by the contractor, or other person in
control, around all trenches or embankments made by him within the limits of
any street or sidewalk.
      2.   Failure or omission to protect against accident, in the manner
required by this section, shall cause a forfeiture of any permit which may have
been granted with reference thereto.
      3.   Following completion of the construction work and restoration of the
street or sidewalk to a safe and passable condition, the contractor or person
in charge of the work shall promptly remove all barricades, warning lights and
other safety devices from the street or sidewalk.
   B.   Traveling Upon Streets With Barricades: No person shall walk upon or
drive upon a street, alley or sidewalk with barricades as stated in this
section, unless otherwise posted.
   C.   Removal Prohibited: Whenever any barricades, red light or other warning
device shall have been placed upon the streets, alleys, or sidewalks of the
city by an official or employee of the city in the course of his duty, or by
any contractor working on any street, alley or sidewalk, no person shall move
or remove such red light, barricade or other warning device.
   D.   Marking Wet Concrete: Where lights, signs, barricades or obstruction
have been placed and maintained to protect concrete, no person shall walk, run,
drive, ride or step upon the newly laid concrete, so as to mark, mar, or in any
way, injure the same.
   E.   Chipping Concrete: No person other than the public works supervisor, or
a member of his force, shall intentionally or wilfully chip, break, cut, or in
any manner, deface or injure any concrete in any sidewalk, curb, gutter or
pavement.
   F.   Penalty: Any violation of the provisions of this section shall upon
conviction thereof, be considered a public offense punishable under the general
penalty of this code. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
6-1A-7: STREET AND SIDEWALK EXTENSIONS IN SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Completion Of Improvements: The subdivider shall elect, by written
statement to the city council, to carry out minimum improvements in accordance
with the provisions of this article by any of the following methods; and shall
include a schedule by which the subdivider plans to complete the improvements:
      1.   Installation by the subdivider in accordance with the installation
requirements and under the supervision of the city; or
      2.   Installation provided by the special improvements district laws of
the state and the city council, and in accordance with the installation
requirements and under the supervision of the city.
      3.   By a combination of these methods.
   B.   Reapportionment Of Special Assessments: Any subdivider who causes land
to be subdivided or causes amendments to existing subdivided land shall, if any
outstanding special assessments exist on the land, provide for the
reapportionment of the special assessments.
   C.   Subdivision Improvements Agreement:
      1.   Prior to granting approval of the final plat by the city council,
the subdivider or developer shall have installed all of the required
improvements, or shall prior to receiving approval of the final plat, enter
into a written subdivision improvements agreement with the city guaranteeing
the construction and installation of all required improvements under the
supervision of the city and in conformance with all policies, standards, and
ordinances adopted by the city. The agreement shall stipulate, among other
things, which type of security arrangements acceptable to the city the
subdivider elects to use, the type of schedule acceptable to the city, the
subdivider's plans for accomplishing the required improvements and an agreement
that the subdivider shall guarantee all improvements for a period of two (2)
years from the date of written acceptance by the city.
      2.   However, a subdivision improvements agreement shall not be required
in the case of minor plat subdivisions if the property to be subdivided is
already included under a valid subdivision improvement agreement that addresses
all public improvements and the changes in the minor plat do not change those
requirements for public improvements.
   D.   Security Guarantee: The subdivider shall provide a monetary security
guarantee from the following listed methods in the amount of one hundred twenty
five percent (125%) of the estimated total cost, as estimated by the subdivider
and approved by the city, of installing all required improvements:
      1.   Escrow Account: The subdivider shall deposit cash, or other
instrument readily convertible into cash at face value, either with the city,
or in escrow with a bank. The use of any instrument other than cash (and in the
case of an escrow account, the bank with which the funds are to be deposited)
shall be subject to the approval of city council. In the case of an escrow
account, the subdivider shall file with the city an agreement between the
financial bank and the subdividers guaranteeing the following:
         a.   That the funds of the escrow account shall be held in trust until
released by the city council and may not be used or pledged by the subdivider
as security in any other matter during that period; and
         b.   That in the case of failure on the part of the subdivider to
complete the improvements, then the bank shall immediately make the funds in
the account available to the city for use in the completion of those
improvements.
      2.   Property Escrow: The subdivider may offer as a guarantee land or
other property, including corporate stocks or bonds. The county assessor shall
establish the value of any property so used, and in so doing, shall take into
account the likelihood of a decline in the value of the property during the
guarantee period. The city shall retain the right to reject the use of any
property when such property will be unusually difficult to sell, or for other
reasons such as will inhibit the city from exchanging the property for a
sufficient amount of money to complete the required improvements. When property
is offered as an improvement guarantee, the subdivider shall:
         a.   Execute an agreement with the trustee, when it is not the city,
instructing the trustee to release the property to the city in the case of
default. The agreement shall also state that the property may be released only
upon consent of the city council. The agreement shall be placed on file with
the county clerk and recorder.
         b.   File with the city an affidavit affirming that the property to be
used as a guarantee is free and clear of any encumbrances or liens at the time
it is to be put in trust.
         c.   Execute and file with the city-county planning board an agreement
stating that the property to be placed in trust as an improvement guarantee
will not be used for any other purpose, or pledged as a security in any other
matter, until it is released by the city.
      3.   Sequential Development: Where a subdivision is to be developed in
several sections, the city council may, at its discretion, waive the use of a
guarantee on the initial sections, provided that such sections may not be
larger than twenty five (25) lots, or fifty percent (50%) of the total number
of lots in the subdivision, whichever is less. The city council and city-county
planning board shall grant final plat approval to only one section at a time,
with the plat approval for each succeeding section being contingent upon
completion of all contracted improvements in each preceding section, and
acceptance of those improvements by the city. Completion of improvements in the
final section of the subdivision, which shall include at least twenty five (25)
lots, or fifty percent (50%) of the total number of lots in the subdivision,
whichever is less, must be guaranteed through the use of one of the other
methods detailed herein.
      4.   Special Improvement District: The city may, at its discretion, enter
into an agreement with the subdivider to pay the cost of the required
improvements by utilizing the mechanics of the special improvement district
process as provided in the current state statutes. The subdivider shall hire an
engineer and a lawyer to provide all engineering and legal expertise needed for
the completion of the improvements as approved by the city. Building permits
shall not be issued prior to the sale of bonds and execution of a construction
contract.
      5.   Letter Of Credit: The subdivider shall provide, from a bank or other
reputable institution or individual subject to the approval of the city
council, a letter of credit. This letter shall be deposited with the city-
county planning board and shall certify the following:
         a.   That the creditor does guarantee funds of the required amounts,
as estimated by the subdivider and approved by the city, for completing all
required improvements;
         b.   That, in the case of failure on the part of the subdivider to
complete the specified improvements within the required time period, the
creditor shall pay to the city immediately, and without further action, such
funds as are necessary to finance the completion of those improvements, up to
the limit of credit stated in the letter;
         c.   That this letter of credit may not be withdrawn, or reduced in
amount, until released by the city council.
   E.   Reduction Of Guarantees: In those cases where improvement guarantees
have been made by the method in subsection D5 of this section, the amount of
the guarantee may be reduced upon acceptance by the city and upon the
dedication of a portion of the required improvements. The amount of the
reduction shall not exceed the percentage which the improvements just accepted
for dedication made up of all originally required improvements. In no case,
however, shall the guarantee be reduced to less than fifteen percent (15%) of
the original amount.
   F.   Release Of Guarantee: Upon acceptance by the city and filing by the
subdivider of certification and dedication, all in conformance with this
section, the city shall authorize the release of any remaining portion of the
improvement guarantee. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PLACES
ARTICLE B. OBSTRUCTIONS AND ENCROACHMENTS
SECTION:
6-1B-1: Obstruction Of View
6-1B-2: Encumbering Or Obstructing Streets
6-1B-3: Encroachment Permit Required
6-1B-4: Structural Obstructions; Order To Remove
6-1B-5: Notice To Remove Obstructions
6-1B-6: Authority To Remove Obstruction
6-1B-7: Putting Injurious Materials On Street Prohibited; Violation; Penalty
6-1B-8: Dumping Snow On Public Property Prohibited
6-1B-9: Encroachment Rentals; Levy, Amount, Removal For Nonpayment; Exceptions
6-1B-10: Sale Of Merchandise On Sidewalks; Permission Required
6-1B-11: Exceptions
6-1B-1: OBSTRUCTION OF VIEW:
   A.   Obstruction Prohibited: No property owner or land occupant shall
maintain trees, shrubbery or other vegetation, or maintain any building or
structure, which will materially obstruct the view of any passenger vehicle
traveling upon the streets or other public ways of the city.
   B.   Procedure To Remedy Obstruction:
      1.   Complaint: Upon the complaint by any citizen, law enforcement
officer, or city employee of any existing offending vegetation, tree, shrubbery
or offending building or structure, the matter will be referred to the public
works department for review.
      2.   Review By Public Works Department: The public works department shall
make a review within a reasonable time period, and submit a report to the
property owner or land occupant as to what steps need to be taken in order to
remedy the existing obstruction. If the property owner complies with the
recommendation within ten (10) days of the receipt of the report, the matter
will be considered closed.
      3.   Failure To Comply: If the property owner or occupant fails to comply
with the report, the city shall proceed to trim and prune or remove such tree,
shrubbery, or other offending vegetation, or shall make arrangements to abate
the offending structure. In the event the owner and/or occupant fails to do so,
the city may do the removal.
      4.   Cost Of Removal; Lien: All actual expenses for the cost of this
procedure shall become a lien upon the property. The property owner will be
notified of the assessment of such lien and will be afforded a twenty (20) day
period in which to file a protest for the amount of the charge. (Ord. 00-09, 9-
7-2000, eff. 10-8-2000; amd. Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
   C.   Penalty: In addition to the lien remedy as provided for in subsection B
of this section, any person violating a provision of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor in accordance with the penalty as provided for by state law under
Montana Code Annotated section 7-5-109, if the violation does not occur until
after the expiration of the ten (10) day period allowed for complying with the
report of the public works department. Any violation that is not remedied or
abated within the ten (10) day period will be considered a new violation for
every twenty four (24) hour period in which the obstruction continues to exist.
(Ord. 00-09, 9-7-2000, eff. 10-8-2000; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
6-1B-2: ENCUMBERING OR OBSTRUCTING STREETS:
   A.   Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person, through either intentional
or negligent conduct, to encumber, obstruct or otherwise impede the free flow
of traffic on the streets, alleys or public grounds of the city of Colstrip, on
the public streets, alleys or rights of way by placement of materials
including, but not limited to, lumber, signs, trees, branches, ice, snow,
refuse garbage, or other items or materials in such a manner that would
obstruct the public's use of these public rights of way.
Such violation is punishable by section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 04-02, 3-9-2004)
   B.   Permit Required: No person shall encumber or obstruct, or cause to be
encumbered or obstructed, any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place in
the city by placing therein or thereon any building materials, trash, vehicle,
earth, garbage, rubbish, debris, or accumulated snow and ice removed from an
adjoining private premises, without first having obtained permission in writing
from the city clerk, or other responsible city official.
   C.   Removal Of Obstruction; Authority To Order: The public works supervisor
or law enforcement shall/is authorized to order any article or thing which
encumbers, litters or obstructs any street, sidewalk, alley or other public
place within the city, to be removed. If such removal shall not be made within
six (6) hours after notice to the owner or person in charge thereof, or if the
owner cannot be readily found for the purpose of the notice, the city shall
cause the same to be removed to some suitable place to be designated by such
official, at the expense of the person responsible thereof.
   D.   Sign Placement:
      1.   Permit Required: No person shall place or maintain any shafts of
wood, iron or other material, billboards, signs, fences, poles, rods, cables,
on streets or alleys of the city without having first obtained a permit from
the city council. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
6-1B-3: ENCROACHMENT PERMIT REQUIRED:
No encroachment on any public right of way, public sidewalk or other public
property shall be allowed except by authority of an encroachment permit issued
by the city clerk. Applications for an encroachment permit shall be made on the
forms and in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the public works
supervisor. A fee for the permit application shall be charged to cover the
administrative cost of processing as prescribed by council resolution. If the
issuance of the permit is approved, the city shall issue the permit. If the
permit is denied, the applicant shall be provided with a statement of the
reasons therefor, which reasons shall be entered in writing on the application.
(Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
6-1B-4: STRUCTURAL OBSTRUCTIONS; ORDER TO REMOVE:
   A.   Any building, fence, porch, steps, gallery, or other structural
obstruction now upon or hereafter placed or erected upon any street or alley
within the city, or which may be upon any new street or alley which may
hereafter be opened or created within the city, shall be removed therefrom
within a reasonable time, not exceeding thirty (30) days and not less than
three (3) days after an order to remove, in writing, has been given to the
owner or person responsible for the obstruction.
   B.   If the owner or person responsible for such obstruction cannot be
readily found for the purpose of the notice, it shall be the duty of the public
works supervisor or law enforcement to cause the obstruction to be removed, in
his discretion. The expense of the removal shall be recoverable from the owner
or person responsible for the obstruction.
   C.   Any person who interferes with, resists or obstructs shall be deemed
guilty of a violation of this section. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
6-1B-5: NOTICE TO REMOVE OBSTRUCTIONS:
Notice to remove obstructions specifying same, and the place and extent of
same, shall be given to the occupant or owner of the land involved, or to the
person owning or causing such obstruction. Notice shall be given by leaving it
at the place of residence of the person to be served, if he resides in the
city, or by posting it on the obstruction, if such person does not reside in
the city. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
6-1B-6: AUTHORITY TO REMOVE OBSTRUCTION:
   A.   If the order for the obstruction required to be removed is denied, and
the owner, occupant or person controlling the matter or thing charged with
being an obstruction, refuses either to remove or permit the removal thereof,
the city shall commence in the proper court an action to abate the same as a
nuisance; and if the city recovers judgment, it may, in addition to having the
same abated, recover a fee for every day such nuisance remained after the
notice, and also costs in the action.
   B.   The city council may, at any time, order law enforcement to forthwith
remove any such obstruction without commencing an action. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-
2004)
6-1B-7: PUTTING INJURIOUS MATERIALS ON STREET PROHIBITED; VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   No person shall throw or deposit upon any street, any glass bottle,
glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans, or any other substance likely to injure any
person, animal or vehicle upon such street.
   B.   Any person who drops, or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
street, any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the same
or cause it to be removed.
   C.   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a street shall
remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the street from such
vehicle.
   D.   A person convicted of violating this section shall be fined. (Ord. 04-
01, 2-10-2004)
6-1B-8: DUMPING SNOW ON PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for the owner, operator, tenant or other person in charge or
control of any private property to blade, dump, or shovel, or to allow the
blading, dumping, or shoveling of snow from the property into any public
street, alley or right of way. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
6-1B-9: ENCROACHMENT RENTALS; LEVY, AMOUNT, REMOVAL FOR NONPAYMENT; EXCEPTIONS:
Reserved. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
6-1B-10: SALE OF MERCHANDISE ON SIDEWALKS; PERMISSION REQUIRED:
The council may permit any person, upon application, the right to exhibit
merchandise or goods, or to temporarily install booths upon sidewalks, however,
such permits or licenses shall be temporary in nature and upon special permit
granted by the city council under controlled conditions. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-
2004)
6-1B-11: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Transit shelters as approved by the city commission and located so as
to not unduly interfere with vehicle or pedestrian traffic and access to
utilities and abutting properties in the immediate vicinity.
      1.   A "transit shelter" shall be defined as a structure occupying no
more than one hundred twenty (120) square feet in floor area and designed for
the temporary shelter of transit passengers.
   B.   Pushcarts or any other nonmotorized wheeled device may be moved or used
on the city sidewalks under the following conditions:
      1.   No pushcart or other device shall exceed thirty six inches (36") in
width, five feet (5') in length, and seven feet (7') in height.
      2.   No vendor selling from a pushcart or such device shall conduct
business in such a way as would restrict or interfere with the ingress or
egress of abutting property owners or tenants or create or become a public
nuisance, increase traffic or pedestrian congestion, or delay or constitute a
hazard to traffic, pedestrians or property or obstruct adequate access for fire
or law enforcement. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
CHAPTER 2
SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Engineering Services
6-2-2: Legal Services
6-2-3: Administrative Charge Levied
6-2-4: Revolving Fund
6-2-1: ENGINEERING SERVICES:
   A.   Engineer Appointed: The mayor, with the approval of the city council,
shall appoint an engineer, group of engineers or a professional engineering
corporation to perform engineering services for every special improvement
district proposed and created.
   B.   Engineer Duties: The engineer for the special improvement district
shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy, and
coordination of all design, drawing specification, and reports for all
engineering matters. The duties of an engineer shall consist of, but not be
limited to, the following:
      1.   Provide site and topographic surveys;
      2.   Prepare and provide advertisement for bids, information for bidders,
bids form, supplementary conditions and other documents necessary to complete
the contract documents;
      3.   Evaluate construction bids and proposals;
      4.   Prepare subsurface soil investigations;
      5.   Advise as to the acceptability of materials and equipment proposed
by contractor or substituted by contractor;
      6.   Supervise on site construction and monitor the progress and quality
of the construction work and guard the city and the district against apparent
defects and deficiencies;
      7.   Review shop drawings, supplies and other submittals of the
contractor for general conformance to the engineering design and compliance
with the contract documents;
      8.   Review and prepare all change orders, progress estimates and final
estimates;
      9.   Provide reproducible drawings and surveys showing the square footage
or linear footage involved in making the determination of the assessment of
costs to the property owner;
      10.   Keep the public works supervisor informed of the progress of the
work throughout the period of construction;
      11.   Provide general inspection services and quality control on all
construction materials and construction methods.
   C.   Engineer Compensation: The engineer shall receive such compensation as
may be authorized by the city council. The engineering contract shall not call
for compensation based on a percentage of the construction contract and shall
be a sum certain. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
6-2-2: LEGAL SERVICES:
   A.   Attorney Appointed: The mayor, with the approval of the city council,
shall appoint an attorney, a group of attorneys, a professional legal
corporation or the city attorney to perform services of a legal nature for
every special improvement district proposed and created.
   B.   Attorney Duties: It shall be the duty of the attorney for the special
improvement district to see to the completion of all proceedings required in
formation of a district. It shall be the duty of the attorney to draft or
supervise the phraseology of any contract, ordinance, resolution, bond or other
documents or instruments necessary to the special improvement district. It
shall be the duty of the attorney to represent the district in litigation
affecting the district.
   C.   Attorney To Advise: The attorney shall be the legal advisor of the
special improvement district, and shall render advice in all legal questions
affecting the city and the district, whenever requested to do so by the mayor
or by the city council. Upon request by the mayor or the city council, he shall
reduce any such opinion to writing. In addition, the attorney shall prosecute
and litigate any claim or action the special improvement district may have
arising out of any contract for services or contract for construction necessary
to completion of the special improvements.
   D.   Attorney Compensation:
      1.   The attorney shall receive such compensation as may be authorized by
the city council. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
6-2-3: ADMINISTRATIVE CHARGE LEVIED:
All special improvement districts shall be assessed one percent (1%) of the
total cost of the district, which one percent (1%) shall be paid out of bond
sales to the city and shall be used for the purpose of covering administrative
expense. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
6-2-4: REVOLVING FUND:
All special improvement districts shall be assessed five percent (5%) of the
total cost of the district, which five percent (5%) shall be paid out of bond
sales to the city and shall be deposited in the SID revolving fund, pursuant to
Montana Code Annotated (1991) section 7-12-4222(1)(a). (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
CHAPTER 3
EMERGENCY SNOW ROUTES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Declaration Of Snow Emergency
6-3-2: Designation
6-3-3: Signing
6-3-4: Vehicle Removal
6-3-5: Snow Emergency; Notice
6-3-1: DECLARATION OF SNOW EMERGENCY:
The mayor or designated representative are authorized to declare a snow
emergency when in their opinion an emergency exists in the city or in a section
or sections thereof because of snow, freezing rain, sleet, snowdrifts or other
natural phenomenon which create or are likely to create hazardous road
conditions or impede the free movement of fire, health, law enforcement,
emergency or other vehicular traffic or otherwise endangers the safety and
welfare of the community and shall remain in effect until the snow has been
plowed to the curb lines or removed from the street. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
6-3-2: DESIGNATION:
To facilitate the removal and to assure the regular flow of traffic during a
snow emergency, the following streets and public thoroughfares are designated
as emergency snow routes:
   Priority I List
      1. Willow Avenue
      2. Power Road
      3. Pinebutte Drive
      4. Olive Drive
      5. Homestead Boulevard
      6. Main Street
      7. Castle Rock Lake Drive
      8. Lakeview Court
      9. Prospector Drive
List of streets is filed in the public works department.
Changes in the priority I list may be changed by resolution of the city
council. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
6-3-3: SIGNING:
When signs have been erected giving notice thereof, it shall be unlawful for
any person to stop, stand, park or leave unattended any motor vehicle upon a
designated snow emergency route within the city, during a snow emergency.
Parking may be resumed on individual streets as soon as the snow has been
plowed or removed. This provision shall not prohibit the stopping of commercial
passenger vehicles for periods sufficient to load or discharge passengers from
such vehicles. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
6-3-4: VEHICLE REMOVAL:
Whenever a motor vehicle has been stopped, parked or left unattended after the
inception of a snow emergency, upon a designated emergency snow route within
the city, said vehicle is declared to be a traffic hazard and law enforcement
shall order said motor vehicle removed at the owner's expense. (Ord. 04-01, 2-
10-2004)
6-3-5: SNOW EMERGENCY; NOTICE:
Notice of such emergency shall be given by press, radio and television and the
news media shall be requested to cooperate with city officials and, when given,
such notice shall constitute due and proper notice. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
CHAPTER 4
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Enforcement
6-4-3: Restriction Of Parking Of Certain Vehicles
6-4-4: Restriction Of Parking Of All Vehicles
6-4-5: Abandoned Vehicle
6-4-6: Removal Of Vehicles
6-4-7: Penalty
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
MOTOR VEHICLE: A vehicle propelled by its own power and designed or used to
transport persons or property upon the highways of the state. For purposes of
this code, the term includes trailers and semitrailers, recreational vehicles,
campers, camper/trailers, motor homes, utility trailers, and sport utility
vehicles. The term does not include bicycles.
VEHICLE: Every device upon or by which any person or property may be
transported or driven upon a public highway, unless such device is used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (Ord. 03-01, 11-25-2003, eff. 7-1-
2004)
6-4-2: ENFORCEMENT:
Enforcement of this chapter will be initiated upon written complaint, submitted
either to law enforcement or the city of Colstrip. Enforcement of this chapter
will be implemented through local law enforcement and not the code enforcement
officer. (Ord. 03-01, 11-25-2003, eff. 7-1-2004)
6-4-3: RESTRICTION OF PARKING OF CERTAIN VEHICLES:
   A.   Year Round: All vehicles and/or motor vehicles which exceed twenty
eight feet (28') in length, such length to include any extension of the
vehicle, may not be parked upon any street or city property for a period of
longer than forty eight (48) consecutive hours.
   B.   November Through April: Length restriction notwithstanding, from
November 1 through April 1 of each respective year, it shall be unlawful to
park snowmobiles, boats, recreational vehicles, campers, camper/trailers, motor
homes, utility trailers, sport vehicles, passenger buses, ATVs, and overhead
campers on a city street or property for a period longer than forty eight (48)
consecutive hours. (Ord. 03-01, 11-25-2003, eff. 7-1-2004)
6-4-4: RESTRICTION OF PARKING OF ALL VEHICLES:
   A.   Five Day Parking Restriction: A vehicle may not be parked or left
standing upon the street or city property for a period of longer than five (5)
consecutive days.
   B.   Additional Parking Restrictions: No person shall park any vehicle or
motor vehicle upon any street, roadway or thoroughfare or on any other public
place for the principal purpose of:
      1.   Displaying such vehicle or motor vehicle for sale;
      2.   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency;
      3.   Storing any vehicle or motor vehicle when not then in transit or
actual use and service.
   C.   Penalty: Any person or persons violating the provisions of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, be punished by a fine of
not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than three hundred dollars
($300.00). In addition, the city court may assess up to one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00) for restitution for the cost of removal of an abandoned
vehicle.
   D.   Removal Of The Vehicle: Vehicles that are considered abandoned may be
removed in accordance with the provisions of Montana Code Annotated sections
61-12-401 through 61-12-407. (Ord. 08-03, 1-13-2009, eff. 2-13-2009)
6-4-5: ABANDONED VEHICLE:
Abandonment of a vehicle on a city street or private property within the city
of Colstrip creates a prima facie presumption that the last registered owner of
the vehicle is responsible for the abandonment and is liable for the costs
incurred in the removing, storing, and disposing of the abandoned vehicle, less
the amount realized if the vehicle is sellable. (Ord. 03-01, 11-25-2003, eff.
7-1-2004)
6-4-6: REMOVAL OF VEHICLES:
Vehicles may be removed by law enforcement under this chapter only if they
qualify as an abandoned vehicle. Any removal of abandoned vehicles shall be
done pursuant to Montana Code Annotated sections 61-12-401 through 61-12-408
inclusive. (Ord. 03-01, 11-25-2003, eff. 7-1-2004)
6-4-7: PENALTY:
Violation of this chapter is punishable under the general misdemeanor provision
of this code. (Ord. 03-01, 11-25-2003, eff. 7-1-2004)
CHAPTER 5
TREES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Short Title
6-5-2: Definitions
6-5-3: Implementation
6-5-4: Powers Of City
6-5-5: Responsibility For Trees And Vegetative Care
6-5-6: Trees And Other Vegetative Growth Projecting Over Public Ways
6-5-7: Street Tree Species List
6-5-8: Spacing
6-5-9: Distance From Curb And Sidewalk
6-5-10: Distance From Street Corners And Fireplugs
6-5-11: Utilities
6-5-12: Permits Required For Planting On City Property
6-5-13: Improper Planting
6-5-14: Specific Types Of Prohibited Trees
6-5-15: Dead Or Diseased Trees, Pruning, Removal
6-5-16: Procedure Followed In Trees That Require Pruning Or Removal
6-5-17: Procedure Followed In Trees That Require Spraying
6-5-18: Abuse Or Mutilation Of Public Trees And Shrubs
6-5-19: Interference With City Or Agent
6-5-20: License And Bond
6-5-21: Placing Materials On Public Property
6-5-22: Violation And Penalty
6-5-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the MUNICIPAL TREE ORDINANCE OF
THE CITY OF COLSTRIP, ROSEBUD COUNTY, MONTANA. (Ord. 2014-01, 11-10-2014)
6-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein:
AGENT: Any person or persons specifically authorized by the city to carry out
its activities and functions, including contracted individuals, such as an
arborist or planner.
BOULEVARD: That part of a street or highway not covered by a sidewalk or other
paving, lying between the property line and that portion of the street or
highway usually used for vehicular traffic.
COMMERCIAL TREE TRIMMING: Includes the trimming, removal or cutting above
ground, for another person, for hire or other valuable consideration.
PROPERTY LINE: The outer edge of a street right of way.
PROPERTY OWNER: The person owning such property as is shown by the records of
the county.
PUBLIC NUISANCE: Any dangerous or unsafe tree or portions thereof on streets,
in parks, on other public places, or posing a hazard thereto; the Dutch elm
disease causal fungus Ceratocystis ulmi, or the elm bark beetles
Scolytusmultistriatus or Hyluropinusrufipes, or both, or any dead or dying elm
tree or portions thereof, including logs, branches, stumps, firewood or other
elm materials from which the bark has not been removed, or which has not been
removed and chipped, burned or buried in a landfill.
PUBLIC PLACES: All lands owned, leased or occupied by the city.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width of every public right of way.
TREES: All shade and ornamental trees and all shrubs and other beautification
or landscape plantings, now or hereafter planted or growing on any street, or
other public place, except where otherwise indicated.
Large Trees: Designated as those attaining a height of forty five feet (45') or
more at maturity.
Medium Trees: Designated as those attaining a height of thirty (30) to forty
five feet (45') at maturity.
Small Trees: Designated as those attaining a height of twenty (20) to thirty
feet (30') at maturity. (Ord. 2014-01, 11-10-2014)
6-5-3: IMPLEMENTATION:
The city of Colstrip public works director will oversee, regulate and control
the planting, pruning and removal of all trees growing now or hereafter in any
street or other public place in the city. (Ord. 2014-01, 11-10-2014)
6-5-4: POWERS OF CITY:
The city shall regulate and control trees within the following areas:
   A.   Regulate the planting, pruning and removal of all trees on streets and
other public places, to ensure safety, or preserve the aesthetics or both;
   B.   Promulgate specifications and standards of practice governing the
planting, pruning and removal of trees on the street rights of way and public
areas of the city;
   C.   Supervise and inspect all work done under any permit, license or
certificate issued under the terms of this chapter or rules and regulations
promulgated hereunder;
   D.   Establish reasonable conditions to the granting of permits in accord
with the terms of this chapter;
   E.   During or following an emergency created by man or natural phenomena,
the city may take all necessary steps and procedures to remove trees or tree
parts or residue that might impede traffic movement or endanger persons or
property without being responsible for continued maintenance or care. (Ord.
2014-01, 11-10-2014)
6-5-5: RESPONSIBILITY FOR TREES AND VEGETATIVE CARE:
In addition to caring for trees and vegetative growth on owned property, the
person in control of the property is charged with care, maintenance and full
responsibility for trees and all vegetative growth on adjacent streets, alleys,
boulevards and public ways; provided, that to maintain rights of way, clear
vision zones and unobstructed view, traffic control signs and devices, the city
may in its discretion prune and remove trees and other vegetative growth. (Ord.
2014-01, 11-10-2014)
6-5-6: TREES AND OTHER VEGETATIVE GROWTH PROJECTING OVER PUBLIC WAYS:
It is unlawful for any person who is the owner of any lot, block or parcel of
land within the city to permit or allow to be kept or allow to grow upon such
lot, block or parcel of land or within the curb of the street, alley, boulevard
or public way adjacent thereto, any tree or other vegetative growth whose limbs
or branches shall extend over the sidewalk along the property within eight feet
(8') above the surface of the sidewalk or any tree whose limbs or branches
shall extend over the street along the property within sixteen feet (16') above
the surface of the street or shall extend into the alley more than one foot
(1') from the property line for a distance of sixteen feet (16') above the
alley surface. (Ord. 2014-01, 11-10-2014)
6-5-7: STREET TREE SPECIES LIST:
The city will maintain a list of approved and not allowed trees for use in
public rights of way. Said list shall constitute the requirements of the city
and shall be open to review. Included in the list of trees not allowed will be
any species of the elm. (Ord. 2014-01, 11-10-2014)
6-5-8: SPACING:
The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three (3) tree size
classes listed in section
6-5-2, "Definitions", of this chapter and no trees may be planted closer
together than the following: small trees, twenty feet (20'); medium trees,
thirty feet (30'); and large trees, forty feet (40'). (Ord. 2014-01, 11-10-
2014)
6-5-9: DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK:
The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curb lines and sidewalks will
be in accordance with the three (3) tree size classes listed in section
6-5-2, "Definitions", of this chapter, and no trees or hedges may be planted
closer to any curb or sidewalk than the following: small trees, two feet (2');
medium trees, three feet (3'); and large trees, four feet (4'). (Ord. 2014-01,
11-10-2014)
6-5-10: DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIREPLUGS:
Tree planting shall conform to any city of Colstrip ordinance in regard to
clear vision for street corners and alleyways. No tree shall be planted closer
than fifteen feet (15') of any fireplug. Owners of existing plantings violating
this rule must keep them carefully pruned and trimmed to obviate their creating
an obstruction to vision of vehicle drivers, unless they be declared a nuisance
and compulsorily removed. (Ord. 2014-01, 11-10-2014)
6-5-11: UTILITIES:
No street trees other than species falling in the small tree class of section
6-5-2, "Definitions", of this chapter may be planted under or within ten (10)
lateral feet of any overhead utility wire, or over or within five (5) lateral
feet of any underground water line, sewer line, transmission line or other
utility.
The municipality may further remove or cause to be removed any tree or part
thereof which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power
lines, gas lines, water lines, or other public improvements. (Ord. 2014-01, 11-
10-2014)
6-5-12: PERMITS REQUIRED FOR PLANTING ON CITY PROPERTY:
No person shall plant any tree on any city property, including streets, alleys,
boulevards or other public ways, without first filing an application and
obtaining a permit from the city. The person receiving the permit shall abide
by the city specifications and standards of practices. Any permit shall be void
if its terms are violated. (Ord. 2014-01, 11-10-2014)
6-5-13: IMPROPER PLANTING:
Whenever any tree shall be planted or set out in conflict with the provisions
of this chapter, the same may be removed or caused to be removed and the cost
thereof shall be assessed and collected from the owner in the same manner as
other special assessments. (Ord. 2014-01, 11-10-2014)
6-5-14: SPECIFIC TYPES OF PROHIBITED TREES:
Carolina poplar, Canadian poplar, elms, Lombardy poplar, silver leaf poplar,
weeping willow, and box elder trees shall not be planted in streets, avenues,
boulevards or alleys or other public ways of the city. This is not an all
inclusive list. (Ord. 2014-01, 11-10-2014)
6-5-15: DEAD OR DISEASED TREES, PRUNING, REMOVAL:
   A.   All trees and shrubs within the municipality will be pruned or removed
when such trees, any part or whole of any tree or shrub growing on private
premises, streets, alleys, boulevards, or other public ways shall be found
after inspection to be infected with an injurious fungus, insect or pest;
dangerous or unsafe; or to otherwise constitute a public hazard or nuisance.
The city may declare such tree or portion thereof a public nuisance, order the
property owner to remedy or abate the nuisance or cause such nuisance to be
remedied or abated.
   B.   The municipality may further remove or cause to be removed any tree or
part thereof which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric
power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other public improvements.
   C.   All stumps on public property shall be cut off flush with the ground.
(Ord. 2014-01, 11-10-2014)
6-5-16: PROCEDURE FOLLOWED IN TREES THAT REQUIRE PRUNING OR REMOVAL:
   A.   Notice To Prune Or Remove: For any person or persons owning real
property bordering any street who fails to prune or remove a tree in violation
of section
6-5-15 of this chapter, the city shall order such a person or persons within
ten (10) days after written receipt or written notice to prune or remove such
trees. The order may be served by personal service, certified mail or
publication to the last known address of the property owner.
   B.   Order Requiring Hearing: The order shall herein be served by mailing a
copy of the order to the last known address of the property owner by certified
mail.
   C.   Hearing: In the event the property owner disagrees with the order, the
property owner may request a hearing before the city council of Colstrip. Such
written request for hearing must be filed within fifteen (15) days from the
receipt of the order. This provision should not be construed to limit the
liability of the property owner that may be incurred for maintaining a
dangerous or diseased tree. This hearing should be held at the first council
meeting, after the request, allowing for sufficient time for the matter to be
placed on the agenda.
   D.   Failure To Comply: When a person to whom an order is directed shall
fail to comply within the specified time, it shall be lawful for the city to
prune or remove such tree, and the exact cost plus administrative expenses
thereof shall be assessed to the owner as provided for by law in the case of
special assessments. (Ord. 2014-01, 11-10-2014)
6-5-17: PROCEDURE FOLLOWED IN TREES THAT REQUIRE SPRAYING:
   A.   Notice To Spray: Every person who is the owner or, in possession,
control or management of any lot, block or parcel of land upon which there are
any trees or shrubs which are infested or infected with any insect, pests or
diseases known to be injurious to such trees or shrubs who fails to spray such
in violation of section
6-5-15 of this chapter, the city shall order such a person or persons within
ten (10) days after written receipt or written notice to spray or cause the
same to be sprayed with insecticide.
      1.   The order may be served by personal service, certified mail or
publication.
      2.   The spraying shall be done within ten (10) days of the order
therefor in such manner and with such insecticide as may be designated by the
city.
      3.   In the event the property owner disagrees with the order, the
property owner may choose to proceed under subsection 6-5-16C of this chapter.
      4.   Any person failing to comply with any order issued pursuant to this
section shall be guilty of maintaining a nuisance under this chapter. Each day
that such condition is permitted to remain shall be considered as the
commission of a separate offense.
      5.   All trees, shrubs and vegetative growth referred to in this section
inside of the property line or in the adjacent street, alley, boulevard or
other public way shall be sprayed as herein required at the expense of the
owner. When a person to whom an order is directed shall fail to comply within
the specified time, it shall be lawful for the city to spray or cause the same
to be sprayed such tree(s), and the exact cost plus administrative expenses
thereof shall be assessed to the owner as provided for by law in the case of
special assessments.
      6.   Upon the written request of the person owning such property, the
city may spray or cause to be sprayed such trees, shrubs or vegetative growth
upon a deposit by such person of a sum of money sufficient in amount to pay the
costs of all labor and material used in the spraying. (Ord. 2014-01, 11-10-
2014)
6-5-18: ABUSE OR MUTILATION OF PUBLIC TREES AND SHRUBS:
Unless specifically authorized by the city, no person shall intentionally
damage, cut, carve, transplant or remove any tree or shrub, attach any wire,
nails or other contrivance, allow any gaseous liquid or solid substance which
is harmful to trees or shrubs to come in contact with them, or set fire or
permit any fire to burn when such a fire or the heat thereof will injure the
portion of any tree or shrub in any city or public property. (Ord. 2014-01, 11-
10-2014)
6-5-19: INTERFERENCE WITH CITY OR AGENT:
No person shall hinder, prevent, delay, or interfere with the city, or its
agent, while engaged in carrying out the execution or enforcement of this
chapter; provided, however, that nothing herein shall be construed as an
attempt to prohibit the pursuit of any remedy, legal, or equitable, in any
court of competent jurisdiction of the protection of property rights by the
owner of any property within the municipality. (Ord. 2014-01, 11-10-2014)
6-5-20: LICENSE AND BOND:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business
or occupation of trimming, pruning, treating, or removing trees within the city
without first applying for and procuring a business license.
   B.   Before any business license shall be issued, each applicant shall first
file evidence of current possession of liability insurance and current
possession of acceptable workers' compensation insurance as set by this code.
   C.   Current International Society Of Arboriculture arborist certification
may be used as criteria in awarding licenses or in contracting. (Ord. 2014-01,
11-10-2014)
6-5-21: PLACING MATERIALS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
No person shall deposit, place, store or maintain upon any park or public place
of the city any stone, brick, sand, concrete or other materials which may
impede the free passage of air, water and nutrients to the roots of any tree
growing therein, except by written permit from the city. (Ord. 2014-01, 11-10-
2014)
6-5-22: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person violating or failing to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in section
1-4-2 of this code. This provision shall be in addition to all other
assessments and liens that may be imposed pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 2014-
01, 11-10-2014)
CHAPTER 6
ADDRESS NUMBERING
SECTION:
6-6-1: Owner's Responsibility
6-6-2: Placement Of Numbers On Buildings Required
6-6-3: Assignment
6-6-4: City Authorized To Procure Numbers
6-6-5: Implementation Of Program
6-6-6: Renumbering
6-6-7: Trailers And RV Parks
6-6-1: OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY:
It is the duty of every owner and/or occupant of every house and commercial
building to number the building in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 2010-01, 2-9-2010, eff. 3-11-2010)
6-6-2: PLACEMENT OF NUMBERS ON BUILDINGS REQUIRED:
Owners of all houses and commercial buildings shall post the numbers of said
house or a building in a manner which causes the numbers to be visible from the
street fronting the house or building. The numbers shall be at least three
inches (3") in height and shall contrast distinctly with the background which
they are placed, so they are readily visible at night from the street to which
the number relates. Reflective numbering may be used as an alternative. For
nonresidential and mixed residential/nonresidential structures, numbers shall
be at least four inches (4") high. In the event any structure is too far away
from the road to provide a clear view of the number posted on the structure,
the responsible person shall erect a special posting at the entrance of the
property. (Ord. 2010-01, 2-9-2010, eff. 3-11-2010)
6-6-3: ASSIGNMENT:
For each tract of land, including any street or avenue in the city, the street
number shall be assigned by the city public works department. All final plats,
subject to review under the subdivision laws shall contain an index of street
numbers and all tracts not dedicated to the public use. The public works
department is responsible for the assignment of numbers and other management of
the street numbering system. Any violations of this chapter shall be enforced
by the city code enforcement officer. (Ord. 2010-01, 2-9-2010, eff. 3-11-2010)
6-6-4: CITY AUTHORIZED TO PROCURE NUMBERS:
The city public works department is authorized to implement this chapter by
procuring a supply of standard figures of numbers for houses or businesses as
set forth in this chapter, thereafter keeping on hand a sufficient supply,
which numbers shall be furnished to the owners, occupants, and agents of the
owners of the house or business. The city may charge a nominal fee for
supplying the numbers and other assistance provided by the city. (Ord. 2010-01,
2-9-2010, eff. 3-11-2010)
6-6-5: IMPLEMENTATION OF PROGRAM:
There is a ninety (90) day period from the date this chapter takes effect to
implement the requirements.
After this ninety (90) day period, the city reserves the right to adopt
additional ordinance provisions and regulations for purposes of enforcement of
this chapter. (Ord. 2010-01, 2-9-2010, eff. 3-11-2010)
6-6-6: RENUMBERING:
Whenever existing street numbers for particular lots or tracts of land:
   A.   Are out of sequence;
   B.   Indicate that the structure should be found on the other side of the
street;
   C.   Identify houses on corner lots as being on one intersecting street when
by virtue of their position on the lot they should be on the other intersecting
street;
   D.   Need to be changed to bring numbers assigned by the county into
conformity with numbers assigned by the city;
   E.   Do not conform to the system and the modifications thereto used by the
city public works department in assigning street numbers; or
   F.   Do not comply with one or more of the other requirements of this
chapter,
the public works department may designate that owner of the affected property
change the number to one selected by the city public works department.
In the event the affected homeowner does not agree with the designation by the
public works department, they may, within thirty (30) days from notification of
that designation, file an appeal to the city council, and that appeal will be
placed on the agenda for review.
The city council, after hearing the homeowner's objection may either confirm,
modify, or rescind the public works department's designation. Failure to comply
with the address designation change will subject the responsible party to the
same assessment applicable to other noncompliant homeowners. (Ord. 2010-01, 2-
9-2010, eff. 3-11-2010)
6-6-7: TRAILERS AND RV PARKS:
The city reserves the right to adopt additional regulations as it relates to
numbering of individual units located in trailer parks or recreational parks,
and other housing units in which more than one housing unit is located on a
tract. (Ord. 2010-01, 2-9-2010, eff. 3-11-2010)
TITLE 7
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
7-1-1: Adoption
7-1-2: Type Of Structures Governed By Colstrip Building Codes, Type Of
Structures Exempted
7-1-3: Code Enforcement Officer
7-1-4: Procedures For Administration And Enforcement
7-1-5: Schedule Of Construction And Inspection Fees
7-1-6: Appeal Procedure
7-1-7: Employees Inspecting, Reviewing Plans, Approving Structures And
Installation
7-1-1: ADOPTION:
The city of Colstrip hereby adopts by reference:
   International building code, 2018 edition.
   International energy conservation code, 2018 edition.
   International existing building code, 2018 edition.
   International fuel gas code, 2018 edition.
   International mechanical code, 2018 edition.
   International residential code, 2018 edition.
   National electrical code, 2017 edition.
   Uniform plumbing code, 2018 edition.
   and all related amendments to the above referenced codes, which were adopted
by the state of Montana department of labor and industry.
These codes and amendments are applicable to all buildings within the building
code enforcement area of Colstrip as provided by Montana Code Annotated section
50-60-102. (Ord. 07-03, 4-10-2007, eff. 5-11-2007; amd. Ord. 2014-03, 12-23-
2014, eff. 1-24-2015; Ord. 2020-01, 2-25-2020; Ord. 2020-03, 4-28-2020; Ord.
2021-01, 8-24-2021)
7-1-2: TYPE OF STRUCTURES GOVERNED BY COLSTRIP BUILDING CODES, TYPE OF
STRUCTURES EXEMPTED:
   A.   Structures Governed: The city building code and mechanical code
governs, within the corporate boundaries of the city, the construction,
erection, and structural alteration of all buildings within the jurisdictional
area of Colstrip, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Single-family residential.
      2.   Multi-family residential.
      3.   Private garages or private storage structures as provided by Montana
Code Annotated section 50-60-102(1)(a).
      4.   Farm or ranch buildings.
      5.   Patios, decks, porches.
      6.   Commercial and industrial.
   B.   Structures Exempted: The following structures are not subject to the
city building code or mechanical code:
      1.   Mines and buildings on mine property regulated under Montana Code
Annotated title 82, chapter 4, and subject to inspection under the federal mine
safety and health act.
      2.   Petroleum refineries and pulp and paper mills.
      3.   Electric power generation structures subject to inspection by the
state of Montana.
      4.   Manufactured housing that has been approved and certified by the
Montana building codes division as meeting the applicable federal standards.
(Ord. 02-02, 6-25-2002, eff. 7-25-2002)
7-1-3: CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER 1 :
   A.   Position Created: The city has created the position of code enforcement
officer to administer and enforce the city's building codes program.
   B.   Duties And Authority: The code enforcement officer has the following
duties and authority:
      1.   To receive and process applications for building permits, and to
determine the amount of the building permit fee for each application.
      2.   To review building permit applications and to act to issue or deny
each application.
      3.   To conduct inspections as necessary during construction or
installation to ensure that the work complies with the building codes ordinance
and the approved building permits.
      4.   To issue stop work orders whenever work does not conform to the
building codes ordinance.
      5.   To issue a certificate of occupancy when construction is completed
and meets final approval.
      6.   To make interpretations of the building codes and to adopt and
enforce supplementary rules to clarify the application of the codes, provided
the supplementary rules conform to the building codes ordinance. (Ord. 02-02,
6-25-2002, eff. 7-25-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 1, chapter 6, article B of this code.
7-1-4: PROCEDURES FOR ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Permit Required: Before any building or structure is erected,
constructed, moved, expanded or structurally altered within the incorporated
boundaries of the city, a building permit issued by the city code enforcement
officer is required.
   B.   Application Submitted: Any person(s) proposing an action for which a
building permit is required must submit a building permit application, provided
by the code enforcement officer, with the proper review fee and required
accompanying materials and information. The required materials and information
include:
      1.   A scale drawing showing the dimensions of the lot and locations of
existing and proposed structures.
      2.   The name of the property owner and the legal description of the lot.
      3.   The proposed use of the land, building or other structures situated
on the property.
      4.   Other information that may be required by the code enforcement
officer.
   C.   Review Of Application:
      1.   Upon receipt of a complete building permit application, the code
enforcement officer shall review the application and plans to determine whether
the proposed activity complies with the uniform building code, uniform
mechanical code, and other applicable codes and regulations. The code
enforcement officer also shall submit copies of the application and plans to
other affected city departments for their review and approval before issuing a
building permit. The code enforcement officer shall complete the review and act
to issue or deny the building permit within thirty (30) days of submittal of a
complete application.
      2.   The code enforcement officer may, in certain cases, request the
assistance of the Montana building code bureau, or other state agency or
professional consultant in reviewing a building permit application. In such a
case, the code enforcement officer must act on issuing or denying a building
permit within forty (40) days of submittal of a complete application.
   D.   Expiration Of Issued Permit; Suspension Or Revocation:
      1.   Expiration: A building permit issued under this chapter is valid for
one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of issuance, unless construction
has begun. Once construction has begun, if construction is suspended or
abandoned for more than one hundred eighty (180) days, the building permit will
expire. Upon expiration of a building permit, a new building permit must be
obtained under these procedures before construction may resume.
      2.   Suspension Or Revocation: The code enforcement officer may, in
writing, suspend or revoke a building permit whenever the permit is issued in
error, was issued on the basis of incorrect information, or is in violation of
the building codes ordinances or any other pertinent regulation.
   E.   Inspections; Right Of Entry; Stop Orders:
      1.   The code enforcement officer will conduct inspections of the
proposed activity before and during construction to ensure the work is in
compliance with this chapter. Where other departments or agencies require
inspections, the code enforcement officer will ensure that those inspections
are conducted in a timely manner that will not cause undue delay in
construction.
      2.   Right Of Entry; Liability: The code enforcement officer has the
right to enter on property subject to a building permit to conduct inspections
as needed. All construction work must remain accessible and exposed for
inspection purposes until approved by the code enforcement officer. Neither the
code enforcement officer nor the city shall be liable for any expense entailed
in the removal or replacement of any materials required to allow inspection.
      3.   Stop Orders: Whenever the code enforcement officer finds that
construction or installation work does not comply with this chapter, he will
inform the applicant or owner in writing and orders any further construction or
work to cease until the plans or the construction work, or both, conform to the
requirements of this chapter.
   F.   Certificate Of Occupancy: When the code enforcement officer determines
that the completed work complies with this chapter, he will issue a certificate
of occupancy, which notifies the applicant that the work has been approved and
that the affected buildings or structures may be occupied or otherwise used as
indicated in the building permit application. All inspections and issuance of
certificates of occupancy will be conducted in accordance with sections 305
through 307 of the uniform building code.
   G.   Reviewing And Approving Factory Built Buildings: Factory built
buildings that have been approved by the building codes bureau are subject to
inspection and the requirements under this chapter only for purposes of utility
connections and foundations and zoning compliance.
   H.   Liability: The code enforcement officer or other representative of the
city, acting in good faith and without malice in the discharge of their duties
under this chapter, shall not be rendered personally liable for damages that
may accrue to persons or property resulting from actions or omissions by city
personnel. The city will defend any city representative against a lawsuit
alleging damages because of an action or omission by a city representative
discharging duties under this chapter. (Ord. 02-02, 6-25-2002, eff. 7-25-2002)
7-1-5: SCHEDULE OF CONSTRUCTION AND INSPECTION FEES:
The fee schedule for both permitted and nonpermitted construction and
inspection will be set and determined by resolution of the city council, based
upon the recommendation of the city building inspector and review of
construction fee schedules in other Eastern Montana communities. (Ord. 2012-04,
7-24-2012, eff. 8-24-2012)
7-1-6: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Creation Of Board Of Appeals: In order to hear and decide appeals of
orders, decisions or determinations made by the code enforcement officer
relating to interpretations and application of this chapter, the city council
hereby creates a board of appeals and will appoint citizens of Colstrip who are
qualified by experience and training to hear and pass on matters pertaining to
building construction. The members of the board of appeals serve at the
pleasure of the city council. Members of the board of appeals will not be
employees of the city. The code enforcement officer is an ex officio,
nonvoting, member of the board and serves as the board secretary. The board
will adopt rules of procedure for conducting its business, and render its
decisions and findings in writing to the appellant and the code enforcement
officer.
   B.   Limitations Of Authority: The board of appeals has no authority to
interpret the administrative provisions of the building code, and has no
authority to waive requirements of the building code.
   C.   Appeal Procedures:
      1.   The property owner, or Colstrip resident, submits a building codes
appeal form to the code enforcement officer at the city hall. The appellant
describes the decision appealed and the points and/or reasons he believes he
has been aggrieved.
      2.   If the appeal is based on technical issues, the code enforcement
officer shall submit the appeal to the state of Montana building codes division
for an interpretation prior to board of appeals review.
      3.   The board of appeals publishes notice of the time and date of a
meeting to consider the appeal.
      4.   At the meeting, the board of appeals considers all information
pertaining to the code enforcement officer's decision or order, and the
appellant's reasons for appealing. Representatives of the appellant may be
present at the meeting to provide additional information.
      5.   The board of appeals makes a written findings regarding the appeal,
and provides the appellant a copy of the written findings. (Ord. 02-02, 6-25-
2002, eff. 7-25-2002)
7-1-7: EMPLOYEES INSPECTING, REVIEWING PLANS, APPROVING STRUCTURES AND
INSTALLATION:
The Colstrip code enforcement officer must be either inspector certified or
have a construction related engineering or architectural degree or license in
order to perform building and mechanical inspections under this chapter. (Ord.
02-02, 6-25-2002, eff. 7-25-2002)
CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
8-1-1: Title
8-1-2: Authority
8-1-3: Purpose And Intent
8-1-4: Jurisdictional Area
8-1-5: Permit Required
8-1-6: Official Zoning Map
8-1-7: Zoning Officer; Duties
8-1-8: Zoning Commission
8-1-9: Procedures For Application, Review And Granting Zoning Permits
8-1-10: Conditional Use Permits
8-1-11: Board Of Adjustment
8-1-12: Appeal Of Decision By Zoning Officer Or Zoning Commission
8-1-13: Schedule Of Fees
8-1-14: Violation; Penalties
8-1-15: Separability Clause
8-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and cited as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF
COLSTRIP, MONTANA. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This title is adopted under the authority of the municipal zoning enabling act
(Montana Code Annotated section title 76 chapter 2, part 3). (Ord. 01-07, 12-
11-2001)
8-1-3: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this title is to promulgate and adopt such
regulations that:
      1.   Are designed in accordance with the comprehensive growth policy.
(Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Are designed to lessen congestion in the streets.
      3.   Will secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers.
      4.   Will promote health and the general welfare.
      5.   Will provide adequate light and air.
      6.   Will prevent the overcrowding of land.
      7.   Will avoid undue concentration of population.
      8.   Will facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewerage, schools, parks and such other public requirements.
      9.   Give reasonable consideration to the character of the district.
      10.   Give reasonable consideration to the district's peculiar
suitability for particular uses.
      11.   Give reasonable consideration to conserving the value of buildings.
      12.   Will encourage the most appropriate use of land throughout the
jurisdictional area.
   B.   Intent: The intent of this title is to:
      1.   Ensure that the land uses of a community are properly situated in
relation to one another, providing adequate space for each type of development,
and preventing problems associated with incompatible uses.
      2.   Control the density of development in each area of the community so
that property can be adequately serviced by such public facilities as streets,
schools, recreation and utility systems.
      3.   Direct new growth into appropriate areas.
      4.   Protect existing property by requiring that development afford
adequate light, air and privacy for persons living and working within the
municipality.
      5.   Improve the quality of the physical environment of the community.
      6.   Protect and maintain property values.
      7.   Preserve and develop the economic base of the community.
      8.   Encourage the provision of affordable housing for families of all
income levels. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-1-4: JURISDICTIONAL AREA:
The zoning jurisdiction of the city shall include the land within the corporate
limits of the city and within the extraterritorial lands adjoining the
corporate limits as shown on the official Colstrip zoning map. (Ord. 01-07, 12-
11-2001)
8-1-5: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Zoning Permit: A zoning permit must be obtained from the zoning officer
before any building, structure or land may be used or occupied and before any
building or structure permitted under this title may be erected, placed, moved,
expanded or structurally altered. A zoning permit may be issued only when the
proposed building, structure, parcel or use will meet the requirements of this
title.
   B.   Conditional Use Permit: A conditional use permit must be obtained
before those uses specified as conditional uses within certain zoning districts
may be established. A conditional use permit must be approved by the zoning
commission and may be issued only when the proposed use will meet both the
requirements of the particular district involved and any conditions specified
for the use.
   C.   Zoning Requirements Operate In Addition To Other Municipal Codes: The
requirements of this title operate in addition to those requirements
established under other city municipal codes; except that where conflicts with
other city municipal codes may occur, the more restrictive regulations shall
govern. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-1-6: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
   A.   Adopted By Reference; The "Official Zoning Map of Colstrip, Montana",
and all notations, references and other information shown on the map are hereby
incorporated by reference and made a part of this title.
   B.   Maintaining And Changing:
      1.   Location; Final Authority: The official zoning map shall be kept in
city hall, and shall be the final authority as to the current status of zoning
districts in the Colstrip zoning jurisdictional area.
      2.   Required Signatures; Information: The official zoning map shall bear
the signature of the mayor, attested by the city clerk-treasurer, the seal of
the city, and the date of adoption of this title.
      3.   Changes: No changes of any nature shall be made to the official
zoning map except in conformity with the procedures specified in this title.
Any changes made to district boundaries in accordance with the procedures of
this title shall be promptly entered on the official zoning map, and a signed
and dated certification attached to the map. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-1-7: ZONING OFFICER; DUTIES:
   A.   Designation: The city council shall designate a zoning officer to
administer and enforce this title. The city council may direct city personnel
or departments to provide assistance as appropriate.
   B.   Duties:
      1.   The zoning officer shall receive applications for zoning permits,
conditional use permits and variance requests; review applications and plans;
grant and issue zoning permits; issue conditional use permits after approval by
the zoning commission; and coordinate inspection of premises and properties.
      2.   Where the zoning officer finds that any of the provisions of this
title are being violated, he shall notify, in writing, the person responsible
for such violations, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the
action necessary to correct it. He shall order discontinuance of illegal
buildings or structures or of illegal additions, alterations, or structural
changes; or shall take any other action authorized by this title to ensure
compliance with or to prevent violation of its provisions.
      3.   The zoning officer shall prepare and maintain records of all
proceedings required or authorized under this title. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-1-8: ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Establishment; Appointment Of Members: The city council shall establish
a zoning commission and appoint members to the board.
   B.   Responsibilities: The zoning commission shall:
      1.   Review proposals and make recommendations to the city council
regarding proposals for amendment of this title and the official zoning map.
      2.   Review and approve applications for conditional use permits under
the procedures set forth in section
8-1-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-1-9: PROCEDURES FOR APPLICATION, REVIEW AND GRANTING ZONING PERMITS:
   A.   Procedures For Applying:
      1.   Zoning Permit: A zoning permit must be obtained from the zoning
officer before any building, other structure, or land may be used or occupied,
or before any building or other structure permitted under this title may be
erected, placed, moved, expanded, or structurally altered. The zoning officer
may issue a zoning permit only when the proposed building, structure, parcel or
use will meet the requirements of this title.
      2.   Application: Before conducting a use, or constructing, erecting,
expanding, or modifying a building or structure, a person must submit a
completed zoning application form to the zoning officer, with all of the
required information, including plans drawn to scale, showing the actual
dimensions and shape of the lot, the exact sizes and location of existing and
proposed buildings and other structures. The application shall include such
other information as may be required by the zoning officer, including uses of
buildings and land; the number of families, dwelling units, or rental units
proposed; conditions existing on the lot; and such other matters as may be
necessary to determine conformance with this title.
   B.   Review; Issuance:
      1.   Zoning Officer Review: The zoning officer shall review the
application to ensure the required information is submitted and is complete.
When the application and submitted information are complete, the zoning officer
shall determine whether the proposed building, structure, alteration, or use is
permitted at the proposed location, and whether the proposal will comply with
the requirements of the applicable district and these regulations.
      2.   Issuance: Should the zoning officer find that the proposal is
permitted in the applicable district and will conform to all requirements, he
shall issue a zoning permit.
      3.   Denial: Should the zoning officer find that the proposal either is
not permitted in the applicable district or will not conform to all
requirements of this title, he shall deny the application and state, in
writing, that the application is denied, and explain the reasons for denial.
The statement accompanied by one copy of the application must be sent to the
applicant.
      4.   Compliance Required: Construction, installation, alteration,
placement or use must comply with the plans approved by the zoning officer.
      5.   Term: A zoning permit shall be in effect for one year from the date
of approval. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-1-10: CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of conditional use permits is to provide for a
detailed and comprehensive review of specified uses that potentially could have
adverse impact on the community. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
   B.   Conditional Uses; Requirements: No structure or land identified as a
conditional use in a district may be built, located or occupied in that
district until it is approved by the zoning commission through these
procedures. Uses not listed in this title may be allowed with written approval
from the zoning commission and approval by the city council, if they meet with
the spirit and intent of this section and will conform to all of the
restrictions of this section. (Ord. 06-06, 11-14-2006, eff. 12-15-2006)
   C.   Procedures For Conditional Use Permit: The following procedures must be
followed before the zoning commission may grant a conditional use permit:
      1.   Application: The applicant must prepare an accurate and complete
written application for a conditional use to the zoning commission. All
applications for conditional use permits must be accompanied by plans drawn to
approximate scale, showing the approximate dimensions and shape of the lot to
be built upon; the approximate sizes and locations on the lot of existing and
proposed structures.
      2.   Zoning Officer Review: The zoning officer shall review applications
for a conditional use or variance to ensure the application is complete and
determine whether the applicant should request a conditional use, a variance,
or both.
      3.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice shall be published at least seven (7) days
in advance of a public hearing before the zoning commission. The owner of the
property for which a conditional use is sought or his agent shall be notified
of the hearing by mail. The zoning officer shall place a visible sign on the
property stating that an application for a conditional use permit has been
submitted and informing of the time, date and place of the public hearing.
      4.   Hearing: At the public hearing, any party may appear in person or
through an agent or attorney.
      5.   Written Findings: Before granting a conditional use permit, the
zoning commission shall make a written finding that the proposed use will
comply with the conditions governing the use and the other requirements of this
title, and that the conditional use will not adversely affect the character of
the district.
      6.   Commission Decision: The zoning commission must make a decision on
an application for a conditional use permit within forty five (45) days of the
zoning officer's determination that the application is complete and properly
requests a conditional use pursuant to subsection C2 of this section.
      7.   Variance Also Requested: Where an applicant for a conditional use
permit also must be granted a variance under these regulations, the zoning
commission and the board of adjustment shall hold one public hearing regarding
both the conditional use application and variance request.
      8.   Issuance: Upon approval by the zoning commission and after
determining that a proposed conditional use will conform to the conditions
specified by the zoning commission, the zoning officer shall issue a
conditional use permit to the applicant.
   D.   Conditions For Granting: The zoning commission must consider the
following conditions in reviewing and acting upon each application for a
conditional use:
      1.   Ingress/Egress: Provide adequate ingress and egress to the property
and structures, with particular concern for vehicular and pedestrian safety,
traffic flow and access in case of fire or other emergency.
      2.   Off Street Parking And Loading: Provide adequate off street parking
and loading areas, with particular attention to access, traffic flow, and
vehicular and pedestrian safety.
      3.   Garbage: Properly locate garbage containers and garbage pick up with
respect to traffic flow and access, odor, and vehicular and pedestrian safety.
      4.   Utilities: Provide proper utilities that are placed in suitable
locations.
      5.   Screening; Buffering: Provide adequate screening and buffering, with
attention to type, dimension, location and character.
      6.   Signs; Lighting: Ensure signs and lighting prevent or minimize glare
with particular attention to traffic safety and harmony with adjacent
properties.
      7.   Compatibility: Ensure general compatibility with adjacent and nearby
properties. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-1-11: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
   A.   Established:
      1.   Authority To Establish: A board of adjustment (hereinafter referred
as "the board") is hereby established in accordance with Montana Code Annotated
sections 76-2-321 through 76-2-328. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001; amd. Ord. 2005-01,
6-28-2005, eff. 6-28-2005)
      2.   Council To Act As Board: When board member terms expire and the
interest of other citizens serving on the board of adjustments is limited, the
city council of the city of Colstrip is authorized as a legislative body, to
sit as a board of adjustment for the city of Colstrip, until such time that
there is sufficient interest by citizens to fill the vacancies on the board.
(Ord. 2005-01, 6-28-2005, eff. 6-28-2005)
   B.   Appointment; Term: The city council shall appoint five (5) to seven (7)
members to the board, each for a term of three (3) years except that in the
initial appointment, two (2) members shall be appointed for a term of one year,
two (2) members for a term of two (2) years, and three (3) members for a term
of three (3) years.
   C.   Removal: Members of the board may be removed from office by the city
council for cause upon written charges and after public hearing.
   D.   Vacancies: Vacancies on the board shall be filled by the city council
for the unexpired term of the member affected.
   E.   Powers Of The Board Of Adjustment:
      1.   Hardship: "Hardship" refers to circumstances peculiar to the
particular property. Financial or economic difficulties or consequences of
actions by the property owner are not "hardships" for zoning purposes.
      2.   Criteria For Granting Variance: The board shall have the following
powers to grant variances from the standards of this title where the board
determines:
         a.   That granting the variance will not be contrary to the public
interest.
         b.   That where owing to special conditions a literal enforcement of
the provisions of these regulations will result in unnecessary hardship.
         c.   That where the spirit of this title will be observed and
substantial justice done.
      3.   Requirements Allowed To Vary: More specifically, the board may
approve, conditionally approve, or deny any request to modify the following
requirements of this title:
         a.   Setback requirements.
         b.   Yard requirements.
         c.   Area requirements.
         d.   Height and width requirements.
         e.   Parking requirements.
         f.   Loading requirements.
   F.   Proceedings Of Board Of Adjustment:
      1.   Chairman; Rules; Meetings: The board shall select one of its members
as chairman and shall adopt rules necessary to conduct its affairs in keeping
with the provisions of this title. Meetings shall be held at the call of the
chairman and at such other times as the board may determine. The chairman, or
in his absence, the acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. Meetings shall be open to the public.
      2.   Minutes: The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing
the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, and immediately file in the office of the board. The board
shall make its records and minutes available for public inspection.
   G.   Requesting A Variance:
      1.   Application: Any person may submit an application for a variance to
the board of adjustment as provided by the rules of the board by filing an
application with the zoning officer. The application for variance must
specifically set forth the grounds for requesting the variance as indicated on
the application form.
      2.   Zoning Officer Review: The zoning officer shall review applications
for a conditional use or variance to ensure the application is complete and
determine whether the applicant should request a conditional use, a variance,
or both.
      3.   Hearing; Notice: The board shall fix a reasonable time for the
hearing on the variance request, publish notice of the hearing at least seven
(7) days prior to holding a public hearing, and shall notify, by mail, the
person requesting the variance. The zoning officer shall place a visible sign
on the property stating that an application for a variance has been submitted
and informing of the time, date and place of the public hearing. At the
hearing, any party may appear in person or be represented by an agent or
attorney.
      4.   Board Action: The board must make a decision on an application for a
variance within forty five (45) days of the zoning officer's determination that
the application is complete and properly requests a variance pursuant to
subsection G2 of this section.
      5.   Variance Also Requested: Where an applicant for a conditional use
permit also must be granted a variance under these regulations, the zoning
commission and the board of adjustment shall hold one public hearing regarding
both the conditional use application and variance request.
   H.   Criteria For Approval To Grant Variance:
      1.   The board of adjustment must make a finding that the granting of the
variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this title,
will not be injurious to the neighborhood, is the minimum variance that will
make possible the reasonable use of the land, building or structure, and will
not be detrimental to the public welfare.
      2.   Also, the board must determine:
         a.   That granting the variance will not be contrary to the public
interest.
         b.   That where owing to special circumstances literal enforcement of
these regulations will result in unnecessary hardship. "Hardship" refers to
circumstances peculiar to the particular property. Financial or economic
difficulties, or consequences of actions by the property owner are not
hardships for zoning purposes.
      3.   More specifically, the board may, approve, conditionally approve, or
deny any request to modify the following requirements of this title:
         a.   Setback requirements.
         b.   Yard requirements.
         c.   Area requirements.
         d.   Height and width requirements.
         e.   Parking requirements.
         f.   Loading requirements.
      4.   Under no circumstances may the board of adjustment grant a variance,
nor the city council grant an appeal, that would allow a use not permissible
under the terms of this title in the district involved, or any use expressly or
by implication prohibited by the terms of this title in the district. (Ord. 01-
07, 12-11-2001)
8-1-12: APPEAL OF DECISION BY ZONING OFFICER OR ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Right Of Appeal: Any person may file a notice of appeal of a decision
of the zoning officer or the zoning commission within thirty (30) days of the
date of the decision.
   B.   Notice Of Appeal: The notice of appeal shall be submitted to the city
clerk-treasurer at least seven (7) days prior to the next regular meeting of
the city council. The notice must describe the circumstances and grounds for
the appeal. After a notice of appeal is filed, the zoning officer shall
promptly transmit all papers and records pertaining to the appealed decision to
the city clerk-treasurer.
   C.   Notice Of Hearing: The city clerk-treasurer shall publish notice that
the appeal will be heard by the city council at a regular council meeting, or
if deemed necessary by the mayor, at a special meeting of the city council.
   D.   Hearing: The city council shall hold a hearing, at which any party may
appear in person or be represented by an agent or attorney.
   E.   Council Decision: The city council may affirm, reverse, or modify,
wholly or in part, the decision appealed.
   F.   Conflict Of Interest: In a case where the city council believes that a
conflict of interest or other problem may exist, the council may appoint an ad
hoc committee and delegate to the committee the authority to hear and decide
the appeal under this section. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-1-13: SCHEDULE OF FEES:
   A.   Establish And Collect Fees: The city council shall, through resolution
of the council, establish a schedule of fees and charges and a collection
procedure for zoning permits, conditional use permits, and appeals. (Ord. 2012-
04, 7-24-2012, eff. 8-24-2012)
8-1-14: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Filing A Complaint:
      1.   Upon written or oral complaint of any citizen so affected by the
alleged code violation, or if an enforcement officer becomes aware of a
condition or situation through their observations or the observations of other
city employees, the enforcement officer shall investigate the condition or
situation within a reasonable period of time.
      2.   The enforcement officer shall determine whether such condition or
situation constitutes a code violation or public nuisance. If the officer finds
that there exists a code violation or public nuisance, the officer shall give
written notice to the property owner, and take any further action as provided
for by this title.
      3.   Enforcements of any complaint under this section shall be in
accordance with the principles of fundamental fairness. (Ord. 06-05, 6-27-2006,
eff. 7-28-2006)
   B.   Penalties:
      1.   Violation: Violation of the provisions of this title or failure to
comply with any of its requirements, including violations of conditions and
safeguards established in connection with the granting of variances or
conditional uses or any of the requirements for conditions imposed by the city
council, shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this title or
fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense, and in
addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense and be punishable as
such 1 .
      2.   Additional Remedies: Nothing set forth in this section shall prevent
the city from taking other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy
any violation. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 76-2-315.
8-1-15: SEPARABILITY CLAUSE:
Should any section or provision of this title be declared unconstitutional or
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the decision shall not affect the
validity of the title as a whole, or any part thereof other than the part
declared to be unconstitutional or invalid. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Interpretation Of Certain Words
8-2-2: General Definitions
8-2-1: INTERPRETATION OF CERTAIN WORDS:
For purposes of this title, the following conditions and interpretations apply:
   A.   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
   B.   Words used in the singular number include the plural; words used in the
plural include the singular, unless the natural construction of the wording
indicates otherwise.
   C.   The word "person" includes a firm, association, corporation, trust,
organization, partnership or company, as well as an individual.
   D.   The word "lot" includes the words "parcel" or "tract".
   E.   The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive. (Ord. 01-
07, 12-11-2001)
8-2-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
The following terms used in this title mean:
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR USE: The use or structure on the same lot with, and
customarily secondary or subordinate to, the principal use or structure.
ALLEY: A public or private thoroughfare that provides right of way for
utilities and access for service vehicles serving abutting properties.
ALTERATION OF A BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: The modification of a building or
structure that changes its exterior dimensions or its roofline(s).
BAR, TAVERN, LOUNGE, NIGHT CLUB: An establishment in which one function is
public sale and serving of alcoholic beverages.
BED AND BREAKFAST 1 : A residential dwelling where the residents provide
overnight lodging and meals to guests. Food and beverages are served only to
overnight guests.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building, or portion thereof, where lodging for five (5) or
more persons is provided for compensation whether or not meals are provided.
BUILDING: Any structure erected for support, shelter or enclosure of persons,
animals, or property of any kind.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the highest point of a structure to
the finished grade of the ground.
CHURCH, SYNAGOGUE, PLACE OF WORSHIP: A building designed and used for public
worship by a religious body.
CONDITIONAL USE: A use that is allowed in a specific district if the use meets
certain requirements in order to maintain and assure the health and safety of
the community and to maintain the character of the district.
DISTRICT, ZONING: A geographical area designated in this title and delineated
on the zoning map for which requirements for the use of land and structures and
development standards are prescribed.
DRIVE UP EATING ESTABLISHMENT: A building or structure from which persons are
served food or beverages in their vehicles or at curbside, including
establishments that serve customers outside of their vehicles.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof used for occupancy by one or more
families.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building or portion thereof designed for
residential occupancy by two (2) or more families living separately.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building designed for residential occupancy by one
family.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building designed for residential occupancy by two (2)
families living separately.
DWELLING UNIT: A building or portion thereof providing separate cooking,
eating, sleeping and living facilities for one family.
FAMILY: One or more persons living together as a single housekeeping unit and
occupying a dwelling unit.
GRADE: The point of elevation of the finished surface of ground at the exterior
wall of the building.
HOME OCCUPATION: The use of a portion of a dwelling unit or accessory building
for occupations at home by one or more persons residing in the dwelling unit.
The activity must be clearly incidental and subordinate to the use of the
building as a dwelling.
HOTEL/MOTEL: A building, or buildings, containing six (6) or more rooms
designed and rented for sleeping purposes for transients, and where only a
general kitchen and dining room may be provided within the building or in an
accessory building.
JUNK VEHICLE: Any discarded, abandoned, ruined, wrecked, or dismantled motor
vehicle, including any component part, which is not validly licensed and/or
remains inoperative or incapable of being driven.
LIVESTOCK: Animals such as horses, cattle, sheep and all other animals
generally considered to be livestock or farm animals.
LOADING SPACE, OFF STREET: An off street space conveniently located at a
building to allow service pick ups and deliveries by commercial vehicles.
LOT 2 : A parcel or tract of land shown as an individual unit of ownership on a
certificate of survey, subdivision plat, deed or other instrument of record.
LOT, CORNER 3 : A lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more streets.
LOT DEPTH 4 : The mean distance between the front and rear lot lines.
LOT FRONTAGE 5 : The portion of a lot nearest the street. For corner lots the
front of a lot shall be the narrowest part of the lot having street frontage.
LOT, INTERIOR 6 : A lot with only one frontage on a street.
LOT, LINES 7 : The lines bounding a "lot" as defined herein.
LOT WIDTH 8 : The mean width of the lot measured at right angles to its depth,
as measured at the building setback line.
MICRO HOME OR TINY HOME: Designed as a minimalist structure with a suitable
living space for one or two (2) people, is smaller than eight hundred (800)
square feet and includes normal features such as kitchens and bathrooms.
MOBILE HOME: A detached residential dwelling unit fabricated at a factory, not
in accordance with the standards of the uniform building code, and designed for
transportation on its own chassis to a building site for occupation as a
dwelling with or without a permanent foundation.
MOBILE HOME PARK: A tract of land providing two (2) or more spaces for lease or
rent to the general public for siting mobile homes.
MODULAR HOME: A dwelling constructed at a factory in accordance with the
building code applicable to site built homes, and transported to the site for
final assembly on a permanent foundation.
NURSING HOME: A building used to house and care for ambulatory, aged, or infirm
persons under the care and supervision of a professional staff.
OFFICE, PROFESSIONAL, BUSINESS, ADMINISTRATIVE AND GOVERNMENT: Offices occupied
by accountants, architects, dentists, doctors, engineers, attorneys, insurance
agents, real estate agents, public employees and other professions.
PARKING SPACE, OFF STREET: A space located off any public right of way that is
available for parking a motor vehicle.
PERSON: Includes a firm, association, corporation, trust, organization,
partnership or company, limited liability company, as well as an individual.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: A premises used for public camping where persons can
rent space to park individual camping trailers, pickup campers, motor homes,
travel trailers.
RESPONSIBLE PERSON: Any agent, lessee, owner, or other person occupying, or
having apparent charge or control over any premises.
RESTAURANT: A public eating facility that does not provide curb side or drive
up automobile service.
RETAIL SALES: An establishment selling goods, wares, or merchandise directly to
a consumer.
SERVICE STATION: A building or buildings and service area where automotive
vehicles are fueled, serviced or repaired.
SETBACK: The horizontal distance required between any structure and a lot line,
measured at right angles to the lot line.
SHOPPING CENTER: One or more buildings containing at least three (3) separate
retail businesses that are planned, developed and managed as a unit with off
street parking provided on the property.
SIGN 9 : Any lettered or pictorial device or structure designed to inform or
attract attention.
STRUCTURE: That which is constructed or erected at a fixed location on the
ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground.
Structures include buildings, mobile homes, walls, fences, and billboards or
signs.
TOWER: A freestanding or guided structure for the purposes of communication or
power transmission for commercial or private use.
USE: Any purpose for which a building or other structure or a tract of land may
be designed, arranged, intended, maintained, or occupied in any legal activity,
occupation, business, or operation carried on or intended to be carried on in a
building or other structure or on a tract of land.
VARIANCE: The approved relaxation of the strict application of the terms of
these regulations where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of
the provisions of these regulations will result in an unnecessary hardship,
where it will not be contrary to the public interest, and where the spirit of
this title will be observed and substantial justice done.
WHOLESALE: The sale of goods and merchandise for resale rather than for direct
consumption.
WINDMILL, WIND UNIT, WIND TOWER: Any wind driven propeller, blade or fan that
is activated by wind and erected for any purpose.
YARD, FRONT 10 : A required open space unoccupied by any structure or portion
of a structure and extending across the full width of the lot between the front
building line and the front lot line.
YARD, REAR 11 : A required open space unoccupied by any structure or portion of
a structure and extending across the full width of the lot between the rear
building line of the principal building and the rear lot line.
YARD, SIDE 12 : A required open space unoccupied by any structure or portion of
a structure and extending from the side building line to a side lot line
running from the front to the rear of the lot. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001; amd.
2003 Code; Ord. 2012-06, 11-27-2012, eff. 12-28-2012; Ord. 2013-02, 6-11-2013,
eff. 7-11-2013)
 
Notes
1  1. See section
   8-3-7 of this chapter.
2  1. See section
   8-5-1 of this title, appendix A, figure 1.
3  2. See section
   8-5-1 of this title, appendix A, figure 1.
4  3. See section
   8-5-1 of this title, appendix A, figure 1.
5  4. See section
   8-5-1 of this title, appendix A, figure 1.
6  5. See section
   8-5-1 of this title, appendix A, figure 1.
7  6. See section
   8-5-1 of this title, appendix A, figure 1.
8  7. See section
   8-5-1 of this title, appendix A, figure 1.
9  1. See section
   8-3-6 of this title.
10 2. For graphic of yard definitions, see section
   8-5-2 of this title, appendix A, figure 2.
11 3. For graphic of yard definitions, see section
   8-5-2 of this title, appendix A, figure 2.
12 4. For graphic of yard definitions, see section
   8-5-2 of this title, appendix A, figure 2.
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Applicability
8-3-2: Nonconforming Lots, Uses And Structures
8-3-3: Supplemental District Regulations
8-3-4: Off Street Loading
8-3-5: Off Street Parking
8-3-6: Signs
8-3-7: Home Occupations; Bed And Breakfasts
8-3-8: Garages
8-3-1: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all lands, uses and structures
subject to this title. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-3-2: NONCONFORMING LOTS, USES AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Purpose:
      1.   Within the districts established by this title, lots, structures,
and uses of land and structures may exist which were lawful at the time this
title was adopted or amended, but which would be prohibited or regulated under
the terms of this title or future amendments. The intent of this section is to
permit these nonconformities to continue until they are removed, but not to
encourage their survival. This title further intends that nonconformities shall
not be enlarged, expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other
structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district.
      2.   Nonconforming uses are declared by this title to be incompatible
with permitted uses in the same district. However, to avoid undue hardship,
nothing in this title shall be deemed to require a change in the plans,
construction or designated use of any building on which actual construction was
lawfully begun prior to the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
title and which actual building construction has been carried on diligently.
"Actual construction" is hereby defined to include the placing of construction
materials in permanent position and fastened in a permanent manner. Where
excavation, demolition or removal of an existing building has substantially
begun preparatory to rebuilding, such excavation or demolition or removal shall
be deemed to be actual construction; provided, that work shall be carried on
diligently.
   B.   Nonconforming Lots Of Record:
      1.   Single Lot: In any district, notwithstanding other limitations
imposed by this title, structures permitted in a district may be established on
any single lot of record on the effective date hereof. The lot must be in
separate ownership and not of contiguous frontage with other lots of the same
ownership. A lot of record that does not meet lot area or lot width
requirements must meet all other requirements of the district.
      2.   Two Or More Lots Under Single Ownership: If two (2) or more
nonconforming lots with contiguous frontage in single ownership are of record
at the time of passage or amendment hereof, and if any of the lots do not meet
the requirements established for lot width and area, the lands involved shall
be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this title, and no
portion of this parcel shall be used or sold in a manner which diminishes
compliance; nor shall any division of any parcel be made which creates a lot
with width or area that fails to meet the requirements stated in this title.
   C.   Nonconforming Uses Of Land Or Structures: Where, at the time of passage
hereof, a lawful use of land or a structure exists which would not be permitted
by the regulations imposed by this title, the use may be continued where it
remains otherwise lawful, provided:
      1.   Enlarged, Increased Or Extended: A nonconforming use may not be
enlarged or increased, nor extended to occupy a greater area of land or
structure than was occupied on the effective date of adoption or amendment
hereof;
      2.   Moved: No nonconforming use may be moved in whole or in part to any
portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such use on the
effective date of adoption or amendment hereof;
      3.   Cease In Use: Should any nonconforming use cease for any reason for
a period of more than one year, any subsequent use of the land or structure
shall conform to the regulations specified by this title for the district in
which such land is located;
      4.   Erection Of Additional Nonconforming Structure: No additional
nonconforming structure shall be erected in connection with such nonconforming
use of land or structures.
   D.   Nonconforming Structures: Where a lawful structure exists on the
effective date of adoption or amendment hereof, but becomes nonconforming under
the terms of this title by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage,
height, yards, location on the lot, or other requirements concerning the
structure, such structure may be continued, provided it remains otherwise
lawful, subject to the following provisions:
      1.   Enlargement Prohibited: A nonconforming structure may not be
enlarged or altered in a way which increases its nonconformity, but any
structure or portion thereof may be altered to decrease its nonconformity.
      2.   Destruction: Should a nonconforming structure or nonconforming
portion of structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more than fifty
percent (50%) of its replacement cost at the time of destruction, it shall not
be reconstructed except in compliance with the provisions of this title.
      3.   Moved: Should a nonconforming structure be moved for any reason for
any distance whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the
district in which it is located after it is moved.
      4.   Repair; Maintenance: Nothing in this title shall be deemed to
prevent the routine repair and maintenance of a nonconforming structure.
      5.   Strengthening, Restoring To Safe Condition: Nothing in this title
shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition
of any building or part thereof declared to be unsafe by any officials charged
with protecting the public safety, upon order of such official. (Ord. 01-07,
12-11-2001)
8-3-3: SUPPLEMENTAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Intent: The provisions of this section are intended to govern
miscellaneous issues that may arise in more than one district. (Ord. 01-07, 12-
11-2001)
   B.   Animals:
      1.   Districts Allowed: Dogs and cats are allowed in all residential
districts. Hens are allowed by conditional use permit in the R-1, R-4, MU and
M-H residential districts.
      2.   Commercial Care In Residential Districts: The commercial breeding,
care, raising or keeping of any animal is prohibited in residential districts.
      3.   Livestock: "Livestock", as defined in section
8-2-2 of this title, shall not be maintained in any district within the
corporate limits of Colstrip, except that livestock is permitted in the R-
3 residential district for personal, noncommercial use.
      4.   Livestock Fenced Or Confined: All livestock is to be appropriately
fenced or confined to the owner's property. It shall be unlawful for any owner
to allow livestock to run at large within the city limits. (Ord. 2013-02, 6-11-
2013, eff. 7-11-2013)
      5.   Chickens:
         a.   Authorization: The city of Colstrip will implement an expedited
conditional use permitting process allowing up to eight (8) chicken hens
(female Gallus gallus domesticus) in areas zoned for single-family dwellings
within the R-1, R-4, MU and M-H residential districts.
         b.   Permitting Process: Through the permitting process, the city of
Colstrip will establish reasonable permitting conditions. The permit fee is
twenty five dollars ($25.00) annually. Permitting conditions are subject to
oversight by the city council.
         c.   Revocation Of Permit: The city of Colstrip may, upon reasonable
grounds of violations of the permit conditions, revoke such permit. The
revocation must be in writing and identify the reasons the permit is being
revoked.
         d.   Appeal: Any party believing that the basis for revocation was
arbitrary or in bad faith may appeal that decision directly to the mayor. The
mayor may reinstate the permit upon proof that the revocation of the permit was
not in good faith.
         e.   Maintaining Chickens Without Permit: Unless a permit under this
section is obtained, maintaining chickens shall constitute a zoning violation,
in accordance with this code.
         f.   No Changes To Existing Zoning Code: Nothing contained in this
subsection B5 shall be deemed to be a change of any other section of the
existing zoning code. This subsection shall be construed solely as the allowing
of chickens through the permit process, under the terms and conditions of this
subsection B5 and the permitting conditions that are established. (Ord. 2013-
01, 2-12-2013, eff. 3-15-2013)
   C.   Environment: Every use of property shall be carried on to preserve and
protect the environment. The destruction, disturbance or damage to streams,
ponds, springs, underground aquifers, soils or vegetation is strictly
prohibited, except as may be required for the placement or construction of
improvements or for the proper and orderly development of property. Sites or
areas disturbed during construction or other activities shall be revegetated or
restored. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
   D.   Fences And Walls: Unless other provisions of this title specify
otherwise, fences and walls are permitted in any required yard, provided no
fence or wall along the edge of a front yard shall be more than forty eight
inches (48") in height, but are still subject to the visibility of the
intersections, as set forth in subsection E of this section.
In addition, all fences in residential, multiple use, open space, light
industrial and commercial zoning districts shall be constructed from materials,
including fence posts, wire mesh, boards, or rails, which are intended for the
use of fences. Such fences should be maintained in good repair. Barbed wire is
only allowed in the following zoning areas, R-3, open space and light
industrial. (Ord. 06-08, 11-14-2006, eff. 12-15-2006)
   E.   Visibility At Intersections Or Along Curvilinear Streets:
      1.   Corner Lot: On a corner lot in any district for a distance of fifty
feet (50') from the point of intersection along each street, nothing may be
erected, placed, painted, planted, or allowed to grow in a manner that would
impede the visibility of vehicles entering the intersection.
      2.   Curvilinear Streets: Along curvilinear streets, nothing may be
erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow in a manner that would impede the
visibility of vehicles traveling on the street. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001; amd.
2003 Code)
   F.   Mining: No mining, quarrying, or excavation shall be allowed within the
corporate boundaries of Colstrip, except for excavation that may be necessary
for the construction or placing of improvements permitted under these
regulations.
   G.   Public Access: Every principal building erected or placed on a lot
shall have legal and physical access to a public street, other than an alley,
or an approved private street, and all structures shall be so located on lots
as to provide required off street parking and safe and convenient access for
emergency vehicles.
   H.   Access To Fire Hydrants: Nothing may be erected, placed, planted or
allowed to grow in any manner that would obstruct or impede access to fire
hydrants by the city fire department.
   I.   Screening And Buffering: Whenever a nonresidential use or off street
parking area abuts a residential use, the use shall be effectively screened at
the property line on all sides which adjoin or face the residential district or
institutional use by an acceptably designed, sight obscuring wall, fence or
planting screen. The fence, wall, or planting screen shall be not less than
four feet (4') nor more than six feet (6') in height and shall be maintained in
good condition. Where terrain or other natural features effectively serve as a
screen, no wall, fence or planting screen is required.
   J.   Temporary Structures: No tent, shack, garage, automobile, or any other
temporary dwelling is permitted for habitation.
   K.   Towers Or Windmills 1 : No tower, windmill, wind unit, or wind tower
may be constructed or placed within the city limits, except by special
authorization of each unit by the zoning commission under the procedures for
granting a conditional use permit.
   L.   Water And Sewage: All buildings used for human occupancy shall be
connected to the city water and wastewater systems. No private septic system or
other private sewage treatment facility may be used or installed within the
city. Septic systems existing at the time these regulations are adopted may be
repaired or replaced.
   M.   Number Of Principal Structures On Lot: In any district, more than one
structure housing a permitted or conditional principal use may be erected on a
single lot; provided, that minimum yard areas and other requirements of this
title are met for each structure as though it were located on an individual
lot.
   N.   Flammable Materials: Any activity involving the use or storage of
flammable or explosive materials must be entirely enclosed with protective
fencing at least six feet (6') in height and be protected by adequate
firefighting and fire prevention equipment and by normal safety devices. The
activities must be set back not less than one hundred feet (100') from all lot
lines. Such activities will be subject to the fire safety standards prescribed
by the fire chief or other appropriate authority.
   O.   Bars, Taverns, Lounges, Nightclubs: No building, structure or premises
shall be used as a bar, tavern, lounge, nightclub or any commercial
establishment that serves alcoholic beverages within six hundred feet (600'),
and on the same street, of any building used exclusively as a school, church,
synagogue or other place of worship. The distance shall be measured in a
straight line from the center of the nearest entrance of the place of worship
or school to the nearest entrance of the proposed establishment. This distance
restriction does not apply to establishments where sale of table wine and beer
is solely in the original package for off premises consumption.
   P.   Other Required Licenses And Permits: Before the zoning officer may
issue a zoning permit or conditional use permit under sections
8-1-9 and
8-1-10 of this title, the applicant must have obtained all licenses and permits
required by other public agencies, including, but not limited to, the county
sanitarian, Montana department of environmental quality, and Montana division
of building codes.
   Q.   Junk Vehicles, Appliances, Construction Materials, And Debris:
      1.   Junk Vehicles And Appliances: All junk vehicles shall be concealed
from public view. Any major household appliances including washers and dryers,
dishwashers, refrigerators, freezers or similar appliances must be kept in an
enclosed building. This subsection is also applicable to recreational vehicles
and trailers if they fit within the description of junk vehicles.
      2.   Construction Materials: Any construction materials must not be
stored outside an enclosed building unless an active building permit has been
pursued and is current.
      3.   Combustible Materials: Logs, lumber, coal, and other combustible
materials must be stored in an orderly manner, and in a manner in which it does
not create a fire hazard. Any other collection of junk or rubbish, that
involves the open storage of equipment, parts, tires, cardboard, old lumber,
rags, batteries, mattresses, or other debris or discarded materials must be
contained in an enclosed building.
      4.   Violation: Upon receipt of a complaint or an independent observation
of the above zoning violation, all owners or responsible persons of the real
estate on which any of these violations take place, shall have up to thirty
(30) days after notification to remove the items from the property, place the
items in an enclosed building or otherwise remedy the violation. Failure to
remedy this complaint within the prescribed time period, shall be considered a
violation of the zoning ordinance and the penalties set forth in
8-1-14 of this title shall be applied. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
   R.   Propane, Butane, Liquefied Petroleum Tanks:
      1.   Any permanently placed propane, butane, or liquefied petroleum gas
(LP gas) tanks shall conform to the currently adopted NFPA code.
      2.   Any service lines must be buried at least twelve inches (12") below
grade.
      3.   The tank and any associated components must comply with state
regulations and the National Fire Protection Association standards.
      4.   The tank must not be located within any front yard setback and must
be located within property boundaries. (Ord. 06-08, 11-14-2006, eff. 12-15-
2006)
   S.   Accessory And Temporary Uses Permitted: The following accessory and
temporary uses are permitted in all districts:
      1.   Accessory buildings and uses incidental to the above uses.
      2.   Temporary buildings for and during construction only.
   T.   Underground Utilities: Any electrical, telephone, television cable or
other utilities that are newly installed, expanded, replaced, or relocated must
be installed underground in accordance with the applicable standards and
regulations for the particular utility. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-1-10 of this title.
8-3-4: OFF STREET LOADING:
   A.   Purpose: The intent of off street loading requirements is to avoid
traffic hazards and minimize congestion of streets by requiring that off street
loading areas be provided on the same lot as the building served by delivery
trucks and that such areas be adequate in size and number to provide the
service needed without affecting adjacent properties.
   B.   Design Of Off Street Loading Spaces:
      1.   Off street loading spaces shall be provided on the same lot as the
use they serve and shall not occupy the front yard of the lot.
      2.   Each loading space shall be designed to have access to a street or
alley in a manner that does not interfere with traffic movement.
      3.   Each loading space shall be at least ten feet by twenty five feet
(10' x 25') in size or designed to accommodate the largest service trucks
expected to serve the use.
      4.   All or part of the off street loading requirements may be met by
loading facilities within buildings.
   C.   Number Of Off Street Loading Spaces: One off street loading space shall
be provided for every industrial, institutional and commercial use having a
gross floor area of five thousand (5,000) square feet, plus one additional
loading space for each additional ten thousand (10,000) square feet of floor
space. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-3-5: OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   Purpose: The intent of off street parking requirements is to provide
convenient and safe access to property, reduce the need for on street parking
and thus congestion on streets, alleviate hazards associated with access to
traffic generating business and industrial uses, provide adequate and safe
parking for residents and business customers, protect residential uses from the
undesirable effects of abutting traffic, and maintain the traffic carrying
capacity of the road system serving the jurisdiction.
   B.   Design:
      1.   An off street parking space shall be at least nine feet (9') in
width and eighteen feet (18') long.
      2.   Off street parking areas must be accessible from a public street.
      3.   The access to an off street parking area must be at least twenty
four feet (24') wide, or twelve feet (12') wide where one way drives are used.
      4.   Off street parking spaces serving residential uses must be located
on the same lot as the dwelling, and may not be located in any front yard
except in the driveway.
      5.   Off street parking areas serving commercial, industrial, public or
institutional uses must be located within five hundred feet (500') of the use
and may not be located in required front yards.
      6.   Off street parking areas serving multi-family residential
developments of more than ten (10) units, commercial, industrial and
institutional uses must comply with the following provisions:
         a.   Grading And Drainage: Off street parking areas shall be graded,
and any needed swales, culverts, or other drainage facilities installed to
remove surface runoff, in a manner that does not adversely affect adjacent
properties, public streets or surface waters.
         b.   Surfacing: Off street parking areas shall be surfaced with gravel
or equivalent material. Parking areas containing twenty (20) or more spaces
shall be surfaced with asphalt, paving or other hard surface.
         c.   Screening: Where an off street parking area abuts a residential
use or zoning district, the parking area shall be effectively screened at the
property lines by an acceptably designed sight obscuring wall, fence or
planting screen.
         d.   Lighting: No lighting used to illuminate a parking area shall
face, or have its source directly visible from any residential use or
residential zoning district.
   C.   Number Of Spaces: The following number of off street parking spaces are
required:
Type Of Use Parking Spaces Required
Type Of Use                          Parking Spaces Required
1. Residential:
Boarding houses, rooming houses, bed 2 off street spaces, plus 1 per room for
and breakfasts                       rent
   
                                     2 spaces, plus 1 additional space per
Home occupation                      200 square feet of floor area occupied
                                     by the home occupant
Multiple-family                      11/2 per dwelling unit
Mobile home courts                   3 per 2 mobile home spaces
Single-family and mobile home        2 per dwelling unit
2. Commercial:
Auto repair, body shops              2 per service bay
Banks, financial institutions        1 per 300 square feet of gross floor
                                     area
Bowling alleys                       6 per lane
Drive in restaurants                 1 per 80 feet of floor area or a minimum
                                     of 10, whichever is greater
Funeral homes, mortuaries            1 per 4 seats
Hotels, motels                       1 per rental unit, plus 5 for employees
Medical, dental clinics              1 per 250 square feet of gross floor
                                     area
Offices: business, professional,     1 per 500 square feet of gross floor
governmental                         area
   
Restaurants, taverns                 1 per 3 seats of customer seating
Service station                      1 per 2 gasoline pumps and 2 per service
                                     bay
Theater                              1 per 4 seats
All retail firms not otherwise       1 per 200 square feet of gross floor
classified                           area
   
                                     1 per 200 square feet of gross floor
All other commercial uses            area, plus 1 per 300 square feet over
                                     5,000 square feet
3. Institutions:
Churches                             1 per 6 seats
Community centers                    4 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                     area
Hospitals and nursing homes          1 per 3 beds
Libraries, museums                   1 per 400 square feet of gross floor
                                     area
Schools, elementary                  2 per classroom
Schools, high school                 1 per 10 students, plus 1 per teacher
                                     and employee
Other institutions                   1 per 500 square feet of gross floor
                                     area
                                     2 per each 3 employees, but not less
4. Industrial:                       than 1 space for each 1,500 square feet
                                     of gross floor area
 
   D.   Joint Use Of Off Street Parking Facilities: The applicant for a
proposed use may apply to the zoning commission to use the off street parking
facility of another use. The zoning commission may approve an application for
joint use, provided:
      1.   The parking facility is within five hundred feet (500') of the
proposed use.
      2.   There will be no substantial conflict between the principal
operating hours of the uses for which joint use of parking facilities is
proposed, and no conflicting demands for parking by employees, customers or
clients. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-3-6: SIGNS:
   A.   Purpose: Sign regulations are intended to promote and protect the
public safety and welfare by regulating existing and proposed outdoor
advertising signs and signs of all types. The purpose of this section is to
protect property values, create a more attractive economic and business
climate, enhance and protect the physical appearance of the community, and
preserve the scenic and natural beauty of designated areas by regulating
existing and proposed outdoor advertising signs and outdoor signs of all types.
It is further intended to reduce sign or advertising distraction and
obstructions that may contribute to traffic accidents; reduce hazards that may
be caused by signs overhanging or projecting over public rights of way; provide
more open space; curb the deterioration of the natural environment; and enhance
community development. Nothing in this regulation is intended to interfere with
constitutional rights related to free speech.
   B.   Signs Permitted In All Districts Without Permit: The following signs
are permitted in all zoning districts and do not require a permit:
      1.   Signs advertising the sale, lease or rental of the premises upon
which the sign is located, and which do not exceed twelve (12) square feet in
area; except in all residential districts, where the area of the sign shall not
be more than six (6) square feet.
      2.   Signs bearing only property numbers, post box numbers, names of
occupants of premises, or other identification of premises not having
commercial connotations.
      3.   Flags and insignia of any government except when displayed in
connection with commercial promotion.
      4.   Legal notices, identification, information or directional signs
erected or required by governmental bodies.
      5.   Signs directing and guiding traffic and parking on private property,
but bearing no advertising matter.
      6.   Bulletin boards for churches, schools, or other public, religious or
educational institution, provided the sign is located a minimum of ten feet
(10') from the established right of way line of any street or highway and does
not obstruct traffic visibility at street or highway intersections.
      7.   Political or campaign signs, not larger than sixteen (16) square
feet in size, erected temporarily and removed no later than fifteen (15) days
following the election.
      8.   For residential uses, signs not exceeding six (6) square feet in
area and attached to the structure.
      9.   Signage for permitted businesses in residential areas may be up to
four feet by eight feet (4' x 8') and be located so that it does not obstruct
traffic visibility.
   C.   Regulations For On Site Signs In Commercial And Industrial Districts:
All on site signs in commercial and industrial districts require a permit and
are subject to the following provisions:
      1.   Setback: Any on site freestanding sign must be located at least ten
feet (10') from any lot line or street right of way.
      2.   Roof Signs: No sign may be placed on the roof of any building.
      3.   Lighting: An illuminated sign or lighting device may emit only light
of constant intensity, and the lighting may not be placed or directed so that
the beams or illumination cause glare or reflection that may constitute a
traffic hazard or nuisance.
      4.   Height: No freestanding sign shall exceed thirty feet (30') in
height. No wall sign may project above the highest point of the roof.
      5.   Height Clearance: Signs that extend over a sidewalk or walkway shall
have a vertical clearance of at least eight feet (8').
      6.   Number Of Signs Permitted: In business and industrial districts,
each use is permitted one wall sign. In addition, one freestanding sign is
permitted for each building.
      7.   Permitted Surface Area: The total surface area of all signs may not
exceed one hundred (100) square feet.
   D.   Regulation Of Off Site Signs In Commercial And Industrial Districts:
All off site signs in commercial and industrial districts require a permit and
are subject to the following provisions:
      1.   Setback: Any off site freestanding sign must be set back at least
ten feet (10') from any lot line or street right of way.
      2.   Lighting: Any illuminated sign or lighting device may employ only
light emitting a light of constant intensity, and the lighting may not be
placed or directed so that the beams and illumination cause glare or reflection
that may constitute a traffic hazard or nuisance.
      3.   Area: No off site sign may exceed thirty two (32) square feet in
area.
      4.   Height: No off site sign shall exceed thirty five feet (35') in
height as measured from the normal grade at the sign base.
   E.   Regulations For Temporary Signs Requiring Permit: Temporary signs may
not exceed fifty (50) square feet in area and may be erected for a period of
sixty (60) days plus the construction period. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-3-7: HOME OCCUPATIONS; BED AND BREAKFASTS:
   A.   Requirements For Permitted Home Occupations: A home occupation may be
conducted as a secondary use in a dwelling occupied by the owners; provided,
that:
      1.   The use of the dwelling for the home occupation clearly must be
incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes.
      2.   There may be no change in the outside appearance of the building or
premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of the home occupation other
than one sign, not exceeding six (6) square feet in area, nonilluminated, and
attached to the principal structure.
      3.   No traffic may be generated by a home occupation in greater volumes
than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any need for
parking generated by the conduct of the home occupation shall be met off the
street. No home occupation, or any required parking for the home occupation,
shall use the parking space required for the residents.
      4.   No vehicles, except those normally used as passenger vehicles, will
be used for the home occupation unless stored or parked elsewhere.
      5.   No equipment or process shall be used in a home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference
detectable by normal senses off the lot.
      6.   Any equipment or materials used in connection with a home occupation
shall be stored within the principal structure or in an enclosed space outside
of the principal structure.
   B.   Requirements For Bed And Breakfasts:
      1.   A bed and breakfast shall be conducted only in single-family houses.
      2.   The exterior of the residential structure shall not be significantly
modified to provide additional guestrooms or exhibit a nonresidential
appearance.
      3.   Guestrooms and kitchens may not be allowed in accessory buildings.
      4.   A family or manager must be in permanent residence and maintain full
use of the kitchen and occupy at least one bedroom.
      5.   Use of the residential structure must be limited to the exclusive
use of the residents and their overnight guests. No other use such as
restaurant, bar, or other use to nonboarding customers is permitted. No
alcoholic beverages may be sold on the premises. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-3-8: GARAGES:
   A.   Detached Garages:
      1.   Detached garages and accessory buildings shall have the same setback
requirements as residences.
      2.   All detached garages must be at least ten feet (10') from the
principal residence. Detached garages shall not exceed one story in height. In
areas that are zoned R-1, R-2, R-4, M-H and MU, the size of the garage shall
not exceed one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet. In areas zoned R-3,
the size of the garage shall not exceed one thousand five hundred (1,500)
square feet.
      3.   In an all residential district, detached garages and accessory
buildings over one hundred twenty (120) square feet must have a gabled roof,
consistent with the building and architecture of the area. To assist in
compliance with the aesthetic requirement, prior approval should be obtained
from the building inspector before construction of the garage or accessory
building.
      4.   In zoning areas R-1, R-2, MU and R-4 residential districts, the
exterior walls of such structure must be similar in construction materials as
the primary structure.
   B.   Attached Garages:
      1.   The size of attached garages in the R-1, R-2, R-4, M-H, and MU
residential districts shall not exceed one thousand two hundred (1,200) square
feet. Attached garages in the R-3 residential district shall not exceed one
thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet.
      2.   Any attached garage shall be consistent with the architecture and
construction of the principal building; that construction materials will be the
same as the primary structure.
      3.   The height of the attached garage will not exceed the height of the
primary structure. (Ord. 08-01, 3-25-2008, eff. 4-25-2008)
   C.   Garage Size Exceptions: Garage size may be increased in residential
districts without a variance provided the following conditions are met:
      1.   The square footage of the house is larger than the proposed garage.
      2.   All setback and space requirements are met within the lot.
      3.   The percent of the lot covered with structures or concrete in each
district is less than the following table:
 
Percent Of Lot Residential District
30 percent        R-1, R-3 and M-H
35 percent        R-2
40 percent        R-4 and MU
 
      4.   Garage size may be increased in each district to the specifications
below if all criteria listed above are met.
 
Parcel Size                  Total Maximum Garage Area
(Square Feet)                (Square Feet)
   18,000                 1,200
   18,001 to 30,492       1,500
   30,493 to 43,559       1,600
   43,560 (1 acre) or larg1,800
 
(Ord. 2012-06, 11-27-2012, eff. 12-28-2012)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Established
8-4-2: Interpretation Of District Boundaries
8-4-1: ESTABLISHED:
Within the jurisdictional area specified in section
8-1-4 of this title, zoning districts are hereby established and are shown on
the official zoning map described in section
8-1-6 of this title. This chapter sets forth the specific requirements which
must be met by any proposed building, structure or use located within each
district. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4-2: INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty may exist as to the location of district boundaries as shown
on the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply in interpreting the
nearest logical line to that shown:
   A.   Boundaries shall be construed as following the centerline of streets,
highways or alleys.
   B.   Boundaries shall be construed as following the centerline of streams,
rivers, canals or ditches.
   C.   Boundaries shall be construed as following a line midway between the
main tracks of a railroad right of way.
   D.   Boundaries shall be construed as following platted lot lines.
   E.   Boundaries shall be construed as following the boundaries of the
incorporated city limits.
   F.   Boundaries shall be construed as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated on the official zoning map.
   G.   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are
different from those shown on the official zoning map, or where circumstances
arise not covered by the rules above, the zoning commission shall interpret the
district boundaries. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001; amd. 2003 Code)
ARTICLE A. R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-4A-1: Purpose
8-4A-2: Permitted Principal Uses
8-4A-3: Conditional Uses
8-4A-4: Lot Area And Width
8-4A-5: Yard Requirements
8-4A-6: Building Height
8-4A-7: Permitted Projections
8-4A-1: PURPOSE:
This district is intended for the use and protection of single-family
residences. This district also accommodates those institutional and public uses
compatible with residential neighborhoods. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4A-2: PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES:
The following uses are permitted within this district:
Home occupations.
Single-family dwellings greater than or equal to eight hundred (800) square
feet constructed on site or assembled as modular homes and affixed to a
permanent foundation. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001; amd. Ord. 2012-06, 11-27-2012,
eff. 12-28-2012)
8-4A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses are subject to the approval of the zoning commission under
the provisions of section
8-1-10 of this title:
Bed and breakfasts.
Churches, nonprofit religious or philanthropic institutions.
Day schools, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens.
Libraries, museums, public or private schools.
Parks, playgrounds, recreational facilities.
Public uses: city hall, substations, lift stations, pumping stations, fire
stations. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4A-4: LOT AREA AND WIDTH:
Except for existing lots of record which, because of ownership, cannot be
reassembled to conform to this requirement, the following lot areas and widths
are required:
   A.   Single-family dwelling: Each lot shall contain a minimum of seven
thousand (7,000) square feet and be at least fifty feet (50') wide. (Ord. 01-
07, 12-11-2001)
8-4A-5: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
Every lot shall have the following minimum yard requirements as measured from
the farthest extension of the structure:
   A.   Lots less than one hundred fifty feet (150') in depth:
      1.   Front yard: A twenty foot (20') yard on all street frontages.
      2.   Side yard: A ten foot (10') side yard abutting interior lot lines.
      3.   Rear yard: Fifteen feet (15') from a rear lot line.
   B.   Lots more than one hundred fifty feet (150') in depth:
      1.   Front yard: Twenty feet (20') from the front lot line.
      2.   Side yard: Ten feet (10') from the side lot line.
      3.   Rear yard: Twenty feet (20') from a rear lot line. (Ord. 01-07, 12-
11-2001)
8-4A-6: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Maximum height for all buildings and other structures shall be thirty five feet
(35'). (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4A-7: PERMITTED PROJECTIONS:
The following projections shall be permitted in required setbacks:
   A.   Fireplaces and bay windows not to exceed two feet (2');
   B.   Roof overhangs, eaves, gutters, cornices or other architectural
features not to exceed two feet (2');
   C.   Open exterior stairways or decks not to exceed two feet (2') in side
yards, four feet (4') in front yards or eight feet (8') where required yards
are over fourteen feet (14') and four feet (4') in rear yards;
   D.   Covered unenclosed porches over front steps or walkways not to exceed
four feet (4');
   E.   Ramps that provide accessibility; and
   F.   The above projections are not permitted if they do not adhere to
building or fire codes, protrude into or hang over the public right of way or
obstruct clear vision at intersections.
These types of projections would be allowed without a variance permit but would
require a zoning permit from the zoning officer. (Ord. 2012-06, 11-27-2012,
eff. 12-28-2012)
ARTICLE B. R-2 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-4B-1: Purpose
8-4B-2: Permitted Principal Uses
8-4B-3: Conditional Uses
8-4B-4: Lot Area
8-4B-5: Yard Requirements
8-4B-6: Building Height
8-4B-7: Permitted Projections
8-4B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this district is to provide for a variety of residential types
and densities, including two-family and multiple-family dwellings. This
district also will accommodate those institutional and public uses compatible
with residential neighborhoods. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4B-2: PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES:
The following uses are permitted within this district:
Home occupations.
Multiple-family dwellings.
Single-family and two-family dwellings greater than or equal to eight hundred
(800) square feet constructed on site or assembled as modular homes and affixed
to a permanent foundation. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001; amd. Ord. 2012-06, 11-27-
2012, eff. 12-28-2012)
8-4B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses are subject to the approval of the zoning commission under
the provisions of section
8-1-10 of this title:
Bed and breakfasts.
Churches, nonprofit religious or philanthropic institutions.
Day schools, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens.
Libraries, museums, public or private schools.
Parks, playgrounds, recreational facilities.
Public uses: city hall, substations, lift stations, pumping stations, fire
stations. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4B-4: LOT AREA:
Except for existing lots of record which, because of ownership, cannot be
reassembled to conform to this requirement, the following lot areas are
required:
   A.   Single-family dwelling: Each lot shall contain a minimum of seven
thousand (7,000) square feet.
   B.   Multiple-family dwellings: Each lot shall contain a minimum of four
thousand (4,000) square feet per dwelling unit. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4B-5: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
Every lot shall have the following yard requirements as measured from the lot
line to the nearest portion of the exterior wall:
   A.   Lots less than one hundred fifty feet (150') in depth:
      1.   Front yard: Fourteen feet (14') from the front lot line.
      2.   Side yard: Ten feet (10') from a side lot line.
      3.   Rear yard: Ten feet (10') from a rear lot line.
   B.   Lots more than one hundred fifty feet (150') in depth:
      1.   Front yard: Twenty feet (20') from the front lot line.
      2.   Side yard: Ten feet (10') from the side lot line.
      3.   Rear yard: Twenty feet (20') from a rear lot line. (Ord. 01-07, 12-
11-2001)
8-4B-6: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Maximum building height shall be thirty five feet (35') for single-family
dwellings and forty five feet (45') for multiple-family dwellings consisting of
more than two (2) units. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4B-7: PERMITTED PROJECTIONS:
The following projections shall be permitted in required setbacks:
   A.   Fireplaces and bay windows not to exceed two feet (2');
   B.   Roof overhangs, eaves, gutters, cornices or other architectural
features not to exceed two feet (2');
   C.   Open exterior stairways or decks not to exceed two feet (2') in side
yards, four feet (4') in front yards or eight feet (8') where required yards
are over fourteen feet (14') and four feet (4') in rear yards;
   D.   Covered unenclosed porches over front steps or walkways not to exceed
four feet (4');
   E.   Ramps that provide accessibility; and
   F.   The above projections are not permitted if they do not adhere to
building or fire codes, protrude into or hang over the public right of way or
obstruct clear vision at intersections.
These types of projections would be allowed without a variance permit but would
require a zoning permit from the zoning officer. (Ord. 2012-06, 11-27-2012,
eff. 12-28-2012)
ARTICLE C. R-3 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-4C-1: Purpose
8-4C-2: Permitted Principal Uses
8-4C-3: Conditional Uses
8-4C-4: Lot Area
8-4C-5: Yard Requirements
8-4C-6: Building Height
8-4C-7: Permitted Projections
8-4C-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Purpose: This district is intended for single-family residences on
required large lots. This district also accommodates those institutional and
public uses compatible with residential neighborhoods. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4C-2: PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES:
The following uses are permitted within this district:
Home occupations.
Single-family dwellings greater than or equal to eight hundred (800) square
feet constructed on site or assembled as modular homes and affixed to a
permanent foundation. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001; amd. Ord. 2012-06, 11-27-2012,
eff. 12-28-2012)
8-4C-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses are subject to the approval of the zoning commission under
the provisions of section
8-1-10 of this title:
Bed and breakfasts.
Churches, nonprofit religious or philanthropic institutions.
Day schools, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens.
Libraries, museums, public or private schools.
Parks, playgrounds, recreational facilities.
Public uses: city hall, substations, lift stations, pumping stations, fire
stations. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4C-4: LOT AREA:
Except for existing lots of record which, because of ownership, cannot be
reassembled to conform to this requirement, the following lot areas are
required:
Each lot shall contain a minimum of twenty thousand (20,000) square feet. (Ord.
01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4C-5: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
Every lot shall have the following yard requirements as measured from the lot
line to the nearest portion of the exterior wall:
   A.   Lots less than one hundred fifty feet (150') in depth:
      1.   Front yard: Twenty five feet (25') from the front lot line.
      2.   Side yard: Ten feet (10') from a side lot line.
      3.   Rear yard: Ten feet (10') from a rear lot line.
   B.   Lots more than one hundred fifty feet (150') in depth:
      1.   Front yard: Twenty five feet (25') from the front lot line.
      2.   Side yard: Ten feet (10') from the side lot line.
      3.   Rear yard: Twenty five feet (25') from rear lot line. (Ord. 01-07,
12-11-2001)
8-4C-6: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Maximum height for all buildings and other structures shall be thirty five feet
(35'). (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4C-7: PERMITTED PROJECTIONS:
The following projections shall be permitted in required setbacks:
   A.   Fireplaces and bay windows not to exceed two feet (2');
   B.   Roof overhangs, eaves, gutters, cornices or other architectural
features not to exceed two feet (2');
   C.   Open exterior stairways or decks not to exceed two feet (2') in side
yards, four feet (4') in front yards or eight feet (8') where required yards
are over fourteen feet (14') and four feet (4') in rear yards;
   D.   Covered unenclosed porches over front steps or walkways not to exceed
four feet (4');
   E.   Ramps that provide accessibility; and
   F.   The above projections are not permitted if they do not adhere to
building or fire codes, protrude into or hang over the public right of way or
obstruct clear vision at intersections.
These types of projections would be allowed without a variance permit but would
require a zoning permit from the zoning officer. (Ord. 2012-06, 11-27-2012,
eff. 12-28-2012)
ARTICLE D. R-4 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-4D-1: Purpose
8-4D-2: Permitted Principal Uses
8-4D-3: Conditional Uses
8-4D-4: Lot Area
8-4D-5: Yard Requirements
8-4D-6: Building Height
8-4D-7: Permitted Projections
8-4D-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this district is to provide for a variety of residential types
and densities, including two-family and multiple-family dwellings. This
district also will accommodate those institutional and public uses compatible
with residential neighborhoods in the original townsite. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-
2001)
8-4D-2: PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES:
The following uses are permitted within this district:
Home occupations.
Multiple-family dwellings.
Single-family and two-family dwellings greater than or equal to eight hundred
(800) square feet constructed on site or assembled as modular homes and affixed
to a permanent foundation. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001; amd. Ord. 2012-06, 11-27-
2012, eff. 12-28-2012)
8-4D-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses are subject to the approval of the zoning commission under
the provisions of section
8-1-10 of this title:
Bed and breakfasts.
Churches, nonprofit religious or philanthropic institutions.
Day schools, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens.
Libraries, museums, public or private schools.
Parks, playgrounds, recreational facilities.
Public uses: city hall, substations, lift stations, pumping stations, fire
stations. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4D-4: LOT AREA:
Except for existing lots of record which, because of ownership, cannot be
reassembled to conform to this requirement, the following lot areas are
required:
   A.   Single-family dwelling: Each lot shall contain a minimum of seven
thousand (7,000) square feet.
   B.   Multiple-family dwellings: Each lot shall contain a minimum of four
thousand (4,000) square feet per dwelling unit. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4D-5: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
Every lot shall have the following yard requirements as measured from the lot
line to the nearest portion of the exterior wall:
   A.   Front yard: Twenty feet (20') from the front lot line.
   B.   Side yard: Five feet (5') from a side lot line.
   C.   Rear yard: Ten feet (10') from a rear lot line. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-
2001)
8-4D-6: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Maximum building height shall be thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-
2001)
8-4D-7: PERMITTED PROJECTIONS:
The following projections shall be permitted in required setbacks:
   A.   Fireplaces and bay windows not to exceed two feet (2');
   B.   Roof overhangs, eaves, gutters, cornices or other architectural
features not to exceed two feet (2');
   C.   Open exterior stairways or decks not to exceed two feet (2') in side
yards, four feet (4') in front yards or eight feet (8') where required yards
are over fourteen feet (14') and four feet (4') in rear yards;
   D.   Covered unenclosed porches over front steps or walkways not to exceed
four feet (4');
   E.   Ramps that provide accessibility; and
   F.   The above projections are not permitted if they do not adhere to
building or fire codes, protrude into or hang over the public right of way or
obstruct clear vision at intersections.
These types of projections would be allowed without a variance permit but would
require a zoning permit from the zoning officer. (Ord. 2012-06, 11-27-2012,
eff. 12-28-2012)
ARTICLE E. M-H MOBILE HOME RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-4E-1: Purpose
8-4E-2: Permitted Principal Uses
8-4E-3: Conditional Uses
8-4E-4: Lot Area
8-4E-5: Yard Requirements
8-4E-6: Building Height
8-4E-7: Provisions For Mobile Homes
8-4E-8: Provisions For Mobile Home Parks
8-4E-9: Permitted Projections
8-4E-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this district is to provide for primarily mobile home residences
and mobile home parks. This district also will accommodate those institutional
and public uses compatible with residential neighborhoods. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-
2001)
8-4E-2: PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES:
The following uses are permitted within this district:
Home occupations.
Micro homes or tiny homes constructed on site or assembled as modular homes.
One single-family mobile home on an individual lot.
All other uses that are allowed in residential district R-1, as set forth in
section
8-4A-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 07-02, 3-13-2007, eff. 4-14-2007; amd. Ord. 2012-
06, 11-27-2012, eff. 12-28-2012)
8-4E-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses are subject to the approval of the zoning commission under
the provisions of section
8-1-10 of this title:
Churches, nonprofit religious or philanthropic institutions.
Day schools, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens.
Libraries, museums, public or private schools.
Mobile home parks, in accordance with the requirements specified in section
8-4E-8 of this article.
Parks, playgrounds, recreational facilities.
Public uses: city hall, substations, lift stations, pumping stations, fire
stations. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4E-4: LOT AREA:
Each lot shall contain a minimum of seven thousand (7,000) square feet. (Ord.
01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4E-5: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
Every lot shall have the following yard requirements as measured from the lot
line to the nearest portion of the exterior wall:
   A.   Lots less than one hundred fifty feet (150') in depth:
      1.   Front yard: Fourteen feet (14') from the front lot line.
      2.   Side yard: Ten feet (10') from a side lot line.
      3.   Rear yard: Ten feet (10') from a rear lot line.
   B.   Lots more than one hundred fifty feet (150') in depth:
      1.   Front yard: Twenty feet (20') from the front lot line.
      2.   Side yard: Ten feet (10') from the side lot line.
      3.   Rear yard: Twenty feet (20') from the rear lot line. (Ord. 01-07,
12-11-2001)
8-4E-6: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Maximum building height shall be thirty five feet (35') for single-family
dwellings. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4E-7: PROVISIONS FOR MOBILE HOMES:
   A.   Skirting: Each mobile home must be skirted, entirely enclosing the
bottom section within ninety (90) days after placement. Skirting must be of
neat and durable materials compatible with the siding of the mobile home.
   B.   Water And Sewer: Each mobile home must be connected to the Colstrip
water supply and sanitary sewer system, and no mobile home may be served by
other means. The connections must be protected from freezing by insulation,
heat tape or other means. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4E-8: PROVISIONS FOR MOBILE HOME PARKS:
   A.   Arrangement Of Lots: Mobile home lots shall be arranged to permit the
safe and practical placement and removal of mobile homes.
   B.   Location Of Mobile Homes: All mobile homes shall be located at least
twenty five feet (25') from any road right of way line and fifteen feet (15')
from any boundary of the park.
   C.   Distance From Street: Each mobile home must be located at least ten
feet (10') from the street.
   D.   Distance Between Mobile Homes: At least a twenty foot (20') separation
is required between mobile homes, including their attached structures, such as
awnings or carports.
   E.   Detached Structures: No detached structure, such as a storage shed, may
be located within five feet (5') of any mobile home or its attached structures.
   F.   Conformance Required: Each mobile home shall conform to the provisions
specified in section
8-4E-7 of this article.
   G.   Gas And Electricity: Gas and electric utilities shall be installed
according to the appropriate codes.
   H.   Storage Facilities: Storage facilities must be provided on each lot or
in compounds within the park.
   I.   Central Storage Area: A central area for storage or parking of boats,
trailers or other RV vehicles must be provided.
   J.   Fire Control Equipment: The park must be equipped at all times with
fire control equipment in good working order, and be of such type and number
and be located as prescribed by the local fire authority.
   K.   Internal Streets: Internal streets must be at least twenty feet (20')
wide, or wider, if necessary, to accommodate the expected traffic or vehicles.
Where on street parking is allowed parallel parking lanes must be eight feet
(8') wide. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4E-9: PERMITTED PROJECTIONS:
The following projections shall be permitted in required setbacks:
   A.   Fireplaces and bay windows not to exceed two feet (2');
   B.   Roof overhangs, eaves, gutters, cornices or other architectural
features not to exceed two feet (2');
   C.   Open exterior stairways or decks not to exceed two feet (2') in side
yards, four feet (4') in front yards or eight feet (8') where required yards
are over fourteen feet (14') and four feet (4') in rear yards;
   D.   Covered unenclosed porches over front steps or walkways not to exceed
four feet (4');
   E.   Ramps that provide accessibility; and
   F.   The above projections are not permitted if they do not adhere to
building or fire codes, protrude into or hang over the public right of way or
obstruct clear vision at intersections.
These types of projections would be allowed without a variance permit but would
require a zoning permit from the zoning officer. (Ord. 2012-06, 11-27-2012,
eff. 12-28-2012)
ARTICLE F. GC GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-4F-1: Purpose
8-4F-2: Permitted Principal Uses
8-4F-3: Conditional Uses
8-4F-4: Accessory And Temporary Uses
8-4F-5: Lot Area
8-4F-6: Height Requirements
8-4F-7: Yard Requirements
8-4F-8: Access Onto Public Roads
8-4F-9: Grading And Drainage
8-4F-10: Fencing
8-4F-11: Lighting
8-4F-12: Provisions For Recreational Vehicle Parks
8-4F-1: PURPOSE:
This district is intended to accommodate general business uses while preserving
the traffic capacity of the street system and the desirability of adjacent
residential development. The area should be developed as an attractive,
functional and convenient commercial development. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4F-2: PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES:
The following uses are permitted within this district:
Bars, taverns, lounges, night clubs, in accordance with section
8-3-3 of this chapter.
Clubs and lodges; hotels and motels.
Libraries, museums, art galleries, information centers.
Nursing homes, medical and dental offices and clinics, healthcare facilities.
Off street parking areas.
Offices: professional, business, administrative, government and services.
Police, fire stations and other governmental uses; educational uses.
Recreational facilities; senior citizen centers.
Retail, service, financial businesses.
Service stations; automotive sales, service and repair.
Other uses commensurate with the above uses and compatible with the purpose of
this district. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4F-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses must comply with the additional conditions specified below.
Approval of these conditional uses must be obtained from the zoning commission
under the provisions of section
8-1-10 of this title:
Bed and breakfasts.
Recreational vehicle parks, in conformance with section
8-4F-12 of this article.
Shopping centers. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4F-4: ACCESSORY AND TEMPORARY USES:
Accessory buildings and uses incidental to the principal uses.
Sale of Christmas trees, baked goods, clothing or like products where no
permanent structures is erected.
Temporary buildings or structures used for and during construction or grading.
Temporary signs.
Temporary use of open land for meetings, circuses, carnivals. (Ord. 01-07, 12-
11-2001)
8-4F-5: LOT AREA:
   A.   Water And Sewer Available: Where public water and sewer service is
available, no minimum lot size is required.
   B.   Department Of Environmental Approval Required: Where Montana department
of environmental quality approval is required, that agency shall determine the
lot size.
   C.   Minimum Lot Area: Where neither of the conditions of subsection A and B
of this section apply, the minimum lot size shall be one acre. (Ord. 01-07, 12-
11-2001)
8-4F-6: HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS:
No building or structure may exceed forty five feet (45') in height. (Ord. 01-
07, 12-11-2001)
8-4F-7: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
Every lot shall have the following yard requirements as measured from the lot
line to the nearest portion of the exterior wall:
   A.   Front yard: Twenty feet (20') from all road frontages.
   B.   Side yard: Ten feet (10') from abutting interior lot lines.
   C.   Rear yard: Ten feet (10') from rear lot line. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4F-8: ACCESS ONTO PUBLIC ROADS:
   A.   Width: Approaches onto public roads and highways shall be at least
twenty four feet (24') wide.
   B.   Grade: Approaches onto public roads and highways shall have a grade of
six percent (6%) or less.
   C.   Distance Apart: Approaches onto public roads or highways shall be at
least one hundred twenty five feet (125') apart.
   D.   Approaches To Be Aligned: Centerline of approaches from properties on
opposite sides of a public road shall be aligned at the same point on the
public road. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4F-9: GRADING AND DRAINAGE:
   A.   Grading; Drainage Facilities: The site shall be graded and appropriate
drainage facilities installed to remove surface runoff waters in a manner that
will not affect adjacent or nearby properties, rivers or public roads, or
overload the city storm sewer.
   B.   Drainage Facilities Required: Culverts, curbs, gutters, ditches, swales
and other drainage facilities shall be installed to assure that approaches,
parking areas and other traffic facilities do not obstruct drainage facilities
or adversely affect public road and traffic facilities.
   C.   Size Of Culverts And Bridges: Culverts and bridges shall be large
enough to accommodate potential runoff from upstream drainage areas.
   D.   Curbs And Gutters Or Swales: Curbs and gutters or swales shall be
required according to the character of the area, density of development, and
nature of adjoining properties and public streets. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4F-10: FENCING:
The following uses must be protected by a fence not less than six feet (6') in
height:
   A.   Aboveground storage of flammable liquids, gases, or other material.
   B.   Electrical substations, gas regulator stations and microwave
reflectors. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4F-11: LIGHTING:
Lighting must be shielded to avoid casting direct light on adjacent residential
uses or institutional uses providing education or human care. (Ord. 01-07, 12-
11-2001)
8-4F-12: PROVISIONS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS:
Recreational vehicle parks must conform to the following provisions:
   A.   Street Width: Streets shall be at least ten feet (10') wide, and wider,
if necessary, to accommodate the expected traffic.
   B.   Street And Lot Design: Streets and recreational vehicle lots shall be
designed to permit safe placement and removal of trailers and vehicles.
   C.   Access To Public Streets: All parks shall provide for safe and
convenient access from public roads or streets.
   D.   Fire Control Equipment: The park shall be equipped at all times with
fire control equipment in good working order and be of a type prescribed by
local fire authority.
   E.   Gas And Electricity: Gas and electric utilities shall be installed in
accordance with the appropriate codes.
   F.   Separation: Recreational vehicles shall be separated from each other
and from other structures by at least fifteen feet (15').
   G.   Distance From Public Street: All recreational vehicle spaces shall be
located at least twenty five feet (25') from a public street or highway right
of way.
   H.   Density: The density shall not exceed twenty five (25) recreational
vehicle spaces per acre. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
ARTICLE G. LI LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-4G-1: Purpose
8-4G-2: Permitted Uses
8-4G-3: Yard Requirements
8-4G-4: Height Requirement
8-4G-1: PURPOSE:
This district is intended to accommodate a variety of business, warehouse and
light industrial uses related to wholesale or machinery and equipment sales and
service and other light industries at locations where their operations will be
neither injurious to nor hindered by residences. It shall include
manufacturing, processing and fabrication in limited degree and which may
further involve incidental retail, wholesale and display activities secondary
to primary industrial activities. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4G-2: PERMITTED USES:
Building materials manufacture, sales and assembly.
Light manufacturing or processing in which no excessive fumes, odors, smoke,
noise or dust is created.
Open storage.
Research and testing laboratories.
Service stations, motor vehicle, equipment, trailer, repair, sales and service.
Warehousing.
Welding, machine and sheet metal shops.
Other similar light industrial uses; provided, that the use does not create a
public nuisance or unreasonable hazard to health or property because of
excessive fumes, odors, smoke, noise or dust. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4G-3: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Front yard: A twenty foot (20') front yard on any street frontage.
   B.   Side yard: A ten foot (10') side yard where the side lot line abuts a
street, and five feet (5') where a side yard abuts an interior lot. (Ord. 01-
07, 12-11-2001)
8-4G-4: HEIGHT REQUIREMENT:
No building or structure may exceed forty five feet (45') in height. (Ord. 01-
07, 12-11-2001)
ARTICLE H. MU MULTIPLE USE DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-4H-1: Purpose
8-4H-2: Permitted Principal Uses
8-4H-3: Conditional Uses
8-4H-4: Yard Requirements
8-4H-5: Lot Area
8-4H-6: Building Height
8-4H-7: Permitted Projections
8-4H-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this district is to provide for a variety of residential types
and densities, and commercial, institutional and public uses in the original
townsite and in designated areas outside the city boundaries. (Ord. 01-07, 12-
11-2001)
8-4H-2: PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES:
The following uses are permitted within this district:
All uses permitted in article F of this chapter.
Home occupations.
Multiple-family dwellings.
Single-family and two-family dwellings greater than or equal to eight hundred
(800) square feet constructed on site or assembled as modular homes and affixed
to a permanent foundation. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001; amd. Ord. 2012-06, 11-27-
2012, eff. 12-28-2012)
8-4H-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses are subject to the approval of the zoning commission under
the provisions of section
8-1-10 of this title:
Bed and breakfasts.
Churches, nonprofit religious or philanthropic institutions.
Day schools, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens.
Libraries, museums, public or private schools.
Parks, playgrounds, recreational facilities.
Public uses: city hall, substations, lift stations, pumping stations, fire
stations. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4H-4: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
Every lot shall have the following yard requirements as measured from the lot
line to the nearest portion of the exterior wall:
   A.   Front yard: Twenty feet (20') shall be provided from the front lot
line.
   B.   Side yard: Five feet (5') from a side lot line.
   C.   Rear yard: Ten feet (10') from a rear lot line. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-
2001)
8-4H-5: LOT AREA:
Except for existing lots of record which, because of individual ownership,
cannot be reassembled to conform to this requirement, the following lot areas
are required:
   A.   Single-family and two-family dwelling: Each lot shall contain a minimum
of seven thousand (7,000) square feet.
   B.   Multiple-family dwellings: Each lot shall contain a minimum of four
thousand (4,000) square feet per dwelling unit.
   C.   Commercial, public institutional uses: Each lot shall contain a minimum
of seven thousand (7,000) square feet. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4H-6: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Maximum building height shall be thirty five feet (35') for single-family
dwellings and forty five feet (45') for multiple-family dwellings consisting of
more than two (2) units, and for commercial, public and institutional uses.
(Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4H-7: PERMITTED PROJECTIONS:
The following projections shall be permitted in required setbacks:
   A.   Fireplaces and bay windows not to exceed two feet (2');
   B.   Roof overhangs, eaves, gutters, cornices or other architectural
features not to exceed two feet (2');
   C.   Open exterior stairways or decks not to exceed two feet (2') in side
yards, four feet (4') in front yards or eight feet (8') where required yards
are over fourteen feet (14') and four feet (4') in rear yards;
   D.   Covered unenclosed porches over front steps or walkways not to exceed
four feet (4');
   E.   Ramps that provide accessibility; and
   F.   The above projections are not permitted if they do not adhere to
building or fire codes, protrude into or hang over the public right of way or
obstruct clear vision at intersections.
These types of projections would be allowed without a variance permit but would
require a zoning permit from the zoning officer. (Ord. 2012-06, 11-27-2012,
eff. 12-28-2012)
ARTICLE I. OS OPEN SPACE DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-4I-1: Purpose
8-4I-2: Permitted uses
8-4I-3: Accessory Uses And Structures
8-4I-4: Yard Requirements
8-4I-5: Height Requirement
8-4I-1: PURPOSE:
The OS district is intended primarily to allow the use of land as open space.
(Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4I-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted within this district:
Agricultural uses.
Air monitoring and other monitoring stations; communications facilities; other
similar facilities requiring only occasional human occupancy.
Greenbelt areas.
Parks, recreation and sports activities.
Public utility installations.
Undeveloped open space. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4I-3: ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES:
Parking, playgrounds, tennis courts, tennis buildings, health clubs, golf,
swimming pools and buildings, baseball and soccer fields, basketball and
volleyball courts, bicycle and pedestrian paths, storage buildings, comfort
stations, and shelters. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4I-4: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
Any structure must be located at least twenty feet (20') from the right of way
of any public road or street. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4I-5: HEIGHT REQUIREMENT:
No building or structure may exceed thirty feet (30') in height. (Ord. 01-07,
12-11-2001)
ARTICLE J. PG POWER GENERATION DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-4J-1: Purpose
8-4J-2: Permitted Uses
8-4J-3: Yard Requirements
8-4J-4: Access Onto Public Roads
8-4J-5: Height
8-4J-1: PURPOSE:
This district is intended to accommodate generation of electric power and the
associated buildings, structures, facilities, equipment and uses. The purpose
of this district to allow efficient operation of power generation plants
without interference from any other use. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4J-2: PERMITTED USES:
Any building, structure, facility, equipment, use or activity associated with
electric power generation. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4J-3: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
The front yard shall have a fifty foot (50') front yard setback on any street
or road frontage. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4J-4: ACCESS ONTO PUBLIC ROADS:
Approaches onto public roads and highways shall be at least twenty four feet
(24') wide. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4J-5: HEIGHT:
There is no height restriction. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
ARTICLE K. CM MINING DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-4K-1: Purpose
8-4K-2: Permitted Uses
8-4K-3: Access Onto Public Roads
8-4K-1: PURPOSE:
This district is intended to accommodate the mining and production of coal
resources, and the associated buildings, structures, facilities, equipment and
uses. The purpose of this district to allow efficient production of coal
without interference from other uses, and to allow agricultural or open space
uses on lands within this district where mining is not currently occurring.
(Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4K-2: PERMITTED USES:
Agricultural production including livestock grazing and crop production.
Coal mining, including any building, structure, facility, equipment, use or
activity associated with production of coal.
Open space uses. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-4K-3: ACCESS ONTO PUBLIC ROADS:
Approaches onto public roads and highways shall be at least thirty feet (30')
wide. (Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
CHAPTER 5
APPENDIX A; GRAPHICS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Figure 1, Lots, Blocks, And Property Lines
8-5-2: Figure 2, Yard/Lot/Building Lines
8-5-1: FIGURE 1, LOTS, BLOCKS, AND PROPERTY LINES:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ac06d49f7792695d2908bb04d99cb17e37826ab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-964.gif]
(Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
8-5-2: FIGURE 2, YARD/LOT/BUILDING LINES:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8ac06d49f7792695d2908bb04d99cb17e37826ab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-966.gif]
(Ord. 01-07, 12-11-2001)
TITLE 9
UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SERVICES
CHAPTER 1
WATER, WASTEWATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Definitions And Abbreviations
9-1-2: Authority, Intent And Purpose
9-1-3: Jurisdiction; Application; Noncompliance
9-1-4: Review Of Administrative Actions
9-1-5: Owner's Duty To Use Municipal Water And Wastewater Facilities
9-1-6: Access To Customer's Premises
9-1-7: Permit Required
9-1-8: Prohibitions
9-1-9: Miscellaneous Devices
9-1-10: Service Conditions And Interruptions
9-1-11: Liability Of Utility
9-1-12: Public Works Supervisor
9-1-13: Funds
9-1-14: Administrative Policies
9-1-1: DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS:
   A.   Definitions: Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the
meanings of the terms used in these rules and regulations shall be as follows:
    APPROVAL AUTHORITY: The regional administrator of the EPA.
   APPURTENANCES: Refers to machinery, appliances, or auxiliary structures
attached to the sewer to enable it to function, but not considered an integral
part of it.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in terms of weight
and concentration (milligrams per liter).
   BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER: The privately owned extension of the building drain to the
public sanitary sewer or other place of disposal.
   BYPASSING: Any act, using any means, the purpose of which is to obtain
municipal utility service without having such service pass through the meter
that is provided for measuring or registering such service.
   CITY OR CITY OF COLSTRIP: The city of Colstrip in the county of Rosebud and
state of Montana.
   COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   COMMERCIAL ACCOUNT: A municipal utility account other than a domestic
account.
   CONNECTION CHARGE: One time charge paid by those connecting to the municipal
utility system for the cost of materials, labor, inspection, and administration
by the municipality.
   CUSTOMER: Any person receiving municipal utility service either directly or
indirectly from the municipal water supply system/municipal wastewater system.
   DISCHARGE: The direct or indirect introduction of treated or untreated
wastewater into the waters of the state of Montana, either through the
municipal wastewater system and municipal wastewater treatment plant or through
a point source into state waters.
   DOMESTIC ACCOUNT: A municipal utility account for residential dwellings and
apartment buildings.
   DOMESTIC WASTES: Liquid wastes: 1) from the noncommercial preparation,
cooking, and handling of food, or 2) containing human excrement and similar
matter from the sanitary conveniences of dwellings, commercial buildings,
industrial facilities, and institutions.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY OR EPA: The U.S. environmental protection
agency, or, where appropriate, the terms may also be used as a designation for
the administrator or other duly authorized official of the EPA.
   EXTENSION: The act or process of extending, adding to, or enlarging the
municipal water supply system/municipal wastewater system on the city's side of
the point of delivery/point of connection to provide municipal utility services
to a prospective customer or group of prospective customers.
   FIRE HYDRANT METER: The meter which is owned by the municipal utility and
which is used to measure the amount of water delivered to a customer through a
fire hydrant.
   FIRE LINE: All service pipes, curb stops and/or valves, curb boxes and/or
valve boxes, backflow prevention devices, check valves, inside piping,
fittings, fixtures, and any other apparatus on customer's side of the point of
delivery that is used for, and limited to, the providing of water to customers
for fire suppression activities.
   HARMFUL CONTRIBUTION: An actual or threatened discharge or introduction of
wastes to the municipal wastewater system which: 1) presents or may present an
imminent or substantial endangerment to the health and welfare of persons or to
the environment, 2) inhibits or interferes with the physical or lawful
operations of the municipal wastewater system, or 3) causes the violation of
any condition of the city of Colstrip's MPDES permit.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE: Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, recreational vehicles, or septage haulers.
   INDIVIDUAL EXTENSION: An extension of the utility system to provide utility
service to an individual customer.
   INDUSTRIAL: Of or pertaining to industry, manufacturing, agriculture,
commerce, trade, or business.
   INDUSTRIAL USER: 1. Any person or source that introduces or discharges
wastewater from industrial processes into the municipal wastewater system or
      2.   Any nondomestic user or source regulated under sections 307(b), (c),
or (d) of the clean water act.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES OR INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER: All liquid or water carried
wastes other than domestic wastes. The terms include, by way of example and not
by limitation, the trade wastes produced by food processing and bottling
plants, food manufacturing plants, slaughtering plants, tallow works, plating
works, disposal services, industrial cleaning plants, fertilizer plants, car
and truck washing operations, vehicle repair facilities, commercial laundries
and cleaning establishments, cooling plants, industrial plants, factories,
feedlots, and chemical treatment installations.
   INTERCEPTOR SEWER: A public sanitary sewer having a size greater than twenty
four inches (24") that was installed by the city for the principal purpose of
collecting and conveying wastewater from several district trunk sewers to the
municipal wastewater treatment plant for treatment and disposal.
   INTERFERENCE: The inhibition or disruption of the municipal wastewater
system treatment processes or operation which causes: 1) a violation of any
requirements of the utilities' MPDES permit or 2) the violation of any
requirement of any agency with jurisdiction over the discharges by the
municipal wastewater treatment plant into the receiving waters. The term also
includes contamination of the treatment plant sludge byproducts.
   MAIN: A pipe or conduit carrying water for domestic, industrial, fire
suppression, and other similar uses.
   MAY: Is permissive.
   METER: The instrument, including any auxiliary equipment, which is used to
measure the amount of water delivered to a customer from the municipal water
supply system or the amount of wastewater contributed to the municipal
wastewater system by a user.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY OR UTILITY: The public works department of the city of
Colstrip.
   MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT: The wastewater treatment plant owned
and controlled by the city of Colstrip.
   MUNICIPAL WATER METER: The meter, including the meter horn and remote read
equipment, which is owned by the utility and which is used to measure the
amount of water delivered to a customer through the customer's water service
line.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS OR PRETREATMENT STANDARD: Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the state of
Montana or the EPA in accordance with sections 307(b) and (c) of the clean
water act (33 USC section 1317) that applies to a specific category of primary
industrial users.
   NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or ground water.
   ORGANIC MATTER: Refers to chemical substances of basically carbon structure.
Comprising compounds consist primarily of hydrocarbons and their derivatives.
   PERSON: Any firm, company, partnership, public or private corporation,
association, group or society, governmental agency, or other entity as well as
a natural person.
   pH: Refers to the negative logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration in
moles per liter of solution. pH is an indicator of the acid or base content of
the solution.
   POINT OF CONNECTION: The point at which the municipal wastewater system
connects physically to a user's building sewer. The point of connection shall
be located at and include the user's service tee or wye fitting, which, in
turn, is normally attached to the public sanitary sewer located in the public
right of way that abuts and fronts the property to be served.
   POINT OF DELIVERY: The point at which the municipal water supply system
connects physically to a customer's corporation stop, which, in turn, is
normally attached to the public water main located in the public right of way
that abuts and fronts the property to be served.
   POLLUTANT: Any dredged soil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, septic waste, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological
materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock,
sand, cellar dirt, and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste discharges
into water.
   POLLUTED WATERS: Water that contains objectionable wastes or suspended
solids as a result of human activity.
   POLLUTION: The alteration of the chemical, physical, biological, or
radiological integrity of water by human activity.
   PRETREATMENT OR TREATMENT: The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, the alteration of the rate of their introduction
into the municipal wastewater system, or the alteration of the nature of
pollutant properties in wastewater to a less harmful state, prior to or in lieu
of discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a municipal
wastewater system. The reduction or alternation can be achieved by physical,
chemical, or biological processes, process changes, or by other means, except
as prohibited by 40 CFR section 403.6(d).
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENT: Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, including national categorical pretreatment standards, imposed
on an industrial user.
   PUBLIC BUILDING: Any building held, used, or controlled exclusively for
public purposes by any department or branch of government, federal, state,
county, or municipal, without reference to the ownership of the building or of
the realty upon which it is situated.
   PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER: The sewer directly controlled by the city and laid in
the street or other right of way for the collection of wastewater from users'
building sewers.
   PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION: Refers to the elected body of public service
commissioners and their staff of the state of Montana.
   PUBLIC WATER MAIN: The main directly controlled by the city and laid in the
street or other right of way for the distribution of water to customers' water
service lines.
   RATE SCHEDULE: A resolution approved by the city council which sets forth
the charges and conditions for a particular class or type of utility service.
   READILY ACCESSIBLE: Safely and easily reached and not being under "lock and
key", "fenced in", "covered up", or otherwise obstructed.
   SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that carries wastewater or sewage.
   SANITARY SEWER SERVICE LINE OR WASTEWATER SERVICE LINE: That portion of the
privately owned building sewer extending from the property served to the public
sanitary sewer.
   SECONDARY WASTEWATER METER OR SECONDARY METER: A meter which is furnished,
installed, and maintained by a user, and which is used to determine the amount
of wastewater contributed by such user to the municipal wastewater system.
   SEPTAGE: The mixed liquid and solid contents pumped from septic tanks used
for receiving primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   SEPTAGE DISPOSAL PERMIT: A written receiving ticket issued by the city of
Colstrip permitting the discharge of septage into the city of Colstrip's
approved location in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   SEPTAGE HAULER: A person having a valid city of Colstrip business license,
when appropriate, and, in addition, licensed by state and local government
agencies to operate a business for the purpose of cleaning septic tanks and
transporting domestic septage to an approved septage disposal facility.
   SERVICE AGREEMENT: The agreement or contract between the utility and its
customers pursuant to which utility service is provided.
   SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying wastewater or drainage.
   SHALL: Is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER: Any user of the wastewater system (WWS) who:
      1.   Is subject to "national categorical pretreatment standards" as
defined herein;
      2.   Discharges an average of twenty five thousand (25,000) gallons per
day or more of process wastewater to the wastewater system, excluding sanitary,
noncontact cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater;
      3.   Contributes a process waste stream which makes up five percent (5%)
or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the
municipal wastewater treatment plant(s), or
      4.   Is designated as such by the city on the basis that the industrial
user has a potential for adversely affecting the WWS or for violating any
pretreatment standard or requirement.
   SIGNIFICANT VIOLATOR: An industrial user who is in significant noncompliance
by violating one or more of the following criteria:
      1.   Chronic violations of "wastewater discharge limits", defined as
those in which sixty six percent (66%) or more of all of the measurements taken
during a six (6) month period exceed, by any magnitude, the daily maximum limit
or the average limit for the same pollutant parameter;
      2.   "Technical review criteria" (TRC) violations, defined as those in
thirty three percent (33%) or more of all of the measurements for each
pollutant parameter taken during a six (6) month period equaling or exceeding
the product of the daily maximum limit or the average limit times the
applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oil, grease, and 1.2 for all
other pollutants except pH);
      3.   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily maximum
or longer term average) that the city of Colstrip determines has caused, alone
or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass through,
including endangering the health of city personnel or the general public;
      4.   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health, welfare, or the environment or has resulted in the city's
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      5.   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days after the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
      6.   Failure to provide, within ninety (90) days after the due date,
required reports such as baseline monitoring, reports, ninety (90) day
compliance reports, periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports on compliance
with compliance schedules;
      7.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      8.   Any other violation or group of violations which the city of
Colstrip determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of
the local pretreatment program.
   SOURCE: Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there
may be a discharge of pollutants.
   SPRINKLING METER: A municipal water meter that is installed on a water
service line for the purpose of measuring the water delivered by the utility to
a customer exclusively for lawn and garden irrigation.
   STATE: The state of Montana.
   STORM SEWER OR STORM DRAIN: A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes wastewater and polluted industrial wastes.
   SUBDIVISION EXTENSION: An extension of the wastewater system to provide
water or wastewater service to serve a subdivision, a tract of land created by
a certificate of survey, commercial or industrial development, or any other
similar type annexed parcel of land wherein the extended water or wastewater
system facilities within the development are to be owned by the city, not
including any privately owned facilities.
   SUBMETER: A meter or meters which are furnished, installed, and maintained
by a customer, and which are installed downstream of the municipal water meter
by the customer for the purpose of proportioning municipal utility charges
between various tenants.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface or are in
suspension in water, wastewater, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEES: One time charge paid by new development as a
proportionate share of the "general benefit" to finance the construction of
public facilities needed to serve the development.
   TAMPERING: Damaging, altering, adjusting, or in any manner interfering with
or obstructing the operation or function of any metering device that is used
for measuring or registering municipal utility service.
   USER: See definition of Customer.
   WASTE DISPOSAL SITE: The city of Colstrip's designated waste disposal
station for the purposes of disposing of septage.
   WASTEWATER METER: A meter which is furnished, installed, and maintained by a
user, and which is used to measure the amount of wastewater contributed by such
user to the municipal wastewater system.
   WASTEWATER OR SEWAGE: The liquid and water carrying industrial or domestic
wastes from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, and
institutions, together with any ground water, surface water, and storm water
that may be present, whether treated or untreated, which is discharged into or
permitted to enter the municipal wastewater system.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE AREA: That particular territory which has been officially
adopted by the city council as the area it intends to provide with municipal
wastewater service.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE OR MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER SERVICE: The act of either
directly or indirectly discharging wastewater into the municipal wastewater
system from users' building sewers for the purpose of collecting, transporting,
treating, and disposing of users' wastewater.
   WASTEWATER SYSTEM OR MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER SYSTEM: Any wastewater facilities,
including interceptor sewers, outfall sewers, wastewater collection systems,
and wastewater treatment facilities, controlled by the city of Colstrip.
   WATER SERVICE AREA: That particular territory which has been officially
adopted by the city council as the area it intends to serve with municipal
water service.
   WATER SERVICE LINE: All privately owned facilities, including service pipe,
corporation stop, curb stop, curb box, municipal water meter box or vault,
backflow prevention device, expansion tanks, pressure reducing valve, inside
piping, appliances, and other apparatus on the customer's side of the point of
delivery, except the municipal water meter and any other equipment owned by the
city of Colstrip.
   WATER SERVICE OR MUNICIPAL WATER SERVICE: The supply of water directly or
indirectly from the municipal water supply system, or the availability of water
supplied either directly or indirectly from the municipal water supply system,
at the point of delivery and also the water so delivered or used.
   WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM OR MUNICIPAL WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM: Any devices,
facilities, structures, equipment, land or works controlled by the city for the
purpose of the processing, treatment, transmission, storage, distribution,
pumping, and measurement of water supplied to customers.
   B.   Abbreviations: The following abbreviations shall have the following
designated meanings for the purposes of these rules and regulations:
BOD:   Biochemical oxygen demand
CFR:   Code of federal regulations
EPA:   Environmental protection agency
MCA:   Montana Code Annotated
mg/l:   Milligrams per liter
MPWSS:   The current edition of the "Montana Public Works Standard
Specifications"
(Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1-2: AUTHORITY, INTENT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Authority: These rules and regulations are enacted pursuant to the
authority granted to the city under Montana Code Annotated 69-7-201. These
rules and regulations are subsidiary to any state or federal laws or
regulations which may govern water and wastewater service within the state of
Montana. The city of Colstrip also hereby adopts the most recent version of the
uniform plumbing code as a guide for water and wastewater service design.
   B.   Intent And Purpose: The intent and purpose of these rules and
regulations is:
      1.   To promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the
inhabitants of the city and its environs; and
      2.   To provide the inhabitants of the city and its environs with
efficient and economical utility service. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1-3: JURISDICTION; APPLICATION; NONCOMPLIANCE:
   A.   Jurisdiction: The jurisdictional area of these rules and regulations
shall include any territory, whether situated within or outside the corporate
city limits, which is presently or in the future located within the municipal
utility service areas and served with municipal utility service. Article F of
this chapter defines water and wastewater service areas.
   B.   Application: These rules and regulations are hereby made a part of the
contract with every person provided with municipal utility service. Further,
every person making application for initiation of such service, or accepting
such service, shall be bound thereby.
   C.   Noncompliance: Any person who shall fail to comply with these rules and
regulations after being given a written notice of the nature of the violation,
and after being given the time to comply as stated in subsection 9-1A-4B of
this chapter, shall be subject to discontinuance of municipal utility service.
Provided, that in emergency situations, as determined at the sole discretion of
the utility, such service may be discontinued without notice. Municipal utility
service shall not be restored until the violation is corrected and full
compliance is assured. Further, once service has been discontinued for
noncompliance with these rules and regulations, it shall not be restored until
the customer involved pays to the utility any applicable charges for
discontinuance and/or reestablishment of service and restores any required
deposits. In addition, persons failing to obey promulgated rules and
regulations shall be subject to punishment and penalties. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-
2004)
9-1-4: REVIEW OF ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIONS:
Any persons aggrieved by an administrative decision, any rules or regulation
adopted, or the application of any rule or regulation governing the operation
of the utility may petition the city council for review. The aggrieved shall
file a written notice of appeal with the public works committee within ten (10)
days after the date on which the grievance occurred. The notice of appeal shall
state the specific action being appealed, the service account number, the
reasons for appealing such action, the particular relief sought, the aggrieved
person's correct mailing address, and shall be signed by the aggrieved person.
The aggrieved person shall be notified in writing by certified mail, return
receipt requested, of the date, time, and place the matter will be considered
by the city council. The aggrieved person and all other interested persons may
appear at that date, time, and place and be heard. The city council shall act
on the question at the next regular council meeting. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1-5: OWNER'S DUTY TO USE MUNICIPAL WATER AND WASTEWATER FACILITIES:
The owner of any house, building, or other property used for human occupancy,
employment, or recreation, which is situated within the corporate city limits
and abuts on any street, alley, or right of way in which there is situated
municipal water supply system facilities or municipal wastewater system
facilities shall at the owner's expense properly connect and use such
facilities. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1-6: ACCESS TO CUSTOMER'S PREMISES:
Access at reasonable hours to a customer's premises by authorized employees of
the utility shall be deemed to have been granted to the utility by the customer
during the time the customer accepts municipal utility service for the purpose
of reading meters, testing, repairing, removing or exchanging any or all
equipment belonging to the utility, examining pipes and fixtures and the manner
the water is used, or for the purpose of ensuring that a customer is in
compliance with these rules and regulations. All persons must at all times
frankly and without concealment answer all questions put to them by said party
relative to the consumption of water. Access shall also be granted to employees
of the utility to cut off the water supply in absence of an outside shutoff
valve. If access is denied the utility reserves the right to install a shutoff
valve and shut the water off. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1-7: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No persons shall uncover, make any connections with, or opening into, extend,
use, alter, or disturb the municipal water system and/or municipal wastewater
system without first obtaining a written permit for the purpose from the city
and paying all applicable fees. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1-8: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Unauthorized Acts: No plumber or other person shall make connections
with a customer's utility service line, connect such utility line when it has
been disconnected by the utility, or turn customer's water on or off, without
first obtaining written permission to do so from the city of Colstrip.
   B.   Damages To City Property: It is prohibited:
      1.   To disturb or damage any pipe, city machinery, tools or other
property of the city water department. Subsections 9-1B-23C and 9-1G-21D, and
section
9-1H-15 of this chapter also address damages to public property.
      2.   To throw or place any foreign materials into any of the reservoirs.
      3.   To deface or injure any buildings or other improvements of the city
water department.
      4.   To disturb or damage in any manner any watershed, lawn, grass plot,
flowers, vines, bushes, or trees belonging to the city water department. (Ord.
04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1-9: MISCELLANEOUS DEVICES:
The municipal utility may require a customer to install, as a condition of
continued utility service and at the customer's expense, an approved backflow
prevention device, an approved expansion tank, an approved pressure reducing
device, an approved pumping device, or any other similar type device that the
utility deems necessary to protect its municipal utility facilities, its
service products, or its customers'/users' facilities. The customer shall be
responsible for the testing, operation, and maintenance of all such devices.
The utility may also require the customer to submit semiannual test results on
such devices certifying that the devices have been checked by an authorized
service representative and are in good working order. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1-10: SERVICE CONDITIONS AND INTERRUPTIONS:
   A.   Conditions: Service shall be provided by the utility only under and in
accordance with the rules and regulations contained herein, by modifications or
additions thereto lawfully made, and under such applicable ordinances,
resolutions, rate schedules, and contracts as may from time to time be lawfully
established.
   B.   Interruptions: The utility reserves the right to temporarily interrupt
utility service to its customers for the purpose of addressing emergency
situations or making connections, extensions, repairs, replacements, and/or
additions to the municipal water supply system/municipal wastewater system.
Whenever possible the utility will give reasonable notice to its customers in
advance of accomplishing such work. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1-11: LIABILITY OF UTILITY:
   A.   The utility shall only be responsible to a customer for providing
utility service in accordance with the conditions set forth herein,
irrespective of ownership of the property served. The utility shall not be
responsible for inconvenience, damage, or injury to persons or property
resulting from utility's termination, discontinuance, or interruption of
municipal utility service to any property in accordance with these rules and
regulations. Further, the utility shall not be responsible for the providing of
municipal water service to a customer at a pressure greater than or less than
the pressure existing in the public water main at the point of delivery of the
customer in question. The city is responsible for installation and maintenance
of water service line from main to curb stop. The customer is responsible for
installation and maintenance of service line up to and including connection of
main. Connection at the main will be done by authorized city personnel. A
permit is required to tap main, and inspection is also required. All facilities
from the building up to and including the service wye or tee are the
responsibility of the property owner. The city of Colstrip shall determine
whether a line is a service line or a public main if a discrepancy occurs.
   B.   In the section of town identified by the plat registered as the
original townsite, the following variances apply:
      1.   The city shall be responsible for any operation and maintenance when
the curb stop is located within the city's right of way, with the exception of
when the curb stop is located in a sidewalk or driveway. Then the city and the
owner will be jointly responsible for the cost of restoration of that sidewalk
or driveway.
      2.   In the areas of the original townsite where there are no curb stops,
the property owner shall be responsible for all service line repairs located
within their property line and the city is responsible for line repair on the
street and right of way.
      3.   Responsibility for restoration of lawns, shrubs, trees and other
landscaping is with the property owner, unless the curb stop is located within
the city's right of way. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1-12: PUBLIC WORKS SUPERVISOR:
   A.   Operation And Management: The public works supervisor shall have
control and management of the water distribution system, the waterworks and
equipment subject to city ordinances and water regulations adopted by the city
council.
The public works supervisor shall have control and management of the wastewater
distribution system, the wastewater works and equipment subject to city
ordinances and wastewater regulations adopted by the city council.
   B.   Department Employee Responsibility: The public works supervisor shall
be responsible for the management of the water system and shall be responsible
and answerable to the mayor.
The public works supervisor shall be responsible for the management of the
wastewater system and shall be responsible and answerable to the mayor.
   C.   Supervision: The public works supervisor shall supervise and conduct
the water plant operation and the distribution system in accordance with the
ordinances of the city. The public works supervisor shall have supervision over
all contracts concerning the water system. The public works supervisor shall
recommend the ordering of all equipment and supplies needed to operate or
extend or maintain the waterworks plant and distribution system. The public
works supervisor shall supervise and have charge of all construction, placing
and erection of all buildings, engines, pumps, fixtures, filters, basins,
wells, intakes, reservoirs, and grounds. The public works supervisor shall have
charge and be responsible for all tools, materials and stocks on hand. The
public works supervisor shall supervise all taps for water service and examine
the service pipes to see that they are properly laid and that curb cocks are
placed in proper position on each service as provided by regulations. The
public works supervisor shall perform such other duties as directed by the
mayor.
The public works supervisor shall supervise and conduct the wastewater plant
operation and the distribution system in accordance with the ordinances of the
city. The public works supervisor shall have supervision over all contracts
concerning the wastewater system. The public works supervisor shall recommend
the ordering of all equipment and supplies needed to operate or extend or
maintain the wastewater works plant and distribution system. The public works
supervisor shall supervise and have charge of all construction, placing and
erection of all buildings, engines, pumps, fixtures, filters, basins, wells,
intakes, reservoirs, and grounds. The public works supervisor shall have charge
and be responsible for all tools, materials and stocks on hand. The public
works supervisor shall supervise all taps for wastewater service and examine
the service pipes to see that they are properly laid and that curb cocks are
placed in proper position on each service as provided by regulations. The
public works supervisor shall perform such other duties as directed by the
mayor. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1-13: FUNDS:
The accounting and billings for the water and wastewater department funds shall
be the responsibility of the city clerk- treasurer. Water department receipts
and expenditures shall be accounted for in a separate enterprise fund of the
city. Wastewater department receipts and expenditures shall be accounted for in
a separate enterprise fund of the city. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1-14: ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES:
The office of the city clerk-treasurer is authorized under this title to adopt
certain policies related to the day to day operation of the city water and
sewer services, including policies of service applications, credit policies,
billing procedures and other related matters. These policies may be adopted
without further resolution or ordinance, however, the city council reserves the
right to oversee the implementation and management of those policies. (Ord. 04-
01, 2-10-2004)
ARTICLE A. SERVICE PROVISION
SECTION:
9-1A-1: Service Application
9-1A-2: Service Applicants
9-1A-3: Service Account
9-1A-4: Discontinuance Of Service
9-1A-5: Turn On And Turn Off Of Service
9-1A-6: Deposits
9-1A-7: Temporary And Construction Service
9-1A-1: SERVICE APPLICATION:
   A.   Required: A person requesting to establish an account for municipal
utility service with the utility shall make written application for such
service with the city of Colstrip. After approval by the utility, the
application to establish an account for utility service shall constitute the
agreement between the utility and the customer that the rules and regulations
provided herein shall serve as the contract between said parties. Existing
customers hereby agree to accept the rules and regulations provided herein as
their contract with the utility upon passage of said rules and regulations by
the city council.
      1.   Service Application Prerequisites: An application to establish an
account for municipal utility service shall be accepted by the utility only for
property that:
         a.   Is located within the city limits and the utility's service area;
         b.   Fronts and abuts a public water line and/or public sanitary
sewer;
         c.   Has a utility service line stubbed to the property line of the
property to be served;
         d.   Has building and yard plumbing meeting the requirements of the
latest edition of the uniform plumbing code;
         e.   Has paid to the utility all applicable fees and any outstanding
utility bills.
   B.   Provisions: An application to establish an account for municipal
utility service shall contain a provision wherein the applicant agrees to pay
to the utility all charges for service provided by the utility to the
applicant. In addition, it shall contain a provision wherein the applicant
agrees to abide by all the city's regulations governing municipal utility
service, including the rules and regulations contained herein. (Ord. 04-01, 2-
10-2004)
9-1A-2: SERVICE APPLICANTS:
A person requesting to establish an account for municipal water and/or
wastewater service must be the owner of the property to be served. The service
application shall include the name and mailing address of the owner of the
property involved. It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to
maintain on file with the utility the owner's current mailing address. The
owner of the property shall be held ultimately responsible for payment for
utility service regardless of amount used by tenants of rental properties. A
utility billing agreement that has been signed by the property owners will
allow the utility bill to be sent to the tenant.
Tenants in houses, trailer houses, and commercial buildings may be accepted for
primary financial responsibility on accounts after a minimum occupancy of three
(3) months, if the landlord consents and if the tenant's application meets with
approval as determined by the city clerk. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1A-3: SERVICE ACCOUNT:
   A.   Information To Be Provided: A person requesting to establish an account
for municipal utility service shall, upon request by the utility, furnish
proper identification, including, but not limited to, driver's license number,
or birth date, together with any information necessary to verify identity of
applicant and service address, including ownership, tenancy, or relationship of
applicant to other present or former customers of the utility at the service
address in question. In the event this information, or any other information
required to be submitted under these rules and regulations, is not furnished,
service to the applicant or service address involved shall be denied or
discontinued until such information is provided. In addition, prior to
restoring any service, the applicant must first pay to utility any applicable
charges for discontinuance and reestablishment of service.
   B.   Transfer Of Service Account: A customer requesting to have the
customer's municipal utility service account transferred to a new address may
do so by telephone provided that the customer has an established account for
municipal utility service. In the event that the applicant does not have an
established account with the utility, then the provisions of subsection 9-1A-1A
of this article regarding submission of such an application, shall apply. (Ord.
04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1A-4: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
   A.   By Customer: Once municipal utility service is initiated, a customer
shall be responsible for payment to the utility for any utility service
provided, including any minimum charges due. A customer shall, under normal
circumstances, contact the utility at least forty eight (48) hours in advance
of the need to discontinue the customer's/user's municipal utility service,
Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, excluded.
   B.   By Utility: The utility may discontinue municipal utility service to
any customer/user as provided below or as may be provided elsewhere herein this
chapter:
      1.   Without notice:
         a.   In the event of any condition determined to be hazardous to
property and/or persons.
         b.   In the event a customer/user uses equipment in such a manner that
adversely affects the municipal water supply system/municipal wastewater system
or that adversely affects municipal utility service to other customers and
users.
         c.   In the event of any unauthorized use or diversion of municipal
utility service or when any evidence of tampering with or bypassing of the
municipal water meter is found.
         d.   Upon written receipt of orders from government authority to
discontinue municipal utility service.
      2.   Upon not less than twenty four (24) hours' notice:
         a.   For violation and/or noncompliance with any applicable federal,
state, or local laws, and rules and regulations contained herein.
         b.   For failure of a customer to permit representatives of the
utility reasonable access to the customer's premises for the purposes set forth
in section
9-1-6 of this chapter.
         c.   For failure of a customer to fulfill his/her contractual
obligations for service, including, but not limited to, nonpayment of his/her
current utility bill.
      3.   Upon ten (10) days' written notice:
         a.   For failure of a customer to keep his/her water service line,
meter box/vault, fixtures, and/or any other appurtenances in good repair and in
a safe and operable condition.
         b.   For failure of a user to keep his/her building sewer and
appurtenances in good repair and in a safe and operable condition.
Whenever service is discontinued under this subsection B, or any other section
contained in these rules and regulations, the provisions of subsection 9-1-3C
of this chapter regarding noncompliance shall apply. Further, for the purposes
set forth under this section, or any other section contained in these rules and
regulations, written notice shall be deemed to have been given by the utility
when such notice is mailed first class to the name and address of the owner of
the property in question currently on file with the utility as required under
the provisions of section
9-1A-2 of this article. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1A-5: TURN ON AND TURN OFF OF SERVICE:
   A.   General: The utility will not turn the water on or off at a customer's
curb valve to any property until such time as the owner has established a
municipal water, wastewater account with the utility as required under
subsection 9-1A-1A of this article and, in addition, has paid to the utility a
turn on fee, if applicable.
   B.   Operation Of Curb Valves: Only authorized representatives of the
utility shall turn water on or off at a customer's curb valve. The utility will
not turn the water on at a customer's curb valve unless the customer or an
authorized agent thereof is at the customer's premises at that time to check
for open faucets and/or leaking fixtures and plumbing.
   C.   Inspection Of Meter And Appurtenances Remodeled: At the time the water
is turned on, a representative of the utility shall inspect the municipal water
meter in question for evidence of tampering/bypassing and to ensure that it is
sealed properly. All properties may be required to install an approved backflow
prevention device and provide surge protection devices at the property owner's
expense.
   D.   Turn Off For Nonpayment And/Or Noncompliance: The utility normally
shall not turn the water off on the day preceding a nonworking day for
nonpayment of charges for municipal utility service or for noncompliance with
these rules and regulations, however, the utility may do so in those cases set
forth in subsection 9-1A-4B of this article.
   E.   Turn On And Turn Off Liability Disclaimer: The utility shall not be
liable for any damage to persons or property that may result from the turning
on or turning off of the water to a customer's premises as provided for in
these rules and regulations or from the water being left on when the premises
may be unoccupied.
   F.   Landlord Responsibility: The real property owner of a rental property
shall be primarily responsible for the payment in full of all utility bills
generated by the real property so billed for said water use. Failure of the
real property owner to pay the bill as and when rendered will subject the
property to termination of service. A utility billing agreement signed by the
owner will allow the bill to be sent to the tenants. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1A-6: DEPOSITS:
   A.   When Required And Amount: For the purpose of guaranteeing payment of
the municipal utility charges, the utility may require any prospective customer
to file a deposit with the utility prior to providing the prospective customer
with municipal utility service. A person desiring to establish an account for
municipal wastewater service to a property not currently supplied with
municipal water service shall be required to file a deposit with the utility
prior to being granted such service. Such deposit shall be equal to the
estimated bill for one hundred (100) days of municipal water and/or wastewater
service. Provisions can be made in a case of need that the deposit can be paid
over a two (2) month period. If a customer establishes an account without a
deposit, but subsequently develops an unsatisfactory credit history with the
utility, a deposit may be required as a condition of continuing service. No
interest shall be paid on deposits.
   B.   Application Of: The utility may apply to a delinquent customer's
account any or all of such customer's deposit to offset any outstanding bill at
the customer's current or former address. The utility may require the customer
to immediately restore the deposit to the full amount whenever it has been used
for this purpose.
   C.   Transfer Of: Any deposit made under the provisions set forth in this
section may be transferred by the utility to any address within the utility's
service area where service is provided in the depositor's name.
   D.   Failure To Make: Failure to make deposits, increase deposits, or
restore deposits after notification shall be due cause for utility to refuse/
discontinue service to the customer involved until such deposit has been made
plus the payment of any applicable charges for discontinuance and/or
reestablishment of service.
   E.   Refund Of: The utility may at any time refund a customer's deposit or
any part thereof by check or by credit to the customer's account.
   F.   Record Of: The utility shall maintain a record of any deposits filed by
customers with the utility.
   G.   Receipt Of: The utility shall issue to a customer from whom a deposit
is received a nonassignable receipt. However, the utility shall provide
reasonable ways and means whereby a deposit may be refunded to a customer who
is unable to produce the original receipt. A current picture ID will be
required to reclaim deposit. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1A-7: TEMPORARY AND CONSTRUCTION SERVICE:
   A.   Temporary Utility Service: Municipal utility service provided for a
shorter period than six (6) months shall be considered temporary, and in such
cases, the customer shall be required to reimburse the utility for the cost of
installing and removing the municipal water meter involved. Further, the
customer shall at his/her expense install in accordance with utility standards
any needed water service lines/building sewers required in order to connect
such temporary service as well as remove such facilities, if required, when
service is discontinued.
   B.   Construction Water Permit Required: It is prohibited for any contractor
or other person engaged in construction work to utilize municipal utility
service without first obtaining a written permit from the city and paying to
the city the appropriate fees and charges for such service as determined by the
public works supervisor.
   C.   Service For Building Construction: A contractor, builder or owner shall
take out a permit for use of any municipal utility service in connection with
the construction of a building, and all such service shall be deemed temporary
and subject to the provisions of subsection A of this section. All water
passing through the municipal water meter shall be billed to the applicant for
such a permit at least monthly, and the charges for such service shall be
calculated using the current minimum and metered water service schedules of the
utility. Such bills shall be due and payable when rendered. Failure of the
applicant to pay the bill within thirty (30) days after mailing shall be deemed
sufficient cause to disconnect service. Once removed, the municipal water meter
shall not be reset for an applicant until all outstanding bills for
construction water are paid and the applicant has reimbursed the utility for
its expenses in removing and installing the meter. In addition, regular
municipal utility service to any new building shall not be initiated until all
charges for temporary service, including any minimum service charges due, have
been paid in full to the utility.
   D.   Service For Public Works Construction: Application to obtain water by
means of a fire hydrant for public works construction shall be made to the city
on forms furnished for this purpose by the city. All construction water passing
through the municipal fire hydrant meter shall be billed to the applicant at
least monthly and the charges for such service shall be calculated using the
city's current minimum and metered water service schedules for a three inch
(3") meter. Failure of the applicant to pay any bill within thirty (30) days
after mailing shall be deemed sufficient cause to immediately remove the
municipal fire hydrant meter. Once removed, the municipal fire hydrant meter
shall not be reset for an applicant until all outstanding bills for
construction water are paid.
   E.   Temporary Meter Service: Temporary meter service shall be available
only to inside city limits customers. Water provided to an inside city customer
through a temporary meter shall be billed to such a customer at least monthly.
Such bills shall be due and payable to the city when rendered. Failure to pay
the bill within thirty (30) days after mailing shall be deemed sufficient cause
to immediately remove the temporary meter. Once removed, the temporary meter
shall not be reset for the customer involved until all outstanding bills for
water service are paid and the customer has reimbursed the city for its
expenses in removing and installing the meter. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
ARTICLE B. BILLING, RATES AND METERS
SECTION:
9-1B-1: Billing Statement
9-1B-2: Bills Due
9-1B-3: Billed Services
9-1B-4: Payment
9-1B-5: Adjustments Of Wastewater Bills
9-1B-6: Rates, Charges, And Fees Established
9-1B-7: Water Fees And Charges
9-1B-8: Wastewater Charges
9-1B-9: Reestablishment And Connection Charges Of Utility Service
9-1B-10: Miscellaneous Utility Fees And Charges
9-1B-11: Other Fees And Charges
9-1B-12: Books Of Account
9-1B-13: Snow Bird Rates (Rep. by Ord. 2015-01, 9-8-2015, eff. 10-9-2015)
9-1B-14: Dewatering Sewer Rate
9-1B-15: Metering, General
9-1B-16: Metering Responsibility
9-1B-17: Metering Facilities
9-1B-18: Installation And Relocation Of Meters
9-1B-19: Submeters
9-1B-20: Standard Meter And Service Line Sizes
9-1B-21: Number Of Meters And Service Lines
9-1B-22: Meter Accuracy
9-1B-23: Meter/Meter Box Repair And Maintenance
9-1B-24: Prohibitions
9-1B-25: Fire Hydrant Meters
9-1B-26: Reserved
9-1B-27: Seasonal Meters
9-1B-1: BILLING STATEMENT:
   A.   Billing Period: The charges for municipal water and wastewater services
together shall be billed at least monthly. To meet unusual conditions, such as
discontinuances, the utility may render bills for service at other than the
aforementioned intervals.
   B.   Content: As a minimum, a bill for municipal utility service shall show
the customer's name and mailing address, the billing date, the billing period,
the customer's account number, the service address, the previous and present
meter readings, the actual or estimated water usage in gallons, the current and
past due charges, the previous balance, and the total amount due. (Ord. 04-01,
2-10-2004)
9-1B-2: BILLS DUE:
   A.   All utility bills must be paid to the office of the utility billing
clerk promptly when due. Bills are due upon receipt but shall become delinquent
twenty five (25) days from the date the billing is mailed. Users shall be
notified of any delinquency by the utility billing clerk at the time of
delinquency and shall be notified that the service will be discontinued by the
city approximately fourteen (14) days from the date of the third month's bill,
by attaching a notification to said bill. Upon failure to pay the delinquent
account in full within such notification period, the city will discontinue
service.
   B.   Before water service shall be turned back on, it shall be obligatory
upon said user to pay all of the delinquent bill and the cost of cutting off
and turning service back on. All delinquent amounts plus additional charges
must be paid in full before services will be turned back on. If any such
delinquent customer desires to have service turned on during nonbusiness hours
or on weekends or holidays, he/she must pay the required outside normal working
hours rate.
   C.   All water and sewer bills shall be considered delinquent if they remain
unpaid for thirty (30) days from the date the water and sewer bill was mailed
from the city's office. Any customer who is delinquent will receive a past due
notice from the utility billing clerk advising them of their status and will be
assessed a late fee. The amount set forth in the notice must be paid within the
next thirty (30) days or their service will be subject to termination.
Once the customer has failed to pay the delinquent amount of the bill within
thirty (30) days of the past due notice, the city is authorized to terminate
service as follows:
      1.   The customer shall receive notice by either personal delivery or
certified mail informing the customer of the date of termination of service
unless the outstanding delinquent balance is paid in full within fifteen (15)
days of the notice. If payment is not received, service will be terminated
immediately. Any customer who received a termination notice will be assessed an
additional termination notice fee.
      2.   The city shall be allowed to charge a fee for shutoff and a fee for
turning the water and/or service back on as a condition of reactivating the
service(s). (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
   D.   Any delinquent water and sewer charges may be assessed as a tax against
the owner of the property in accordance with the provisions as set forth under
Montana Code Annotated section 7-13-4309. It is further understood that these
provisions apply against the landowner, even if arrangements were made between
the city and tenant that the tenant is primarily responsible for payment of the
charges.
      1.   The procedure for assessing the real property for the water and
sewer charges is as follows:
On or before July 7 of each year, notice must be given by the city clerk-
treasurer to the owners of all lots or parcels of real estate to which sewer or
water service has been furnished prior to July 1 by the city. The notice must
specify the assessment owing and in arrears at the time of giving notice. The
notice must be in writing and must state the amount of arrearage, including any
penalty and/or interest assessed pursuant to the provisions of the city
resolution or ordinance, and the notice must state that unless that amount is
paid within thirty (30) days of the notice, the amount will be levied as a tax
against the lot or parcel of real estate to which sewer or water service was
furnished and for which payment is delinquent. The notice must also state that
the city may by suit collect past due assessments, including interest and
penalties, as a debt owing the city, in any court of competent jurisdiction,
including city court. The notice may be delivered to the owner personally or by
letter addressed to the owner at the post office address of the owner as shown
on the property tax records maintained by the department of revenue.
      2.   Nothing in this provision prevents the city from pursuing the
collection of assessments in the same manner as a tax by bringing suit in any
court of competent jurisdiction, including city court, in the amount due and
owing, including penalties and interest, as a debt owing the city. (Ord. 06-03,
3-14-2006, eff. 4-14-2006)
9-1B-3: BILLED SERVICES:
   A.   Combined Charges: All bills issued for municipal wastewater service to
persons or properties which are also customers of the municipal water utility,
whether within or without the city limits, shall be included as a part of the
bills for water service, but separately stated. No payment of municipal water
service charges and municipal wastewater service charges so billed, shall be
accepted without payment of all such charges.
   B.   Bills For Wastewater Services Only: Bills issued for municipal
wastewater service to users connected to the municipal wastewater system but
which do not receive municipal water service shall be made on the same forms
and at the same times as are combined water and wastewater bills, or solid
waste bills. Payment of bills issued for only municipal wastewater service
shall normally be handled as set forth under subsection 9-1B-1A and section
9-1B-2 of this article. However, in the event of nonpayment of such bills, the
city may order the wastewater service line serving the property involved to be
cut and plugged. Notice will be served as provided herein. Service shall not be
restored until the total amount of the outstanding wastewater bill is paid plus
all the expenses incurred by the utility in disconnecting and restoring service
and the customer restores any required deposits. The procedures set forth under
Montana Code Annotated 7-13-4309, which inserts the payment as a tax against
the property involved and permits the bringing of a suit, may also be used to
collect payment of delinquent municipal wastewater charges in this instance.
Whenever an account for municipal wastewater service is established by a
domestic customer with no prior history of water consumption, the city will
estimate water consumption based upon an average city use for billing purposes
until a sufficient history of use is established to the city's satisfaction.
The city may require metering of private wells to determine water consumption
and use this to determine wastewater contribution.
   C.   Multiple Owners: Where municipal utility service is provided through a
single meter to property having multiple owners, the utility will not apportion
the charges for the use of water and wastewater service among the various
owners. The bill for such service shall be charged against the person in whose
name the account stands. However, if the one in whose name the account stands
fails, refuses, or is unable to pay such bill, the remaining owners shall be
responsible for the unpaid municipal utility charges. Such unpaid bills may be
cause for discontinuing service to the property involved until the total amount
due is paid plus payment of any applicable charges for discontinuance and/or
reestablishment of service and any required deposits are restored.
In instances where more than one service connection is served by a single curb
stop, the city may require property owner to hire, or may install, or hire a
plumber to install, a separate curb stop to any or all of the services in the
event the account becomes delinquent. All charges associated with the
installation of the curb stop as well as any reconnection charges must be paid
by the property owner before reestablishment of service.
   D.   Estimated Charges: In instances where a meter is not read, the utility
may use estimated water usage and/or wastewater contributions in determining a
customer's utility bill. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1B-4: PAYMENT:
   A.   Payment Transfers: Where a customer is liable to the utility for
municipal utility service at one address and is thereafter located at some
other address, any amounts due to service furnished at any previous location
may be transferred to the customer's account at the customer's current
location. Water service may be discontinued at the customer's current location
until all outstanding accounts are paid in full, plus payment of any applicable
charges for discontinuance and/or reestablishment of service and any required
deposits are restored.
   B.   Bill Payment Stub: Whenever possible, a bill payment stub should be
presented when a municipal utility account is paid to ensure proper crediting
of payment.
   C.   Refusal Of Service: The utility may refuse service to any delinquent
customer or to other members of the delinquent customer's household or firm
when the request by such person for service may be a means for evading payment
of unpaid municipal water and wastewater charges. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1B-5: ADJUSTMENTS OF WASTEWATER BILLS:
The wastewater rates, charges, and fees may be adjusted, as applied to a
particular premises by the procedure set forth below, where it appears that:
   A.   The character of the wastewater from any manufacturing, industrial, or
other plant, building, or premises is such that the wastewater rates provided
are unfair, inequitable, unreasonable, or inadequate to pay the cost of
wastewater service to such premises;
   B.   The entire amount of water delivered through the metered line, such as
a line with a sprinkling meter, to any premises is used for such a purpose and
in such a manner as to establish beyond reasonable doubt that such water does
not enter the municipal wastewater system;
   C.   The entire amount of water delivered through any meter on any premises
is used for such a purpose and in such a manner as to establish beyond
reasonable doubt that water so delivered does not enter the municipal
wastewater system. As provided under section
9-1B-26 of this article, secondary wastewater meters shall be furnished at the
customer's expense and shall be of a type, size, and make and set at such place
as shall be designated by the public works supervisor.
Any persons aggrieved by an administrative decision, any rules or regulation
adopted, or the application of any rule or regulation governing the operation
of the utility may petition the city council for review. The aggrieved shall
file a written notice of appeal with the public works committee within ten (10)
days after the date on which the grievance occurred. The notice of appeal shall
state the specific action being appealed, the service account number, the
reasons for appealing such action, the particular relief sought, the aggrieved
person's correct mailing address, and shall be signed by the aggrieved person.
The aggrieved person shall be notified in writing by certified mail, return
receipt requested, of the date, time, and place the matter will be considered
by the city council. The aggrieved person and all other interested persons may
appear at that date, time, and place and be heard. The city council shall act
on the question at the next regular council meeting. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1B-6: RATES, CHARGES, AND FEES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   All rates, charges, and fees for municipal utility service shall be
adopted by the city council by resolution as such may be lawfully changed from
time to time. Further, in accordance with the provisions of Montana Code
Annotated 7-13-4305, no person shall be permitted to use or enjoy the benefit
of the municipal utility system unless they pay the full and established rate
for said service.
   B.   Rates, charges, and fees are on file with the city clerk. (Ord. 04-01,
2-10-2004)
9-1B-7: WATER FEES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Service Application Fee: All applications for the use of water must be
made at city hall on the printed form for that purpose, along with a service
application fee. Every such application must be made by the owner of the
property to be served, the owner's authorized agent or authorized tenant, and
must include the purposes for which the water is required. The applicant must
agree to conform to these rules as a condition of use of water.
   B.   Water Turn On Fee: Failure to comply with the rules and regulations
established as a condition to the use of water, or to pay the water rates, or
any charge or penalty imposed, in the time and manner herein provided, the
water may be shut off until payment of the amount due is made, with an addition
for the expense of turning the water on and off.
   C.   Monthly Metered Water Charges: Any monthly metered water charges
adopted by the city council, or as such may be lawfully changed from time to
time, shall apply to all customers that have either direct or indirect water
service connections with the municipal water supply system.
The monthly metered water charge shall be based upon the volume of water, in
one thousand (1,000) gallons (or fractions thereof), which is registered
monthly on the municipal water meter serving a customer. Monthly metered water
charges are due and payable as set forth in section
9-1B-2 of this article.
   D.   Minimum Monthly Water Charges: The minimum monthly charges shall be
based on the size of municipal water meter used to serve a customer. Minimum
monthly water charges are due and payable as set forth in section
9-1B-2 of this article. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
A minimum monthly rate is established for each service of property owners who
have had active water and/or sewer service with the city of Colstrip since May
1, 2013. The charge is a flat rate that is determined and correlated to the
existing debt service and the replacement and depreciation cost of the water
and sewer utilities. These costs are incurred whether the customers use any
water or not. (Ord. 2015-01, 9-8-2015, eff. 10-9-2015)
9-1B-8: WASTEWATER CHARGES:
   A.   Monthly Volume Wastewater Charges: Any monthly volume wastewater
charges adopted by the city council, or as such may be lawfully changed from
time to time, shall apply to all users that have building sewers connected with
the municipal wastewater system.
The monthly volume wastewater charges for commercial, public school accounts,
hospitals, etc., shall be billed based upon the volume of water used monthly
and meter size, which shall be determined by taking the total number of gallons
of water registered monthly on the municipal water meter or such other approved
utility meter that serves the account in question.
The monthly volume wastewater charges for all accounts shall be billed based
upon the average volume of water used monthly and meter size, which shall be
determined by taking the total number of gallons of water registered monthly on
the municipal water meter, or such other approved utility meter that serves the
account in question, for the months of December, January, and February and
dividing such total by three (3).
Monthly volume wastewater charges are due and payable as set forth in section
9-1B-2 of this article.
   B.   Monthly Wastewater Charges: Any minimum monthly wastewater charges
adopted by the city council, or as such may be lawfully changed from time to
time, shall apply to all users that have building sewers connected with the
municipal wastewater system. Minimum monthly wastewater charges are due and
payable as set forth in section
9-1B-2 of this article. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1B-9: REESTABLISHMENT AND CONNECTION CHARGES OF UTILITY SERVICE:
   A.   Reestablishment: Any charge for reestablishment of utility service
adopted by the city council, or as such may be lawfully changed from time to
time, shall apply to any customer that has had the utility service to his/her
property discontinued for failure to pay municipal utility charges or for
failure to comply with the rules and regulations set forth herein. Once the
utility service to a customer has been discontinued, such service shall not be
restored until the customer involved is in full compliance with these rules and
regulations and has paid to the utility the applicable charge for
reestablishment of municipal utility service, plus payment of any outstanding
charges for such service.
   B.   Connection: Any charges for connection of service lines to the
municipal utility system adopted by the city council, or as such may be
lawfully changed from time to time, shall apply to those wishing to make
connections to the existing municipal utility system. For water service, the
charges will include the total cost of installing the service line from the
city main to the curb box and stop, including, all time and materials.
For sewer service, the sewer permit application fee covers the cost of
inspecting a licensed plumber's work in the right of way. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-
2004)
9-1B-10: MISCELLANEOUS UTILITY FEES AND CHARGES:
Any miscellaneous utility fees and charges adopted by the city council, or as
such may be lawfully changed from time to time, shall apply as follows:
   A.   Reserved.
   B.   Reserved.
   C.   Reserved.
   D.   Reserved.
   E.   Fee For Performing A Special Meter Accuracy Test: The fee for
performing a special meter accuracy test shall apply to any customer that
desires the municipal water meter serving his/her property be tested for
accuracy, as provided for under subsection 9-1B-22A of this article. The
purpose of the fee for performing a special meter accuracy test is to
compensate the utility for its cost in performing such a test in those
instances where the municipal water meter is found by a test to be within
acceptable accuracy limits. The fee shall be due and payable to the utility at
the time the request for performing a special meter accuracy test is filed with
the utility or after a special meter accuracy test has been performed by the
utility.
   F.   Fee For Setting/Removing A Fire Hydrant Meter: The fee for setting/
removing a fire hydrant meter shall apply to any person submitting to the
municipal utility an application to obtain construction water by means of a
fire hydrant meter, as provided for under subsection 9-1A-7D of this chapter.
The purpose of the fee for setting/removing a fire hydrant meter is to
compensate the utility for its expense in setting and removing such a meter.
The fee shall be due and payable to the utility at the time the application for
construction water is filed with the utility.
   G.   Fee For Performing Fireflow Test: The fee for the performance of a
fireflow test by the municipal utility shall apply to all persons who request
the performance of such a test. The purpose of the fireflow test fee is to
compensate the utility for its expenses in performing such a test. The fee
shall be due and payable to the utility at the time the request for a fireflow
test is filed with the utility.
   H.   Fee For Flushing, Testing, And Chlorinating Water Mains: The fee for
flushing, testing, and chlorinating water mains shall apply to all persons who
request the utility to perform such work.
The purpose of the fee is to compensate the utility for its expense in flushing
a water main and performing a bacteriological test and a chlorine residual test
on the water contained therein. The fee shall be due and payable to the utility
at the time the request for such work is filed with the utility. The amount of
the fee shall be dependent upon the extent of the work involved.
   I.   Fee For Disposal Of Septage: The fee for disposal of septage by the
utility shall apply to any authorized septage hauler that requests a permit
from the utility to discharge septage collected in county into the municipal
wastewater system. The purpose of the fee for disposal of septage is to
compensate the utility for treating and disposing of such wastes. The fee shall
be due and payable to the utility at the time of disposal. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-
2004)
9-1B-11: OTHER FEES AND CHARGES:
   A.   State Fees: Any water supply fees, pollution control fees, taxes, and
so on lawfully adopted/changed by the state of Montana and levied against the
utility shall apply to all customers of the utility. Applicable provisions of
this article shall apply to these state fees. The utility shall pay all money
collected from such fees to the state as required under state law.
   B.   Charges For Miscellaneous Work/Service: The utility may require service
agreements to be executed by a prospective customer prior to performing any
work and/or service for the customer. All charges for work performed by the
utility for a customer shall be adequate to cover the utility's expenses,
including, but not limited to, application, license, construction, permit, and
legal fees as well as overhead, but shall not include any profit for the
utility. The utility may revise the charges from time to time to reflect
current costs, and the utility may estimate such charges and require the
prospective customer to deposit an amount equal to such estimated charges with
the utility prior to performing such work or service. In the event the utility
has overestimated the cost of performing such work, the utility shall refund to
the customer any overpayment upon completion of the work by the utility. In
addition, the customer shall pay to the utility an amount equal to the
difference between the estimated cost and the actual cost in the event the
utility has underestimated the cost of the work performed by the utility. The
charges shall be due and payable to the utility upon completion of the work
performed.
   C.   Reserved. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
   D.   Fee For Unauthorized Acts: Should the owner or occupant of the premises
or any other person(s) turn on the water at their direction, or cause it to be
turned on, without the city's consent after it has been shut off at the curb
stop, it will be turned off at the curb stop by the city, and a charge made for
the expense of turning it off and on, payable before the water is turned back
on.
In addition, should the owner or occupant of the premises or any other person
at their direction turn off the water or cause it to be turned off, without the
city's consent, they will be charged with the expense of turning the water back
on, at the fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00). (Ord. 2005-02, 7-12-2005, eff.
8-12-2005)
   E.   Other Fees:
      1.   Any bank charges or other direct costs to the city of Colstrip as a
result of delinquent utility bills, will be paid by the customer.
      2.   Any work done in connection with a customer's utility service will
be charged on a time and material basis. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1B-12: BOOKS OF ACCOUNT:
The utility department shall keep a complete set of books which shall at all
times show the distribution of accounts of the water department and said books
shall be open to inspection by the public or any officer of the city during the
hours the city office is open for business. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1B-13: SNOW BIRD RATES:
(Rep. by Ord. 2015-01, 9-8-2015, eff. 10-9-2015)
9-1B-14: DEWATERING SEWER RATE:
A monthly sewer rate is established for the discharge of ground water from
dewatering wells into the city's sewage system. The rate will be established
and adjusted by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1B-15: METERING, GENERAL:
Except for fire lines, all water service lines connected with the municipal
water supply system shall be metered by the city. The city shall normally read
all municipal water meters to determine customer water usage and/or customer
wastewater contributions for billing purposes. In months where the municipal
water meter cannot be read, the utility may estimate the meter reading and use
the calculated water usage/wastewater contribution to render the bill for the
customer involved. The utility shall not estimate a meter reading for a
customer more than four (4) consecutive months without first making every
effort to read the meter in question. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1B-16: METERING RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Utility's Responsibility: It shall be the utility's responsibility to:
      1.   Furnish, install, and maintain a municipal water meter, and any
required remote reading equipment on every water service line connected with
the municipal water supply system;
      2.   Approve the size of the municipal water meter to be installed on any
water service line connected with the municipal water supply system;
      3.   Ensure that all municipal water meters are properly sealed prior to
installation on water service lines;
      4.   Periodically check all municipal water meters that are in service
for tampering, bypassing, or any other acts of water theft.
   B.   Customer's Responsibility: It shall be the customer's responsibility
to:
      1.   Provide a location approved by the public works supervisor for
installation of the municipal water meter that is readable and that is properly
protected from damage due to freezing or other adverse access conditions.
Customer will be responsible for costs associated with damage due to neglect.
Provide proper access of sufficient size to work or maintain water meter as
determined by the public works supervisor;
      2.   Furnish, install, and maintain an approved outside meter box/vault,
if approved by the public works supervisor, as well as any pipe, fittings,
meter loops, valves, expansion tanks, backflow prevention devices and surge
protection devices on commercial accounts, pressure reducing devices, telephone
lines/jacks, and other appurtenances required to meet the standards of the
utility for the type metering facility involved;
      3.   Obtain the written approval of the utility in advance of installing
the plumbing for a large municipal water meter (11/2 inches and larger),
whether it be set inside or outside the building to be served; and
      4.   Protect the municipal water meter from tampering, bypassing, or any
other acts of water theft, without preventing access by the utility. (Ord. 04-
01, 2-10-2004)
9-1B-17: METERING FACILITIES:
   A.   Inside Metering Facilities: An inside municipal water metering facility
shall be approved by the utility prior to its installation, meet the standards
and specifications of the utility, and meet the following requirements:
      1.   The municipal water meter, if required, shall be installed in a
horizontal position, if possible, not over two feet (2') above the floor, and
shall be located as close as possible to the point where the water service line
enters the building;
      2.   In mobile homes and trailers, skirting must provide a minimum of
three feet (3') wide by two feet (2') high opening not more than three feet
(3') from the meter location;
      3.   In crawl spaces, access doors must be a minimum of three feet (3')
wide by two feet (2') high and not more than three feet (3') from meter
location;
      4.   In basements, there shall be no obstructions within two feet (2') on
either side or in front of meter;
      5.   The municipal water meter and backflow prevention device, if
required, shall be installed in a horizontal position, not over two feet (2')
above the floor, and shall be located as close as possible to the point where
the water service line enters the building;
      6.   The municipal water meter shall be located near a floor drain if at
all possible;
      7.   Valves shall be installed before and after the municipal water meter
to allow removal and replacement of the meter without first draining the entire
service line and building plumbing;
      8.   A municipal water meter having the size of one and one-half inches
(11/2") or larger shall have a valved bypass installed around the meter to
provide continuous service when the meter is out for repair.
   B.   Outside Metering Facilities: An outside meter box/vault shall be
approved by the utility prior to construction, meet the standards and
specifications of the utility, and meet the following requirements:
      1.   The meter box/vault shall be located on private property at or near
the point where the water service line enters the property to be served.
      2.   The meter box/vault shall be located near a driveway or turnout and
shall be readily accessible to utility vehicles without causing damage to
public or private property or endangering the public or utility personnel.
      3.   The meter box/vault shall be waterproof and shall be large enough to
safely and easily install, maintain, and replace the municipal water meter,
backflow prevention device, if required, and other appurtenances.
      4.   The municipal water meter and backflow prevention device shall be
installed within the meter box/vault in a horizontal position, not over two
feet (2') above the floor.
      5.   A valve shall be located before and after the municipal water meter
to allow removal of the meter without first draining the water service line and
the yard and building plumbing.
      6.   A municipal water meter one to one and one-half inches (11/2") or
larger may have a valved bypass installed around the meter to provide
continuous service when the meter is out for repair.
      7.   Meter pits and aboveground vaults shall be allowed only as a last
resort.
   C.   Use Of Inside/Outside Metering Facilities: As a condition of service, a
customer shall normally provide inside metering facilities meeting all the
requirements of subsection A of this section. The public works supervisor may,
however, require any customer to install an outside meter box/vault meeting the
requirements of subsection B of this section, as a condition of providing/
continuing utility service to the property involved. Conversely, the public
works supervisor may require a customer to replace defective outside metering
facilities with inside metering facilities meeting the requirements of
subsection A of this section as a condition of continuing utility service to
the property involved. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1B-18: INSTALLATION AND RELOCATION OF METERS:
   A.   Permanent, Temporary, Or Seasonal Meter Installations: When a municipal
water meter is installed at the request of a customer, its installation is
deemed to be permanent unless the customer discontinues service entirely.
Service on a municipal water meter for a shorter period than six (6) months
shall be considered temporary or seasonal. The customer shall be required to
reimburse the utility for the cost of installing and removing a temporary or
seasonal water meter.
   B.   Relocation Of Meters: A customer requesting relocation of the municipal
water meter after its initial installation will bear all costs associated with
relocating the meter. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1B-19: SUBMETERS:
Customers desiring one or more submeters for various tenants shall furnish,
install, maintain, and read such meters at their own expense. The utility shall
not furnish, install, maintain, read, or bill on such meters. Further, all
municipal utility charges for a single water service line shall be billed to
and shall be paid by the person named on the water service application for the
property involved. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1B-20: STANDARD METER AND SERVICE LINE SIZES:
The following table shows the size of meter that will normally be used by the
utility on various size water service lines. Standards of the uniform plumbing
code shall be used when sizing water meters and lines.
Service Line Diameter - Inches  Minimum Size Of Meter - Inches
Service Line Diameter - Inches  Minimum Size Of Meter - Inches
      3/4                    5/8 or 3/4
      1                      3/4
      11/2                   1
      2                      11/2
      4                      3
      6                      4
      8                      6
 
A customer requiring a municipal water meter larger than six inches (6") shall
install meters sized as determined by the utility. The city furnishes meters up
to one inch (1"). The customer will pay the difference in cost between the
required meter and the one inch (1") size furnished by the city.
Meters and water service lines to be installed to serve water filling stations
shall be limited to a size of two inches (2") or less unless otherwise
authorized in writing by the public works supervisor. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1B-21: NUMBER OF METERS AND SERVICE LINES:
   A.   Single Meter Per Service Line: The utility will allow only one
municipal water meter for a single water service line except for those that
require meters for seasonal use larger than six inches (6").
   B.   Interconnected Water Service Lines: A customer served by two (2) or
more water service lines which are interconnected shall have a check valve
located on each water service line at its metering facility to prevent
circulation of the water through the customer's meter and water service lines
and back into the municipal water supply system. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1B-22: METER ACCURACY:
   A.   Special Meter Accuracy Tests: When a customer makes a complaint that
the municipal utility charges for any particular billing period are excessive,
the utility shall, upon request, have the municipal water meter for the
customer involved reread. Should the customer then desire that the municipal
water meter be tested, the customer shall make a deposit with the city to cover
the cost of making the test. The utility will then test the meter in question.
Should the meter test show a registration in excess of five percent (5%) in
favor of the utility, the amount deposited shall be refunded to the customer
and the city shall make an adjustment for the estimated excess consumption on
the bill immediately preceding and/or the current bill. The excess registration
on the reading for the previous and/or current month shall be credited to the
customer's account. Where no such error is found in favor of the city, the
amount deposited will be retained by the city to cover the expense of
performing the test.
   B.   Replacement Of Meters: Whenever a customer requests the replacement of
the municipal water meter, such request shall be treated as a request for a
test of the meter. As such, it shall be handled by the utility in the manner
set forth in subsection A of this section.
   C.   Standard Of Meter Accuracy: The utility shall not place in service or
allow to remain in service without adjustment any municipal water meter that
has a known error in registration of more than plus or minus five percent (±
5%). (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1B-23: METER/METER BOX REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Nonregistering Meter: When the municipal water meter fails to register
for any period, and the reason for the malfunction is beyond the reasonable
control of the utility, the utility may estimate the charge for municipal
utility service during the period in question. The malfunctioning meter must be
repaired/replaced by the utility within one month of the date that the meter
was discovered by the utility to be malfunctioning.
   B.   Testing And Repairing Meters: The utility may test and/or repair a
municipal water meter at any time, and for this purpose the utility may
temporarily shut off the water to a customer.
   C.   Damaged Meters And Equipment: Whenever a municipal water meter, cable,
remote read device, or any other equipment owned by the utility is damaged by
the carelessness or negligence of the customer, the utility shall repair/
replace the damaged equipment and charge the cost of doing so against the
customer's account. Failure to pay this charge shall be just cause for the
utility to discontinue utility to the property involved until the total amount
is paid plus payment of any applicable charges for discontinuance and/or
reestablishment of service.
   D.   Maintenance Of Outside Meter Boxes/Vaults: A customer shall at his/her
expense keep his/her outside meter box/vault and appurtenances in good repair,
readily accessible, and in a safe and usable condition at all times. Failure to
do so shall be deemed just cause to discontinue municipal utility service to
the customer involved as provided in subsection 9-1A-4B of this chapter. (Ord.
04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1B-24: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Taps/Connections: It is prohibited for any customer to make
a tap to or maintain a connection with the customer's water service line at a
point located upstream of the municipal water meter. Such taps/connections
shall be treated as a bypass around the meter and subject to the provisions of
subsection B of this section.
   B.   Meter Tampering/Bypassing: It is prohibited for any person to bypass or
tamper with a municipal water meter. It is also prohibited for any person to
receive municipal utility service knowing that the measurement of such service
is being affected by bypassing, or tampering. In case a meter seal is broken or
the working parts of the meter have been tampered with or the meter damaged or
bypassed, the city will, in addition to any other penalties provided by law,
estimate the time period the tampering took place and will render an estimated
bill for that time period to the customer involved. The city will also bill the
customer for the full cost of repairing such damage to the meter, and may
refuse to furnish water until the customer's account is paid in full plus
payment of any applicable charges for discontinuance and/or reestablishment of
service. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1B-25: FIRE HYDRANT METERS:
The following provisions and conditions shall govern the setting, use, and
removal of municipal fire hydrant meters for the purpose of obtaining water for
public works construction:
   A.   Only fire hydrants owned by the utility shall be used for this purpose.
Privately owned hydrants and those fire hydrants situated outside the city and
owned by the county shall not be used for this purpose. The utility reserves
the right in all cases to determine upon which particular fire hydrant a
municipal fire hydrant meter shall be installed.
   B.   The applicant for a meter shall sign the application for such service,
shall be responsible for the payment of all fees and charges for such service,
and shall be responsible for the protection and care of the meter while it is
in use. In addition, any damages to public or private property, including the
municipal fire hydrant meter and the municipal water supply system, caused by
the applicant's use of the municipal fire hydrant meter shall be immediately
repaired by the applicant at the applicant's expense. Further, it shall be the
applicant's responsibility to secure the operating valve on the municipal fire
hydrant meter whenever the applicant is not using the meter so as to preclude
unauthorized use of water through the meter.
   C.   Only utility personnel shall install and/or relocate a municipal fire
hydrant meter. Further, such a meter shall not be installed on a fire hydrant
in a manner which will interfere with the fire department's use of the five and
one-fourth inch (51/4") pumper nozzle.
   D.   The utility shall not relocate a fire hydrant meter for an applicant
without the applicant first having obtained a new permit and having again paid
to the city. Such relocations shall be limited to a maximum of one per day for
each applicant.
   E.   Municipal fire hydrant meters shall normally be set on the basis of
permit dates, with the earliest date having first priority.
   F.   Applicants shall give the municipal utility at least forty eight (48)
hours' notice of their need to have a municipal fire hydrant meter installed.
   G.   A fire hydrant meter shall not be installed during months when the
weather may subject it to freezing. Further, since service from a municipal
fire hydrant meter is considered temporary, such a meter shall not be installed
at any one location for a period greater than six (6) months nor less than one
day.
   H.   Applicants for a municipal fire hydrant meter shall ensure that their
filling operations do not cause a cross connection or excessive pressure
surges. Failure to do so shall be deemed just cause to immediately remove the
municipal fire hydrant meter from service. Such service shall not be restored
until the applicant takes corrective action, takes out another municipal fire
hydrant meter permit, and pays the appropriate permit fees to the utility.
   I.   Any person tampering with or bypassing a municipal fire hydrant meter
shall be punished as provided in subsection 9-1B-24B of this article. (Ord. 04-
01, 2-10-2004)
9-1B-26: SECONDARY WASTEWATER METERS:
Reserved. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1B-27: SEASONAL METERS:
Seasonal meters are used to measure the amount of water delivered by the
utility to a customer exclusively for lawn and garden irrigation. Said meters
shall only be installed on water service lines serving property situated within
the corporate city limits. Further, said meters shall be installed on separate,
independent water service lines. If the seasonal meter is not located inside a
heated building it must be installed in an approved, engineered meter pit or
vault to protect it from freezing and/or tampering. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
ARTICLE C. USE OF WATER SERVICE
SECTION:
9-1C-1: Waste Of Water
9-1C-2: Resale Of Water
9-1C-3: Water Use Restrictions
9-1C-4: Unlawful Sprinkling Of Lawns And Gardens
9-1C-1: WASTE OF WATER:
Waste of water is prohibited. Customers shall keep all waterways closed when
not in use. Further, customers must keep their water service lines, valves,
fixtures, appliances, and other equipment in good order at all times and at
their own expense. Leaking water service lines, valves, fixtures, appliances,
and other equipment shall be repaired at once by the customer without waiting
for notice from the utility. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1C-2: RESALE OF WATER:
The city's water rate schedules cover the sale of water for the sole and
exclusive use of the customer. Water service shall be used by customer only for
the purposes specified in the service agreement, contract, or applicable rate
schedules. Customer shall not remeter, sell, or permit any other individual to
use such service or secure water through customer's service line by hose or
other devices for the purpose of supplying water to the individual's property
without first obtaining written permission to do so from the city. (Ord. 04-01,
2-10-2004)
9-1C-3: WATER USE RESTRICTIONS:
The public works supervisor, as directed by the mayor, is authorized and
empowered to determine and establish the times and hours when water may be used
for watering and sprinkling lawns and gardens and may set and fix times when no
water may be used for such purposes. Further, he/she may make such rules and
regulations regarding the use of water as he/she may find necessary to maintain
an adequate supply of water in the reservoirs for fire protection of the city
or for other public health and safety reasons. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1C-4: UNLAWFUL SPRINKLING OF LAWNS AND GARDENS:
Any person using water for the purpose of watering or sprinkling of any lawn
and/or garden at a time prohibited by the rules and regulations established by
the public works supervisor shall be subject to discontinuance of utility
service as well as any punishment and penalties available under law. (Ord. 04-
01, 2-10-2004)
ARTICLE D. USE OF WASTEWATER SERVICE
SECTION:
9-1D-1: Discharging Certain Matter Into Sewers Prohibited
9-1D-2: Grease, Oil, And Sand Interceptors
9-1D-3: Maintenance Of Interceptors
9-1D-4: Approval Required For Discharge Of Certain Waters Or Wastes
9-1D-5: Preliminary Treatment Facilities
9-1D-6: Maintenance Of Preliminary Treatment Facilities
9-1D-7: Control Manholes And Test Locations
9-1D-8: Wastewater Testing And Analyses
9-1D-9: Septage Disposal
9-1D-1: DISCHARGING CERTAIN MATTER INTO SEWERS PROHIBITED:
Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes into any public
sanitary sewer:
   A.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than: 1) one hundred
forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) or 2) that which, alone or in conjunction with
other discharges, causes the influent at the wastewater treatment plant to
exceed one hundred four degrees Fahrenheit (104°F);
   B.   Any water or waste which may contain more than one hundred milligrams
per liter (100 mg/l) of fat, oil or grease;
   C.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other pollutants which
create a fire or explosion hazard in the wastewater system, including, but not
limited to, wastewaters with a closed cup flashpoint of less than one hundred
forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) or sixty degrees centigrade (60°C), using the
test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
   D.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
   E.   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, or any other solid or viscous substance capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in the public sanitary sewers or otherwise
interferes with the proper operation of the municipal wastewater system;
   F.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, personnel or biological life of the utility;
   G.   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic, poisonous, or infectious
substance in sufficient quantity to: 1) injure or interfere with any wastewater
treatment process, 2) constitute a hazard to humans or animals, 3) cause the
presence of toxic gasses, vapors, or fumes within the municipal wastewater
system in a quantity that may result in worker health and safety problems, or
4) create any hazard in the receiving waters of the municipal wastewater
treatment plant;
   H.   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character and
quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such materials
at the municipal wastewater treatment plant;
   I.   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a public
nuisance;
   J.   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.),
released in a discharge of such volume or strength as to cause interference in
the municipal wastewater system unless such discharge is first approved by the
city;
   K.   Any petroleum oil, solvents, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products
of mineral oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
   L.   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except for septage which is permitted
to be discharged at the approved location;
   M.   Any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters. Storm water
and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are
specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the public works supervisor. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged upon approval of the public works
supervisor, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet. (Ord. 04-01, 2-
10-2004)
9-1D-2: GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS:
Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the public works supervisor or any government agency with jurisdiction, they
are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing: a) grease in
excessive amounts, b) any flammable wastes, c) sand, or d) any other harmful
ingredients. Such interceptors shall not be required for private living
quarters or dwelling units.
All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity as approved by the public
works supervisor or any government agency with jurisdiction and shall be
approved and stamped by a licensed professional engineer or architect in the
state of Montana and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible
for cleaning and inspection. The cost of said interceptors shall be at the
expense of the user.
Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious materials
capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall
be of substantial construction, watertight, and be equipped with easily
removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gastight and watertight.
(Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1D-3: MAINTENANCE OF INTERCEPTORS:
Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be maintained by
the owner, at his/her expense, in continuously efficient and effective
operation. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1D-4: APPROVAL REQUIRED FOR DISCHARGE OF CERTAIN WATERS OR WASTES:
The public works supervisor's approval shall be required for the admission into
the public sanitary sewers of any waters or wastes having the following
characteristics:
   A.   A five (5) day biochemical oxygen demand greater than two hundred fifty
milligrams per liter (250 mg/l);
   B.   More than two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l) of total
suspended solids;
   C.   Containing any quantity of substances described in section
9-1D-1 of this article; and/or
   D.   Having an average daily flow greater than two percent (2%) of the
average daily wastewater flow entering the municipal wastewater treatment
plant. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1D-5: PRELIMINARY TREATMENT FACILITIES:
The owner shall provide facilities meeting the requirements set forth in these
rules and regulations at his/her own expense where it is necessary, in the
opinion of the public works supervisor, to provide preliminary treatment of any
waters or wastes to:
   A.   Reduce the five (5) day biochemical oxygen demand in such waters or
wastes to at least two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l);
   B.   Reduce the total suspended solids in such waters or wastes to at least
two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l);
   C.   Reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents in such waters or
wastes to within the maximum limits provided by this section; and/or
   D.   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or wastes.
Plans, specifications, and other pertinent information concerning the proposed
facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the public works supervisor
and the state department of environmental quality. No construction shall be
commenced until such approvals are obtained in writing. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1D-6: MAINTENANCE OF PRELIMINARY TREATMENT FACILITIES:
Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or wastes,
they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation
by the owner at his/her expense. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1D-7: CONTROL MANHOLES AND TEST LOCATIONS:
When required by the public works supervisor, the owner of any property served
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole or other suitable sampling point, with measuring and sampling devices
included, in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the waters or wastes. Such sampling point and appurtenances,
when required, shall be readily accessible and safely located and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans engineered and stamped by a licensed
Montana professional engineer and approved by the public works supervisor. The
sampling point and appurtenances shall be installed by the owner at his/her
expense and shall be maintained by him/her so as to be readily and safely
accessible at all times, with all equipment maintained in continuously
satisfactory and accurate operational condition. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1D-8: WASTEWATER TESTING AND ANALYSES:
All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of the waters and
wastes to which reference is made in sections
9-1D-1 and
9-1D-4 of this article shall be determined in accordance with 40 CFR part B6,
guidelines establishing test procedures for the analysis of pollutants, unless
otherwise specified, and shall be determined at the sampling point provided for
in section
9-1D-7 of this article upon suitable samples taken at such sampling point. In
the event that no sampling point has been required, the sampling point shall be
considered to be the nearest manhole downstream to a point in the public
sanitary sewer at which the building sewer is connected. All sampling and
testing will be done by an agency approved by the public works supervisor and
at the expense of the owner of the property generating the need to sample.
(Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1D-9: SEPTAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Prohibited Discharge: It is prohibited to discharge septage either
directly or indirectly into any municipal wastewater system/storm sewer system,
or any appurtenance thereof without paying a septage disposal fee and obtaining
a septage disposal permit. Permitted septage disposal shall be performed at
locations approved by the public works supervisor.
   B.   Permit: All septage haulers must obtain an annual permit issued by the
city clerk's office. Proof of insurance must be provided before a permit will
be issued. Both the city and the septage hauler will have copies of the permit.
The annual fee for a permit, effective July 1 to June 30 of the following year,
is on file with the city clerk.
   C.   Restrictions: Only domestic septic tank waste will be accepted.
   D.   Manifest: A manifest form must be completed for each load. It must be
signed by the owner of the waste and the septage hauler and will be kept as a
record by the city.
   E.   City Contact: Haulers must call the city office on the day they plan to
dump. No dumping will be allowed unless supervised by a city employee. The
employee will show the septage hauler where to dump.
   F.   Hours Of Operation: Dumping will be only allowed Monday through Friday,
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to three o'clock (3:00) P.M., except holidays.
   G.   Waste: It is recommended the septage hauler thin his loads with water
to keep from having the load rejected because it is thick and not fluid enough.
   H.   Discharge Limit: Reserved.
   I.   Prohibited Waste: No person or entity hauling wastewater shall
discharge or cause to be discharged anything described as follows:
      1.   Pollutants that will create a fire or explosion hazard.
      2.   Pollutants that will cause corrosive structural damage.
      3.   Pollutants that are thick or will cause obstruction to flow.
      4.   Pollutants whose concentrations will interfere with the operation of
the wastewater treatment plant (i.e., crude oil).
      5.   Agricultural waste.
      6.   Car wash holding tanks or sumps.
   J.   Observation, Sampling, And Testing: The city is empowered to observe
and reject the waste or require testing to provide a laboratory analysis of the
wastewater. The cost of analysis shall be paid for by either the generator or
the hauler of the wastewater.
   K.   Rejected Waste: The city may refuse or decline to accept wastewater
from any septage hauler it determines to be in violation of these regulations
or any city code. The city may also reject any waste when there is any question
of any detrimental effect to the wastewater treatment plant. Other actions may
include:
      1.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge (i.e.,
dilution).
      2.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge.
   L.   Rates: Septage haulers shall pay rates appropriate for this special
city service. Charges will be paid at the time of disposal. The disposal rates
are on file with the city clerk. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
ARTICLE E. PRETREATMENT OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES
SECTION:
9-1E-1: Methodology
9-1E-2: Actions Of The Supervisor
9-1E-3: Preemption By National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
9-1E-4: Modification Of National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
9-1E-5: State Requirements
9-1E-6: City's Right Of Revision
9-1E-7: Industrial Discharge Permits
9-1E-8: Reporting Requirements
9-1E-9: Availability Of Records
9-1E-10: Notification Of Violation
9-1E-1: METHODOLOGY:
Unless otherwise specified, all measurements, tests, and analyses of the
characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this article
shall be determined in accordance with either: a) the latest edition of the
"Standard Methods For The Examination Of Water And Wastewater", as published by
the American Public Health Association, b) the ASTM annual book of standards,
or c) the "Methods For Chemical Analysis Of Waters And Wastes", as published by
the EPA. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1E-2: ACTIONS OF THE SUPERVISOR:
Whenever the public works supervisor determines that a significant industrial
user is contributing to the municipal wastewater system any of the substances
referred to in article D of this chapter in such amounts as to interfere with
the operation of the municipal wastewater system or to constitute a harmful
contribution to the municipal wastewater system, the public works supervisor
shall:
   A.   Notify or cite the significant industrial user in accordance with
section
9-1E-10 of this article and develop and apply specific effluent limitations and
pretreatment requirements for the significant industrial user to correct the
interference with or harm to the municipal wastewater system.
   B.   Take any actions as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of
the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the municipal wastewater
system and/or endangerment to any individuals. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1E-3: PREEMPTION BY NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS:
Upon the promulgation of the national categorical pretreatment standards for a
particular industrial subcategory, the national standard, if more stringent
than limitations imposed under article D of this chapter for sources in that
subcategory, shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed under article
D of this chapter. The public works supervisor shall notify all affected
significant industrial users of the applicable reporting requirements under CFR
section 403.12. Failure to notify shall not relieve a significant industrial
user from any requirements under the law. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1E-4: MODIFICATION OF NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS:
When the municipal wastewater treatment plant has achieved consistent removal
of pollutants limited by national pretreatment standards, the city may apply to
the approval authority for modification of or exemption from specific limits in
the national pretreatment standards. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1E-5: STATE REQUIREMENTS:
State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case where
they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or those in
article D of this chapter. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1E-6: CITY'S RIGHT OF REVISION:
Notwithstanding the provisions of section
9-1E-3 of this article the city reserves the right to establish by ordinance,
resolution, rules and regulations, or permit more stringent specific pollutant
limitations or pretreatment requirements for discharges to the municipal
wastewater system, if deemed necessary. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1E-7: INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGE PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Application: Significant industrial users may be required to
obtain an industrial discharge permit and shall complete and file with the city
an application in the form prescribed by the public works supervisor and
accompanied by the permit application fee. The significant industrial user
shall submit, in units and terms suitable for evaluation, all information
required by the permit application, a state approved and Montana registered
engineer stamp, and any supplemental information requested. All significant
industrial users connected to or discharging to the municipal wastewater system
who are determined to be subject to industrial discharge permit requirements
shall apply immediately. Other significant users proposing to connect to the
system who are determined to be subject to industrial discharge permit
requirements shall apply at least thirty (30) days prior to commencing
discharge. When a significant industrial user becomes subject to a national
categorical pretreatment standard and has not previously submitted an
application for an industrial discharge permit, the significant industrial user
shall apply for an industrial discharge permit within sixty (60) days after the
promulgation of the applicable national categorical pretreatment standard.
   B.   Issuance: After evaluation of the permit application, the public works
supervisor may issue an industrial discharge permit subject to terms and
conditions provided herein. In determining whether a permit shall be issued
and/or what conditions shall be applied, the public works supervisor shall
consider all applicable national categorical and local pretreatment standards.
   C.   Permit Conditions: Industrial discharge permits and significant
industrial user permittees shall be subject to all applicable city laws, user
charges, and fees. Permits shall contain, but shall not be limited to, the
following requirements or terms and conditions:
      1.   Notice of the general and specific prohibitions required.
      2.   Prohibitions on discharge of any specific materials.
      3.   Notice of applicable national categorical pretreatment standards.
      4.   Limits equal to or more stringent than the specific pollutant
limitations as established pursuant to article D of this chapter, concerning
average and maximum wastewater constituents, and on characteristics of either
the individual industrial process wastes or combined industrial wastewater
discharge.
      5.   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge, or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization.
      6.   Monitoring facilities.
      7.   Monitoring programs, which may include sampling locations; frequency
of sampling; number, types, and standards for tests; reporting schedules; and
pollutants to be monitored.
      8.   Installation, maintenance, and cleaning of any pretreatment
facilities that are necessary to achieve compliance with the requirements
including filtration; chemical treatment; grease, oil, and sand traps; and
other necessary equipment.
      9.   Compliance schedules and any periodic progress or compliance reports
required by federal pretreatment regulations, including 40 CFR 403.12.
Submission of technical reports or discharge reports, as provided for in
section
9-1E-8 of this article.
      10.   Maintenance and retention of plant records relating to wastewater
discharge for a minimum of three (3) years or as specified by the public works
supervisor.
      11.   Notification of any discharge or new wastewater constituents or of
any substantial change in the volume or character of the wastewater
constituents being introduced into the municipal wastewater system.
      12.   Notification of any slug or accidental discharge.
      13.   Agreement of the industrial user to: a) allow reasonable access by
the city to ensure compliance with permit conditions, b) agree to perform and
comply with all permit conditions, and c) submit to the remedy of specific
performance for breach of contract.
      14.   Permit duration and conditions of transfer.
      15.   Penalties for violations.
      16.   Other appropriate conditions, in the judgment of the public works
supervisor, necessary to ensure compliance with regulations.
   D.   Permit Duration: Industrial discharge permits are valid for a specified
time period not to exceed three (3) years from the date of issuance or
modification. Each significant industrial user shall apply for permit renewal
at least ninety (90) days prior to the expiration date of the existing permit.
   E.   Permit Modifications: The terms and conditions of any permit may be
subject to modification: 1) by the public works supervisor during the term of
the permit, 2) by the modification of rules and regulations set forth herein,
or 3) as other just cause exists. The significant industrial user shall be
notified of any proposed changes in his/her permit at least thirty (30) days
prior to the effective date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the
permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for compliance.
   F.   Permit Transfer: Industrial discharge permits are issued to a specific
significant industrial user for a specific operation. An industrial discharge
permit is not transferable and is void if reassigned, transferred, or sold to a
new owner, new user, different premises, or a new or changed operation without
written approval by the public works supervisor. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1E-8: REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
The compliance reports shall indicate the average and maximum daily flow or
predicted flow for the process units in the significant industrial user
facility subject to the federal, state, or city standards and requirements,
whether these standards are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, what
additional operations, maintenance, or pretreatment is or will be necessary to
bring the significant industrial user into compliance with the applicable
pretreatment standards or requirements. This statement shall be signed by an
authorized representative of the significant industrial user and shall be
certified by a qualified professional engineer or a person with adequate
wastewater discharge experience as determined by the public works supervisor.
The public works supervisor may impose mass limitations in addition to
concentration limitations on significant industrial users which are expressly
authorized by an applicable categorical pretreatment standard to use dilution
to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements or upon other
significant industrial users when deemed necessary. In such cases, the records
and reports shall also indicate the mass of pollutants regulated by
pretreatment standards in the effluent of the significant industrial user.
These reports shall contain the results of sampling and analysis of the
discharge including the flow, nature, concentration, production, and mass of
pollutants which are limited by the applicable pretreatment standards. The
frequency of monitoring shall be prescribed in the industrial discharge permit.
(Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1E-9: AVAILABILITY OF RECORDS:
All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards or requirements
shall be made available to officials of the EPA or the state department of
environmental quality upon request of the public works supervisor. (Ord. 04-01,
2-10-2004)
9-1E-10: NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION:
Whenever the city finds that any significant industrial user has violated or is
violating their industrial discharge permit, or any prohibition, limitation,
condition, or requirements contained therein, the public works supervisor, at
his/her discretion, may either immediately cite the violator or may serve upon
such person a written notice stating the nature of the violation, corrective
action necessary, and the time limit for its satisfactory correction. Within
the time limit stated in said notice, the significant industrial user shall
submit to the public works supervisor evidence of the satisfactory correction
of the violation or a plan to correct the same. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
ARTICLE F. WATER AND/OR WASTEWATER SERVICE AREAS
SECTION:
9-1F-1: Adoption Of Service Area
9-1F-2: Prohibited Act
9-1F-3: Annexation Requirements
9-1F-4: Enlargement Application
9-1F-5: Prerequisites To Application
9-1F-6: Application Reviews And Recommendations
9-1F-7: Public Hearing
9-1F-8: City Council Action
9-1F-1: ADOPTION OF SERVICE AREA:
The official water and/or wastewater service areas for the city are those areas
within the boundaries of the city, any areas presently served outside the city,
and any subsequently approved amendments thereto. A map depicting the water
and/or wastewater service areas adopted herein, and any enlargements that may
be from time to time approved by the city council, shall be made available at
all times for public inspection during regular working hours at the city hall,
city of Colstrip, Montana. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1F-2: PROHIBITED ACT:
It is prohibited for any person to extend, or cause to be extended, beyond the
water and/or wastewater service area boundaries any public or private water or
sanitary sewer system facilities which are, in turn, either directly or
indirectly connected with the municipal water or wastewater systems. (Ord. 04-
01, 2-10-2004)
9-1F-3: ANNEXATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All properties to be included within the water and/or wastewater
service areas shall be annexed or an attempt at annexation shall be made first
and before any area enlargement applications may be considered. Further, that
whenever possible, the property being considered for inclusion in the service
areas shall be annexed to the city rather than accepting waivers of the
property owner's right to prevent annexation of said property to the city.
Waivers may be accepted by the city in its sole discretion only in those
particular cases where good and sufficient cause is shown and a hardship would
result if waivers were not accepted. Any waivers must be in legal form as
approved by the city attorney, be recorded with the county clerk and recorder;
run with the land; and shall be signed by owners of the majority of the land
area and by a majority of the landowners of the area to be considered for
inclusion in the service areas.
   B.   A prospective applicant shall first petition the city to annex the
property involved prior to submission of a water and/or wastewater service area
enlargement application. The city council shall then consider such petition.
   C.   The city shall notify in writing the prospective applicant of denial of
annexation or right to file waivers or both, and approval or denial of
enlargement of the service area. If approved, the applicant shall be notified
as to when the requirements set forth in this section have been satisfactorily
completed and when said applicant is authorized to proceed with the service
area enlargement application. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1F-4: ENLARGEMENT APPLICATION:
Persons desiring water and/or wastewater service to serve properties located
either partially or entirely outside the service areas shall make application
to the city on a special form furnished for this purpose by the city. Such
application shall be supplemented by any plans, reports, or other information
considered pertinent. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1F-5: PREREQUISITES TO APPLICATION:
The following conditions shall be met prior to making application for
enlargement of the water and/or wastewater service areas:
   A.   The property at the time the application is filed:
      1.   Shall be contiguous to the boundary of the water and/or wastewater
service areas as same exists;
      2.   Shall entirely fall under the city's growth policy.
   B.   Applicant shall complete annexation requirements.
   C.   Provided that, should a state or federal governmental entity as a
condition of providing funds or grants, require that service be extended to
other areas outside the scope of this section, the city council may, upon
receipt of application for waiver and upon a proper showing, waive the
requirements of this section.
Information concerning the prerequisite conditions set forth in this section
may be obtained from the city clerk during normal working hours at the city of
Colstrip city hall, city of Colstrip, Montana. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1F-6: APPLICATION REVIEWS AND RECOMMENDATIONS:
The city shall review all water and/or wastewater service area enlargement
applications so filed, and upon completion of said review, shall submit to the
city council for their review and consideration such applications with
recommendations and comments attached thereto. Any applications which are filed
with the city at least two (2) weeks prior to the next regularly scheduled
council meeting, shall be submitted to the city council at the next regularly
scheduled meeting. Applications filed less than two (2) weeks prior to the next
regularly scheduled city council meeting, need not be submitted until the next
regularly scheduled meeting following the date of submission of the
application.
The city shall review each water and/or wastewater service area enlargement
application filed for the purpose of determining compliance with the following
specific conditions:
   A.   Each application for enlargement of the water and/or wastewater service
area so filed shall be accompanied with a legally binding, and lawfully
recorded special agreement wherein one hundred percent (100%) of the owners of
record of the property under consideration for inclusion in the service area
shall have agreed to the following:
      1.   To waive their right to protest any future water and sanitary sewer
special improvement districts that may be created by the city council for the
purpose of providing water and/or wastewater service to the property in
question,
      2.   Agree to fully comply with all rules, regulations, resolutions,
ordinances, and laws governing the providing of water and wastewater service by
the city, or as same may be lawfully changed from time to time,
      3.   Make commitment to construct all the necessary water and/or
wastewater system facilities and to begin development of the entire parcel of
property to be included in the water and/or wastewater service area within two
(2) years from the date of the city council's approval of the enlargement
application. In the event the applicant fails to comply with this particular
commitment, the property in question shall automatically be excluded from the
service area; and
      4.   Agree to fully comply with any such other conditions and/or
requirements as the city council may establish from time to time.
   B.   Under no circumstances shall the city council grant approval to any
applicant for enlargement of the water and/or wastewater service areas which
would include property in the service area that is beyond the service
capabilities of the municipal systems.
   C.   The public works supervisor, in his/her recommendations and comments to
be submitted to the city council, shall address each of the aforementioned
conditions and specifically set forth in writing whether or not the application
under consideration fully complies, partially complies, or fails to comply with
each of said conditions. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1F-7: PUBLIC HEARING:
At the time of completion of annexation, the annexed territory shall
automatically be included in the service area; however, before officially
acting upon any application for enlargement of the service area into an
unannexed area, the city council shall hold a public hearing thereon and shall
give public notice of hearing upon each such application published once each
week for two (2) consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the
county. Said notice shall set forth the time and place of the public hearing
and shall be published not less than fifteen (15) nor more than thirty (30)
days prior to the date of the hearing. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1F-8: CITY COUNCIL ACTION:
The city council shall approve, conditionally approve, or deny an application
for enlargement of a service area within thirty (30) days after the date of the
public hearing. The approval or conditional approval shall be in force for the
period of time set forth in the approval. A denial of an application shall be
in force for one year after the date of such denial unless stipulations are
identified in such denial, in which case the application may be resubmitted
with deficiencies corrected. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
ARTICLE G. WATER AND WASTEWATER EXTENSIONS
SECTION:
9-1G-1: Intent And Purpose
9-1G-2: Prohibited Act
9-1G-3: Application
9-1G-4: Approval; Waivers
9-1G-5: Fees, Charges And Financing
9-1G-6: Ownership And Maintenance
9-1G-7: Service Lines And Appurtenances
9-1G-8: Rights Of Way, Licenses, And Permits
9-1G-9: Facility Plan
9-1G-10: Service To Subdivisions And Individuals
9-1G-11: Oversizing Extensions
9-1G-12: Staged Construction Of Extensions
9-1G-13: Excavation Activities
9-1G-14: Construction Design, Standards And Specifications
9-1G-15: Size, Spacing, Depth And Capacity
9-1G-16: Standard Utility Siting
9-1G-17: Connection To Municipal Systems
9-1G-18: Project Notices And Other Correspondence
9-1G-19: Testing And Inspection
9-1G-20: Completion; Acceptance; Warranty
9-1G-21: Effect On Existing Systems And Services During Construction
9-1G-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The intent and purpose of the rules and regulations set forth in this article
are to:
   A.   Provide for an orderly, planned, and cost effective method of extending
the municipal water and/or wastewater systems within their service areas;
   B.   Ensure that extensions to the municipal water and/or wastewater systems
are properly designed, inspected, and constructed in accordance with
appropriate health, utility, and fire suppression standards; and
   C.   Facilitate the administering and documenting of all activities relating
to extensions of the municipal water and/or wastewater systems. (Ord. 04-01, 2-
10-2004)
9-1G-2: PROHIBITED ACT:
Any unauthorized person is prohibited from extending or causing to be extended,
either directly or indirectly, any portion of the water and/or wastewater
systems without first obtaining in writing the necessary approvals and paying
the appropriate fees and charges as required and set forth herein. (Ord. 04-01,
2-10-2004)
9-1G-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   Application And Fee: A prospective customer, or a group of prospective
customers, desiring water and/or wastewater service to serve property which is
situated within the water and/or wastewater service area, and which does not
front or abut a right of way containing a public water main or sanitary sewer,
shall make application in writing to the city clerk on a special form furnished
for this specific purpose by the city. Said extension application shall be
supplemented by engineered plans, reports, or other information considered
pertinent. The appropriate application fee adopted under subsection 9-1B-10B of
this chapter, or as such may be lawfully changed from time to time, shall be
paid by the prospective customer, or group of prospective customers, to the
city at the time the water and/or wastewater extension application is filed.
All such extension applications shall be signed by the owners of record of the
property to be served by the extension involved, or their legally designated
representative, and shall be properly witnessed by a notary public.
   B.   Water And Wastewater Service Areas: The city council shall not accept
for consideration a water and/or wastewater extension application which is
intended to provide municipal service to property, or any portion thereof,
which is situated outside the service area. Prior to acceptance for
consideration of an extension application for such property, the property shall
be included in its entirety within the service area in accordance with the
provisions set forth in article F of this chapter. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1G-4: APPROVAL; WAIVERS:
   A.   Approval Of Extensions: Subject to all the requirements and conditions
set forth in this section, the city is hereby authorized to grant approval of
water and/or wastewater extension applications submitted to the public works
supervisor under the provisions of subsection 9-1G-3A of this article. All such
approvals granted by the city shall be in writing. The city shall be
responsible for maintaining a permanent file of all such extension applications
so approved.
The city shall grant approvals of water and/or wastewater extension
applications in a nondiscriminatory manner. In addition, all such extensions so
granted by the city shall be nonassignable to other property. Further, if the
construction of the extension has not commenced within two (2) years from the
date of the city council's written approval of the extension application
involved, the city council's approval shall automatically be deemed void and no
longer in force and effect. No refund of fees will be made to the applicant if
construction has not commenced within two (2) years of the approval.
   B.   Water And Wastewater System District Waivers: First and before an
extension application is approved by the city, one hundred percent (100%) of
the owners of record of the property included in said extension application
shall have legally waived their right to protest any water or sewer system
special improvement districts which may be created in the future for the
purpose of providing municipal water and/or wastewater service to such
property. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1G-5: FEES, CHARGES AND FINANCING:
   A.   Charges And Regulations: A prospective customer, or group of
prospective customers, granted permission to extend the municipal water and/or
wastewater system in accordance with the provisions set forth in this article
shall be deemed to have contracted with the city for the service of the
municipal water supply and/or wastewater system and thereby to have agreed to
pay all charges and to comply with all the city's regulations in regard to said
service, or as such may be lawfully changed from time to time.
   B.   System Construction Fees And Charges; Appeal:
      1.   Fees And Charges: Any applicable municipal water and/or wastewater
system construction fees and charges to be assessed against the property
included within an extension application pursuant to provisions of ordinances
and/or resolutions approved by the city council shall be paid to the city clerk
at the time the extension application is filed. If the extension application is
subsequently denied, then in that event the construction fees and charges so
collected from the applicant shall be refunded without interest.
      2.   Appeal: Any person who considers such fees and/or charges of the
city to be unfair, inequitable, or unreasonable may appeal payment of such fees
and/or charges as provided for in section
9-1-4 of this chapter.
   C.   Introduction Of Municipal Service Applications: Applications for
introduction of water and/or wastewater service to service previously unserved
property which fronts and abuts a right of way containing a public water main
or sanitary sewer, but which has never been assessed for the cost of
constructing an extension of the system, shall be subject to all applicable
provisions, requirements, and conditions stated in this article for extensions.
The application fee to be paid to the city clerk at the time an application for
introduction of service for such type property is filed with the city shall be
that adopted under article B of this chapter, or as same may be lawfully
changed from time to time. In addition, any special system construction or
development fees and charges to be assessed against the property involved shall
be paid in full to the city clerk at the time the application for introduction
of service is filed. Subject to all applicable requirements and conditions set
forth in this section, the city is hereby authorized to approve in writing such
type applications. The city shall be responsible for maintaining a permanent
file of all such applications so approved.
   D.   Methods And Financing Of Extensions: Extensions of the municipal water
and/or wastewater system shall be accomplished by means of either special
improvement districts as provided for by law or by private contract.
Prospective applicants desiring to extend the municipal water and/or wastewater
system shall first, and prior to creation of such a district or entering into
such a contract, have made application to the city for extension of the system
and have obtained the approvals and have paid the fees and charges required.
All costs of extending the system shall be borne by the owners of the property
to be served from the extension in question, except as may be otherwise set
forth in this article. The city shall not grant and/or construct free
extensions to serve any property with municipal water or wastewater service.
(Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1G-6: OWNERSHIP AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Ownership Of Extensions: The ownership of all extensions of the
municipal water and/or wastewater system constructed within the corporate city
limits shall be vested in the city whether same are constructed by special
improvement district or by private contract. The ownership of all extensions
constructed by the city at its expense shall be vested in the city regardless
of whether or not such facilities are located within or outside the boundaries
of the corporate city limits.
An applicant constructing an extension within the corporate city limits by
means of a private contract or special improvement district shall be deemed to
have conveyed the ownership of such an extension to the city upon acceptance of
the extension by the city. In addition, the city shall at that time have
assumed complete control over the facilities so extended, including the right
to connect additional customers to the extended facilities as well as the right
to further extend said facilities.
   B.   Maintenance Of Extensions: The city shall be responsible for the
maintenance of extensions only when the ownership and control of said
extensions are vested in the city. The responsibility for installation,
operation, maintenance, repair, enlargement, or replacement of facilities that
are privately owned and/or controlled by persons other than the city shall rest
solely with the owners of facilities. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1G-7: SERVICE LINES AND APPURTENANCES:
   A.   Water Service Lines And Fire Lines: During the course of constructing
an extension to the municipal water supply system, a water service line and/or
a fire line, whatever is deemed appropriate, shall be stubbed to the property
line of each lot and/or parcel of property included in the extension
application. All water service lines and fire lines so installed shall be
subject to and fully comply with the provisions set forth in article H of this
chapter. The cost of installing each such water service line and fire line
shall be borne by the owner of the property benefitted by said water pipes. The
public works supervisor shall be notified of the date construction is to
commence so as to facilitate inspection of construction activities.
All water service lines and fire lines installed during the course of
constructing extensions to the municipal water supply system shall be
individually and appropriately marked in the field in a manner acceptable to
the public works supervisor. Also, the location of each such water service line
and fire line so installed shall be accurately depicted on the as built
drawings for the extension involved, with the appropriate offset distances
measured from respective property lines set forth and shown for each such water
service line and fire line. In addition, the invert elevation at the end of
each such stubbed water service line and fire line shall be legibly noted on
the as built drawings.
   B.   Fire Hydrants, Valves, And Other Appurtenances: Fire hydrants, valves,
and other appurtenances shall be designed and installed as a necessary and
basic part of an extension to the municipal water supply system, and the cost
of same shall be borne by the prospective customer, or group of prospective
customers, to be provided municipal water service from the water extension
involved. The operation, maintenance, repair, enlargement, and replacement
responsibilities for such type facilities shall be vested in the persons having
ownership and control of the facilities so extended.
   C.   Wastewater Service Lines: During the course of constructing an
extension to the wastewater system, a wastewater service line shall be stubbed
to the property line of each lot and/or parcel of property included in the
extension application. All wastewater lines so installed shall be subject to
and fully comply with the provisions set forth in article H of this chapter.
The cost of installing each such wastewater service line shall be borne by the
owner of the property benefited by the wastewater service line involved. The
public works supervisor shall be notified of the date construction is to
commence so as to facilitate inspection of construction activities.
All wastewater service lines installed during the course of constructing
extensions to the municipal wastewater system shall be individually and
appropriately marked in the field in a manner acceptable to the public works
supervisor. Also, the specific location of each such wastewater line so
installed shall be accurately depicted on the as built drawings for the
extension involved, with the appropriate offset distances measured from
respective property lines set forth and shown for each such wastewater service
line. In addition, the invert elevation at the end of each such stubbed
wastewater service line shall be legibly noted on the as built drawings.
   D.   Manholes, Wastewater Pumping Stations, Force Mains, And Other
Appurtenances: Manholes, wastewater pumping stations, force mains, and other
appurtenances shall be designed and installed as a necessary and basic part of
an extension to the municipal wastewater system, and the cost of same shall be
borne by the prospective customer, or group of prospective customers, to be
provided wastewater service from the wastewater extension involved. The
operation, maintenance, repair, enlargement, and replacement responsibilities
for such type facilities shall be vested in the persons having ownership and
control of the facilities so extended. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1G-8: RIGHTS OF WAY, LICENSES, AND PERMITS:
An applicant requesting an extension of the municipal water and/or wastewater
system shall at applicant's expense be responsible for securing all rights of
way, licenses, and permits that may be required in order to construct, operate,
maintain, repair, and replace the facilities to be extended.
Whenever possible extensions of the municipal water and/or wastewater system
shall be installed entirely within public rights of way. However, if proven to
be impractical to do so, and if the city council's approval is first obtained,
extensions may be installed within utility easements granted to the city by the
owners of record of the property involved.
Public rights of way and utility easements shall be brought to official and
final grade prior to or immediately after construction of extensions and shall
be a minimum of twenty feet (20') in width. The city may require additional
widths where unusual maintenance problems exist.
All utility rights of way and easements shall remain open and unobstructed to
permit ready access of any vehicles and other equipment needed to operate,
maintain, repair, enlarge, and replace facilities situated within said rights
of way and easements. Installation of surface obstructions within such rights
of way and easements shall be at the risk of the owners of said obstructions.
Replacement of such obstructions that are removed to permit access to municipal
water and wastewater system facilities shall not be the responsibility of the
city.
All dedicated rights of way and utility easements within a subdivision shall be
shown and identified on the dedicated plat and on the extension contract
drawings. All utility easement agreements shall be subject to the city
attorney's approval, shall meet the city's standards for such type agreements
and be in legal form, shall be recorded with the county clerk and recorder's
office, and shall run with the land. A copy of the final recorded utility
easement agreement shall be provided to the city council prior to granting
approval of the plans and specifications or the extension involved. (Ord. 04-
01, 2-10-2004)
9-1G-9: FACILITY PLAN:
All extensions to the water and wastewater systems shall be designed and
constructed in such a manner and in such a way so as to comply with applicable
provisions of the city's latest, adopted facility plan for that system. The
city shall not grant approval of extensions which are in noncompliance with
said facility plan. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1G-10: SERVICE TO SUBDIVISIONS AND INDIVIDUALS:
   A.   Subdivision Extensions Of Water Supply/Wastewater Facilities: All
public water supply, necessary off site public water and sewer mains, and
wastewater system facilities required to serve a subdivision, including
connecting and cross tie water mains, as well as the water and sewer mains in,
to, around, and through said subdivision, shall be installed by and at the
expense of the applicants requesting an extension of the municipal water supply
and wastewater system to serve the subdivision in question. Said applicants
shall also extend the municipal water supply and wastewater system to the
farthest point or points of their subdivision at their expense.
   B.   Individual Extensions: Extensions of the municipal water and wastewater
supply system to serve a single customer shall be subject to all conditions and
requirements set forth in this article. However, in unusual and exceptional
cases where the property line of the customer requesting service is determined
by the public works supervisor to be an excessive distance from the existing
municipal water supply system, and the cost to be borne by the prospective
customer under the provisions of this section is determined by the public works
supervisor to be prohibitive, and there is no reasonable prospect of further
growth and development in the area, and no water main is needed to provide fire
suppression water to the area in question, or for any one of the above reasons,
the public works supervisor, with the written concurrence of the city council,
may serve the customer by installing a meter and curb stop in the public right
of way at the public water main nearest to the customer's property.
The customer shall comply with all appropriate provisions set forth in article
H of this chapter when installing the privately owned water service line to the
public water main. In addition, the customer shall not permit others to connect
their water lines or receive water service from said customer's privately owned
water service line. Further, in the event the municipal water supply system is
later extended to the customer's property, the customer shall at the customer's
expense discontinue the use of said customer's privately owned water service
line and shall pay all costs and charges for municipal water service from such
extension, the same as if the customer had not previously laid and received
municipal water service through a privately owned water service line. The
public works supervisor shall require the customer to waive said customer's
right to protest the creation of any future special improvement district which
may be created for the purpose of constructing a public water main to serve the
area in question, first and before the public works supervisor grants his/her
permission to serve the customer's property by means of a privately owned water
service line. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1G-11: OVERSIZING EXTENSIONS:
The city reserves the right to direct a prospective customer, or a group of
prospective customers, requesting an extension to the water and/or wastewater
system to install larger system facilities than that required to serve the area
included in said customer's extension application and/or agreement. Any
increase in pipe size up to and including twelve inch (12") water pipe and ten
inch (10") sanitary sewer pipe shall be borne by the customer. If sufficient
funds are available at that time, and the oversized facilities to be
constructed qualify as general benefit facilities, the city may, at the city's
sole discretion, pay the additional material cost generated by an increase in
pipe size over and above twelve inches (12") (water) and ten inches (10")
(sanitary sewer) or the size actually required for the extension. In the event
sufficient funds are not available for participation in the extension project
by the city, or in the event the oversized facilities fail to qualify as
general benefit facilities, the customer shall at his/her expense install all
such water and/or wastewater system facilities required under the provisions
set forth in this article regarding extensions, including, but not limited to,
subsection 9-1G-10A of this article. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1G-12: STAGED CONSTRUCTION OF EXTENSIONS:
Whenever public streets and extensions to the municipal water and wastewater
system are proposed to be constructed in stages to serve a new subdivision or
other type development, the public sanitary sewers, water mains, fire hydrants,
and other municipal and wastewater system facilities shall be extended and
installed beyond the proposed paving limits of the public street in question so
as to preclude unnecessary excavations in said paved public streets when a
future extension is to be constructed. The cost of designing and installing
said stubbed out facilities shall be borne by the prospective customers
initiating the extension involved, and said facilities shall be made a part of
and constructed with the extension project in question. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1G-13: EXCAVATION ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Underground Utility Information: Montana Code Annotated 69-4-501
through 69-4-505 set forth certain procedures for obtaining information
concerning underground utilities prior to making or beginning any excavation in
any public street, alley, utility easement, or right of way dedicated to public
use. Said sections also set forth penalties for failure to comply with the
provisions set forth therein. The engineer designing an extension of the
municipal water or wastewater systems and any person contracting to construct
such an extension, whether said extension is within or outside the boundaries
of the corporate city limits, shall comply with these state statutes as
required by law. A plan of all utilities in the area to be extended shall be
submitted to the city by the customer requesting an extension during the
application process.
   B.   Excavations: Persons opening up, digging into, excavating, or tunneling
in any public right of way or utility easement for the purpose of constructing
extensions or making connections with the water and/or wastewater systems,
whether same be situated within or outside the boundaries of the corporate city
limits, shall, prior to performing such work, obtain in writing at their
expense all necessary approvals, permits, licenses, surety bonds, and/or public
liability insurance certificates that may be required by the agency or person
having jurisdiction and control over such public right of way and utility
easements.
Permits for excavating within public rights of way under the jurisdiction and
control of the city of Colstrip may be obtained from the city. Information
concerning permits for excavating within public rights of way under the
jurisdiction and control of the county or the state may be obtained by
contacting the highway department. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, alleys, and
other public property disturbed in the course of the work by a person
contracting to construct an extension to the municipal water and/or wastewater
systems, or a connection therewith, shall be restored at said person's expense
in a manner satisfactory to the public authority having jurisdiction and
control over such public property.
Any privately owned property which may be disturbed and/or damaged by a person
contracting to construct extensions to the municipal water and/or wastewater
systems or a connection therewith, shall be restored at said person's expense
to a condition equal to or better than the condition existing prior to such
construction.
   C.   Traffic Control And Construction Signing: When working within public
rights of way or utility easements, whether same be situated within or outside
the boundaries of the corporate city limits, shall comply with the traffic
control and construction signing standards of the agency having control over
the right of way or utility easements involved. In any case, all excavations
for the construction of extensions or making connections with the water and/or
wastewater systems shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights on a
continuous basis so as to protect the public from hazard. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-
2004)
9-1G-14: CONSTRUCTION DESIGN, STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Professional Engineer: Pursuant to and in accordance with Montana Code
Annotated 18-2-121, all extensions of the water and/or wastewater systems shall
be under the direct charge and supervision of a professional engineer licensed
in the state of Montana. The city is prohibited under the provisions of Montana
Code Annotated 18-2-122 from accepting any plans and specifications for
extensions of the water or wastewater systems unless they bear the seal and
signature of such a professional engineer.
   B.   Contract Plans And Specifications: The contract plans and
specifications for an extension of the water and/or wastewater system shall be
approved in writing by the city council and the state department of
environmental quality prior to commencement of any construction of a water and/
or wastewater extension. Montana Code Annotated 75-6-112(3) specifically
prohibits the construction, alteration, or extension of any system of water
supply, water distribution, sewer, drainage, wastewater, or sewage disposal
without first submitting necessary maps and plans and specifications to the
state department of environmental quality for their advice and approval.
Final construction plans for extensions of the wastewater system shall be
engineering design drawings on standard plan profile sheets. All elevations
depicted on the plans shall be based upon United States geological survey
(USGS) datum.
Contract specifications shall be in a format suitable to the city attorney, and
as a minimum, said specifications shall be in a similar format and contain the
required provisions recommended by the American Society of Civil Engineers, the
American Consulting Engineers Council and/or the National Society of
Professional Engineers for such type specifications, with appropriate
modifications to reflect state and local laws and conditions.
   C.   Design Standards: All extensions of the water and/or wastewater systems
shall be designed in compliance with the standards for such work that may be
adopted from time to time by the city and the state department of environmental
quality.
   D.   Materials And Methods Of Construction: The materials and methods of
construction used in the installation of extensions to the water and/or
wastewater systems, or the making of connections to these systems, shall
conform to the requirements of the latest version of the "Montana Public Works
Standard Specifications" and the city of Colstrip standards.
   E.   Construction And Final Inspection: The professional engineer having
direct charge of and supervision over a water and/or wastewater extension
project shall provide at his/her expense full time, on site inspection during
the construction of the extension project so as to ensure that such
construction work is being performed in accordance with the approved contract
plans and specifications for the project. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1G-15: SIZE, SPACING, DEPTH AND CAPACITY:
   A.   Size And Spacing Criteria For Water Systems: The following minimum size
and spacing criteria shall govern the design of extensions to the municipal
water supply system:
      1.   Main Size: In a high value area a twelve inch (12") diameter water
main shall be the minimum standard diameter of public water main installed. An
eight inch (8") diameter water main may be used in a high value area only where
it completes a closed gridiron and where the water main is of short distance
and closely interconnected with other mains.
In a residential area an eight inch (8") diameter water main shall be the
minimum standard diameter of public water main installed.
Certain public water mains that are not required to provide water for fire
suppression, and which may never be extended, may be reduced in size to meet
customer demands provided the written approval of the city is first obtained.
If larger public water mains are required to serve a new development, the
prospective customer, or group of prospective customers requesting the water
extension involved shall install such larger water mains at their expense.
      2.   Water Main Valves: Valves shall be situated on public water mains so
that the maximum shutoff lengths do not exceed five hundred feet (500') in high
value areas and one block, or eight hundred feet (800'), whichever is less, in
residential areas. All such valves so required shall be of the same diameter as
the public water mains they are appended to.
      3.   Fire Hydrants And Branches: Whenever possible, gridironing of public
water mains shall be planned so that not more than one fire hydrant will be
installed on a six inch (6") diameter water main between intersecting mains,
and not more than two (2) fire hydrants installed on an eight inch (8")
diameter water main between intersecting mains.
In industrial, warehouse, institutional, shopping center, or other high value
areas within or outside the principal business district, there shall be one or
two (2) fire hydrants at each street intersection, depending upon the character
of the area, with intermediate fire hydrants placed so that they are not over
five hundred feet (500') apart. In general, depending upon the area's
characteristics, the average area to be served by each fire hydrant shall be
from eighty thousand (80,000) to ninety thousand (90,000) square feet.
In residential areas there shall be one fire hydrant installed at each street
intersection with intermediate fire hydrants located so that said fire hydrants
are spaced not over five hundred feet (500') apart. In general, depending upon
the area's characteristics, the average area to be served by each fire hydrant
shall not exceed one hundred ten thousand (110,000) square feet.
Fire hydrant branches shall have a minimum diameter of six inches (6"). In all
cases a valve shall be installed on each fire hydrant branch and in no case
shall the valve be of smaller diameter than the fire hydrant branch. Branch
valves shall be situated not less than eighteen inches (18") or more than
twenty four inches (24") from the branch feeder main.
      4.   Dead Ends: Dead end water mains shall be avoided by looping of all
water mains whenever practical.
      5.   Blowoffs: A standard fire hydrant shall be installed at the end of
each dead end public water main to facilitate flushing the water main.
   B.   Depth Of Water Mains And Appurtenances: Public water mains and
appurtenances shall be installed in rights of way at a depth to prevent
freezing during the winter months. The minimum depth of bury for public water
mains and appurtenances shall be six feet (6'), as measured perpendicularly
from the right of way surface, or a design grade approved in writing by the
public works supervisor, to the top of the public water main. The public works
department may permit installation of public water mains and appurtenances at a
lesser depth provided special construction methods are utilized to prevent
freezing.
   C.   Minimum Capacity, Size, Arrangement, And Spacing Criteria For
Wastewater Systems: The following minimum capacity, size, arrangement, and
spacing criteria shall govern the design of extensions to the municipal
wastewater system:
      1.   Capacity Of Sewers: Public sanitary sewers and appurtenances shall
be designed to accommodate peak hourly flows, including an allowance for
infiltration, when flowing one-half (1/2) full.
      2.   Per Capita Wastewater Contributions: Per capita wastewater
contributions used in the design of new public sanitary sewers and
appurtenances shall be as follows:
Average daily flow    100 gpcd1
Peak hourly flow   400 gpcd
Minimum daily flow   30 gpcd
Note:
         1. gpcd = gallons per capita per day.
      3.   Minimum Size Of Sewers: No public sanitary sewers having gravity
flow shall be less than eight inches (8") in diameter.
      4.   Slope Of Sewers: Public sanitary sewers shall be designed and
constructed with slopes that produce mean wastewater velocities at one-half (1/
2) flow depth of not less than two feet (2') per second, based on Manning's
formula using an "n" value of 0.013. Slopes greater than the minimum set forth
herein shall be used in the design of public sanitary sewers whenever possible.
      5.   Arrangement Of Sewers: Public sanitary sewers shall be arranged in
such a manner and in such a way so as to serve by gravity flow the total
tributary area of the wastewater extension project in question. The use of
wastewater pumping stations to provide wastewater service for said area, or
portions thereof, shall be avoided whenever it can be feasibly accomplished.
Municipal wastewater system facilities shall be arranged so that all such
facilities are readily accessible for maintenance and repair. In addition, such
facilities shall be situated so as to preclude the entrance of surface water
into said facilities.
      6.   Manhole Location: Unless otherwise approved in advance, manholes
shall be installed at the end of each public sanitary sewer; at all changes in
grade, size or alignment; at all intersections; and at specified maximum
distances. Cleanouts shall not be substituted for manholes nor installed at the
end of public sanitary sewers.
      7.   Drop Manholes: Drop manholes shall be avoided whenever possible
during the design and construction of wastewater extensions. They shall only be
used when it is proven impractical to steepen the incoming sewer. Drop manholes
permitted by the city shall be constructed with an outside drop connection
whenever possible.
      8.   Manhole Dimensions And Slopes: Manhole diameters for public sanitary
sewers shall be as specified by the city.
      9.   Manhole Channels And Benches: The completed channel cross section
installed in manholes on public sanitary sewers shall be U shaped.
      10.   Watertightness Of Manholes: Manholes installed on public sanitary
sewers shall be of the precast concrete or poured in place concrete type. All
manholes shall be waterproofed on the exterior when such are to be installed in
areas known to have high ground water tables.
      11.   Wastewater Pumping Stations And Force Mains: Wastewater pumping
stations and force mains installed during the construction of wastewater
extensions shall be as specified by the city.
   D.   Depth Of Public Sanitary Sewers And Appurtenances: Public sanitary
sewers and appurtenances shall be installed at such depths that they can
receive by gravity the contributed wastewater flows from the entire tributary
area of the wastewater extension involved. Sufficient depth shall also be
provided to prevent freezing and backflow of wastewater through building
sewers. In addition, consideration must be given to the prevention of undue
interference with other underground structures and utilities when determining
the depth of public sanitary sewers. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1G-16: STANDARD UTILITY SITING:
Whenever possible and practical public water supply systems and sanitary sewers
constructed in public rights of way in new subdivisions shall be situated and
installed in such a manner and in such a way so as to conform to the latest
standard utility location plan adopted by the city for such types of rights of
way. Nonstandard location of water and sewer lines in public rights of way in
new subdivisions must be approved in writing by the city prior to their
construction. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1G-17: CONNECTION TO MUNICIPAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   Point Of Connection Of Extension: The location of the point of
connection of water and wastewater extensions to the municipal systems shall be
as determined by the city. Such determination shall be based upon findings that
reasonable utility standards are followed in fixing the point of connection and
that no substantial deterioration of the overall quality of service to existing
customers will result from permitting such a connection. In addition, fire
suppression water in sufficient quantities, pressure, and reliability to serve
the water extension in question shall be considered in determining the location
of the point of connection of water extensions to the municipal water supply
system.
   B.   Connection To Water Supply System: During the course of constructing
water extensions and/or making connections to the municipal water supply
system, taps to public water mains that are presently in service shall be
authorized only by representatives of the city. All expenses associated with
the making of such taps by the city shall be borne by the person requesting the
water extension in question.
All other work such as, but not limited to, any traffic control and
construction signing work, any excavating work, and any surface restoration
work shall be performed by and at the expense of the person installing the
water extension in question. Fittings for tapping public water mains and any
other materials needed to tap the public water main shall be provided by and at
the expense of the person installing the water extension and/or connection in
question.
The person installing the water extension shall be responsible for providing
safe trench conditions at all times when the employees of the city are making a
tap to the public water main. Failure to provide such safe trench conditions
shall be cause for immediate refusal by the city to perform any such tapping
work.
Persons desiring a tap made to a public water main shall notify the public
works department at least forty eight (48) hours in advance of when the tap is
needed. No taps to a public water main will be made after regular working hours
or on Saturdays, Sundays, or city holidays. Persons requesting such taps shall
have the public water main uncovered, have the tapping sleeve installed and
pressure tested, and be ready for the tap to be made at the time designated by
the public works department. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1G-18: PROJECT NOTICES AND OTHER CORRESPONDENCE:
The professional engineer in charge of a water or wastewater extension project
shall submit on a timely basis to the city a copy of the advertisement for bids
for the extension project, a copy of the bid summary, a copy of the executed
contract documents, a copy of all notices to the installing contractor, a copy
of all shop drawing submittals for the project, a copy of all change orders for
the project, and a copy of any other pertinent project correspondence between
the engineer and the installing contractor. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1G-19: TESTING AND INSPECTION:
   A.   Testing, Flushing, And Disinfecting Extensions Of Water System: An
extension of the municipal water supply system shall be properly and
satisfactorily pressure tested, flushed, and disinfected by the person
constructing such an extension in accordance with the approved contract
documents for said extension prior to acceptance of the extension in question
by the city. All costs of performing such testing, flushing, and disinfecting
shall be borne by, and at the expense of, the person constructing the extension
involved. The professional engineer in charge of a water extension project
shall provide for the inspection and supervision of all flushing, testing, and
disinfection operations of the person constructing the extension in question.
An authorized representative of the city shall witness the performance of all
pressure testing operations of the person constructing an extension to the
municipal water supply system. In addition, said authorized representative
shall operate all valves on the existing water supply system during the
testing, flushing, and disinfection operations of newly extended water system
facilities.
The costs incurred by the city in witnessing pressure tests and in operating
existing water supply system valves during the testing, flushing, and
disinfection operations of newly extended water system facilities shall be
borne by and at the expense of the person constructing the water extension
involved.
Any bacteriological sample collecting and testing required in conjunction with
the disinfection of newly extended water system facilities shall be conducted
only by authorized employees of the city. The cost incurred in collecting such
samples and in conducting such tests shall be borne by and at the expense of
the person installing the water extension involved.
   B.   Testing And Inspection Of Wastewater Extensions: An extension of the
wastewater system shall be properly and satisfactorily tested for infiltration/
exfiltration and shall be internally inspected for cleanliness utilizing a
closed circuit television camera in accordance with the approved contract
documents for said extension prior to acceptance of the extension in question
by the city. All costs of performing such testing and inspection shall be borne
by and at the expense of the person constructing the extension involved. The
professional engineer in charge of a wastewater extension project shall provide
for the inspection and supervision of all infiltration/exfiltration testing,
and closed circuit television monitoring, operations of the person constructing
the extension involved. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1G-20: COMPLETION; ACCEPTANCE; WARRANTY:
   A.   As Built Drawings: Upon completion of construction of an extension to
the water or wastewater system, the professional engineer for the project shall
submit as built drawings for said project to the city. The as built drawings so
submitted shall accurately depict all field changes accomplished during the
course of construction and shall be certified by the professional engineer as
to being an accurate depiction of the location of all facilities, including
service lines, installed during the construction phase of the project.
A complete version of the drawings on disk will also be provided to the city.
   B.   Acceptance Of Extensions By City: After an extension project has been
completed and has satisfactorily passed the city's final inspection, the
professional engineer in charge of the extension project shall certify in
writing that the project has been constructed and completed in conformance with
the approved contract documents and is now ready for acceptance by the city.
The date of official acceptance shall be established in writing by the city
council and shall be used as it may apply for maintenance guarantees and other
extension contract purposes. No service lines connected to the extended
facilities shall be activated for customer use nor shall any building
construction start until such time as the extension project has been accepted
in writing by the public works department.
   C.   Public Contractor's License Required: Persons contracting to do any
construction work pertaining to the municipal water and wastewater systems
shall possess and have on file with the city a valid public contractor's
license pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of Montana Code
Annotated, and also provide bonding as required by the city of Colstrip.
Only competent and licensed plumbers shall be permitted to do any work in
connection with the city service where water may be drawn from the city mains,
and all plumbers must prepare a written report accurately describing completed
work within twenty four (24) hours after completion, and before water will be
turned on. He must describe the position of the service pipes, stop cocks and
other fixtures, outside of buildings, by reference to street and lot corners.
   D.   Warranty And Guarantee: Persons who contract to do any construction
work pertaining to the municipal water and wastewater systems shall, by
appropriate performance bond filed with the city, guarantee all materials and
equipment furnished and work performed for a period of up to two (2) years as
approved by the public works supervisor, from the date of acceptance of the
work by the city. Said persons shall warrant and guarantee for a period of not
less than one year from the date of acceptance of the work that said work is
free from all defects due to faulty materials or workmanship, and said persons
shall promptly make such corrections as may be necessary by reason of such
defects. In the event the persons performing such work fail to make such
repairs, adjustments or other work that may be made necessary by such defects,
the city may make arrangements for the performance of such work by others and
charge said persons the cost thereby incurred. In addition to any other
penalties, failure by said persons to pay to the city within a reasonable time
such charge shall be just cause for the city to suspend or revoke the city
business licenses of the persons involved. This express warranty and guarantee
shall not be construed to deny the city or any other affected person the right
to make claim on any applicable warranty implied by law. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-
2004)
9-1G-21: EFFECT ON EXISTING SYSTEMS AND SERVICES DURING CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Operating Existing Valves, Hydrants, And Appurtenances: Existing water
supply system valves, fire hydrants, and other appurtenances shall be operated
only by authorized public works department employees during the course of
constructing extensions to the municipal water supply system or making
connections to the water supply system. It is prohibited for unauthorized
persons to operate said valves, fire hydrants, and other appurtenances on the
municipal water supply system.
   B.   Protection Of Existing Water System: Extended water and sewer lines
that are to be connected to existing water and wastewater system facilities
during construction of water and sewer extensions shall not be connected to the
existing water system until the extended water and sewer lines have
satisfactorily passed the required tests and inspections set forth in this
article and those set forth in the contract specifications for the extension
involved. Under no circumstances shall any ground water, surface water, mud,
sand, rock, or other foreign material be allowed to enter the existing water
and wastewater systems during the course of constructing extensions or making
connections to the existing municipal water and wastewater system. Persons
installing water or sewer extensions, or making connections to the existing
municipal water or wastewater systems, shall become liable to the city for any
expense, loss or damage occasioned to the city by reason of their failure to
prevent any foreign material from entering the existing municipal water or
wastewater system.
   C.   Interruptions Of Service: A person constructing an extension to the
municipal water or wastewater systems, or making a connection therewith, shall
be responsible for notifying existing customers of any interruptions in their
service which may result from said person's operations. The specific method of
notifying such customers shall be approved by the city first and before the
interruptions take place. Any such interruptions shall be held to the shortest
possible duration and shall be approved by the city first and before such
interruptions are effected.
   D.   Damages To Existing Systems: Persons constructing extensions to the
water or wastewater systems, or making connections to said system, shall be
liable for any damages to existing system facilities or other public or private
property occasioned by their operations. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
ARTICLE H. WATER AND WASTEWATER SERVICE LINES, FIRE LINES, AND CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
9-1H-1: Permit Required
9-1H-2: Application; Fees; Charges
9-1H-3: Bond; Guarantee
9-1H-4: Installation, Ownership, And Maintenance
9-1H-5: Excavation Activities
9-1H-6: Service Line Location
9-1H-7: Water Wells/Septic Tanks
9-1H-8: Multiple Building Service Agreements
9-1H-9: Abandoned Water Lines And Sewers
9-1H-10: Size, Slope, And Depth Of Service Lines
9-1H-11: Materials And Methods Of Construction
9-1H-12: Curb Valve
9-1H-13: Connection To Water Main And Sewer
9-1H-14: Inspection And Tapping Notification
9-1H-15: Damage To Public Water And Sewer Mains
9-1H-16: Keeping Sewers Clean
9-1H-17: Service Line Stub-Outs
9-1H-18: Protection Of Water System
9-1H-19: Fire Lines
9-1H-20: Fire Hydrants
9-1H-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No unauthorized persons shall uncover, make any connection with or opening
into, use, alter, repair, extend, or otherwise disturb any water or wastewater
service line, fire line, any connection of a water service line, fire line, or
combination thereof with a public water main; any connection of a wastewater
service line with a public sanitary sewer; or any appurtenances thereto without
first:
   A.   Having on file at the city clerk's office a valid plumbing contractor's
license or a public contractors license, however, only persons with a plumbing
contractor's license may perform the above work on public property, including
connection at the curb stop or property line;
   B.   Having on file in the office of the city clerk a good and sufficient
surety bond and certificate of public liability insurance;
   C.   Obtaining any required excavation permits for excavating in public
rights of way;
   D.   Paying to the clerk any applicable connection charges and/or system
development fees;
   E.   Obtaining a written service line installation permit and paying to the
clerk the appropriate permit fees adopted under article B of this chapter; and
   F.   Complying with all other local, state, or federal laws pertaining to:
      1.   The installation of water or wastewater service lines, fire lines
and appurtenances;
      2.   The making of connections to public water mains or sanitary sewers;
      3.   The making of repairs, alterations, or extensions to such
facilities; or
      4.   When appropriate, any work involved in making excavations in public
rights of way or utility easements.
Public contractors will not be subject to the permit requirements set forth in
this section when stubbing out service lines, fire lines, or combinations
thereof in conjunction with public construction projects which have been
previously approved in writing for construction by the city. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-
2004)
9-1H-2: APPLICATION; FEES; CHARGES:
   A.   Applications And Fees: Persons desiring to obtain a service line
installation permit shall make application to the city on a special form
furnished for this purpose by the city. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent. The appropriate permit and inspection fees shall be paid by the
applicant to the clerk at the time the application for a service line
installation permit is filed with the city.
   B.   Connection, Construction, And Development Charges: Any applicable
connection charges and/or system development fees assessed against the property
to be served pursuant to provisions of ordinances and/or resolutions approved
by the city council shall be paid to the city at the time the service line
installation permit application is filed with the city. Such charges are
nontransferable and nonrefundable. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
   C.   Connection Charges For Utility Service: Any charges for connection of
service lines to the municipal utility system adopted by the city council, or
as such may be lawfully changed from time to time, shall apply to those wishing
to make connections to the existing municipal utility system. For water
service, the charges will include the total cost of installing the service line
from the city main to the curb box and stop, including all time and materials.
For sewer services, the charges will include the total cost of installing the
service line from the city main to the property line, including all time and
materials. (Ord. 06-02, 3-14-2006, eff. 4-14-2006)
9-1H-3: BOND; GUARANTEE:
   A.   Bond And Liability Insurance: Persons who contract to make connections
to public water mains and sanitary sewers, or to install service lines, fire
lines, appurtenances, or combinations thereof, or to make repairs, alterations,
or extensions to such facilities, shall file with the city clerk a bond in such
amount as deemed appropriate by the city. Said bond shall be in a form approved
by the city attorney and shall indemnify and hold the city harmless from any
loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation, repair, alteration, or extension of such service lines,
appurtenances, fire lines, or the connection of same with public utilities; and
that he/she will restore the streets, sidewalks and pavements over pipe he/she
may lay, and fill all excavations made by him/her so as to leave such streets,
sidewalks and pavements in as good condition as he/she found them.
In addition, said persons shall file with the city clerk a certificate of
public liability insurance in an amount acceptable to the city. Said
certificate shall be in a form approved by the city attorney and shall be
conditioned to hold the city harmless from any damage or injury whatsoever to
any person or property of any description, however owned, by reasons of any
work performed in making connections with public water mains and sanitary
sewers, installing service lines, appurtenances, or fire lines, or making
repairs, alterations, or extensions to such facilities. Said persons may
furnish a yearly bond and insurance certificate conditioned as hereinabove set
forth.
   B.   Guarantee: Persons who contract to make connections to public water
mains and sanitary sewers or to install service lines, fire lines,
appurtenances, or combinations thereof, or to make repairs, alterations, or
extensions to such facilities, shall guarantee all materials and equipment
furnished and work performed for a period of one year from the date of
completion of said work. Said persons warrant and guarantee for a period of up
to two (2) years from the date of completion of the work that said completed
work is free from all defects due to faulty materials or workmanship and such
persons shall promptly make such corrections as may be necessary by reason of
such defects, including the repairs of any damages to the public utilities
resulting from such defects. The city shall give notice of observed defects
with reasonable promptness. In the event the persons performing such work
should fail to make such repairs, adjustments or other work that may be made
necessary by such defects, the city may make arrangements for the performance
of such work by others and charge such persons the cost thereby incurred. In
addition to any other penalties, failure by said persons to pay to the city
within a reasonable period of time such charges shall be just cause for the
city to suspend or revoke the city business licenses of the persons involved.
This express warranty and guarantee shall not be construed to deny the city or
any other affected person the right to make claim on any applicable warranty
implied by law. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1H-4: INSTALLATION, OWNERSHIP, AND MAINTENANCE:
Water and wastewater service lines, appurtenances, and fire lines are owned by
the owner of the property served. Said owners shall keep their service lines,
fire lines, and appurtenances in good repair and condition at all times and, in
addition to any other penalties, if not repaired within ten (10) days after
receipt of notice by the city to do so, service to the property involved may be
discontinued. Except as otherwise provided herein, all costs and expenses
incidental to the installation of service lines, appurtenances, fire lines, or
making connections of same with the public utilities, or making repairs,
alterations, or extensions to such facilities, shall be borne by the owners of
said facilities. Service lines, fire lines, and appurtenances are
nontransferable and shall run with the property originally served by said
facilities. If a water or wastewater service line needs repair and is the
responsibility of the city or is deemed an emergency, prior notice to the
property owner is not required. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
All wastewater facilities from the building up to and including the service wye
or tee are the responsibility of the property owner. The city is responsible
for wastewater facilities up to the service wye or tee. Any owner or occupant
of the premises who fails or refuses to perform necessary work required to
upkeep their wastewater service lines that they are responsible for, the public
works department shall cause the necessary work to be done and the cost of the
repairs shall be assessed and shall constitute a lien against the property.
(Ord. 2004-09, 12-7-2004)
9-1H-5: EXCAVATION ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Underground Utility Information: Montana Code Annotated 69-4-501
through 69-4-505, as amended, sets forth certain procedures for obtaining
information concerning underground utilities prior to making or beginning any
excavation in any public street, alley, utility easement, or right of way
dedicated to the public use. Said sections also set forth penalties for failure
to comply with the provisions of said state statutes when making connections to
public water mains and sanitary sewers or installing service lines,
appurtenances, fire lines or making repairs, alterations, or extensions to such
facilities.
   B.   Excavations: Persons opening up, digging into, excavating, or tunneling
in any public right of way or utility easement for the purpose of making
connections to public utilities or to install service lines, fire lines, or
appurtenances, or to make repairs, alterations, or extensions to such
facilities shall prior to performing such work obtain in writing at their
expense all necessary approvals, permits, licenses, surety bonds, and/or public
liability insurance certificates that may be required by the agency or person
having jurisdiction and control over such public rights of way or utility
easements.
Permits for excavating within public rights of way under the jurisdiction and
control of the city may be obtained from the city. Information concerning
permits for excavating within public rights of way under the jurisdiction and
control of county and the state may be obtained by contacting the county
surveyor's office and the Montana department of transportation, respectively.
In any case, streets, sidewalks, parkways, and any other public property
disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory
to the public authority having jurisdiction and control over such public
property.
   C.   Traffic Control And Construction Signing: When working within public
rights of way or utility easements, persons making connections to public
utilities, or installing service lines, fire lines, or appurtenances, or making
repairs, alterations, or extensions to such facilities shall comply with the
traffic control and construction signing standards of the agency having
jurisdiction and control over the rights of way and utility easements involved.
In any case, all excavations shall be adequately guarded with barricades and
lights so as to protect the public from hazard. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1H-6: SERVICE LINE LOCATION:
Separate and independent water and sewer service lines shall be provided for
each individual building. Water and wastewater service lines shall be connected
to the public utility main located within the public right of way abutting and
fronting the property to be served and within the limits of said property's
frontage on the right of way involved. In addition, whenever possible, the
service lines shall be installed perpendicular to the public right of way
containing the public utility main to be connected with. In any case, the
location and arrangement of all service lines shall be approved by the city
prior to construction of such facilities.
If a parcel of land does not front a public water main, and/or sanitary sewer
then prior to the city's granting a service line installation permit to the
owner of such property, said property owner shall at his/her expense extend the
public utility to be connected to the required distance in accordance with the
provisions of article G of this chapter. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1H-7: WATER WELLS/SEPTIC TANKS:
   A.   Water wells will be allowed within the city or on property served by
the city water system for the purpose of irrigation, only. Water wells shall
not be connected to the city water system or to the city sewer system in any
manner. Domestic potable water must come from the public water system.
   B.   Septic systems will not be allowed within the city. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-
2004)
9-1H-8: MULTIPLE BUILDING SERVICE AGREEMENTS:
In the event it is determined by the city that it is impractical to construct
an independent and separate service line, or fire line to serve each building
or a group of buildings, such as mobile home courts, planned unit developments,
and large commercial or industrial establishments, which are located on a
single parcel of land under ownership by a single entity, then in that event
the city may allow more than one separate building to be served by a single
service line. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1H-9: ABANDONED WATER LINES AND SEWERS:
   A.   Abandoned Water Service Lines: Property owners desiring to abandon
water service lines, fire lines, or combinations thereof shall cause same to be
disconnected by the city at the property owner's expense at the point of
delivery or connection with the public water main. The corporation cock,
tapping valve, or service valve at the public water main shall be sealed when
same is exposed and the person disconnecting the water service line, fire line,
or combination thereof involved has disconnected same. Old water service lines,
fire lines, or combinations thereof may be used in connection with new
buildings only when they are found on examination and/or test to meet all
requirements of this article.
   B.   Abandoned Sewers: Property owners desiring to abandon wastewater
service lines and appurtenances shall at their expense have such facilities
discontinued at or near the property line and shall have same properly plugged
or capped in a manner approved by the city. Old wastewater service lines may be
used in connection with new buildings only when they are found on examination
and/or test by the public works supervisor to meet all requirements of this
article. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1H-10: SIZE, SLOPE, AND DEPTH OF SERVICE LINES:
   A.   Minimum Diameter Of Water Service Lines: The minimum diameter of water
service lines to be installed to serve any property shall be three-fourths inch
(3/4"). Water service lines shall be installed with a minimum number of joints
and be of uniform diameter from the public water main in the public right of
way to the municipal water meter. Fire lines shall be of uniform diameter from
the public water main in the public right of way to the property line of the
property to be served. In any case, the diameter of water service lines and
fire lines shall be subject to the approval of the public works supervisor and
shall be based on the criteria stated in appendix A of the uniform plumbing
code.
   B.   Size And Slope Of Sewer Services: The size and slope of the wastewater
service lines shall be subject to the approval of the city but in no event
shall the diameter be less than four inches (4"). The slope of the wastewater
service line shall not be less than two percent (2%).
   C.   Depth Of Water Lines: To prevent freezing, water service lines, fire
lines, or combinations thereof shall be laid six feet (6') below the street
surface or top of grade. Where existing conditions do not allow minimum cover
requirements, engineered insulation may be placed above the water line to
prevent freezing.
   D.   Depth Of Sewer Services: Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be
brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. No building
sewer shall be laid parallel to within three feet (3') of a weight bearing
wall. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity
flow to the public sanitary sewer, wastewater carried by drain shall be lifted
by an approved means and discharged to the building sewer. Persons installing
basements with floor drains should contact the public works department for
information concerning the depth of the public sanitary sewer prior to
commencing construction of such basements. In addition, it is recommended that
users install, as well as periodically inspect and maintain, a one-way valve in
their building drain for the purpose of preventing the backing up of wastewater
into their buildings in the event a stoppage occurs in the building sewer and/
or the public sanitary sewer serving the user's property. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-
2004)
9-1H-11: MATERIALS AND METHODS OF CONSTRUCTION:
The materials and methods of construction used in the installation of water and
wastewater service lines, fire lines, and appurtenances, their connection with
the public water main or sanitary sewer; and the repair, alteration, or
extension of such facilities shall all conform to the requirements of the
MPWSS. In addition, all joints and connections of the water service line or
fire line, including their connection with the public water main, shall be
watertight and sustain a pressure of not less than two hundred (200) pounds.
All joints and connections of the wastewater service line must be gastight and
watertight. Traffic control and construction signing trench excavation,
backfilling, compaction, and surface restoration shall all comply with the
requirements of the MPWSS and the agency having jurisdiction and control over
the rights of way and utility easements affected by such work. (Ord. 04-01, 2-
10-2004)
9-1H-12: CURB VALVE:
A separate and easily accessible curb valve and cast iron curb box meeting the
requirements of the MPWSS shall be installed at or near the property line on
each water service line, fire line, or combination thereof at the expense of
the customer requesting such water service line or fire line. The specific
location and arrangement of the curb valve and curb box on the water service
line, fire line, or combination thereof shall be as designated and approved by
the city. The city is responsible for fixing curb boxes and curb valves if they
find them inoperable. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1H-13: CONNECTION TO WATER MAIN AND SEWER:
   A.   Point Of Connection To Public Water Main: The point of connection of a
water service line or fire line with the public water main shall be determined
and approved by the public works department prior to making such connection. In
the event a water service line or fire line has previously been stubbed to the
property line of the property to be served, then in that case the connection
shall be made to the stubbed out water service line or fire line in order to
provide the required service to said property.
In any event, every water service line shall have an approved corporation stop
or gate valve installed on the service line at or near its connection with the
public water main. The corporation stop or gate valve shall be provided at the
customer's expense.
Water mains should be tapped on the top quarter, unless the water main is
shallow, in which case tapping on the side is acceptable if approved by the
public works supervisor, and in no case at or within six inches (6") from the
hub.
   B.   Point Of Connection To Public Sanitary Sewer: The connection of the
wastewater service line with the public sanitary sewer shall be made at the wye
or tee branch installed to service the property involved, if available. (Ord.
04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1H-14: INSPECTION AND TAPPING NOTIFICATION:
Applicants for water and wastewater service line installation permits shall
notify the city forty eight (48) hours in advance of when the facilities
authorized to be installed by the permit are ready for inspection and/or
connection to the public utility. Upon such notification, the city shall,
whenever possible, schedule the inspection and, if necessary, the tapping of
the public utility on or before the next regular working day for the city
immediately following such notification. No inspections or taps will be made
after regular working hours, on Saturdays, Sundays, or city holidays. Persons
requesting an inspection shall be ready to have the inspection at the time
designated by the public works department. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1H-15: DAMAGE TO PUBLIC WATER AND SEWER MAINS:
The person installing water or wastewater service lines, fire lines, or
appurtenances, or making connections to utility mains, or making repairs,
alterations, or extensions to such facilities shall cause to be immediately
repaired at his/her expense any damage to the public water and sewer mains
occasioned by his/her operations. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1H-16: KEEPING SEWERS CLEAN:
During the course of his/her operations, a person installing wastewater service
lines and appurtenances, or making connections to the public sanitary sewer, or
making repairs, alterations or extensions to such facilities shall not allow
any ground water, surface water, mud, gravel, sand, rock, septage, or other
similar type materials to enter the public sanitary sewer. Any foreign material
which accidentally enters the public sanitary sewer shall be immediately
removed by such person at his/her expense. In addition, said persons shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned to the
city by reason of his/her failure to prevent foreign material from entering the
public sanitary sewer. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1H-17: SERVICE LINE STUB-OUTS:
Pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of Montana Code Annotated 7-
12-4133, as amended, the city council hereby requires that connections from the
public water main and sanitary sewer to the property line of the adjacent
property shall be made prior to the permanent improvement of the streets
whereon they are located. The making of such connection on streets already
improved, or on unimproved streets, shall be in accordance with all applicable
provisions. In case the owners of the property on such streets fail to make
such connections prior to commencement of such street improvements, the public
works supervisor may cause such connections to be made, and shall assess
against the property in front of which said connections are made the entire
cost and expense thereof. All assessments levied under the provisions of this
section shall be enforced and collected in the same manner as other special
assessments provided for in title 7, chapter 6, part 44, Montana Code
Annotated. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1H-18: PROTECTION OF WATER SYSTEM:
   A.   Cross Connections: Furnishing of water service to any customer or
prospective customer shall be contingent upon the customer furnishing a type of
connection which is approved by the utility. When required by the utility, the
connection must be capable of protecting the utility's water supply from
contamination due to backflow and back siphonage. It shall be prohibited for
the owner or occupant of any premises using water supplied by the utility to
cross connect such water supply with a foreign source of water or with any
appliance, appurtenance, hose, pipe, or other fixture in such a manner that
there is a possibility that water or other substances from such foreign source
may flow, be siphoned, or be forced into the municipal water system.
If contamination of the municipal water supply occurs, the utility, or a
plumber hired by the utility, shall be allowed to inspect the water system to
determine the cause and source of contamination. All costs associated with the
inspection and corrective measures to remove contamination from the system
shall be charged to the owner of the property which is determined to be the
source of said contamination.
   B.   Protective Devices For Water System: When it is deemed by the public
works supervisor that such protective devices are necessary to protect another
customer's facilities and/or the municipal water supply system, the public
works supervisor may require a customer to install, as a condition of continued
water service and at the customer's expense, an approved expansion tank,
pressure reducing valve, backflow prevention device, pressure relief valve, or
any other similar type device on customer's water service line at a location
designated by the public works supervisor. Customers shall be responsible for
keeping such protective devices in good repair and effective operating
condition at all times, and failure to do so shall be just cause to discontinue
water service to the property involved. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
9-1H-19: FIRE LINES:
Fire lines shall be applied for and installed in compliance with the
appropriate requirements of this article, and, in addition, they shall comply
with the utility's standards of design and construction for fire lines.
All fire lines which connect to the municipal water supply system shall have
approved backflow prevention devices installed on same to prevent backflow into
such system. In addition, fire line loops connecting with the municipal water
supply system at more than one location shall have approved check valves
installed on the fire line loops to prevent circulation of water through
customer's fire lines into the municipal water supply system. (Ord. 04-01, 2-
10-2004)
9-1H-20: FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   Public Fire Hydrants:
      1.   Installation: All public fire hydrants installed in the water
service area and within the corporate limits of the city of Colstrip, and which
are connected directly to public water mains, shall be under the ownership of
the utility. Such fire hydrants shall be installed at the expense of the
property benefited by such hydrants by means of either special improvement
districts or private contracts, as required under subsection 9-1G-7B of this
chapter. Location of all hydrants shall be as directed by the city. They shall
be kept in reasonable repair by the utility and every such public fire hydrant
shall be periodically tested for proper operation by the utility.
      2.   Operation: No person, other than a member of the city fire
department and other authorized city employees, or employees of the utility,
shall open or operate any public fire hydrant without permission of the
utility.
      3.   Relocation: Fire hydrant installations shall be deemed permanent
after they are installed. Requests for the utility to relocate fire hydrants
shall be considered only if expenses of relocating the fire hydrants will be
borne by the individual or entity requesting the relocation.
      4.   Obstructing: No person shall obstruct access to public fire hydrants
by constructing fences or other structures within five feet (5') or by piling
snow or parking within fifteen feet (15') of a hydrant in such a manner as to
prevent ready access to the public fire hydrants. In addition, no person shall
plant trees, shrubs, bushes, or other plantings in such a manner as to prevent
ready access to the public fire hydrants. Further, no person shall change the
ground surface level in and around a public fire hydrant so as to render the
hydrant inaccessible and/or inoperable. Any person found in violation of this
particular regulation shall be given written notice to remove such obstruction
at his/her expense and, if such violation is not corrected by the person
involved within ten (10) days from receipt of written notice, the water supply
to said person's property shall be turned off by the utility.
      5.   Damages To: Any person damaging or defacing a public fire hydrant
shall be responsible to the utility for the repair of such damage.
      6.   Painting Of: The painting of public fire hydrants shall be
accomplished only by employees of the city or individuals authorized to do so
by the city. All public fire hydrants shall be painted using the city's
standard color scheme.
   B.   Private Fire Hydrants: Private fire hydrants are owned by the customer.
The costs of installing, operating, maintaining, and replacing such hydrants
shall be at the expense of the customer. Customer shall pay to the city the
rates in accordance with utility's approved rate schedules. Any misuse of
private fire hydrants, such as selling water from a private hydrant, is grounds
for immediate discontinuance of water service. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
CHAPTER 2
RESERVED
(Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
CHAPTER 2
SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Engineering Services
6-2-2: Legal Services
6-2-3: Administrative Charge Levied
6-2-4: Revolving Fund
6-2-1: ENGINEERING SERVICES:
   A.   Engineer Appointed: The mayor, with the approval of the city council,
shall appoint an engineer, group of engineers or a professional engineering
corporation to perform engineering services for every special improvement
district proposed and created.
   B.   Engineer Duties: The engineer for the special improvement district
shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy, and
coordination of all design, drawing specification, and reports for all
engineering matters. The duties of an engineer shall consist of, but not be
limited to, the following:
      1.   Provide site and topographic surveys;
      2.   Prepare and provide advertisement for bids, information for bidders,
bids form, supplementary conditions and other documents necessary to complete
the contract documents;
      3.   Evaluate construction bids and proposals;
      4.   Prepare subsurface soil investigations;
      5.   Advise as to the acceptability of materials and equipment proposed
by contractor or substituted by contractor;
      6.   Supervise on site construction and monitor the progress and quality
of the construction work and guard the city and the district against apparent
defects and deficiencies;
      7.   Review shop drawings, supplies and other submittals of the
contractor for general conformance to the engineering design and compliance
with the contract documents;
      8.   Review and prepare all change orders, progress estimates and final
estimates;
      9.   Provide reproducible drawings and surveys showing the square footage
or linear footage involved in making the determination of the assessment of
costs to the property owner;
      10.   Keep the public works supervisor informed of the progress of the
work throughout the period of construction;
      11.   Provide general inspection services and quality control on all
construction materials and construction methods.
   C.   Engineer Compensation: The engineer shall receive such compensation as
may be authorized by the city council. The engineering contract shall not call
for compensation based on a percentage of the construction contract and shall
be a sum certain. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
6-2-2: LEGAL SERVICES:
   A.   Attorney Appointed: The mayor, with the approval of the city council,
shall appoint an attorney, a group of attorneys, a professional legal
corporation or the city attorney to perform services of a legal nature for
every special improvement district proposed and created.
   B.   Attorney Duties: It shall be the duty of the attorney for the special
improvement district to see to the completion of all proceedings required in
formation of a district. It shall be the duty of the attorney to draft or
supervise the phraseology of any contract, ordinance, resolution, bond or other
documents or instruments necessary to the special improvement district. It
shall be the duty of the attorney to represent the district in litigation
affecting the district.
   C.   Attorney To Advise: The attorney shall be the legal advisor of the
special improvement district, and shall render advice in all legal questions
affecting the city and the district, whenever requested to do so by the mayor
or by the city council. Upon request by the mayor or the city council, he shall
reduce any such opinion to writing. In addition, the attorney shall prosecute
and litigate any claim or action the special improvement district may have
arising out of any contract for services or contract for construction necessary
to completion of the special improvements.
   D.   Attorney Compensation:
      1.   The attorney shall receive such compensation as may be authorized by
the city council. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
6-2-3: ADMINISTRATIVE CHARGE LEVIED:
All special improvement districts shall be assessed one percent (1%) of the
total cost of the district, which one percent (1%) shall be paid out of bond
sales to the city and shall be used for the purpose of covering administrative
expense. (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
6-2-4: REVOLVING FUND:
All special improvement districts shall be assessed five percent (5%) of the
total cost of the district, which five percent (5%) shall be paid out of bond
sales to the city and shall be deposited in the SID revolving fund, pursuant to
Montana Code Annotated (1991) section 7-12-4222(1)(a). (Ord. 04-01, 2-10-2004)
