CITY CODE
OF
CONRAD, MT
Code current through:
Ord. 427, passed 11-7-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Conrad, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to and
including ordinance 427, passed November 7, 2023. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
CHARTER OF THE CITY OF CONRAD
PONDERA COUNTY, MONTANA
PREAMBLE
WE, THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF CONRAD, COUNTY OF PONDERA, STATE OF MONTANA, in
accordance with article XI, section 5 of the constitution of Montana, do hereby
adopt this charter.
ARTICLE I
POWERS OF THE CITY
Section 1.01 Powers Of The City
The city of Conrad shall have all powers not prohibited by the constitution of
Montana, the laws of Montana, or this charter.
Section 1.02 Interpretation Of Powers
The powers and authority of this self-government city shall be liberally
construed. Every reasonable doubt as to the existence of a city power or
authority shall be resolved in favor of the existence of that power or
authority.
Section 1.03 Restrictions
   1.   The mill levy shall be limited to that of Montana municipal governments
with general government powers, except with the prior approval of the electors
voting on the question in a general or special municipal election.
   2.   No change in any city license fee, user fee, permit fee or utility
charge shall be made without prior public notice, as prescribed by law.
Section 1.04 Charter Supremacy
As provided by article XI, section 5 of the constitution of Montana, charter
provisions herein establishing executive, legislative and administrative
structure and organization are superior to statutory provisions.
Section 1.05 Oath Of Office
Before entering upon the duties of office, all elected city officials shall
take and subscribe to the oath of office as prescribed in article III, section
3 of the constitution of Montana.
ARTICLE II
CITY COUNCIL
Section 2.01 Legislative Branch
The legislative branch and governing body shall be the city council.
Section 2.02 Composition
The city of Conrad shall have a city council of four (4) elected members.
Section 2.03 Qualifications For Office
Every resident of the city of Conrad who is eighteen (18) years of age or
older, a citizen of Montana and a qualified elector pursuant to article IV,
section 2 of the Montana constitution is eligible to hold the office of council
member.
Section 2.04 Powers And Duties
The council shall be the legislative and policy determining body of the city.
All powers of the city shall be vested in the city council except as otherwise
provided by law or this charter.
Section 2.05 Term Of Office
Members of the council shall be elected for a four (4) year term of office.   
Section 2.06 Election
   1.   The election of council members shall be conducted on a nonpartisan
basis.
   2.   There shall be two (2) wards apportioned by population following every
federal decennial census, each of which shall be represented by two (2) council
members.
   3.   Candidates for the city council must reside in the ward they seek to
represent at the time of their election and during their entire term of office.
   4.   One council member from each of the two (2) wards shall be elected
every two (2) years.
Section 2.07 President Of The Council
The council shall have a president who shall be elected by the members of the
council from their own number for a term established by resolution. The
president of the council shall preside at council meetings when the mayor is
absent.
Section 2.08 Council Procedures
The council shall, by resolution, adopt its own rules of procedure.
Section 2.09 Absence Of A Council Member
A council member must receive the consent of the council for an absence from
the city for ten (10) or more consecutive days.
Section 2.10 Vacancy In Office
The office of council member becomes vacant as prescribed by law.
Section 2.11 Removal From Office
   1.   Vacancy Removal
A council member may be removed from office by a finding, adopted by the
affirmative vote of three (3) council members, that the office has become
vacant as prescribed by law.
   2.   Removal by Recall
A council member may be removed from office by recall by the electors of
Conrad, as prescribed by law.
   3.   Council Member Improper Conduct
      A.   Discipline or Removal: A council member may be disciplined or
removed from office by a finding, adopted by the affirmative vote of three (3)
council members, that the council member committed improper conduct.
      B.   Improper Conduct: An action against a council member based upon the
council member's alleged improper conduct must be commenced within one hundred-
eighty (180) days after the alleging party discovers, or through the use of
reasonable diligence should have discovered, the improper conduct. The
commission of any of the following acts by a council member constitutes
improper conduct:
         i.   purposely or negligently fails to perform any mandatory duty as
required by law or by a court of competent jurisdiction;
         ii.   knowingly performs an act in an official capacity that the
council member knows is forbidden by law;
         iii.   performs an act in excess of the council member's lawful
authority, with the purpose to obtain a personal advantage or an advantage for
another;
         iv.   solicits or knowingly accepts for the performance of any act a
fee or reward that the council member knows is not authorized by law;
         v.   knowingly conducts a meeting of a public agency in violation of
Mont. Code Ann. §2-3-203; or
         vi.   is convicted of a felony offense enumerated in Title 45 of
Montana Code Annotated.
      C.   Procedure for Finding Cause for Improper Conduct:
         i.   A council member may be found to have committed improper conduct
only pursuant to the procedures contained in this Section 2.11(3)(C).
         ii.   Upon the receipt of a sworn complaint of improper conduct by the
city of Conrad, the mayor shall cause the city attorney to conduct an
investigation to determine the legitimacy of the complaint. The city attorney
shall have thirty (30) days after receipt of the complaint to determine if the
complaint is legitimate.
         iii.   The complaint shall be determined to be illegitimate if the
city attorney delivers findings to the mayor that there is no cause for the
complaint. The complaint shall be determined to be legitimate if the city
attorney delivers findings to the mayor that there is cause for the complaint.
The city attorney shall, commensurate with delivering findings to the mayor,
deliver a copy of the findings to the council member that is the subject of the
complaint (hereinafter "Respondent").
         iv.   If it is determined that there is cause for the complaint, the
city attorney's findings shall include: (1) a copy of the complaint; (2) a
summary of the extent of the investigation; (3) the factual findings of the
investigation; and (4) any other information the city attorney may consider
relevant to the findings.
         v.   Upon receipt of a finding that the complaint is legitimate, the
mayor shall confer with the city attorney and the Respondent to schedule a date
for a scheduling conference. The date of the scheduling conference shall not be
more than fifteen (15) days after the mayor's receipt of the findings unless
otherwise agreed to by the mayor, city attorney, and the Respondent of improper
conduct. A final hearing shall be scheduled no more than ninety (90) days after
the scheduling conference.
      D.   Procedure for Hearing on Improper Conduct:
         i.   The city council shall be the decision-making authority for the
improper conduct hearing.
         ii.   The mayor shall preside over the hearing. The mayor must ensure
that all parties are afforded the opportunity to respond and present evidence
and argument on all issues involved.
         iii.   Absent a determination at the discretion of the mayor that the
interests of justice require otherwise, the order of the hearing is as follows:
(1) any opening statements requested or allowed by the mayor; (2) presentation
of evidence by the city of Conrad; (3) cross examination by the Respondent; (4)
presentation of evidence by the Respondent; (5) cross examination by the city
of Conrad; and (6) rebuttal testimony.
         iv.   All testimony must be given under oath or affirmation.
         v.   Exhibits must be marked and must identify the person offering the
exhibits. The exhibits shall be preserved by the city of Conrad as part of the
record of the proceedings.
         vi.   The mayor may hear closing arguments, request written argument,
or order a schedule for parties to submit proposed findings of fact and
conclusions of law.
         vii.   The mayor may grant recesses or continue the hearing.
      E.   Discovery: In all hearings discovery is available to the parties in
accordance with Rules 26 through 37 of the Montana Rules of Civil Procedure.
However, Rule 27 and Rule 37(b)(1) and 37(b)(2)(D) shall not apply. All
references to the "court" shall be considered to refer to "mayor"; all
references to the use of the subpoena power shall be considered references to
Administrative Rules of Montana § 1.3.230; all references to "trial" shall be
considered references to "hearing"; all references to "plaintiff shall be
considered references to "a party"; all references to "clerk of court" shall be
considered references to the person designated by the city of Conrad required
to keep documents filed in a hearing.
      F.   Hearing Record:
         i.   The record in a hearing must include: (1) all pleadings, motions,
and rulings; (2) all evidence, either written or oral, received, or considered
by the city council; (3) a statement of matters officially noticed; (4)
questions and offers of proof, objections, and rulings on objections; (5)
proposed findings and exceptions; and (6) any decision, opinion, or report by
the mayor which must be in writing.
         ii.   At the request of any party, the record must be transcribed. The
cost of transcription is the responsibility of the requesting party.
      G.   Evidence: All evidence introduced in a hearing shall be received and
evaluated in conformance with common law and statutory rules of evidence.
      H.   Burden of Persuasion and Proof: The city of Conrad has the burden of
persuasion as to each fact, the existence or nonexistence of which is essential
to the claim for improper conduct. The city council may only determine that the
Respondent is guilty of improper conduct if it is proven beyond a reasonable
doubt.
   4.   Imposition of Sanctions, Suspension or Removal
If the city council determines that the Respondent is guilty of improper
conduct, the city council shall, within thirty (30) days of said determination,
sanction the Respondent or remove the Respondent from office. (Amended Ord.
419, 8-3-2021)
Section 2.12 Compensation
The compensation of council members shall be set by council resolution.
Section 2.13 Override Of Veto
The entire council may override the mayor's veto with a two-thirds (2/3) vote
of the council.
Section 2.14 Filling Vacancy On Council
   1.   When a vacancy occurs in the office of council member, the position
shall be considered open and subject to nomination and election at the next
general municipal election, except the term of office shall be limited to the
unexpired term of the person who originally created the vacancy. Pending such
election and qualification, the council shall appoint, by the affirmative
majority vote of the entire council, a person possessing the qualifications for
office required by law and this charter, within thirty (30) days of the vacancy
to hold the office until the successor is elected and qualified.
   2.   If there are fewer than three (3) council members serving in office at
the time an appointment to fill council vacancies is required, the mayor shall
appoint, with the written consent of each of the incumbent council members, a
person possessing the qualifications for office required by law and this
charter within thirty (30) days of the vacancy to hold the office until the
successor is elected and qualified. (Amended Ord. 421, 8-3-2021)
ARTICLE III
MAYOR
Section 3.01 The Executive Branch
The mayor shall be the chief executive and chief administrative officer of the
city.
Section 3.02 Qualifications For Office
Every resident elector in the city of Conrad who is twenty one (21) years of
age or older and a citizen of Montana and a resident of Conrad for at least two
(2) years preceding the election to office is eligible to hold the office of
mayor.
Section 3.03 Term Of Office
The mayor shall be elected for a four (4) year term of office.
Section 3.04 Election
The mayor, who must reside within the city limits of Conrad at the time of his
or her election and throughout the term of office, shall be nominated and
elected at large on a nonpartisan basis.
Section 3.05 Powers And Duties
The mayor shall:
   1.   Enforce laws, ordinances, resolutions, and this charter;
   2.   Perform duties required of him/her by law, charter, ordinance, or
resolution;
   3.   Administer affairs of the local government;
   4.   Carry out policies established by the council;
   5.   Recommend measures to the council;
   6.   Report to the council on the affairs and financial condition of the
city government;
   7.   Execute bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the
council, subject to the approval of the council;
   8.   Report to the council as the council may require;
   9.   Chair council meetings, approve agendas, and may take part in
discussion;
   10.   Execute the budget adopted by the council;
   11.   Appoint, with the consent of the council, all members of boards and
committees.
Section 3.06 Administrative Duties
The mayor may:
   1.   Prepare the budget in consultation with the council and department
heads;
   2.   Appoint one or more administrative assistants, with the consent of the
council, to assist him/her in the supervision and operation of the city
government;
   3.   Appoint with the consent of a majority of entire council, all
department heads, the city attorney, the finance officer and all other city
employees; and, remove all department heads, the city attorney, the finance
officer and all other city employees.
   4.   Exercise control and supervision of all departments and boards to the
degree authorized by resolution of the council. (Amended Ord. 420, 8-3-2021)
Section 3.07 Legislative Authority
   1.   The mayor shall decide all tie votes of the council, but shall have no
other vote.
   2.   The mayor may veto ordinances and resolutions, subject to override of
said veto by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the entire council.
Section 3.08 Compensation
The compensation of the mayor shall be set by council resolution.
Section 3.09 Absence Of The Mayor
The mayor must receive the consent of the council for an absence from the city
for ten (10) or more consecutive days.
Section 3.10 Vacancy In Office
The office of mayor becomes vacant as prescribed by law.
Section 3.11 Removal From Office
The mayor may be removed from office by a finding, adopted by the affirmative
majority vote of the entire council that the office has become vacant as
prescribed by law, or by recall by the electors of the city of Conrad, as
prescribed by law.
Section 3.12 Filling The Vacancy In The Office Of Mayor
When a vacancy occurs in the office of mayor, the position shall be considered
open and subject to nomination and election at the next general municipal
election, except the term of office shall be limited to the unexpired term of
the person originally creating the vacancy. Pending such election and
qualification, the council shall appoint, by the affirmative vote of the
majority of the entire council, a person possessing the qualifications for
office required by law and this charter within thirty (30) days of the vacancy
to hold the office until the successor is elected and qualified.
Section 3.13 City Attorney
   1.   There shall be a legal officer of the city, appointed by the mayor,
with the approval of the council, who shall serve as chief legal advisor to the
council, mayor, and all city departments, offices, and agencies. The chief
legal advisor shall represent the city in all legal proceedings unless
otherwise determined by the council, and shall perform any other duties
prescribed by ordinance or resolution. The chief legal advisor may be called
the city attorney.
   2.   Nothing in the charter shall be construed as preventing the city
council from employing, in special cases, on a contract basis, additional or
other counsel.
ARTICLE IV
JUDICIAL
Section 4.01 City Court
There shall be a city court as provided by law and ordinance.
ARTICLE V
DEPARTMENT STRUCTURE
Section 5.01 Organization Of Departments
The organization of city departments shall be prescribed by ordinance or
resolution.
ARTICLE VI
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 6.01 Amendment Of Charter
This charter may be amended only with the approval of the voters of the city of
Conrad as prescribed by state law.
Section 6.02 Effective Date
This charter shall become effective on January 1, 2007.
Section 6.03 Severability
If any provision of this charter is held invalid, the other provisions of this
charter shall not be affected thereby. If the application of the charter or any
part of its provisions, to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
application of the charter and its provisions to other persons or circumstances
shall not be affected thereby.
Section 6.04 Public Access
   1.   All meetings of the city council must be open to the public unless
otherwise provided by law.
   2.   Citizens are entitled to inspect and copy public writings of the city
of Conrad unless otherwise provided by law.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
CONRAD CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Interpretations
1-1-5: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official city code of the city of Conrad. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the CONRAD CITY CODE, and it is hereby
published by authority of the council and shall be supplemented to incorporate
the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2015 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (1975 Code §
1-1-2)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(2015 Code)
1-1-4: INTERPRETATIONS:
In the determination of the provisions of each section of this code, the
following rules shall be observed:
   A.   Intent To Defraud: Whenever an intent to defraud is required in order
to constitute an offense, it shall be sufficient if an intent appears to
defraud any person.
   B.   Liability Of Employers And Agents: When the provisions of any section
of this code prohibit the commission of an act, not only the person actually
doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act, but also the employer
and all other persons concerned with or in aiding or abetting the said person
shall be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set forth.
(1975 Code §
1-1-4)
1-1-5: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code books,
while in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be
and remain the property of the city and shall be returned to the office of the
city finance officer when directed so to do by order of the city council. (2015
Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances; Exceptions
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES; EXCEPTIONS:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
   A.   Tax levy ordinances;
   B.   Appropriation ordinances;
   C.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
   D.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations;
   E.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants;
   F.   Salary ordinances;
   G.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places;
   H.   Improvement ordinances;
   I.   Bond ordinances;
   J.   Ordinances relating to elections;
   K.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the city; and
   L.   All special ordinances. (2015 Code)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceedings, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the
party affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Currently Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (1975 Code §
1-2-3)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The city council hereby declares that it would
have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1975 Code § 1-2-4)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and city council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other city officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it shall be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   D.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to
be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   E.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is mandatory.
   F.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   G.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   H.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the city of Conrad".
   I.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   J.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city
has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the city ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2015 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
CITY: The city of Conrad, county of Pondera, state of Montana.
CODE: The city code of the city of Conrad.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of the city of Conrad.
COUNTY: The county of Pondera, state of Montana.
MCA: Montana Code Annotated.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, association, joint venture, joint stock
company, partnership, organization, club, fraternal organization, company,
corporation, business, trust, or their manager, lessee, agent, servant,
officer, or employee of any of them.
STATE: The state of Montana. (2015 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2015
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Jurisdiction
1-4-2: General Penalty
1-4-3: Application Of Provisions
1-4-4: Liability Of Officers
1-4-5: Indemnification Of Public Officers And Employees
1-4-1: JURISDICTION:
   A.   Penalties And Fines: The city has jurisdiction to impose penalties and
fines within its corporate limits. (1975 Code §
1-4-1)
   B.   Arrests: The city council has power to make regulations authorizing the
police of the city to make arrests of persons charged with crime:
      1.   Within the limits of the city;
      2.   Within five (5) miles thereof; and
      3.   Along the line of water supply of the city. (2015 Code)
1-4-2: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this code, unless
specifically otherwise provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not
exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned in the county jail for
not to exceed six (6) months, or both so fined and imprisoned. (1975 Code §
1-4-2; amd. 2015 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-5-4207.
1-4-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Applicability: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable
to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and
every separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of
this code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any
action which is of a continuing nature or declared to be unlawful, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
upon each day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act
continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in this code.
   B.   Limited To One Recovery: In all cases where the same offense is made
punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this code, the
prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed; but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   No Penalty Specifically Declared: Whenever the doing of any act or the
omission to do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this
code and there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such
breach, the provisions of this chapter shall apply and a separate offense shall
be deemed committed upon each day during or on which a breach or violation
occurs or continues. (1975 Code §
1-4-4)
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1975 Code
§
1-4-5)
1-4-5: INDEMNIFICATION OF PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
In any civil action brought against any public official or employee of the city
alleging a violation of constitutional initiative 75, the city shall defend the
action on behalf of the official or employee and indemnify the official or
employee for any liability resulting from the alleged violation of
constitutional initiative 75. (Ord. 362, 12-21-1998)
CHAPTER 5
CITY COUNCIL 1
SECTION:
1-5-1: Composition Of Council
1-5-2: Meetings
1-5-3: Quorum
1-5-4: Presiding Officer
1-5-5: Order Of Business; Standing Committees
1-5-6: Rules Of Order
 
Notes
1 1. See also city charter articles II and III.
1-5-1: COMPOSITION OF COUNCIL:
The city council shall consist of two (2) council members from each ward, as
elected pursuant to state law 1 . (1975 Code §
1-5-1; amd. 2015 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. MCA § 7-4-4102.
1-5-2: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The city council shall convene regularly in the
council chambers in the city hall on the first and third Tuesdays of each month
at six o'clock (6:00) P.M. If such regularly scheduled meeting falls on a date
which is a legal holiday, the meeting will be held on the next regular business
day, at the same time and place. (Ord. 406, 3-18-2013)
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the council may be called from
time to time by the mayor, or by any two (2) council members, by twenty four
(24) hours' notice served upon the other members of the council by the city
finance officer. (1975 Code §
1-5-2; amd. 2015 Code)
1-5-3: QUORUM:
A majority of the city council shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
any and all business of said city council. (Ord. 342, 8-5-1991)
1-5-4: PRESIDING OFFICER:
The mayor shall be the presiding officer of the council and, at the hour
appointed for the meeting, the council shall be called to order by the mayor,
or in his absence, by the council president, or in the absence of both, by the
city finance officer. Upon the appearance of a quorum, the council shall
proceed to business in the order as prescribed in section
1-5-5 of this chapter. (1975 Code §
1-5-4; amd. 2015 Code)
1-5-5: ORDER OF BUSINESS; STANDING COMMITTEES:
   A.   Order Of Business: All business to come before the council may be
conducted in the following order:
      1.   Reading, amending and approving the minutes of the previous meeting.
      2.   Action on claims and payroll.
      3.   Presentation of building/zoning permits.
      4.   Action on water contracts.
      5.   Public comments.
      6.   Reports of officers.
      7.   Reports of standing committees.
      8.   Reports of special committees.
      9.   Presentation of petitions and communications.
      10.   Unfinished business.
      11.   New business.
   B.   Standing Committees: The mayor shall designate and appoint such
standing committees as may from time to time be provided by the rules of order
of the city council. (1975 Code §
1-5-5; amd. 2015 Code)
1-5-6: RULES OF ORDER:
   A.   Rules Enumerated: The rules of order for the proceedings of the city
council shall be as follows:
      1.   The mayor, or in his absence, the council president, shall preserve
order and shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the
council.
      2.   Previous to speaking, every member shall address the mayor, or in
his absence, the council president, but shall not proceed until recognized and
named by the presiding officer.
      3.   While a member is speaking, no other member shall engage in private
conversation, or do anything else to divert the attention or interrupt the
speaker.
      4.   No motion shall be debated or put forth unless the same shall be
seconded. It shall then be stated by the presiding officer and, at the request
of any member, shall be reduced to writing.
      5.   After a motion has been stated by the presiding officer, it shall be
deemed in the possession of the council but may be withdrawn at any time before
amendment or decision by the mover, with the seconding person's consent.
      6.   If a question under consideration contains more than one distinct
proposition, any member may demand a division thereof.
      7.   When a blank is to be filled in and different sums and times are
proposed, the question shall first be put on the largest sum and the longest
time.
      8.   When a question is under debate, no motion shall be entertained,
except:
         a.   To adjourn;
         b.   To lay on the table;
         c.   For the previous question;
         d.   To postpone to a day certain;
         e.   To commit to a standing committee;
         f.   To commit to a special committee;
         g.   To amend;
         h.   To postpone indefinitely;
and these several motions shall have precedence in the order stated.
      9.   A motion to adjourn shall always be in order, save when a member is
addressing the chair, or a vote is being taken. Motions to adjourn and to lay
on the table shall not be debatable.
      10.   Every member of the council present shall vote upon every question
submitted to the council, unless excused, in which case, he shall not vote.
      11.   No motion or proposition on a subject different from that under
consideration shall be admitted under color of amendment.
      12.   No motion for reconsideration shall be in order unless made at the
same meeting or the meeting following that on which the decision was made, nor
shall such motion be made, save by one who voted with the majority upon the
adoption.
      13.   In all cases, the name of the member proposing a motion or
resolution shall be entered with it on the council minutes.
      14.   Upon the final passage of any ordinances, the yeas and nays shall
be entered upon the minutes, unless the same is unanimously adopted.
      15.   No ordinance shall be repealed or passed, or contract or
appropriation of money made, unless by a vote of a majority of the members
elect.
      16.   All reports, petitions or resolutions shall be reduced to writing
before being submitted to a vote of the council.
   B.   Amendment Of Rules: These rules shall not be repealed, amended or
suspended, except by a majority of the council, and in all parliamentary
practice not herein provided for, "Robert's Rules Of Order" shall govern so far
as applicable. (1975 Code §
1-5-6; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 6
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Appointment Of Officers
1-6-2: Duties Of Officers
1-6-3: Fines And Fees
1-6-4: Salaries And Compensation
1-6-5: Discrimination In Employment
1-6-1: APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS:
   A.   Appointment: Pursuant to his or her authority under Montana Code
Annotated section 7-4-4102, the mayor shall, at the first regular meeting of
the city council after the election of its members, or as soon as practicable,
appoint, with the advice and consent of the council, the following municipal
officers: one city attorney, one city clerk-treasurer, who is ex officio
finance officer-city assessor, one chief of police, one administrative
assistant at the mayor’s discretion, and any other officers necessary to
conduct the business of the city. (Ord. 392, 2-19-2008)
   B.   Judicial Officer: The city’s sole judicial officer shall be the city
court judge pursuant to Montana Code Annotated section 3-11-205. (Ord. 391, 12-
18-2006; amd. 2015 Code; Ord. 426, 10-3-2023)
1-6-2: DUTIES OF OFFICERS:
The officers mentioned and enumerated in section
1-6-1 of this chapter shall perform the duties imposed upon them by the city
charter, the provisions of this code and the laws of the state of Montana;
provided, that when the duties of any city officers shall call them outside of
the city, they shall be entitled to allowable traveling expenses. (1975 Code §
1-6-2; amd. 2015 Code)
1-6-3: FINES AND FEES:
All fines, fees or other monies received by any of the city officers in the
discharge of their duties as such shall be paid into the treasury for the
credit of the city. (1975 Code § 1-6-3)
1-6-4: SALARIES AND COMPENSATION:
The salaries and compensation of elected and appointed city officers and all
city employees shall be determined by resolution of the city council and
approved by the mayor in accordance with Montana law. (Ord. 378, 5-19-2003)
1-6-5: DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT:
   A.   Plan Created: There is created an affirmative action plan for the city.
It is the policy of the city and the laws of the state of Montana to provide
equal opportunity to all employees and applicants for employment. All persons
have the right to obtain and hold employment and the right to be free from
discrimination because of race, creed, religion, color, or national origin or
because of age, physical or mental disability, marital status, or sex when the
reasonable demands of the position do not require an age, physical or mental
disability, marital status or sex distinction. (1975 Code §
11-1-1; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Plan Implementation: All city officials and supervisory personnel shall
recruit, assign, train, evaluate and promote personnel on the basis of merit
and qualifications without discrimination. Affirmative action shall be taken to
ensure the implementation policy in city government employment. All city
departments shall:
      1.   Promulgate written directives to carry out this policy and to
guarantee equal employment opportunities;
      2.   Regularly review their personnel practices to assure compliance; and
      3.   Conduct continuing orientation and training programs with emphasis
on human relations and fair employment practices.
   C.   Equal Employment Opportunity Officer: The mayor, or his appointee who
shall be subject to approval by the city council, shall act as the equal
employment opportunity officer for the city. The equal employment opportunity
officer shall have the following responsibilities:
      1.   To ensure the affirmative action plan for the city is implemented.
      2.   To establish goals to be met by the departments of the city in city
government employment.
      3.   To establish objectives for the departments of the city to follow in
meeting the goals for city employment. (1975 Code § 11-1-2)
   D.   Employment Referrals In Placement Services:
      1.   All city departments which provide employment referrals or placement
services for city employment shall accept job orders on a fair practice basis.
A job request indicating an intention to exclude a person because of race,
creed, religion, color, or national origin or because of age, physical or
mental disability, marital status, or sex when the reasonable demands of the
position do not require an age, physical or mental disability, marital status
or sex distinction shall be rejected. (1975 Code § 11-1-3; amd. 2015 Code)
      2.   The city shall cooperate in programs developed by the state
commission for human rights for the purpose of broadening the base of job
recruitment and with employers and organizations providing such programs. (1975
Code § 11-1-3)
   E.   Educational, Counseling And Training Programs: All educational,
counseling and vocational guidance programs and all apprenticeship and on the
job training programs which the city conducts or participates in shall be open
to all persons, who shall be accepted on a basis of merit and qualifications
without discrimination. Such programs shall be conducted to encourage the full
development of the interests, aptitudes, skills and capacities of all students
and trainees, with special attention to the problems of culturally deprived,
educationally handicapped or economically disadvantaged persons. (1975 Code §
11-1-4)
   F.   Nondiscrimination Provision In All Public Contracts: Every contract or
subcontract for construction of public buildings or for other public work or
for goods or services awarded by the city shall contain a provision that there
shall be no discrimination by the persons performing the contract. (1975 Code §
11-1-5)
   G.   Cooperation With State Commission For Human Rights: The city shall
cooperate with the state commission on human rights in the commission's
enforcement and educational programs. The city shall comply with the
commission's request for information concerning practices inconsistent with the
state policy against discrimination and shall consider its recommendations for
effecting and implementing that policy. (1975 Code § 11-1-6)
CHAPTER 7
CITY FINANCE OFFICER
SECTION:
1-7-1: Appointment; Bond
1-7-2: Office Hours
1-7-3: Duties As Clerk
1-7-4: Duties As Treasurer
1-7-5: Collection Of Taxes
1-7-1: APPOINTMENT; BOND:
   A.   Appointment: The city finance officer, who is the clerk- treasurer and
ex officio city assessor, shall be appointed as provided by section
1-6-1 of this title. (1975 Code § 1-7-1)
   B.   Bond: The finance officer shall be included in a blanket bond for the
faithful performance of officers' duties, said bond to be executed by a duly
authorized surety company, the premiums thereof to be paid by the city. (1975
Code § 1-7-1; amd. 2015 Code)
1-7-2: OFFICE HOURS:
The offices and office rooms of the city finance officer shall be and remain
open continuously for the transaction of business from Monday through Friday of
each week, except for legal holidays, from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. until five
o'clock (5:00) P.M. The offices shall be closed for the entire day on legal
holidays. (Ord. 377, 5-19-2003)
1-7-3: DUTIES AS CLERK 1 :
The city finance officer as clerk shall countersign all warrants drawn on the
city treasury, and shall do and perform such other duties as may be required or
provided by law, and as any licenses become due, shall collect and issue all
such licenses. (1975 Code §
1-7-3)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 3-1-6 of this code.
1-7-4: DUTIES AS TREASURER:
   A.   City Depositories: The city finance officer as treasurer shall deposit
the funds of the city from day to day in such bank or banks of the city as
shall be designated by the mayor as the city depositories. The mayor shall have
the power to direct the withdrawal of all such monies from any such bank for
any reason.
   B.   Interest: All interest paid and collected on deposits shall be credited
by the city finance officer to the designated funds. (1975 Code § 1-8-3; amd.
2015 Code)
1-7-5: COLLECTION OF TAXES:
The county treasurer of Pondera County shall collect all taxes due and owing to
the city, including assessments for special improvement districts, in
accordance with the provisions of the laws of the state of Montana, relating to
the duties of the county treasurer and the collection of taxes. (1975 Code § 1-
8-2)
CHAPTER 8
CHIEF OF POLICE
SECTION:
1-8-1: Appointment; Bond
1-8-2: Duties
1-8-1: APPOINTMENT; BOND:
   A.   Appointment: The chief of police shall be appointed as provided by
section
1-6-1 of this title. (1975 Code § 1-9-1)
   B.   Bond: The chief of police shall be included in a blanket bond for the
faithful performance of officers' duties, said bond to be executed by a duly
authorized surety company, the premiums thereon to be paid by the city. (1975
Code § 1-9-1; amd. 2015 Code)
1-8-2: DUTIES:
At the first stated meeting in each month, the chief of police shall present to
the council a report, in writing, giving the number of arrests made during the
preceding calendar month for offenses against the provisions of this code, the
number of prisoners, the number of special police officers employed, and such
other facts concerning the business of his office as he may deem advisable for
the information of the council. (1975 Code § 1-9-2; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 9
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Conduct Of Elections
1-9-2: Qualifications Of Electors
1-9-1: CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS:
All primary and general elections shall be conducted by Pondera County and held
in accordance with the statutes of the state. (2015 Code)
1-9-2: QUALIFICATIONS OF ELECTORS:
Any person shall be qualified to vote in any and all city elections, provided
such person is a resident of the city or an area which has been annexed and
certified as such by the city finance officer and county recorder of Pondera
County, and is qualified and registered to vote under state law. (2015 Code)
CHAPTER 10
GENERAL FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Financial Provisions Governed By Statute
1-10-1: FINANCIAL PROVISIONS GOVERNED BY STATUTE:
Montana Code Annotated title 7, chapter 6, financial administration and
taxation, shall govern the financial, revenue and taxation procedures of the
city. (2015 Code)
CHAPTER 11
CORPORATE LIMITS; WARDS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Corporate Limits
1-11-2: Ward Boundaries
1-11-3: Annexation Procedure
1-11-1: CORPORATE LIMITS:
The corporate limits of the city shall consist of the continuous single
perimeter boundary of the city of Conrad proper, which is comprised of the
original townsite of Conrad, and all of the additions thereto, as depicted on
the official map of the city as the same may be revised from time to time to
include any new annexations and additions, including any railroad rights of
way, highways, streets, parks, boulevards, sidewalks, alleyways and other
public rights of way and properties that lie within the interior of said
continuous perimeter boundary. (1975 Code §
1-13-1)
1-11-2: WARD BOUNDARIES:
The territory embraced within the limits of the city shall be and the same is
hereby divided into two (2) wards, apportioned by population following every
federal decennial census, each of which is represented by two (2) council
members. All road, street and waterbed coordinates are to the centerline of the
road, street and/or waterbed. The territory within each of the wards shall be
as follows: (Ord. 407, 10-15-2013; amd. 2015 Code)
   A.   First Ward, Also Known As Precinct 24: All that portion within the
boundaries of the City of Conrad lying both West of the centerline of Front
Street and North of the centerline of Fourth Avenue to the centerline of Kansas
Street; thence north on Kansas Street to its intersection with Sunset
Boulevard, thence west to the alley behind Idaho Street; thence north along the
alley to its intersection with the western boundary of the city of Conrad at
approximately mid- lot of Lot 6, Abel Addition to Conrad (14 Idaho Street S.);
thence continuing north, east, north, east, north, east, north, east, north and
east to the northern-most point of the city limit; thence south and southwest
along the city limits to the intersection with Front Street.
   B.   Second Ward, Also Known As Precinct 27: All that portion within the
boundaries of the City of Conrad lying East of the centerline of Front Street;
all that portion within the boundaries of the City of Conrad lying South of the
centerline of Fourth Avenue to the western-most point of Fourth Ave. SW; thence
east along Sunset Boulevard to its intersection with the city limits at
approximately 915 Sunset Boulevard; thence north along the meandering city
limits to its intersection at approximately mid-lot of Lot 6, Abel Addition to
Conrad (14 Idaho Street S); thence south along the alley of Idaho Street to its
intersection with Sunset Boulevard; thence east along Sunset Boulevard to the
centerline of Kansas Street; thence South to the intersection of the
centerlines of Kansas Street and Fourth Ave. SW.
   (Ord. 407, 10-15-2013)
1-11-3: ANNEXATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Petition, Request Or Application: The provisions of this section shall
apply to and be required of any person who may petition, request or apply for
any extension of the city boundaries to include any contiguous tract or parcel
of land within the corporate limits of the city and no request, petition or
application to extend city boundaries shall be acted upon or considered until
the comprehensive plan or report and the agreement hereinafter mentioned shall
be furnished to the city and procedures set forth by state law are followed.
   B.   Written Comprehensive Plan Or Report: Any such person shall submit with
his petition, request or application a written comprehensive plan or report
describing: 1) the existing boundary; and 2) the proposed extension of the
existing boundary insofar as the same is affected by the petition, request or
application.
   C.   Connection Points With Existing City Water And Sewer Mains: The
comprehensive report or plan shall also contain information which reveals fully
the intended connection points with existing city water and sewer mains.
   D.   Extensions Of City Streets And Alleys: The comprehensive plan and
report shall also contain information which reveals fully proposed extensions
of city streets and alleys or portions thereof which are to be included within
the city boundaries as dedicated public ways.
   E.   Agreement With City To Pay Special Improvement Assessments:
      1.   In addition to the comprehensive plan and report, the applicant
shall make and enter into an agreement with the city to pay into the general
fund of the city an amount equal to the amount of any special improvement
assessments remaining unpaid in special improvement districts whose boundaries
coincide with the boundary of the city sought to be extended. The computation
of such amount shall be upon the same factors which establish the amount of
special improvement district assessments upon a like parcel or tract of land in
area or frontage located within the adjoining special improvement district.
Such agreement for payment of such fee shall be made upon the form furnished
and approved by the city and the amount so collected by the city may be used to
defray any of the general expenses of the city.
      2.   The agreement to make such payment which must accompany the petition
or request or application to extend the city boundaries shall in no instance be
construed as an agreement to pay a special improvement district fund, or in
exchange for the performance of any work outside of any presently existing
special improvement district boundary or for the exclusion of any parcel or
tract of land from the boundaries of any special improvement district not yet
established. (1975 Code §
1-13-3)
CHAPTER 12
CORPORATE SEAL
SECTION:
1-12-1: Form Of Seal
1-12-1: FORM OF SEAL:
A seal in a circular form with the words, "City Of Conrad, County Of Pondera,
State Of Montana", on the outer circle, and in the interior and center of said
circle, the words, "CORPORATE SEAL", shall be the seal of the city to be used
in all cases in which, by the laws and customs of nations, it is necessary to
use a seal by a corporation. (1975 Code § 1-14-1)
CHAPTER 13
CITY COURT
SECTION:
1-13-1: City Court Judge
1-13-2: Duties; Bond
1-13-3: City Court Jurisdiction
1-13-4: City Court Assessments
1-13-1: CITY COURT JUDGE:
   A.   Appointment: The city's sole judicial officer shall be the city court
judge, who shall be appointed by the mayor with city council consent. The city
council may, by resolution, designate and appoint a justice of the peace or the
city judge of another city or town or any other person to act as city court
judge. The city shall comply with the laws of Montana in appointing a city
court judge. The city may enter into an agreement with the county, other city
or town, or the justice of the peace or the judge for payment of salaries and
training expenses.
   B.   Term: The term of the city court judge shall be four (4) years, which
follows the term of mayor, and until the qualification of a successor,
commencing upon approval by the council at the first regular scheduled meeting
of the city council, unless a justice of the peace or city judge of another
city or town is appointed, in which case the city court judge shall serve for
the duration of the justice of the peace's term as justice of the peace or
until the agreement provided for in Montana Code Annotated section 3-11-205
terminates. (Ord. 393, 2-19-2008; amd. 2015 Code)
   C.   Qualifications: At the time of his or her appointment, the city court
judge must meet the qualifications of a justice of the peace under Montana Code
Annotated section 3-10-202, must be a resident of Pondera County, and must be a
United States citizen. The city court judge must attend any training sessions
required by the laws of Montana. The city council may, by resolution, prescribe
the duties of the city judge and fix his or her compensation. (Ord. 393, 2-19-
2008)
1-13-2: DUTIES; BOND:
   A.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the city court judge to keep the docket
required by the laws of the state of Montana to be kept by justices of the
peace; to hear and determine all cases that may be instituted in city court
under the laws of the state of Montana; to collect all fines for the violation
of any city ordinances or the violation of any of the laws of the state of
Montana, as well as any forfeitures or costs to the appropriate treasurer
monthly, or more often if required.
   B.   Bond: The city court judge shall be included in a blanket bond for the
faithful performance of officers' duties, said bond to be executed by a duly
authorized surety company, the premiums thereon to be paid by the city. (Ord.
393, 2-19-2008; amd. 2015 Code)
1-13-3: CITY COURT JURISDICTION:
The city court shall have jurisdiction over all civil and criminal matters as
provided under the laws of Montana. (Ord. 393, 2-19-2008)
1-13-4: CITY COURT ASSESSMENTS:
   A.   Administrative Surcharge: The city court judge shall have the authority
to levy an administrative surcharge per conviction upon an individual convicted
of any of the following traffic or criminal offenses: (Ord. 382, 9-15-2003;
amd. 2015 Code)
      1.   Operation of vehicle by person under twenty one (21) with alcohol
concentration of 0.02 or more 1 ;
      2.   Partner or family member assault 2 ;
      3.   Endangering welfare of children 3 ;
      4.   Unlawful transactions with children 4 ;
      5.   Unlawful attempt to purchase or possession of intoxicating substance
5 ;
      6.   Violation of order of protection 6 ;
      7.   Tobacco possession or consumption by persons under eighteen (18)
years of age 7 .
   B.   Use Of Funds: All funds received pursuant to this section shall be paid
to the finance officer of the city and deposited in a designated fund to be
distributed at least semiannually to a juvenile probation or supervision
program serving the city and surrounding communities, as designated by the city
council pursuant to resolution. (Ord. 382, 9-15-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 61-8-410.
2 2. MCA § 45-5-206.
3 3. MCA § 45-5-622.
4 4. MCA § 45-5-623.
5 5. MCA § 45-5-624.
6 6. MCA § 45-5-626.
7 7. MCA § 45-5-637.
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
BOARD OF LIBRARY TRUSTEES 1
SECTION:
2-1-1: Board Created
2-1-2: Duties
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 8, chapter 3 of this code.
2-1-1: BOARD CREATED:
   A.   Trustees Appointed: A city-county board of five (5) trustees of the
Conrad Public Library is hereby created, the mayor or designated city council
member, and the chief librarian shall be ex officio members of said board, and
five (5) members of said board shall be appointed by the mayor, with the advice
and consent of the city council. (1975 Code §
2-1-1; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Term: The members of said board of trustees shall hold office until
their successors have been appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent
of the city council. (1975 Code §
2-1-1)
2-1-2: DUTIES:
The city-county board of trustees is the legislative or policy determining body
for the library. Such board shall formulate the program of service, with the
advice and help of the librarian, and shall supply the means for carrying it
out. All trustees should:
   A.   Attend all meetings of the board.
   B.   Be aware of the program and needs of their library and of library
trends in their vicinity and elsewhere.
   C.   Become familiar with state and local library laws.
   D.   Employ a qualified and competent librarian.
   E.   Determine policies governing the library program, acting on the advice
of the librarian.
   F.   Establish rules and regulations governing the use of the library, upon
recommendations of the librarian.
   G.   Secure adequate funds to carry on the kind of program needed. (1975
Code §
2-1-2)
CHAPTER 2
CITY PLANNING BOARD
SECTION:
2-2-1: Board Created
2-2-2: Powers And Duties
2-2-3: Membership
2-2-4: Jurisdiction
2-2-5: Appropriate Funds
2-2-1: BOARD CREATED:
There is hereby established and created for the city a city planning board,
which said board shall be a governmental agency of the city. (1975 Code §
2-2-1; amd. 2015 Code)
2-2-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The city planning board shall have the powers, duties and authority provided by
state law, but such board shall have advisory powers only, and the city council
shall keep and retain its power to adopt, revise or reject any recommendations
or suggestions, or proposals or plans adopted or approved, or disapproved by
such planning board insofar as any of them require the city or its residents to
do or not to do any act. (1975 Code §
2-2-2; amd. 2015 Code)
2-2-3: MEMBERSHIP:
The city planning board shall consist of not less than seven (7) members whose
qualifications and terms of office shall be as set forth or from time to time
established by the laws of the state, and appointments or selections of the
city shall be in accordance with state law. (1975 Code §
2-2-3; amd. 2015 Code)
2-2-4: JURISDICTION:
The jurisdictional area of the planning board shall extend in all directions
from the present boundaries of the city a distance of one mile, unless the
jurisdictional area is enlarged or decreased by later ordinance. (1975 Code §
2-2-4; amd. 2015 Code)
2-2-5: APPROPRIATE FUNDS:
The city council shall have authority to appropriate funds to carry out the
duties of the planning board insofar as the same shall benefit the city, and
may, when necessary, per Montana Code Annotated section 7-3-1104, levy a tax
upon property within the city not to exceed one mill for planning board
purposes or expenses. (1975 Code §
2-2-5; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Commission Created
2-3-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
   A.   Established: There is hereby established a zoning commission,
consisting of five (5) members, to be appointed by the mayor, with city council
consent, for terms of three (3) years. The members appointed to this commission
shall also serve as the members constituting the board of adjustment
established in section
2-4-1 of this title. (Ord. 360, 11-16-1998; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Quorum: The presence of three (3) members shall be necessary to
constitute a quorum.
   C.   Purpose: The purpose of the commission shall be to recommend to the
city council zoning classifications and boundaries of each classification of
all the real property within the corporate limits of the city not heretofore
zoned, the appropriate regulations to be enforced therein and to recommend any
changes or amendments in the zoning of any property heretofore zoned and being
within the corporate limits of the city, as deemed necessary and in accordance
with state law. (Ord. 360, 11-16-1998)
CHAPTER 4
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT 1
SECTION:
2-4-1: Board Established
2-4-2: Zoning Regulation Changes
2-4-3: Powers Of Board
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 2-3-1A of this title.
2-4-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED:
A board of adjustment is hereby established as provided by statute. It shall
consist of five (5) members appointed by the mayor, subject to the confirmation
of the city council, for terms of three (3) years. It shall hold its meetings
in the council chamber in the city hall, and the presence of three (3) members
shall be necessary to constitute a quorum. Its duties and powers shall be as
defined in state law, and it shall have power to call on any of the other city
departments for assistance in the performance of its duties, and it shall be
the duty of such other departments to render such assistance as may be
reasonably required. (1975 Code §
2-4-1)
2-4-2: ZONING REGULATION CHANGES:
Changes in the regulations, restrictions and boundaries of zoning districts may
be made only by the city council 1 , and in the manner designated by state law.
(1975 Code §
2-4-2)
 
Notes
1 2. See title 10 of this code.
2-4-3: POWERS OF BOARD:
Where there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the way of
carrying out the strict letter of the zoning title, the board of adjustment
shall have the power to recommend to the city council, after the public notice
and hearing in a specific case, to vary or modify any of the regulations or
provisions related to the construction, structural changes in, equipment or
alterations of buildings or structures in harmony with their fundamental
purpose and intent, so that the public health, safety and general welfare may
be conserved and substantial justice done. (1975 Code §
2-4-3; amd. 2015 Code)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
LICENSES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: License Required; Land Use Restrictions
3-1-3: Fees For Business Licenses
3-1-4: Manner Of Payment
3-1-5: Duties Of Chief Of Police; License Fees
3-1-6: Duties Of City Finance Officer; Application For License
3-1-7: Refusal To Issue; Revocation
3-1-8: Contents Of License
3-1-9: Expiration Date Of Licenses
3-1-10: Separate License For Branch Establishment
3-1-11: Change Of Location
3-1-12: Unlawful Business, Licensing Prohibited
3-1-13: Posting Required
3-1-14: Action To Enforce
3-1-15: Violation; Penalty
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BUSINESS: Any and all industries, pursuits, commercial enterprises,
occupations, professions and avocations, except those carried on in a temporary
manner by a religious, charitable, fraternal, educational or like nonprofit
organization solely as projects for fundraising. However, the business license
requirement shall apply to religious and nonprofit organizations which are
located outside of the city limits but wish to conduct business or other
commercial pursuits within the city limits.
CITY: The city of Conrad, a municipal corporation of the state of Montana,
county of Pondera.
COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Conrad.
EMPLOYEE: Any owners, proprietors, partners, managers, salesmen, or employees
engaged in or associated directly with the management and conduct of the
business concerned.
NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION: Any association, firm or corporation organized for
religious, charitable, educational, civic, scientific or literary purposes
which does not contemplate the distribution of pecuniary gains, profits or
dividends to its members.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation.
YEAR: A calendar year beginning January 1 and ending December 31. (1975 Code §
3-1-1; amd. Ord. 370, 7-6-1999)
3-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; LAND USE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   License Required: For the protection and general welfare of the
inhabitants of the city, it is hereby declared that every business conducted
within the city shall be subject to the police power of the city, and,
accordingly, no person shall engage in business in the city without first
obtaining a license as hereinafter provided, unless such person is expressly
made exempt by the laws of the state of Montana from such licensing authority
of the city. (1975 Code §
3-1-2)
   B.   Land Use Restriction: No use of land shall be permitted or allowed,
within the city, that is in violation of federal, state or local law. (Ord.
401, 7-21-2010)
3-1-3: FEES FOR BUSINESS LICENSES:
   A.   Set By Resolution: Annual license fees for businesses, as provided
herein, shall be set by resolution of the city council, at least annually, if
changed. (Ord. 384, 1-5-2004; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Schedule Of Fees: The city council may designate such fees and shall
make available the schedule of fees to interested persons. The city council may
designate a tier of fees, based upon reasonable criteria for such fees and
shall make available the factors which determine the amount of licensing fee a
particular entity must pay.
   C.   Billboard Lighting: Five dollars ($5.00) of the licensing fee charged
to any business entity shall be designated for a fund dedicated to billboard
lighting for businesses in and around the city. (Ord. 384, 1-5-2004)
3-1-4: MANNER OF PAYMENT:
All licenses herein provided for are payable in advance to the city. In no case
shall the license be granted for longer than one calendar year. (1975 Code §
3-1-15; amd. 2015 Code)
3-1-5: DUTIES OF CHIEF OF POLICE; LICENSE FEES:
The chief of police shall make diligent inquiry and examination as to all
persons in the city liable to pay licenses as required in this chapter and
shall aid the city finance officer in the collection of all license fees
required by this chapter and to make personal demand at the request of the city
finance officer therefor and report all parties delinquent to the city finance
officer and the city council. (1975 Code §
3-1-14)
3-1-6: DUTIES OF CITY FINANCE OFFICER; APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Procure Forms: The city finance officer shall collect all fees for the
licenses required by this chapter and shall procure blanks for applications,
books of account, receipts and license forms used in connection with the
issuance of business licenses.
   B.   Written Application: All businesses required to be licensed by this
chapter shall make application, in writing, which application shall contain the
following information:
      1.   The full business name, permanent address and phone number of
applicant;
      2.   Brief description of the nature of the business;
      3.   The location or locations of the business in the city, giving the
street address and phone number of each location and the name of the person in
charge at each location;
      4.   The number of local employees of the business, including owners,
partners, proprietors, and managers;
      5.   The length of time the right to do business is desired, when
applicable;
      6.   If a public utility, the number of connections within the city;
      7.   If the party actually applying for a license is the agent or
representative of the applicant, the full name, address and phone number of
said agent or representative, and the full name, address and phone number of
the principal, if different than that of the applicant. (1975 Code §
3-1-4; amd. 2015 Code)
   C.   Duty To Issue Unless Violations Exist: It shall be the duty of the city
finance officer to issue a license upon presentation of a properly completed
application blank together with tender of the appropriate license fee payable
in advance, unless an inspection by the county health officer, sanitary
inspector, fire inspector or building inspector indicates a violation of a city
ordinance or local, state or federal law or regulation existing at the place of
business sought to be licensed, in which case a written description of said
violation specifying the steps necessary to qualify the premises for license
shall be furnished to the applicant by the city finance officer. (1975 Code §
3-1-4; amd. Ord. 401, 7-21-2010)
3-1-7: REFUSAL TO ISSUE; REVOCATION:
Whenever the city council shall deem it best for the public interest to do so,
it may, by resolution passed by an affirmative majority vote of all the members
of the city council and approved by the mayor and attested by the city finance
officer, refuse to authorize the issuance of any license herein provided for,
and the city council hereby expressly reserves, by resolution or affirmative
vote of the majority of all of the members of the city council and approved by
the mayor and attested by the city finance officer, the right to revoke any and
all licenses that may have been issued as herein provided, when it shall deem
best for the public interest to do so. (1975 Code §
3-1-13)
3-1-8: CONTENTS OF LICENSE:
Each license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall state upon its
face the following:
   A.   Name of the licensee and any other name under which business is to be
carried on.
   B.   Number of employees as herein defined.
   C.   The local address and phone number of the business.
   D.   The amount of the license fee.
   E.   The date of issuance and date of expiration.
   F.   If a public utility, the number of connections within the city.
   G.   Such other and further information as the ordinances of the city shall
require. (1975 Code §
3-1-11; amd. 2015 Code)
3-1-9: EXPIRATION DATE OF LICENSES:
All licenses shall be annual, payable in advance, and unless otherwise
specified, commencing on January 1 and expiring on December 31 of each year.
(1975 Code §
3-1-5)
3-1-10: SEPARATE LICENSE FOR BRANCH ESTABLISHMENT:
A license shall be obtained in the manner herein provided for each branch
establishment or location of a business; provided, however, that warehouses and
distributing plants used in connection with and incidental to a licensed
business where no sales are made shall not be deemed to be a branch
establishment. (1975 Code §
3-1-6)
3-1-11: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
A licensee shall have the right to change the location of the licensed
business, provided the new location complies with the requirements of the
ordinances of the city. (1975 Code §
3-1-7)
3-1-12: UNLAWFUL BUSINESS, LICENSING PROHIBITED:
The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to grant permission to
carry on or conduct any unlawful business, or to conduct any business in an
unlawful manner, or to grant immunity to any business from local, state, or
federal lawful regulation and control. (1975 Code
3-1-8; amd. Ord. 401, 7-21-2010)
3-1-13: POSTING REQUIRED:
Every license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises where the business is conducted, and any
license for a business without a fixed place of business shall be carried upon
the person of the licensee and shall be shown to any resident of the city or
city official upon demand. (1975 Code §
3-1-9; amd. 2015 Code)
3-1-14: ACTION TO ENFORCE:
The city finance officer may direct or bring suit in the name of the city as
plaintiff to be brought for the recovery of a license fee herein provided for
against any person required to obtain a license and who fails, neglects or
refuses to procure such license and pay the fee therefor or who attempts to
carry on any business without such license. (1975 Code § 3-1-16)
3-1-15: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Every person who commences or carries on a business, trade, profession
or occupation for the transaction or carrying on of which a license is required
by the provisions of this chapter, without procuring a license as herein
prescribed or who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (1975 Code § 3-1-17)
   B.   Every person carrying on or engaging in the transaction of any business
for which a license is required, without first procuring the proper license
therefor, and any person making material misrepresentations or omissions in an
application for a license shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided by section
1-4-2 of this code. Every day that business is conducted by a person without a
license shall constitute a separate offense. (1975 Code §
3-1-10; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 2
CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM
SECTION:
3-2-1: Regulations Adopted By Reference
3-2-1: REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
There is hereby adopted that certain document known as the "Conrad Cable
Television System Ordinance", which ordinance and all subsequent amendments, is
incorporated herein by reference as if fully set out at length. At least one
copy of said ordinance and amendments thereto shall be and remain on file in
the office of the city finance officer. (1975 Code §
3-2-1; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Purpose
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: License Required
3-3-4: Application And Issuance
3-3-5: Display Of License
3-3-6: License Fee
3-3-7: Expiration Of Licenses
3-3-8: Selling To Certain Persons Prohibited
3-3-9: Minors Prohibited From Loitering On Or Near Premises
3-3-10: Hours Of Business
3-3-11: Number Of Retailers Allowed
3-3-12: Duty Of City Finance Officer
3-3-13: Inspection, Regulation Under Police Power
3-3-14: Revocation, Suspension
3-3-15: Complaint
3-3-16: Hearing
3-3-17: Renewal After Revocation
3-3-18: Disposition Of License Fees
3-3-19: Penalty
3-3-1: PURPOSE:
In order to ensure the control of the sale of alcoholic beverages by the
department of revenue, state of Montana, it is hereby declared necessary to
further regulate the sale of alcoholic beverages at retail in conformity with
the Montana alcoholic beverage code 1 , and to that end to issue licenses to
qualified persons to sell alcoholic beverages and to provide penalties for
violation thereof. (1975 Code §
3-3-1)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 16-1-101 et seq.
3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, as used in this chapter, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them as follows. All other words and phrases used in this
chapter, the definition of which is not herein given, shall be interpreted in
accordance with the Montana alcoholic beverage code, where applicable, and in
all other cases, such words and phrases shall be given their ordinary meaning.
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: A compound produced and sold for human consumption as a
drink that contains more than one-half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by
volume, and includes wine, beer, malt beverages, and liquor as defined in the
Montana alcoholic beverage code.
CODE: The "Montana alcoholic beverage code" and amendatory acts thereto.
LICENSE: A license issued by the city to a qualified person, under which it
shall be lawful for the licensee to sell and dispose of alcoholic beverages at
retail as provided in this chapter.
LICENSEE: The person to whom a license is issued.
PERSON: Every individual, copartnership, firm, corporation, hotel, restaurant,
club and fraternal organization, and all licensed retailers of alcoholic
beverages, whether conducting the business singularly or collectively.
PREMISES: A dispensing bar, or any arrangement or device from which an
alcoholic beverage is dispensed and/or served.
PUBLIC PLACE: A place, building, or conveyance, to which the public has or may
be permitted to have access, and any place of public resort. (1975 Code §
3-3-2)
3-3-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person to whom a retail license has been issued under the Montana alcoholic
beverage code shall engage in any activity for which he is so licensed, without
first having also obtained an alcoholic beverage retailer's license from the
city. (1975 Code §
3-3-3)
3-3-4: APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE:
   A.   Issuance: The city finance officer shall issue an alcoholic beverage
retailer's license to any person to whom a retail license has been issued under
the Montana alcoholic beverage code, when application is made upon a form to be
provided by the city finance officer and the required fee paid. Such license
shall be in substantially the same form as a license or permit issued to such
applicant for such business, at such location, by the state department of
revenue, and the same shall refer to this chapter.
   B.   Endorsement: The city finance officer shall endorse upon each
application, the accompanying documents, if any, in his office, and shall keep
an appropriate record thereof, which shall show the date filed, the name of the
applicant, the character and location of the business, and an appropriate
reference to the file number. (1975 Code §
3-3-4)
3-3-5: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Any and all licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be at
all times prominently displayed in the place of business of such licensee.
(1975 Code §
3-3-5)
3-3-6: LICENSE FEE:
A fee not to exceed fifty percent (50%) of the license fee collected by the
state department of revenue from the applicant, under the Montana alcoholic
beverage code, is required for issuance of an alcoholic beverage retailer's
license in the city. (1975 Code §
3-3-6; amd. 2015 Code)
3-3-7: EXPIRATION OF LICENSES:
All licenses issued hereunder shall expire at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
on June 30 of the succeeding year. A transfer of any license may be made on
application to the city, accompanied by satisfactory evidence of an approval of
the transfer of the license issued by the state department of revenue for such
business. Provided further, that nothing herein contained shall be construed to
entitle any licensee hereunder to any refund of any portion of the license fee
in the event of his discontinuance of such business or the suspension or
revocation of his license prior to the expiration of such year. (1975 Code §
3-3-7)
3-3-8: SELLING TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed to sell or dispose of
alcoholic beverages or the agents and/or employees of such person, to sell,
deliver, or give away, or cause or permit to be sold, delivered or given away
any alcoholic beverages to: (1975 Code §
3-3-8)
         a.   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
         b.   Any intoxicated person, or any person actually, apparently or
obviously intoxicated.
      2.   Any minor or other person who knowingly misrepresents his
qualifications for the purpose of obtaining alcoholic beverages from such
licensee shall be equally guilty with said licensee and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to penalty. (1975 Code §
3-3-8; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Loitering Prohibited: Provided further, that it shall be unlawful for
any person licensed under the provisions of this chapter, or the agents and/or
employees of such person, to permit any of the persons named herein to enter
and remain in any such place wherein alcoholic beverages are sold or kept for
sale. (1975 Code §
3-3-8)
3-3-9: MINORS PROHIBITED FROM LOITERING ON OR NEAR PREMISES:
It is hereby expressly made unlawful for any minor to loiter in or near, for
any purpose whatever, the premises covered by a license issued under the
provisions of this chapter. (1975 Code §
3-3-9)
3-3-10: HOURS OF BUSINESS:
No alcoholic beverages shall be sold, offered for sale or given away upon
premises licensed to sell alcoholic beverages at retail on any day between two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. (1975 Code §
3-3-10)
3-3-11: NUMBER OF RETAILERS ALLOWED:
The number of licensed retail beer and/or liquor dealers within the city shall
not exceed the number allowed by the laws of the state of Montana 1 . (1975
Code §
3-3-11)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA §§ 16-4-105, 16-4-502.
3-3-12: DUTY OF CITY FINANCE OFFICER:
The city finance officer shall be charged with the collection of the licenses
herein provided for, and application for license accompanied by the fee
therefor, shall be filed with the city finance officer. The city finance
officer shall prepare all blanks for application and for license, and all books
of account in connection with the administration of this chapter shall, so far
as is possible, be charged against the funds collected under this chapter.
(1975 Code §
3-3-12)
3-3-13: INSPECTION, REGULATION UNDER POLICE POWER:
Every person licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
regulation, inspection, control and supervision under the general police power
of the city and all of the provisions of this code now in force or which may
hereafter be enacted, in aid of such police power and regulation; and each and
every license shall be subject to suspension and revocation as herein provided.
(1975 Code §
3-3-13)
3-3-14: REVOCATION, SUSPENSION:
The city council may, on its own motion, and shall, upon the written verified
complaint of any other person, investigate the action and operation of any
licensee hereunder, and shall have the power to temporarily suspend and/or
permanently revoke a license issued under this chapter for violation of any
provisions of this chapter. (1975 Code §
3-3-14)
3-3-15: COMPLAINT:
   A.   Issuance Of Citation: Upon the filing with the city council of a
verified complaint charging the licensee with the commission of any act which
would be cause for the suspension or revocation of a license, the council shall
forthwith issue a citation directing the licensee to appear before the city
council within ten (10) days after the date of the service of said citation,
and, by filing his verified answer to the complaint, show cause, if any, why
his license should not be suspended or revoked. Service of the citation may be
effected by mailing a true copy thereof with the address of record, or by the
chief of police of the city. (1975 Code §
3-3-15; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Failure To Answer: Failure of the licensee to answer shall be deemed an
admission by him of the truthfulness of the charge made and thereupon the
council shall be authorized to forthwith suspend or revoke the license. (1975
Code §
3-3-15)
3-3-16: HEARING:
Upon the filing of the answer, the city council shall fix the time and place of
the hearing on the charges made, which hearing shall be in the council chambers
of the city hall, and not less than five (5) days' notice of said hearing shall
be given to the complainant and licensee. The notice of the hearing shall be
served in the same manner as is the citation herein provided for. With the
notice of the hearing to the complainant, there shall be attached a true copy
of the answer of the licensee. If either party has appeared by counsel, the
notice shall be given in like manner to the counsel of said party. Upon the
hearing, the city council shall hear the evidence presented, which may be in
the form of oral testimony or affidavits, or both. After the hearing has been
concluded, the city council shall, within ten (10) days, render its decision in
writing, stating the reasons therefor. Notice of the decision, with a copy
thereof, shall be served upon the parties, or their counsel, in the manner
herein provided as to other notices. When the city council shall have revoked
or canceled a license previously issued by it, the city council shall notify
the licensee, in writing, by registered mail, to the address of such licensee,
of its action giving reasons therefor. Shall the action of the city council be
arbitrary or capricious, one aggrieved thereby shall, by appropriate
proceedings, be entitled to have the action of the city council reviewed by the
district court of the state of Montana, in and for the county of Pondera. (1975
Code §
3-3-16)
3-3-17: RENEWAL AFTER REVOCATION:
After suspension or revocation of a license, the city council shall have the
power to renew the same if, in its discretion, a proper showing therefor has
been made. (1975 Code §
3-3-17)
3-3-18: DISPOSITION OF LICENSE FEES:
All receipts from license fees and fines collected under the provisions of this
chapter shall be paid into the city treasury and deposited to the credit of the
general fund. (1975 Code §
3-3-18)
3-3-19: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter is punishable as
provided in section
1-4-2 of this code. (1975 Code §
3-3-19; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 4
HOTELS, LODGING HOUSES 1
SECTION:
3-4-1: Registers Required
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-1-3 of this title for the license fee.
3-4-1: REGISTERS REQUIRED:
Anyone carrying on or conducting a hotel, lodging house or other place where
six (6) or more roomers are accommodated for hire shall be hereby required to
keep a register for each and every person so accommodated with room or lodging,
which register shall, at all times, be open to the inspection of the police of
the city or any city official. (1975 Code §
3-4-1; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 5
ITINERANT VENDORS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Scope Of Chapter
3-5-3: License Required; Fee
3-5-4: Nontransferability Of License
3-5-5: Application For License
3-5-6: Bond Requirements
3-5-7: Right Of Aggrieved Purchaser
3-5-8: Processing Of Application; Issuance Of License
3-5-9: License Displayed Upon Demand
3-5-10: Failure To Comply With Licensing Requirements
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
terms shall have the following meanings:
CONSUMER: One who uses and by using destroys the value of the article
purchased.
ITINERANT VENDOR: Any person, firm, association, partnership or corporation
employed or engaged in the business of retailing to consumers by going from
consumer to consumer, either on the streets or to places of residence or
employment, and there soliciting, selling or offering to sell or exhibiting for
sale (by sample, by catalog, or otherwise) or taking orders for future delivery
of any goods, wares or merchandise or for services to be performed in the
future. (1975 Code §
3-5-1; amd. 2015 Code)
3-5-2: SCOPE OF CHAPTER:
This chapter shall in no way affect any person, firm, association, partnership
or corporation with a commercial designation who or which maintains a permanent
place of business in the city. (1975 Code §
3-5-2)
3-5-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
For the purpose of defraying the expenses of regulation under this chapter,
every itinerant vendor desiring to do business in the city shall, before
commencing such business, pay to the city finance officer the sum as set by
resolution for a license to conduct such business for a period of ninety (90)
days from the date such license is issued. (1975 Code §
3-5-3; amd. 2015 Code)
3-5-4: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
The license issued under this chapter shall be nontransferable and shall have
printed across the face thereof in bold letters, "NONTRANSFERABLE". (1975 Code
§
3-5-4)
3-5-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Form: Every itinerant vendor desiring to do business in the city shall,
before commencing such business, file with the city finance officer, on a form
to be provided by the city finance officer, an application, in writing,
subscribed and sworn to by such applicant before an officer in this state
authorized to take oaths.
   B.   Required Information: The application shall set forth:
      1.   Name of applicant.
      2.   Applicant's permanent residence address and phone number.
      3.   Address and phone number of applicant's local headquarters, if any.
      4.   Address of applicant's temporary living quarters, including motel/
hotel accommodations, while conducting business in the city.
      5.   City or county in this state or other state from which applicant
last received a license as an itinerant vendor.
      6.   Whether applicant is acting as a principal, agent or employee.
      7.   If applicant is acting as an agent or employee, the name, permanent
address and phone number of his principal or employer.
      8.   Brief descriptive list of articles to be offered for sale or
services to be performed.
      9.   Whether payments or deposits of money are collected when orders are
taken or in advance of final delivery.
   C.   Acting As Agent: If the applicant is acting as an agent, the
principal's acknowledgment of such agency must accompany and be made a part of
the application.
   D.   License Fee: At the time of filing the application, such itinerant
vendor must submit therewith the license fee as provided for in section
3-5-3 of this chapter. (1975 Code §
3-5-5)
3-5-6: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Bond Required: Every application made by an itinerant vendor taking
orders for future delivery and collecting advance payments, deposits or
guarantees thereon under the terms of section
3-5-1 through
3-5-5 of this chapter shall be accompanied by a bond in the penal sum per
Montana Code Annotated title 7, chapter 21 paid to the city finance officer.
   B.   Form Of Bond; Cash In Lieu: The bond shall be executed by a surety
company licensed to do business in this state. In lieu of a bond meeting the
requirements of this section, the application may be accompanied by a cash bond
of equal amounts. (1975 Code §
3-5-6; amd. 2015 Code)
   C.   Approval Of Bond: The bond shall be approved by said city finance
officer and conditioned upon making of final delivery of the goods ordered or
the services to be rendered in accordance with the terms of such order or
failing therein, that the money advanced by his customers be refunded.
   D.   Term Of Bond: Such bond shall remain in full force and effect for a
period of six (6) months after the expiration of any such license and shall be
held to assure only business transacted under the authority of the license
issued pursuant to the application which such bond accompanied. (1975 Code §
3-5-6)
3-5-7: RIGHT OF AGGRIEVED PURCHASER:
Any person aggrieved by the action or misrepresentation of any such itinerant
vendor shall have a right of action on the bond for the recovery of his money
advanced or damages and costs. (1975 Code §
3-5-7)
3-5-8: PROCESSING OF APPLICATION; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Issuance; Term: Upon filing of the application prescribed in section
3-5-5 of this chapter or the filing of such application and the bond prescribed
in section
3-5-6 of this chapter, in proper form, and upon the payment to the city finance
officer of the sum provided for in section
3-5-3 of this chapter, the city finance officer shall issue and deliver to the
applicant a license to carry on the business described in such application in
the city for a period of ninety (90) days from the date of such license. (1975
Code §
3-5-8; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Endorsement: The city finance officer shall endorse upon each
application the date of issuance of the license and shall immediately file such
application with the office of the city finance officer and shall keep an
appropriate index thereof which shall show the date filed, the name of the
applicant, and an appropriate reference to the file number by which said
application may be found. (1975 Code §
3-5-8)
3-5-9: LICENSE DISPLAYED UPON DEMAND:
   A.   Display Required: Every such itinerant vendor doing business under the
provisions of this chapter must, upon demand of any person, exhibit his license
and permit the same to then and there be read by the person making such demand.
(1975 Code §
3-5-9)
   B.   Refusal Or Failure To Display: Any such itinerant vendor who shall
wilfully refuse or fail to exhibit his license as provided in subsection A of
this section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined as provided in
section
1-4-2 of this code for each offense. (1975 Code §
3-5-9; amd. 2015 Code)
3-5-10: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
Every "itinerant vendor" as herein defined doing business without first
obtaining a license as required by this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be punished accordingly. (1975 Code §
3-5-10)
CHAPTER 6
TRANSIENT RETAIL MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: Applicability Of Term Transient Retail Merchant
3-6-3: Scope Of Chapter
3-6-4: License Required; Fee
3-6-5: Nontransferability Of License
3-6-6: Application For License
3-6-7: Bond Requirements
3-6-8: Right Of Aggrieved Purchaser
3-6-9: Processing Of Application; Issuance Of License
3-6-10: License Displayed In Place Of Business
3-6-11: Failure To Comply With Licensing Requirements
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
terms shall have the following meanings:
TEMPORARY PREMISES: Any hotel, rooming house, storeroom, building or part of
any building, tent, vacant lot, freight station, railroad car, automobile,
truck, trailer or trailer house, or public or quasi-public place, temporarily
occupied for such business as defined in this section.
TRANSIENT RETAIL MERCHANT: Every person, firm or corporation acting for himself
or itself or representing any other person, firm or corporation who or which
brings into temporary premises a stock of goods, wares, articles of
merchandise, notions, or other articles of trade and who or which solicits,
sells, offers to sell, or exhibits for sale such stock of goods, wares,
articles of merchandise, notions, or other articles of trade at retail. (1975
Code §
3-6-1)
3-6-2: APPLICABILITY OF TERM TRANSIENT RETAIL MERCHANT:
The definition of transient retail merchant shall continue to apply until such
person, firm or corporation shall be continuously engaged at such particular
place in the city for a period of one year. (1975 Code §
3-6-2)
3-6-3: SCOPE OF CHAPTER:
This chapter shall in no way affect any person with a commercial designation
who or which maintains a permanent place of business in the city, local
fundraising activities by civic or other nonprofit organizations or private,
occasional garage or estate sales of used or secondhand property. (1975 Code §
3-6-3)
3-6-4: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
For the purpose of defraying the expenses of regulation under this chapter,
every transient retail merchant desiring to do business in the city shall,
before commencing such business, pay to the city finance officer the sum as set
by resolution for each week or fraction thereof, to be paid in advance to the
city finance officer. (1975 Code §
3-6-4; amd. 2015 Code)
3-6-5: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
The license issued under this chapter shall be nontransferable and shall have
printed across the face thereof in bold letters, the words, "NOT TRANSFERABLE".
(1975 Code §
3-6-5)
3-6-6: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Form: Every transient retail merchant desiring to do business in the
city shall, before commencing such business, file with the city finance
officer, on a form to be provided by the city finance officer, an application,
in writing, subscribed and sworn to by such applicant before an officer in this
state authorized to take oaths.
   B.   Required Information: The application shall set forth:
      1.   Name of applicant.
      2.   Applicant's permanent residence address and phone number.
      3.   Address and phone number of applicant's local headquarters, if any.
      4.   Address of applicant's temporary living quarters, including motel/
hotel accommodations, while conducting business in the city.
      5.   City or county in this state or other state from which applicant
last received a license as a transient retail merchant.
      6.   Whether applicant is acting as a principal, agent or employee.
      7.   If applicant is acting as an agent or employee, the name, permanent
address and phone number of his principal or employer.
      8.   Brief descriptive list of articles to be offered for sale or
services to be performed.
      9.   Whether payments or deposits of money are collected when orders are
taken or in advance of final delivery.
      10.   The time of his arrival in the city.
      11.   The number of weeks for which license is requested.
   C.   Acting As Agent: If the applicant is acting as an agent, the
principal's acknowledgment of such agency must accompany and be made a part of
the application.
   D.   License Fee: At the time of filing the application, such transient
retail merchant must submit therewith the license fee provided for in section
3-6-4 of this chapter. (1975 Code §
3-6-6)
3-6-7: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Bond Required: Every application made by a transient retail merchant
taking orders for future delivery and collecting advance payments, deposits or
guarantees thereof shall be accompanied by a bond per Montana Code Annotated
title 7, chapter 21 paid to the city finance officer.
   B.   Form Of Bond:
      1.   The bond shall be executed by a surety company licensed to do
business in this state. (1975 Code §
3-6-7; amd. 2015 Code)
      2.   In lieu of a bond meeting the requirement of this section, the bond
may be a cash bond of equal amount.
   C.   Approval Of Bond: The bond shall be approved by said city finance
officer and conditioned upon making of final delivery of the goods ordered in
accordance with the terms of such order or failing therein, that the money
advanced his customers be refunded.
   D.   Term Of Bond: Such bond shall remain in full force and effect for a
period of six (6) months after the expiration of any such license and shall be
held to assure only business transacted under the authority of the license
issued pursuant to the application which such bond accompanied.
   E.   Bond In Lieu Of License Fee: In lieu of the license fee provided for in
section
3-6-4 of this chapter, every transient retail merchant who files with the
application required in section
3-6-6 of this chapter an affidavit indicating bona fide intention to become a
permanent merchant and continue in business for a period longer than one year
shall, upon filing and approval of the bond provided for in this section,
receive from the city finance officer a license permitting the conduct of such
business for one year. Such bond in lieu of license fee shall be conditioned
upon the performance of the intention to become a permanent merchant and
continue in business for a period longer than one year and to ensure the
payment of license fees for the period such business is actually conducted if
not in fact a bona fide permanent business. The bond shall be further
conditioned upon the delivery of goods ordered or sold in accordance with the
terms of such order or sale. (1975 Code §
3-6-7)
3-6-8: RIGHT OF AGGRIEVED PURCHASER:
Any person aggrieved by the action or misrepresentation of any such transient
retail merchant shall have a right of action on the bond provided for in
section
3-6-7 of this chapter for the recovery of his money advanced or damages and
costs. (1975 Code §
3-6-8)
3-6-9: PROCESSING OF APPLICATION; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Filing Of Application:
      1.   Upon filing of the application prescribed in section
3-6-6 of this chapter or the filing of said application and the bond prescribed
in section
3-6-7 of this chapter, in proper form, and the payment of the fee provided for
in section
3-6-4 of this chapter, the city finance officer shall issue and deliver to the
applicant, in the city, a license to carry on the business described in such
application in the city for the period for which such license is requested.
      2.   Upon filing of the application prescribed in section
3-6-6 of this chapter and the bond in lieu of license prescribed in section
3-6-7 of this chapter, and the payment of the fee provided for in section
3-6-4 of this chapter, the city finance officer shall issue and deliver to the
applicant a license to carry on the business described in such application in
the city for a period of one year from the date of such license. (1975 Code §
3-6-9; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Endorsement: The city finance officer shall endorse upon each
application the date of issuance of the license and the duration thereof and
shall immediately file such application in the office of the city finance
officer. The city finance officer shall keep an appropriate index thereof which
shall show the date filed, the name of the applicant, and an appropriate
reference to the file number by which said application may be found. (1975 Code
§
3-6-9)
3-6-10: LICENSE DISPLAYED IN PLACE OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Posting Required: Every transient retail merchant doing business under
the provisions of this chapter shall at all times keep said license
conspicuously posted in said place of business. (1975 Code §
3-6-10)
   B.   Failure To Post: Any such transient retail merchant who shall fail to
post and keep posted his license as provided in subsection A of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-2 of this code for each offense. (1975 Code §
3-6-10; amd. 2015 Code)
3-6-11: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
Every "transient retail merchant" as herein defined, doing business without
first obtaining a license as required by this chapter, is guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished accordingly. (1975 Code §
3-6-11)
TITLE 4
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Adoption Of Codes
4-1-2: Building Permits
4-1-3: Plan Review
4-1-4: Inspections
4-1-5: Inspector Qualifications And Duties
4-1-6: Factory Built Buildings
4-1-7: Permit Fees
4-1-8: Territorial Application
4-1-9: Billboards
4-1-10: Board Of Appeals
4-1-11: Violations And Penalties
4-1-1: ADOPTION OF CODES:
   A.   Codes Adopted. Those certain codes known as "the state building code"
(referred to in Mont. Code Ann. § 50-60-203 (2021) are hereby adopted by the
City of Conrad for the purpose of regulating buildings in the City of Conrad
and protecting the health and safety of the City's citizenry, which codes
consist of:
      1.   The International Building Code (hereinafter referred to as the
"IBC"), 2021 Edition, as described in and amended by Administrative Rules of
Montana (hereinafter referred to as "A.R.M.") 24.301.131.
      2.   The International Residential Code (hereinafter referred to as the
"IRC"), 2021 Edition, as described in and amended by A.R.M. 24.301.154.
      3.   The International Energy Conservation Code (hereinafter referred to
as the "IECC") 2021 Edition, as amended by A.R.M. 24.301.161.
      4.   The International Existing Building Code, 2021 Edition, as described
in and amended by A.R.M. 24.301.171.
   B.   Codes Incorporated: These codes are hereby adopted and incorporated
herein as if fully set out in their entirety herein.
   C.   Copy on File: One copy of each of the codes mentioned in subsection A
of this section shall be on file with the finance officer of the city of Conrad
for inspection by the public.
   D.   Effect Of Future Amendments To The "State Building Code": Each and
every provision of this chapter shall be amended by the city within ninety (90)
days of notification of changes adopted by the department of labor and
industry, building codes bureau, when and as any future amendments are made to
the codes referred hereinabove so as to conform to future amendments. (Ord.
409, 2-17-2015; amd. Ord. 416, 1-21-2020, Ord. 425, 8-9-2022)
4-1-2: BUILDING PERMITS:
   A.   Any person wishing to obtain a building permit shall submit a completed
application to the building inspector.
   B.   The building inspector shall specify the manner in which said
application shall be completed, with the following information required:
      1.   A description of the land which it will affect;
      2.   The present use of any existing structures;
      3.   Plans and specifications indicating the entire scope of work.
   C.   The applicant shall furnish such other documents as the building
inspector deems relevant and necessary, in his discretion, for review of the
proposed work.
   D.   The building inspector may, in his/her discretion, waive any of the
requirements hereunder when the proposed work is of an insubstantial nature or
effect. (Ord. 409, 2-17-2015)
4-1-3: PLAN REVIEW:
   A.   The building inspector shall be responsible for coordination of
building plan review and for issuance of building permits.
   B.   Upon application by any person for a building permit, the building
inspector shall review the plans for compliance with this code. The building
inspector shall submit the plans to any other affected city departments for
review and approval by the departments before issuing a permit.
   C.   Building plan review shall be completed by the building inspector
within sixty (60) working days of submission of a completed application.
   D.   The building inspector may, in certain cases, request the building
codes division, other state agencies or design professionals to aid in the plan
review process. In such cases, the building inspector may lengthen the
completion of time for review by twenty (20) working days when necessary.
   E.   One such approved set of plans and specifications shall be retained by
the building inspector as a public record, for a period of not less than ninety
(90) days from the date of completion of the work covered therein, and one set
of approved plans and specifications shall be returned to the applicant, which
set shall be kept on such building or work site at all times during which the
work authorized thereby is in progress and shall be open to inspection by
public officials. Such approved plans and specifications shall not be changed,
modified or altered without authorization from the building inspector and all
work shall be done in accordance with the approved plans. (Ord. 409, 2-17-2015)
4-1-4: INSPECTIONS:
Inspections shall be conducted by the building inspector. Where other
departments require inspection, the building inspector shall ensure they are
conducted within the time frame allowed. Final inspections and issuance of
certificates of occupancy shall be conducted in accordance with the
international building code.
Where applicable the work listed below must be inspected prior to covering.
Request for an inspection must be made seventy two (72) hours in advance.
   A.   Footing.
   B.   Foundation wall.
   C.   Concrete slab.
   D.   Under floor (crawl space).
   E.   Frame (walls, trusses, rafters, floor, etc.).
   F.   Energy efficiency (insulation, glazing, etc.).
   G.   Wall board.
   H.   Final - issue certificate of occupancy.
   I.   Reroof/re-side - tear off, in progress and final.
Written inspection reports or verbal communication will be conveyed to the
contractor, job superintendent, design professional or owner with a copy or
notation retained in the inspector's file should any discrepancies be observed.
Depending on the scope of work, not all of the above inspections may be
necessary. Circumstances may require additional site visits for consultation or
discrepancy resolution. (Ord. 409, 2-17-2015)
4-1-5: INSPECTOR QUALIFICATIONS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The building inspector shall possess adequate knowledge of the building
trade and such other qualifications as may be prescribed by the city council
from time to time.
   B.   As building inspector, his/her duties shall include those set forth in
the international building code and in Montana Code Annotated title 50, chapter
60, 2011, as now or hereinafter amended. (Ord. 409, 2-17-2015)
4-1-6: FACTORY BUILT BUILDINGS:
Factory built buildings bearing an insignia issued by Montana building codes
division, department of labor and industry, shall be subject to local
government zoning, utility connections, building permit and subsequent
inspections for foundations and appurtenances to the structure (landings,
stairs, decks, covered porches and the like). Applications to the building
official for the erection and utility connection shall be in accordance with
the applicable codes. (Ord. 409, 2-17-2015)
4-1-7: PERMIT FEES:
Building permit fees shall be set and established by the city council from time
to time by appropriate resolution. (Ord. 409, 2-17-2015)
4-1-8: TERRITORIAL APPLICATION:
The jurisdictional area of the building department of the city shall be
residential and commercial buildings and structures and permits therefore
within the corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 409, 2-17-2015)
4-1-9: BILLBOARDS:
   A.   Application To Erect; Permission Of Adjacent Property Owners Or
Occupants: No person shall erect any billboard or other structure for
advertising purposes within the city without permission of the city council,
and every applicant for permission to erect a billboard or other structure for
advertising purposes in the city is required to give one week's notice, in
writing, personally or by mail, of such application to the owners, occupants or
agents of all houses and lots within a distance of two hundred feet (200') from
where such billboard or structure is to be erected. No such application shall
be considered by the city council without verified proof of the service of the
notice herein described or the written consent of such owners or occupants or
agents to the erection of said billboard or other structure for advertising
purposes.
   B.   Use Of Fences, Buildings Or Other Structures: No fence, barn, shed,
building or other structure within the city shall be used as a billboard
without the consent of the city council. The same notice and proof required by
subsection A of this section shall be necessary to obtain the consent of the
city council to use such fence, barn or other structure as a billboard for
advertising purposes.
   C.   Declaration As Common Nuisance: Any billboard erected or used contrary
to the provisions of subsections A and B of this section is hereby declared to
be a common nuisance, and shall be abated as a common nuisance by the chief of
police after three (3) days' notice to remove the same. (1975 Code §
7-1-7)
4-1-10: BOARD OF APPEALS:
In order to determine the suitability of alternate materials and methods of
construction and to provide for reasonable interpretations of the provisions of
the international building code, there shall be and is hereby created a board
of appeals, consisting of five (5) members, who are qualified by experience and
training to pass upon matters pertaining to building construction. The board of
appeals shall be appointed by the mayor with approval by the city council and
shall hold office at their leisure. The board shall adopt reasonable rules and
regulations for conducting its investigations and shall render all decisions
and findings, in writing, to the building official, with a duplicate copy to
the applicant. The board may recommend to the city council such new legislation
as is consistent herewith. (Ord. 409, 2-17-2015)
4-1-11: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, raze, convert,
demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or structure in the city,
or cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to, or in violation of, any of
the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and each such person shall be
deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day during which any
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is committed, continued or
permitted and upon conviction of any such violation, such person shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by
imprisonment for not more than ninety (90) days or by both such fine and
imprisonment. (Ord. 409, 2-17-2015)
CHAPTER 2
WIND POWERED GENERATORS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Special Exception
4-2-3: Maximum Height
4-2-4: Minimum Setback And Placement Requirements
4-2-5: Noise Standard, Shadow Flicker And Signal Interference
4-2-6: Fencing Requirement And Warnings
4-2-7: Control And Brakes
4-2-8: Liability Insurance; Construction Phase
4-2-9: Aesthetics
4-2-10: Building, Electrical, Other Permits
4-2-11: Technological Obsolescence
4-2-12: Requirements For Removal
4-2-13: Application Of Nuisance Law
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this chapter, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
TOWER: Includes the support structure and all components of the wind powered
generators.
WIND POWERED GENERATOR (WPG): Any device, such as a wind charger, windmill, or
wind turbine, and associated facilities including the support structure of the
system, such as a tower, that converts wind energy to electrical energy which
has been certified to conform to applicable industry standards by a nationally
recognized certifying organization such as Underwriters Laboratories or similar
certifying organization.
WIND POWERED GENERATOR HEIGHT: The height of a freestanding wind powered
generator shall be measured from the ground level to the highest point on the
wind powered generator, including the vertical length of any extensions of the
wind powered generator, such as the blade. (Ord. 400, 7-20-2009)
4-2-2: SPECIAL EXCEPTION:
Wind powered generators (WPG), as defined herein, are permitted upon the
issuance of a special exception permit within any district, provided the
following standards, and any related conditions imposed by the board of
adjustment, are satisfied. No wind powered generator, or modification thereto,
shall be constructed within the city unless a permit has been issued by the
city. (Ord. 400, 7-20-2009; amd. 2015 Code)
   A.   Fee: The permit application shall be accompanied with a nonrefundable
fee in an amount set by resolution.
   B.   Application: The permit application shall contain a narrative
describing the proposed project, the project location, the approximate
generating capacity of the facility, a site plan, a photograph of the same type
of wind powered generator being proposed which must be interconnected to a
public utility under the provisions of Montana Code Annotated section 69-8-601
et seq. (Ord. 400, 7-20-2009)
4-2-3: MAXIMUM HEIGHT:
The maximum height of a freestanding wind powered generator, on any parcel, or
combination of parcels thereof, is limited to forty feet (40') in height. (Ord.
400, 7-20-2009)
   A.   Increase In Height: The board of adjustment may increase the height of
freestanding wind powered generators; provided, that in the residential and
commercial districts, such increase shall not exceed the maximum height by more
than fifty percent (50%). The applicant shall demonstrate to the board of
adjustment's satisfaction that the surrounding topography, structures,
vegetation, and other factors make a tower that complies with the height
restrictions impractical. (Ord. 400, 7-20-2009; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Minimum Ground Clearance: The blade tip of any wind powered generator
shall, at its lowest point, have ground clearance of no less than twenty five
feet (25'). (Ord. 400, 7-20-2009)
4-2-4: MINIMUM SETBACK AND PLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
Setback from any property line shall not be closer than six feet (6') from the
property line. No guywire will be permitted in any installation. No part of the
wind generator shall extend over, or across, any part of a public right of way.
Placement will only be allowed in side or back yards. (Ord. 400, 7-20-2009)
4-2-5: NOISE STANDARD, SHADOW FLICKER AND SIGNAL INTERFERENCE:
   A.   Noise: Any noise produced by a wind powered generator permitted under
this chapter shall be less than sixty decibels (<60dB) as measured from the
closest neighboring occupied building; and it is incumbent upon the applicant
to demonstrate compliance prior to the issuance of any permits by the board of
adjustment. (Ord. 400, 7-20-2009; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Shadow Flicker: The facility owner and operator shall make reasonable
efforts to minimize shadow flicker to any occupied building not on the property
upon which the wind powered generator is located.
   C.   Signal Interference: The applicant shall make reasonable efforts to
avoid the disruption or loss of radio, telephone, television or similar
signals, and shall mitigate any harm caused by the wind powered generators.
(Ord. 400, 7-20-2009)
4-2-6: FENCING REQUIREMENT AND WARNINGS:
All wind powered generator installations, other than single pole towers, shall
be enclosed by a fence with a locking gate, or incorporate other effective
measures to discourage unauthorized climbing of the tower. Towers shall not be
climbable up to fifteen feet (15') above ground surface. A visible warning sign
concerning voltage must be placed at the base of all towers. (Ord. 400, 7-20-
2009)
4-2-7: CONTROL AND BRAKES:
All wind powered generators shall be equipped with a redundant braking system.
This includes both aerodynamic over speed controls (including variable pitch,
tip and other similar systems) and mechanical brakes. Mechanical brakes shall
be operated in a fail safe mode. Stall regulation shall not be considered a
sufficient braking system for over speed protection. (Ord. 400, 7-20-2009)
4-2-8: LIABILITY INSURANCE; CONSTRUCTION PHASE:
There shall be maintained a current general liability policy covering bodily
injury and property damage with limits of at least one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per occurrence and one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) in the
aggregate. Certificates of insurance shall be filed with the city, who will
also be named as an additional insured. (Ord. 400, 7-20-2009)
4-2-9: AESTHETICS:
   A.   Color: Wind powered generator colors shall be of neutral subdued tones
such as earth tones or green or brown. Gray, including darkening galvanized
gray, is also acceptable. A wind powered generator shall not be finished in
bright or vivid colors intended to draw attention to the structure or property.
Wind powered generators shall not be illuminated by artificial means, except
where required by the federal aviation administration, or other federal, state,
or local law.
   B.   Placement: All permitted wind powered generators shall be placed in a
reasonably available location that will minimize the visual impact on the
surrounding area, and allow the facility to function in accordance with the
standards established by this chapter, and all other federal, state and local
law.
   C.   Advertising: Wind towers shall not display any advertising, except for
reasonable identification of the manufacturer and facility owner/operator, not
to exceed one square foot in size. (Ord. 400, 7-20-2009)
4-2-10: BUILDING, ELECTRICAL, OTHER PERMITS:
All wind powered generators shall comply with all applicable building,
electrical, mechanical, and other permits required and issued by the city, the
state of Montana, and/or federal regulations. This is to include any approvals
required from the historic preservation commission or other local entity. (Ord.
400, 7-20-2009)
4-2-11: TECHNOLOGICAL OBSOLESCENCE:
If an applicant can demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the board of
adjustment, that improvements in wind powered generator technology have made
some parts of these sections and the requirements obsolete or unnecessary, the
board of adjustment may waive those requirements while still satisfying the
original intent and application of this chapter. Once every two (2) years, the
city shall review existing wind powered generator technology for comparison to
this chapter to be sure technological improvements are addressed. (Ord. 400, 7-
20-2009; amd. 2015 Code)
4-2-12: REQUIREMENTS FOR REMOVAL:
Any wind powered generator that is abandoned, damaged, inoperable, or unused
for power generation shall be removed within six (6) months of the cessation of
operations, unless an extension is approved by the board of adjustment. If such
an extension is not approved, such wind powered generator shall be deemed a
nuisance and require its removal, at the property owner's expense. After the
wind powered generator's removal, the owner of the site shall restore the site
to its original or an improved condition. (Ord. 400, 7-20-2009; amd. 2015 Code)
4-2-13: APPLICATION OF NUISANCE LAW:
If, after a special exception permit is issued by the board of adjustment for a
wind powered generator, and the same wind powered generator fails to comply
with any part of this chapter, it may be deemed a nuisance and all applicable
nuisance laws and regulations may be utilized for mitigation. (Ord. 400, 7-20-
2009)
TITLE 5
HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Public Nuisance
5-1-2: Unsafe Property
5-1-3: Privies And Drains
5-1-4: Dead Animals
5-1-5: Dumping Refuse
5-1-6: Interference With Radio Or Television Reception, Wireless Devices
5-1-7: Abatement By Chief Of Police
5-1-1: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
   A.   Definition: "Public nuisance" means:
      1.   A condition that endangers safety or health, is offensive to the
senses, or obstructs the free use of property so as to interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property by an entire community or
neighborhood or by any considerable number of persons;
      2.   Any premises where persons gather for the purpose of engaging in
unlawful conduct; or
      3.   A condition that renders dangerous for passage any public highway or
right of way or waters used by the public.
   B.   Maintaining Public Nuisance: A person commits the offense of
maintaining a public nuisance if the person knowingly creates, conducts, or
maintains a public nuisance.
   C.   Affecting Community Or Neighborhood: Any act that affects an entire
community or neighborhood or any considerable number of persons, as specified
in subsection A1 of this section, is no less a nuisance because the extent of
the annoyance or damage inflicted upon individuals is unequal.
   D.   Effect Of Certain Activities; Term Of Operation: An agricultural or
farming operation, a place, an establishment, or a facility or any of its
appurtenances or the operation of those things is not or does not become a
public nuisance because of its normal operation as a result of changed
residential or commercial conditions in or around its locality if the
agricultural or farming operation, place, establishment, or facility has been
in operation longer than the complaining resident has been in possession or
commercial establishment has been in operation.
   E.   Noise From Shooting Range: Noises resulting from the shooting
activities at a shooting range during established hours of operation are not
considered a public nuisance.
   F.   Violation; Penalty: A person convicted of maintaining a public nuisance
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-2 of this code. Each day of the conduct constitutes a separate offense.
(2015 Code)
5-1-2: UNSAFE PROPERTY:
   A.   Maintain And Keep In Safe Condition; Restrained Entry Required: Any
person who holds or owns real property within the city is hereby charged with
the duty of keeping and maintaining such property in a reasonably safe
condition, and should any property within the city be found to contain any
structure, construction or condition which reasonably may be said to be unsafe,
unless entry to the property is restrained, the owner or holder thereof may be
required to install or erect barriers or fences of a nature suitable to
restrain entry to the property.
   B.   Complaints:
      1.   Investigation, Review And Consideration: The city council may, from
time to time, investigate, review and consider complaints or reports made to it
by any person that any lot or parcel of real property within the city contains
a structure, construction or other condition which is unsafe, and that entry to
the property should be restrained; and the city council, if convinced that
public safety is involved, may, by appropriate resolution, declare any real
property which it finds in an unsafe condition to be subject to the provisions
of this section, and may prescribe the measures required of the owner to
protect the public or reduce, minimize or eliminate the risk.
      2.   Notice Of Intent Of Adopting Resolution; Service: Before such a
resolution is finally passed and adopted, a notice of the intention to finally
adopt such a resolution at the next regular council meeting shall be given and
served as follows:
         a.   By regular mail addressed to the owner or person to whom the
property is being assessed for tax purposes, and at the address to which
assessments for tax purposes are sent;
         b.   If a person is in residence upon the property, to such person by
personal delivery of a copy of the notice to such person;
         c.   By either of such methods of service if the owner and person in
residence are found to be the same person or of the same household.
   C.   Resolution: Such resolution shall describe the property and describe
the unsafe condition found and set forth the general specifications of any
barrier or fence prescribed as a method of restraining entry to the property.
Such resolution shall also state a time after which penalty prescribed for
violation of this section will be invoked in the event the owner of the
property refuses, fails or neglects to install the barrier or fence specified.
(1975 Code §
7-1-2)
   D.   Failure To Comply: Any person who fails, neglects or refuses to
provide, install or erect a barrier or fence to restrain entry upon the
property where an unsafe condition remains in existence after notice given,
resolution finally adopted, and time granted for installation having expired,
shall be deemed to have violated the provisions of this section; and every
separate day of violation, including the first day of violation, shall be
treated and considered as a separate and new offense against provisions of this
section. Every such offense against the provisions of this section shall be
punishable by a fine as provided in section
1-4-2 of this code. (1975 Code §
7-1-2; amd. 2015 Code)
5-1-3: PRIVIES AND DRAINS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to suffer any cellar, vault, private drain,
pool, privy, sewer or grounds upon any premises belonging to or occupied by him
to become nauseous, foul, offensive or injurious to the public health, or
offensive or injurious to any reasonable person. (1975 Code §
7-1-3; amd. 2015 Code)
5-1-4: DEAD ANIMALS 1 :
It shall be the duty of the owner of any animal dying within the city
forthwith, or with all reasonable dispatch, and before the same becomes
offensive from decomposition, to dispose of the same at the local landfill. Any
such owner who shall fail, neglect or refuse to so dispose of same after
reasonable notice, or who shall throw or leave any such dead animal in any
public way, or on any private grounds or in any watercourse, or in any pit or
vault shall be deemed to have maintained a nuisance. (1975 Code §
7-1-4; amd. 2015 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 7-2-7 of this code for removal of carcasses.
5-1-5: DUMPING REFUSE:
   A.   Watercourses: No person shall dump, empty or throw manure, tin cans or
other coarse rubbish, or any dead animals into any covered or open water ditch,
flume or natural watercourse within the limits of the city.
   B.   Waste Materials, Debris: No person within the limits of the city shall
throw, place or deposit or suffer to accumulate, or to be thrown, placed or
deposited in any yard or enclosure kept or occupied by him or upon the property
of any other person, rubbish, cans, boxes, manure, old papers, old straw, house
dirt, waste materials or debris of any kind, in such manner as to be offensive,
injurious or dangerous to other persons, neighbors, the neighborhood, or
adjoining property. (1975 Code §
7-1-6)
5-1-6: INTERFERENCE WITH RADIO OR TELEVISION RECEPTION, WIRELESS DEVICES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any machine, device, apparatus
or instrument within the corporate limits of the city at any time which
unreasonably interferes with radio or television reception and/or wireless
devices within the city and which is reasonably preventable. (1975 Code §
7-1-8; amd. 2015 Code)
5-1-7: ABATEMENT BY CHIEF OF POLICE:
Whenever any person shall be convicted of committing or maintaining a nuisance
in pursuance of any city code provision now in force, or that may be hereafter
adopted, the city judge may order the chief of police to abate the same and to
certify the cost thereof to him; and he shall thereupon add the amount so
certified to the fine and enforce the payment of the same in the manner
provided for the collection of fines. (1975 Code §
7-1-9)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE RULES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Right Of Way, Fire Apparatus
5-2-2: Driving Over Hose
5-2-3: False Alarms
5-2-4: Buildings Declared Nuisance
5-2-5: Open Burning
5-2-6: Disposal Of Ashes, Cinders
5-2-7: Rubbish Accumulations
5-2-8: Discarding Cigars, Cigarettes
5-2-9: Fire Hazards
5-2-10: Storage Of Gasoline, Flammables
5-2-11: Fires On Public Or Private Property Restricted
5-2-1: RIGHT OF WAY, FIRE APPARATUS:
It shall be the duty of all persons to give the right of way in the streets and
alleys and other public places of the city to the officers, the vehicles or
other apparatus belonging to the fire department in all cases of fire or alarm.
When any fire engine, hose cart, truck or other fire apparatus, while going to
a fire or answering an alarm of fire, shall come even with or close to a
vehicle, it shall be the duty of the driver of such vehicle, or person in
charge thereof, to cause such vehicle to come to a full stop and remain so
until such fire engine, truck or other fire apparatus has fully passed or has
come to a full stop. (1975 Code §
5-1-1)
5-2-2: DRIVING OVER HOSE:
No person shall, during any fire or when the fire department is acting in its
line of duty, drive any vehicle or conveyance over any hose belonging to the
department. (1975 Code §
5-1-2; amd. 2015 Code)
5-2-3: FALSE ALARMS:
No person shall negligently or maliciously turn in any fire alarm at any fire
alarm box, signal or central station. (1975 Code §
5-1-3)
5-2-4: BUILDINGS DECLARED NUISANCE:
Any unoccupied building which is not properly secured and enclosed is hereby
declared to be a nuisance. The fire chief shall notify the owner or person
having control of such premises to forthwith secure and enclose the same, so as
to prevent persons from gaining access thereto, and the person so notified
shall, within twenty four (24) hours, comply therewith. (1975 Code §
5-1-4)
5-2-5: OPEN BURNING:
Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person shall kindle or maintain
within the city any rubbish fire or other fire of any garbage, building
material waste, debris, weeds, yard, garden or other waste matter. (1975 Code §
5-1-12; amd. 2015 Code)
5-2-6: DISPOSAL OF ASHES, CINDERS:
It shall be the duty of every person occupying or controlling any building or
any portion thereof in the city to deposit all ashes, cinders or other waste
arising from combustion produced on such premises in some safe depository or
receptacle to be approved by the fire chief, and to be placed not closer than
one foot (1') to any woodwork or any wooden structure. It shall be unlawful to
deposit hot ashes, cinders or wastes in city refuse containers. (1975 Code §
5-1-6; amd. 2015 Code)
5-2-7: RUBBISH ACCUMULATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for the owner, agent, tenant, lessee or occupant of any
building within the limits of the city to permit rubbish, paper, wastepaper,
straw, hay, rags, excelsior or any other material of any kind or character
whatsoever to accumulate in or to obstruct hallways, areaways, basements,
roofs, rooms, attics, closets, light wells and yards close to buildings. (1975
Code §
5-1-7)
5-2-8: DISCARDING CIGARS, CIGARETTES:
It shall be unlawful to throw from any vehicle or building a lighted cigar,
cigarette or anything that is on fire so that same will fall over or upon the
street or sidewalk or property adjacent thereto; provided, that the provisions
of this section shall not apply to any person throwing from windows the
contents of a vehicle or building which is on fire. (1975 Code § 5-1-8)
5-2-9: FIRE HAZARDS:
It shall be unlawful and it is hereby declared to be a nuisance for any person
to maintain, cause or suffer to exist in or on or upon any premises in the city
owned, leased, occupied or controlled by such person, any condition which
constitutes a fire hazard and a menace to the safety of life and property.
(1975 Code § 5-1-9)
5-2-10: STORAGE OF GASOLINE, FLAMMABLES:
   A.   Gasoline, Flammable Liquids:
      1.   No person shall store gasoline or any flammable liquids at any
residence, nor in the outbuildings located upon residential property within the
city, in any plastic or glass container, unless specifically designed and
manufactured for the storage of flammable liquids.
      2.   The total quantity of gasoline or flammable liquid stored upon
residential property or in outbuildings used in connection therewith shall not
exceed ten (10) gallons per family unit living upon the premises.
      3.   This subsection A shall not be considered to prohibit gasoline or
flammable liquid held in the factory installed or professionally mounted fuel
tanks ordinarily provided on motor vehicles, boats or other portable or
stationary engines using gasoline or flammable liquids as a fuel; provided,
that all such tanks have incorporated therein safety features ordinarily found
in factory installed or mounted fuel tanks used as the immediate supply for the
engine. (1975 Code § 5-1-10; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Powder, Dynamite, Storing Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
merchant, dealer or any person within the limits of the city to have, store or
keep at any time in his ordinary place of business any quantity of giant powder
or dynamite or other high explosive. (1975 Code § 5-1-10)
5-2-11: FIRES ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY RESTRICTED:
   A.   Restriction: It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain, cause or
suffer to exist in the city a fire other than in a fireplace or other permanent
or proper fire facility or receptacle for the cooking or heating of foodstuffs,
and it shall be unlawful for any person to maintain, cause or suffer to exist
any fire otherwise permitted herein beyond eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. (1975
Code § 5-1-11; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Violation; Penalty: Any violation of the provision of this section
shall be considered a misdemeanor crime and shall subject the offender to the
penalty prescribed in section
1-4-2 of this code. (1975 Code § 5-1-11)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE PREVENTION
SECTION:
5-3-1: Authority To Enter Premises
5-3-2: Inspection Of Premises
5-3-3: Removal Of Accumulations
5-3-4: Compliance With Order
5-3-5: Permit Requirements
5-3-6: Issuance; Inspection
5-3-7: Revocation Of Permit
5-3-8: Appeal
5-3-9: Modifications
5-3-10: Approved Devices, Materials
5-3-1: AUTHORITY TO ENTER PREMISES:
The chief of the fire department or any member of the fire department
designated by him as an inspector may, at all reasonable hours, enter any
building or premises for the purpose of making any inspection which, under the
provisions of this chapter, he or they deem necessary to be made. (1975 Code §
5-2-1)
5-3-2: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
It shall be the duty of the chief of the fire department to inspect or cause to
be inspected by fire department officers or members, as often as may be
necessary, all buildings, premises and public thoroughfares, except the
interiors of private dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to
be corrected any conditions liable to cause fire, or any violations of the
provisions or intent of any code provisions affecting the fire hazard. (1975
Code §
5-2-2)
5-3-3: REMOVAL OF ACCUMULATIONS:
Whenever any such officer or member shall find, in any building or upon any
premises or other place, combustible or explosive matter or dangerous
accumulation of rubbish or unnecessary accumulation of wastepaper, boxes,
shavings or any highly flammable materials, and so situated as to endanger
property, or shall find obstructions to or on fire escapes, stairs,
passageways, doors or windows, liable to interfere with the operation of the
fire department, or egress of occupants, in case of fire, he shall order the
same to be removed or remedied. (1975 Code §
5-2-3)
5-3-4: COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER:
   A.   Time Limit For Compliance: Such order as referred to in section
5-3-3 of this chapter shall forthwith be complied with by the owner or occupant
of such premises or building, subject to appeal within twenty four (24) hours
to the mayor, who shall, within ten (10) days, review such order and file his
decision thereon; and, unless the order is revoked or modified, it shall remain
in full force and be obeyed by such owner or occupant.
   B.   Failure To Comply: Any owner or occupant failing to comply with such
order within ten (10) days after said appeal shall have been determined, or if
no appeal is taken, then within ten (10) days after the service of the said
order, shall be liable to a penalty.
   C.   Service Of Order: The service of any such order shall be made upon the
occupant of the premises to whom it is directed by either delivering a true
copy of same to such occupant personally or by delivering the same to and
leaving it with any person in charge of the premises, or, in case no such
person is found upon the premises, by affixing a copy thereof in a conspicuous
place on the door to the entrance of the said premises. Whenever it may be
necessary to serve such an order upon the owner of premises, such order may be
served either by delivering to and leaving with the said person a true copy of
said order, or, if such owner is absent from the jurisdiction of the officer
making the order, by mailing such copy to the owner's last known post office
address. (1975 Code §
5-2-4)
5-3-5: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application; Term: Permits required by the provisions of this chapter
shall be obtained, in writing, from the chief of the fire department, or any
officer of the fire department. Permits shall be for such period as the chief
of the fire department, or any officer of the fire department, may specify but
not exceeding one year. Such permit shall be kept on the premises designated
therein and shall be subject to inspection by any officer of the fire or police
departments.
   B.   Permits For Certain Activities Required: In addition to the specific
requirements elsewhere required in this chapter, a permit shall be obtained
from the chief of the fire department for:
      1.   Storage of calcium carbide in excess of one hundred (100) pounds.
      2.   Storage of hay, straw, excelsior and other combustible fibers in
excess of one ton.
      3.   Storage of corrosive acids in excess of ten (10) gallons of each
kind.
      4.   Storage of chlorates or other oxidizing chemicals in excess of ten
(10) pounds.
      5.   Storage or handling of pyroxylin plastic in excess of twenty (20)
pounds unless wrapped or packed for sale.
      6.   Use of stationary acetylene generators.
      7.   Use of compressed gas from cylinders in excess of four hundred (400)
cubic feet aggregate capacity.
      8.   The application of paint, varnish or lacquer by spray method or with
dip tanks and ovens.
      9.   Use of refrigeration systems containing ten (10) pounds or more of
refrigerant material.
      10.   The cleaning or drying of clothes or other material with a class I
or class II flammable liquid.
   C.   Compliance With Certain Standards: Such permits shall be based upon
compliance with the regulations of the National Board Of Fire Underwriters
where applicable. (1975 Code §
5-2-5)
5-3-6: ISSUANCE; INSPECTION:
Before permits are issued, the chief of the fire department shall make or cause
to be made such inspections or tests as are necessary to assure that the
provisions of this chapter are complied with. (1975 Code §
5-2-6)
5-3-7: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The chief of the fire department is hereby authorized to revoke any permit
whenever in his judgment any violation of this chapter warrants such
revocation, but only after a fair and impartial hearing shall have been
accorded the holder of the permit. (1975 Code §
5-2-7)
5-3-8: APPEAL:
Appeal from any decision of the chief of the fire department in refusing to
grant or in revoking any permit may be made to the mayor as outlined in section
5-3-4 of this chapter. (1975 Code §
5-2-8)
5-3-9: MODIFICATIONS:
The chief of the fire department shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of this chapter upon application, in writing, by the owner or
lessee, or his duly authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in
the way of carrying out the strict letter of this chapter; provided, that the
spirit of this chapter shall be observed, public safety secured and substantial
justice done. The particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and
the decision of the chief of the fire department thereon shall be entered upon
the records of the department and a signed copy shall be furnished the
applicant. (1975 Code §
5-2-9)
5-3-10: APPROVED DEVICES, MATERIALS:
As used in this chapter, the word "approved" as applied to devices or materials
means acceptable to the chief of the fire department by reason of having been
tested and examined by him or by some recognized testing laboratory and found
to be properly safeguarded against fire hazard. (1975 Code §
5-2-10)
CHAPTER 4
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Use Prohibited; Exceptions
5-4-3: Violation; Fine
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
FIREWORKS: Any combustible or explosive composition or any substance,
combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration, or detonation
and includes skyrockets, roman candles, bottle rockets, dayglo bombs, blank
cartridges, toy cannons, toy canes or toy guns in which explosives other than
toy paper caps are used, the type of balloons which require fire underneath to
propel them, firecrackers, torpedoes, sparklers or other fireworks of like
construction, any fireworks containing any explosive or flammable compound, or
any tablets or other device containing any explosive substance.
PERMISSIBLE FIREWORKS: As set forth in the hazardous material regulations (HMR;
49 CFR parts 171 - 180, specifically regulations applicable to fireworks in
section 173.56(j) and the hazardous material table section 172.101). Montana
Code Annotated title 50, chapter 37 specifically prohibits skyrockets, roman
candles and bottle rockets.
PROHIBITED FIREWORKS: Skyrockets, roman candles and bottle rockets. Illegal
explosives are usually unlabeled and these devices exceed the federal maximum
explosive charge allowed. Some examples are M-80s, M-100s and silver salutes.
(Ord. 408, 7-8-2014)
5-4-2: USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
The use of fireworks within the city in any manner or means or for any purpose
is prohibited, except:
   A.   For the period of July 1 through July 5 each year, fireworks can be set
off within the city limits from ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. until ten o'clock (10:
00) P.M. each day, except July 4 when the time limit on July 4 shall extend to
one o'clock (1:00) A.M. the following morning; and
   B.   For the period of December 31 from ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. until one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. the following morning. (Ord. 408, 7-8-2014)
5-4-3: VIOLATION; FINE:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter regarding the use of
fireworks shall be fined fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 408, 7-8-2014)
TITLE 6
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-1-1: Montana Criminal Code Adopted
6-1-1: MONTANA CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Montana criminal code of 1973 1 , as amended, are hereby
adopted by the city. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered
violations of this chapter, and each such violation shall subject the violator
thereof to penalty provisions under this chapter if proceeded hereunder. (2015
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 45-1-101 et seq.
CHAPTER 2
ANIMALS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: Animals Allowed
6-2-3: Animals Prohibited
6-2-4: Vaccinations, Licensing, Tags And Fees
6-2-5: Prohibited Behavior Of Animals, Owners, And Responsible Persons
6-2-6: Bite Reporting, Rabies, And Impoundment
6-2-7: Potentially Dangerous And Dangerous Dogs
6-2-8: Impounding
6-2-9: Disposition Of Unclaimed Animals
6-2-10: Fines
6-2-11: Interference
6-2-12: Cruelty To Animals; Poisoning
6-2-13: Freeing Confined Animals
6-2-14: Provoking Animals
6-2-15: Alternative To Destruction Of Animals
6-2-16: Duties And Powers Of Animal Control Officer
6-2-17: Application
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
terms shall have the following meanings:
              Dogs, cats, goats, cattle, swine, sheep, horses, mules and other species of
ANIMAL:       livestock, domestic fowl, pigeons or rabbits and all other animals, fowl or
              fish, domestic or wild.
ANIMAL
CONTROL       Any duly appointed animal control officer and law enforcement officers.
OFFICER:
              Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the owner or
AT LARGE:     member of his immediate family either by leash, cord, chain, halter shank or
              otherwise.
              Behavior of a dog that leads a reasonable person to believe the dog is going
ATTITUDE OF   to inflict injury upon the person or another, which behavior may include
ATTACK:       growling, barking, baring of teeth, tense or stiff posture, raised hackles,
              lunging, or nipping.
BITE:         Any abrasion, scratch, puncture, laceration, bruise, tear or piercing of the
              skin caused by the teeth of an animal.
CONTINUOUSLY: Any noise that is repeated with less than one (1) minute of silence between
              the noises.
DOG:          Includes both male and female.
DOMESTIC      All animals which, by habit or association, live in association with humans,
ANIMAL:       and includes dogs, cats, rabbits, hamsters, gerbils, canaries, parrots,
              parakeets, turtles and tropical fish (except piranha).
OWNER:        Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning, keeping or
              harboring an animal.
POUND:        The place provided by the city and customarily maintained by the animal
              control officer for the impounding of animals.
PUBLIC        Any place to which the public or any substantial group thereof has access.
PROPERTY:
RESPONSIBLE   A person over the age of eighteen (18) who possesses an animal or the parent
PERSON:       or guardian of a person under the age of eighteen (18) who possesses an
              animal, irrespective of whether the person is an owner.
              Controlled by a leash or halter shank not longer than ten feet (10'), or under
RESTRAINT:    control of a rein by a competent person or at "heel" and obedient to that
              person's commands, within a vehicle or trailer with permission of the owner,
              or within property limits of the owner or other person consenting thereto.
TEMPORARILY:  Persons within the city limits for less than sixty (60) consecutive days.
              The inoculation of dogs with an antirabies vaccine which shall be administered
              under the direction of the health officer by any licensed veterinarian, the
VACCINATION:  cost of said vaccination to be borne by the owner of the dog. The dog shall
              wear a collar with tag attached thereto at all times revealing an up to date
              vaccination.
              Any animal that is not normally found other than in the state of nature, i.e.,
              ferae naturae, and are generally of a wild nature or disposition and must
WILD ANIMALS: generally be tamed by art, industry or education, or else must be kept in
              confinement. (1976 Code § 6-2-1; amd. Ord. 356, 4-21-1997; 2015 Code; Ord.
              417, 2-16-2021, eff. 3-18-2021)
 
6-2-2: ANIMALS ALLOWED:
   A.   Animals Allowed: Domestic animals may be kept in city limits except as
otherwise provided in this chapter.
   B.   Number Of Domestic Animals Allowed: It shall be unlawful for any person
to keep, harbor, maintain or otherwise possess more than three (3) animals over
five (5) months of age, within the city limits.
   C.   Rabbits: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, harbor, maintain,
or otherwise possess more than two (2) rabbits within the city limits. Those
possessing rabbits within the city limits shall keep them in separate hutches
and shall not raise them for commercial purposes.
   D.   Domestic Fowl-Chickens: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep,
harbor, maintain, or otherwise possess more than ten (10) female chickens ("hen
(s)") within the city limits. Those keeping hens within the city limits shall
satisfy the following conditions:
      1.   Permit Requirement:
         a.   Every person shall obtain a permit ("Chicken Permit") on or
before the earlier to occur of:
            (1)   February 15 of each calendar year, or
            (2)   Thirty (30) days after any hen(s) are first brought within
the city limits.
         b.   Chicken Permits are valid from date of issuance until and through
December 31 of that calendar year of issuance.
         c.   Chicken Permits may be obtained from the office of the finance
officer by paying a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) (or a fee as otherwise
set by resolution of the city council), and completing an application provided
by the finance officer for such purpose. The application shall contain, at a
minimum, the following information:
            (1)   The number of hens;
            (2)   A detailed description and diagram identifying the parcel
address at which the hens will be located, the rear yard in which the hens will
be kept, the enclosure within which the hens will be kept, and the building
within which the hens will be kept from sunset to sunrise;
            (3)   A representation that no other current Chicken Permit has
been issued at the parcel address at which the hens will be located; and
            (4)   A representation that all deceased hens will be disposed of
pursuant to City of Conrad Code §§
5-1-4 and
7-2-7.
      2.   Yard Requirements: Hens shall be kept within a rear yard (as that
term is defined at City of Conrad Code §§
10-2-2(B),
10-3-2(B),
10-4-2(B), or
10-5-2).
      3.   Enclosure Requirements: Hens shall be kept at night within a
building from sunset to sunrise each day. Hens shall be kept during the day
within an enclosure that is contained on all four sides and constructed in such
a manner that the hens cannot escape.
      4.   Other Requirements:
         a.   The hens must be kept:
            (1)   On a single-family parcel that is owned by the person
residing thereon;
            (2)   On a single-family parcel rental, with the parcel owner's
written consent; or
            (3)   On a multi-dwelling parcel, with the parcel owner's written
consent.
         b.   There shall only be issued one Chicken Permit per person.
         c.   There shall only be issued one Chicken Permit per parcel address.
(Ord. 417, 2-16-2021, eff. 3-18-2021; amd. Ord. 423, 4-19-2022, eff. 5-19-2022)
6-2-3: ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Animals Prohibited: Except as otherwise provided in Title 6, Chapter 2
of Conrad City Code, it shall be unlawful for any person to keep any swine,
goats, horses, cattle, or other species of livestock, roosters, geese, ducks,
turkeys or other domestic fowl within the city at any time, except to bring the
same to market for commercial or exhibition purposes, and the same shall be
kept and cared for by the owner or person in charge thereof at such place as
may be directed by the animal control officer. (Ord. 356, 4-21-1997; amd. 2015
Code)
   B.   Wild Animals Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to keep or
maintain, or cause to be kept or maintained, any wild animal within the city
limits.
   C.   Exceptions: The provisions of this section shall not prohibit the
keeping or maintaining of the following wild animals:
      1.   Any wild animals which are kept confined in zoos, museums, or any
other place where they are kept as live specimens for the public to view.
      2.   Any wild animals which are kept confined and placed on exhibit in a
circus, carnival, or any other type of exhibition or show.
      3.   Wild animals in bona fide, licensed veterinary hospitals for
treatment. (Ord. 356, 4-21-1997)
      4.   Falcons kept by an individual properly trained and licensed as a
falconer by the appropriate federal and state authorities. (Ord. 368, 7-6-1999)
   D.   Prohibition Of Dogs In Parks; Assistance And Police Dogs Excepted: No
dogs shall be permitted in the city parks except for dogs trained to assist
disabled persons so long as such dog is employed for the purpose of assisting a
disabled person and dogs being used in police work. This section imposes an
absolute prohibition on dogs in the city parks whether unrestrained or
restrained. This prohibition does not prohibit dogs in areas that are
undeveloped parks.
   E.   Permit Required For Organized Obedience Training Or Shows; Fee: A
permit for organized obedience training or shows may be granted for use in
designated areas of designated parks on designated days. The permit shall be
obtained from the animal control officer for that particular event. The permit
shall be in writing and shall designate the park, area within the park, and the
dates and duration of each event. (Ord. 356, 4-21-1997; amd. 2015 Code)
   F.   Kennels Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to keep or maintain commercial
kennels or other animal housing facilities within the city limits or to keep,
maintain or breed female animals within the city limits for the primary purpose
of obtaining the young therefrom and selling said young. (1975 Code § 6-2-12)
   G.   Procedure For Requesting Prohibited Animal(s): If keeping or
maintaining an animal is prohibited, or not otherwise specifically permitted
pursuant to this chapter, any person may apply for a conditional use permit for
the purpose of allowing the person to keep or maintain an animal that is
prohibited or not otherwise specifically permitted. The procedure for the
application, consideration and approval or denial of a conditional use permit
under this chapter shall be the same as that set forth at Conrad City Code §
10-1-13. (Ord. 417, 2-16-2021, eff. 3-18-2021; amd. Ord. 423, 4-19-2022, eff.
5-19-2022)
6-2-4: VACCINATIONS, LICENSING, TAGS AND FEES:
   A.   Vaccinations: Every person keeping a dog or cat within the city shall
keep the said dog or cat vaccinated for rabies. Prior to obtaining a license
for a dog the owner shall present to the finance officer satisfactory evidence
that the dog has a current rabies vaccination. (Ord. 365, 7-6-1999, eff. 1-1-
2000; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Dogs To Be Licensed: All dogs over the age of five (5) months kept
within the city limits by city residents shall be licensed on or before the
earlier to occur of:
      1.   February 15 of each calendar year, or
      2.   Thirty (30) days after the dog is first brought within the city
limits.
The license is valid from date of issuance until and through December 31 of
that calendar year. Dogs reaching the age of five (5) months after February 15
and before October 15 of a calendar year must be licensed in accordance with
this section, and the license shall be issued and expire in the same manner as
any other license issued hereunder. If a license is applied for in violation of
Conrad City Code §§ 6-2-4B.1. or 2., the license shall be issued and the
applicant shall incur a penalty, in addition to the fee prescribed, as
determined by city council resolution. (Ord. 380, 9-15-2003; amd. 2015 Code)
   C.   Application; Fee: A license may be obtained from the office of the
finance officer by paying a fee, set by resolution of the city council, and
completing an application on a form provided by the finance officer for such
purpose. The application shall contain, at a minimum, the name, breed, color,
and gender of the animal, whether the animal is altered or spayed, and the date
of vaccination and name of the person administering the vaccine.
   D.   Exceptions:
      1.   Assistance Dogs: The fee for a license shall be waived for dogs
trained to assist disabled persons so long as such dog is employed for the
purpose of assisting a disabled person.
      2.   Temporarily In City: A license shall not be required for dogs or
cats owned by nonresidents temporarily within the city limits, nor to dogs or
cats brought within the city limits solely for the purpose of participating in
a dog or cat show. (Ord. 380, 9-15-2003)
   E.   Tag: Upon payment of the license fee, the finance officer shall issue
to the owner or keeper of the cat or dog being licensed, a nontransferable
license certificate and metallic tag. The shape of the tag shall be changed
every year and shall have stamped thereon the year of issuance and the number
which shall correspond with the number of the certificate. (Ord. 367, 7-6-1999,
eff. 1-1-2000)
   F.   Collar: The owner or keeper shall be required to provide each dog and
cat with a collar to which the license tag must be affixed, and shall see that
the collar and tag are constantly worn. A current vaccination tag must be
affixed to the collar at all times. (Ord. 367, 7-6-1999, eff. 1-1-2000; amd.
2015 Code)
   G.   Duplicate Tag: In the event that a tag is lost or destroyed, a
duplicate will be issued by the finance officer upon presentation of a receipt
showing the payment of the license fee for the current year, and the payment of
a duplication fee prescribed by resolution of the city council.
   H.   Refunds: No refunds shall be made on any dog or cat license fee for any
reason. (Ord. 367, 7-6-1999, eff. 1-1-2000; amd. Ord. 417, 2-16-2021, eff. 3-
18-2021)
6-2-5: PROHIBITED BEHAVIOR OF ANIMALS, OWNERS, AND RESPONSIBLE PERSONS:
   A.   Prohibited Behavior - Attitude Of Attack, Bites, And Noise: It is
unlawful and an owner or responsible person may be cited if a dog:
      1.   That is off the owner's or responsible person's property charges or
approaches a human with an attitude of attack.
      2.   Bites or causes injury to a human or domestic animal.
      3.   Makes noise continuously, on three separate occasions, over a seven-
day period:
         a.   For longer than thirty (30) minutes; or
         b.   At separate and distinct time periods that, when considered
together, amount to a time greater than sixty (60) minutes out of any twelve
(12) hour period.
   B.   Prohibited Behavior-At Large: It is unlawful and an owner or
responsible person may be cited if the owner or responsible person:
      1.   Allows an animal to run at large or leaves an animal unattended or
picketed upon the right-of- way, city park, open space, or other public
facility;
      2.   Fails to remove and properly dispose of any excreta deposited by
their animal on public property or private property not belonging to the owner
or responsible person;
      3.   Fails to remove and properly dispose of excreta deposited on the
owner's or responsible person's property on a reasonable basis;
      4.   Abandons an animal in city limits;
      5.   Fails to surrender an animal when the animal control officer is
either required or permitted to seize the animal by city ordinance; or
      6.   Fails to subject the dog to restraint when the dog is not confined
within an enclosure or on the owner's property.
   C.   Affirmative Defense: A person cited under this section may assert as an
affirmative defense that the dog was responding to a provocation, an offense
upon a person, or an unreasonable trespass upon the property of a person. (Ord.
417, 2- 16-2021, eff. 3-18-2021)
6-2-6: BITE REPORTING, RABIES, AND IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Duty To Report: Any person with knowledge that an animal has bitten a
human shall promptly make a report of the bite to the animal control officer.
   B.   Medical Personnel Duty To Report: Every physician or other medical
practitioner shall report to the animal control officer the name and address of
any person treated for an animal bite.
   C.   Impoundment And Quarantine: Upon suspicion that a person has sustained
a bite that may have exposed the person to rabies, the animal control officer
shall order that the biting animal be impounded for no less than ten (10) days.
If the animal control officer does not believe the biting animal has been
exposed to rabies, the animal control officer may, at his or her sole and
absolute discretion, allow the animal to be quarantined on the premises of the
owner. The county sanitarian shall be notified of all impoundments and
quarantines. (Ord. 417, 216- 2021, eff. 3-18-2021)
6-2-7: POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS AND DANGEROUS DOGS:
   A.   Potentially Dangerous Dog: The animal control officer may designate a
dog as potentially dangerous if:
      1.   The dog, unprovoked, inflicts a bite on a human or domestic animal;
or
      2.   The dog, unprovoked, charges or approaches a person with an attitude
of attack.
   B.   Dangerous Dog: The animal control officer may designate a dog as
dangerous if:
      1.   The dog, unprovoked, inflicts severe injury on a human or domestic
animal;
      2.   The dog, unprovoked, kills a domestic animal; or
      3.   The dog has been previously designated as potentially dangerous and,
unprovoked, inflicts a bite on a human or domestic animal, charges or
approaches a person with an attitude of attack.
   C.   Exclusions: A dog is not potentially dangerous or dangerous if the
threat, injury, or damage was sustained by a human who at the time of the
animal's act or acts:
      1.   Was committing an unreasonable trespass upon premises occupied by
the dog's owner, the owner's immediate family, a responsible person, or a
responsible person's immediate family;
      2.   Was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog;
      3.   Has in the past been observed or reported to have tormented, abused,
or assaulted the dog; or 4. Was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   D.   Seizure: The animal control officer shall seize any dog the animal
control officer has designated as dangerous within a reasonable time after the
designation. The animal shall be impounded and may only be released if the
owner pays all impoundment fees and:
      1.   The city court judge has determined the dog is not dangerous; or
      2.   The animal control officer has determined the owner meets the
requirements for keeping a dangerous dog as required by this chapter.
   E.   Notice Of Designation: If the animal control officer designates a dog
as dangerous or potentially dangerous, the officer shall provide the owner with
notice of the designation. Notification may be accomplished orally by phone,
electronic mail, or in-person communication, or by written notice via standard
mail, personal delivery, or posting the notice in a conspicuous place at the
owner's residence.
   F.   Appeal Rights: An owner may appeal a potentially dangerous or dangerous
designation by filing a written notice of appeal and request for hearing with
the clerk of the city court. The filing shall occur within ten (10) business
days after notification of the designation, with a copy provided to the city
attorney.
      1.   The city court shall hold a hearing on the appeal within thirty (30)
business days after filing, but not earlier than fourteen (14) business days
after filing. The parties can agree to a continuance of the hearing.
      2.   Both sides shall give notice of the witnesses they intend to call at
least ten (10) days prior to the date set for the hearing.
      3.   At the hearing, the owner has the burden to show the designation was
improper by the preponderance of the evidence. The Montana Rules of Evidence
shall be enforced at the hearing.
   G.   Confinement Of Dangerous Dogs: A dangerous dog may be kept in the city
limits under this chapter if confined to the premises of the owner thereof,
and, if outside the owner's residence, by a physical barrier, approved by the
chief of police as sufficient to prevent any physical contact between said
animal and licensees, inadvertent invitees or trespassers or other animals.
Appropriate bold letter (four (4) inches or larger) warnings shall also be
posted on the premises where any such domestic animal of dangerous or vicious
propensities are kept. At all times when the dog is outside the enclosure, it
shall be muzzled and on a leash of ten feet (10') or less that is held by a
person physically able to control the dog. The muzzle must prevent the dog from
biting any human or animal but must not cause injury to the dog or interfere
with its vision or respiration. (Ord. 356, 4-21-1997)
   H.   Failure To Comply: If an owner fails to comply with any condition of
keeping a dangerous dog, the animal control officer shall seize the dangerous
dog and may also pursue court-ordered humane destruction under this chapter.
   I.   Duty To Report: Within twenty-four (24) hours after a change in
ownership, change in address, or death of a dangerous dog, the owner shall
notify the animal control officer of such event.
   J.   Petition To Relinquish: The city may petition the city court for an
order requiring the owner to relinquish ownership of a dangerous dog when the
owner has failed to comply with any condition of keeping a dangerous dog or has
not retrieved the dog from impoundment within five (5) business days after the
date on which the animal control officer designates the dog as dangerous or the
date on which the city court judge issues a decision on any appeal of the
designation, whichever is later.
      1.   The city shall make a reasonable effort to provide the owner a copy
of the petition within a reasonable time after filing.
      2.   The city court shall hold a hearing within twenty (20) business days
after the date on which the petition was filed and shall issue a decision
within ten (10) business days after the hearing date.
   K.   Removal Of Designation Of Potentially Dangerous Dog: The owner of a
potentially dangerous dog may petition the city court to remove the designation
if the owner and the dog have not committed any violations of this chapter for
a period of at least two (2) years following the designation. The owner shall
provide the city attorney with a copy of the petition.
   L.   Removal Of Designation Of Dangerous Dog: The owner of a dangerous dog
may petition the city court to remove the designation if the owner and the dog
have not committed any violations of this chapter for a period of at least five
(5) years following the designation. The owner shall provide the city attorney
with a copy of the petition.
   M.   Hearing On Removal Of Designations: When an owner has filed a petition
for removal of a potentially dangerous or dangerous designation, the city court
shall hold a hearing to detennine if the designation should be removed. If the
court finds the designation should be removed, the court may impose continuing
conditions on the owner to assure continuing compliance with this chapter, as
the court deems proper.
   N.   Limitation On Frequency Of Petitions: If the city court denies a
petition to remove a potentially dangerous or dangerous designation, the owner
may not file another such petition for at least one (1) year from the date of
the order denying the petition. (Ord. 417, 2-16-2021, eff. 3-18-2021)
6-2-8: IMPOUNDING:
   A.   Court Ordered Impoundment: If an owner fails to surrender an animal
when the animal control officer is either required or permitted to seize the
animal by city ordinance, the city or the animal control officer may file with
the city court a written petition seeking an immediate seizure order. The city
court may issue such an order without a hearing if the petition, made under
oath or affirmation, includes:
      1.   Facts to support probable cause to believe the animal must be
seized; and
      2.   An adequate description of the animal to be seized.
   B.   Impoundment Of Animals: Any animal found running at large or left
unattended or picketed upon any city right-of-way, city park, open space, or
other public facility; or picketed on private property in such a way that the
animal can enter the city right-of-way, city park, open space, or other public
facility may be taken by the animal control officer and impounded. Upon
impounding any animal, the animal control officer must make a reasonable effort
to notify the owner of the impounded animal and inform the owner of the
conditions whereby they may regain possession of the animal.
   C.   Notice Of Impoundment: The animal control officer shall provide the
owner with notice of impoundment. Notification may be accomplished orally by
phone, electronic mail, or in-person communication, or by written notice via
standard mail, personal delivery, or posting the notice in a conspicuous place
at the owner's residence.
   D.   Redemption Of Impounded Animals: If the city impounds, boards, or has
an animal sheltered for any reason not specifically discussed elsewhere in this
code, or does so because the animal was either abandoned or found pursuant to
this section, the owner shall be entitled to regain possession of the animal
upon compliance with all animal licensing provisions and payment of all fees
and charges provided for in this chapter, including but not limited to
impoundment fees.
   E.   Registry Of Impounded Animals: The animal control officer, upon
receiving any animal, shall make a complete registry, entering the breed, color
and sex of such domestic animal and whether licensed. If licensed, he shall
enter the name and address of the owner and the number of the license tag.
Licensed animals shall be separated from unlicensed animals. All animals
impounded shall be provided adequate food and shelter. (1975 Code § 6-2-7)
   F.   Impoundment Fees And Other Costs:
      1.   When an animal is impounded the owner thereof shall be charged an
initial fee of thirty-six dollars ($36.00). After the first twenty-four (24)
hours of impoundment, and for each twenty-four (24) hour period thereafter, the
owner thereof shall be charged additional thirty-six dollar ($36.00)
impoundment fees.
      2.   If the animal has been redeemed from impoundment and is subsequently
impounded, the initial fee and any subsequent impoundment fee(s) shall be
double the fees previously charged.
         a.   By way of example, upon the third impoundment the initial fee
shall be one hundred and eight dollars ($108.00) and the impoundment fee(s)
shall be one hundred and eight dollars ($108.00) per twenty-four (24) hours of
impoundment.
      3.   If an animal that is impounded or housed for any reason under this
chapter requires veterinary care or treatment, representatives of the facility
housing or caring for the animal are permitted to obtain the required
veterinary care or treatment for the animal. To reclaim the animal, the owner
shall, in addition to all other fees and costs incurred, reimburse the facility
for the veterinary care or treatment.
   G.   Sick Or Injured Animals: If in the sole and absolute discretion of both
the animal control officer and a veterinarian an animal is sick or injured such
that destruction is necessary, the animal may be humanely destroyed prior to
the five (5) days' notice period. Notice of impoundment shall be given pursuant
to this section prior to the animal's destruction. (Ord. 417, 2-16-2021, eff.
3-18-2021)
6-2-9: DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED ANIMALS:
   A.   Application For Humane Destruction: No earlier than five (5) days'
after notice of impoundment has been given, the animal control officer may make
written application to the city court for an order authorizing the humane
destruction of an animal in the custody, control and supervision of the animal
control officer. An application under this section shall be made under oath and
specifically set forth the following:
      1.   A description of the animal sought to be destroyed;
      2.   That the animal control officer has exercised his duty to seek out
and confirm ownership of the unclaimed animal, including providing notice as
provided herein; and
      3.   That to the best of his knowledge and belief, the animal control
officer is unaware of the owner of the unclaimed animal.
   B.   Order For Humane Destruction: An order for the humane destruction of an
animal shall be effective for a period of ten (10) days. If the unclaimed
animal has not been humanely destroyed in that time period, the animal may not
be destroyed without further court order, as provided herein. (Ord. 379, 7-21-
2003; amd. 2015 Code; Ord. 417, 2-16-2021, eff. 3-18-2021)
6-2-10: FINES:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a fine as
provided in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 363, 1-4-1999; amd. 2015 Code; Ord. 417, 2-16-2021,
eff. 3-18-2021)
6-2-11: INTERFERENCE:
It is unlawful for any person to hinder, detain or interfere with the animal
control officer in the performance of any duty or power imposed on him by this
chapter, or to release, or attempt to release, any animal in the custody of the
animal control officer, except as herein provided. (1975 Code § 6-2-16; amd.
Ord. 417, 2-16-2021, eff. 3-18-2021)
6-2-12: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS; POISONING:
It is unlawful for any person to willfully and cruelly inflict pain upon or
injure any animal. It is unlawful for any person to lay out or expose any
poison for the purpose of killing any dog or other animal, or to aid or abet
any person in so doing. (1975 Code § 6-2-17; amd. Ord. 417, 2-16-2021, eff. 3-
18-2021)
6-2-13: FREEING CONFINED ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for any person to open gates or doors or otherwise cause or
permit dogs or other animals to escape confinement against the wishes of the
owner. (1975 Code § 6-2-18; amd. Ord. 417, 2-16-2021, eff. 3-18-2021)
6-2-14: PROVOKING ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for any person to provoke, harangue, tease, torment or in any
way disturb a dog or other animal with the intent to cause it to bark or attack
any person. (1975 Code § 6-2-19; amd. Ord. 417, 2-16-2021, eff. 3-18-2021)
6-2-15: ALTERNATIVE TO DESTRUCTION OF ANIMAL:
Whenever an animal is to be humanely destroyed under this chapter, except for
infection with rabies, the owner or other person may apply to the city court
for permission to remove the animal permanently from the city and, upon such
person's filing with the court his written agreement to remove the animal
forthwith and to be responsible for its remaining out of the city permanently,
the city court judge may, in his or her discretion, make an order allowing said
animal to be removed from the city instead of being humanely destroyed. (1975
Code § 6-2-20; amd. 2015 Code; Ord. 417, 2-16-2021, eff. 3-18-2021)
6-2-16: DUTIES AND POWERS OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
   A.   Duties Generally: In addition to the duties and powers of the animal
control officer otherwise prescribed, he shall:
      1.   Keep and maintain adequate records of all animals impounded and of
all actions taken in the course of his duties.
      2.   Carry out and enforce all of the provisions of this chapter and
amendments thereof and state law pertaining to regulation of animals at large.
      3.   Enforce the licensing and control of all animals in the city as
provided in this chapter.
      4.   Seize and impound or quarantine all animals violating the provisions
of this chapter and the laws of the state of Montana and maintain the same in a
suitable and humane manner at the city pound.
   B.   Disposal Of Animals: Where this chapter requires that an animal be
destroyed, the destruction of the animal shall be accomplish in a humane
manner.
   C.   Pursuit Of Animals: The animal control officer shall pursue, upon
private property, any animal violating any provision of this chapter or the
laws of the state of Montana in his presence or when acting under a court
order, warrant, affidavit of a vicious animal, or when attempting to seize any
animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies.
   D.   Complaints: The animal control officer shall make complaints in the
appropriate court for violation of this chapter and state law and shall attend
and testify in court when requested.
   E.   Enforcement Of Court Orders: The animal control officer shall make
whatever inquiry is deemed necessary to ensure compliance with any conditions
imposed by the court. If the animal control officer determines that an owner of
an animal is not in compliance with a court order the animal control officer
shall as soon as is practicable seize and impound the animal, and the owner
shall be issued a notice to appear in court and show cause why the animal shall
not be humanely destroyed.
   F.   Provide Metallic Badges For Officers: The animal control officer shall
obtain and issue numbered metallic badges of suitable design as approved by the
city council, for himself and all of his officers and such badges shall be
exhibited as proof of authority, upon demand of any person.
   G.   Hours Pound Open: The animal control officer shall establish and
maintain regular hours during which the pound shall be open and shall post the
hours in a conspicuous place at the pound.
   H.   Issue Tickets: The animal control officer shall have authority to make
out and issue tickets for violation of this chapter and state law. (1975 Code §
6-2-21; amd. Ord. 417, 2-16-2021, eff. 3-18-2021)
6-2-17: APPLICATION:
If any provision of this chapter or its application to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of this chapter is not affected.
(Ord. 417, 2-16-2021, eff. 3-18-2021)
CHAPTER 3
CURFEW
SECTION:
6-3-1: Age And Hour Restrictions
6-3-2: Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian
6-3-3: Exceptions
6-3-4: Violation; Penalty
6-3-1: AGE AND HOUR RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Minors Between Fourteen And Eighteen Years Of Age: It shall be unlawful
for any minor who is fourteen (14), fifteen (15), sixteen (16), or seventeen
(17) years of age to be present in or upon the public streets, avenues,
highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, public
places or public buildings, cafes, theaters and other places of amusement and
entertainment, and vacant lots or other places during the following times:
      1.   Summer Curfew: Between the hours of eleven thirty o'clock (11:30)
P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the next day on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday and Thursday of each and every week, and between the hours of twelve
thirty o'clock (12:30) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on Friday and Saturday
of each and every week in the months of June, July and August of each year.
      2.   School Year Curfew: Between the hours of ten thirty o'clock (10:30)
P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the next day on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday and Thursday of each and every week, and between the hours of twelve
thirty o'clock (12:30) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on Friday and Saturday
of each and every week in the months of January, February, March, April, May,
September, October, November and December of each year.
   B.   Minors Under Fourteen Years Of Age: It shall be unlawful for any minor
under the age of fourteen (14) years to be present in or upon the public
streets, avenues, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public
grounds, public places and public buildings, cafes, theaters and other places
of amusement and entertainment, and vacant lots or other places between the
hours of ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the
next day of each and every day of the week. (Ord. 395, 8-18-2008)
6-3-2: RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN:
   A.   Unlawful To Allow Or Permit: It shall be unlawful for a parent,
guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of a minor to allow
or permit a minor to violate the provisions of section
6-3-1 of this chapter.
   B.   No Defense: In any prosecution under this section, it shall not
constitute a defense thereto that the parent, guardian or other adult person
having the care and custody of a minor did not have knowledge that such minor
was in violation of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 395, 8-18-2008)
6-3-3: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of section
6-3-1 of this chapter shall not apply in the following instances:
   A.   Accompanied Minor; Emergency; Legitimate Business: To a minor
accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or other adult person having the
care and custody of the minor, or when the minor is upon an emergency errand or
legitimate business directed by his or her parent, guardian, or other adult
person having the care and custody of the minor;
   B.   Employment: To a minor while engaged in any gainful occupation or
employment for his or her livelihood or part of his or her livelihood nor while
going to and from such employment; and
   C.   Written Consent: To any minor who is living with his parents or one of
them, or guardian, or with any foster parent or parents, who is absent from his
home during the prohibited hours, if such minor shall carry with him upon his
person the written permission of his parent, parents, guardian or foster
parents, to be absent from his home for a stated purpose, except when the above
is due to gainful employment as mentioned in subsection B of this section.
(Ord. 395, 8-18-2008)
6-3-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Separate Offense: Each violation of the provisions of this chapter
shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Minor: A minor violating the applicable provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be dealt with in accordance with the
laws of the state regarding crimes and offenses committed by juveniles, being
persons under eighteen (18) years of age.
   C.   Parents; Guardian: Any parent, guardian or other adult having the care
and custody of a minor violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a fine not
to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment in the county jail not
to exceed six (6) months, or both. (Ord. 395, 8-18-2008)
CHAPTER 4
JUNKED, NONOPERATING VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Keeping Junked Vehicles
6-4-2: Maintenance Of Premises
6-4-3: Storage; Enclosed Area
6-4-4: Licensed Places
6-4-5: Abatement
6-4-6: Failure To Abate
6-4-7: Penalty
6-4-1: KEEPING JUNKED VEHICLES:
Unless the requirements for use of enclosed storage buildings or enclosed
storage yards hereinafter set forth are met, no person shall keep, leave or
permit to remain upon private property within the city any old, unused,
stripped, junked or any other automobiles not in a good or safe operating
condition or any other vehicle, machine, implement and/or equipment or any
personal property of any kind which is no longer safely usable for the purpose
for which it was manufactured for a period longer than seven (7) days, and no
person shall keep, or leave, or permit to remain upon the public ways of the
city any motor vehicle or other personalty as herein described for periods
longer than two (2) days, and keeping or leaving of such motor vehicle or
personalty longer than such period is hereby declared to be dangerous to the
public safety and detrimental to the property of others and a nuisance. (1975
Code §
6-4-1)
6-4-2: MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES:
No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any premises shall
maintain or keep any such nuisance thereon, nor shall any such person keep or
maintain such premises in a manner causing substantial diminution in the value
of the other property in the neighborhood in which such premises are located.
(1975 Code §
6-4-2)
6-4-3: STORAGE; ENCLOSED AREA:
   A.   Prohibited; Exception: It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of
or in control of any premises, whether as owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or
otherwise, to allow any partially dismantled, wrecked, junked, discarded or
otherwise nonoperating motor vehicle to remain on such property longer than
seven (7) days; and no person shall leave any such vehicle in any street or
public way within the city for a longer time than two (2) days; except that
this chapter shall not apply with regard to any vehicle kept in an enclosed
building or enclosed yard and so located that it is not readily visible from
any public place or from any surrounding private property.
   B.   Further Exceptions: This chapter shall further not apply with regard to
any vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise duly licensed, operated in
a lawful place, other than in a residential district, and operated in a lawful
manner, when the keeping or maintenance of such vehicle is necessary to the
operation of such business enterprise; or with regard to a vehicle in an
appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner
by the city or any other public agency or entity. No premises licensed as a
business shall conduct such business so that it becomes dangerous to the public
health, safety and welfare, including a loss or diminution of value suffered by
the property of others. (1975 Code §
6-4-3)
6-4-4: LICENSED PLACES:
   A.   No person in charge of or in control of premises, whether an owner,
lessee, tenant, occupant, or otherwise, shall hold themselves out as an auto
mechanic, repair or service business or tear down or allow to be torn down,
strip, junk, repair, service, maintain, store, or hold a motor vehicle for any
of these purposes, upon the public ways of the city or upon private property
not licensed as a place to conduct such activity, except for a private vehicle
owned by the person in charge of the premises. Such activities shall not cause
any other citizen of the city to complain of either noise, odor, or undesirable
view by reason of such activity.
   B.   At any place licensed to conduct such activity, such activity must be
conducted in a manner in which protection of public health, safety and welfare,
including the protection of desirable view of others, will be undertaken by the
business conducting the activity. (1975 Code §
6-4-4; amd. 2015 Code)
6-4-5: ABATEMENT:
The owner, tenant, lessee and/or occupant of any lot within the corporate
limits of the city upon which such unlawful keeping, leaving, storing or other
activity is occurring, and also the owner and/or lessee of said personalty
involved in such unlawful keeping, leaving, storing or other activity (all of
whom are hereinafter referred to collectively as "owners"), shall jointly and
severally abate said nuisance by the prompt removal of said personalty into
completely enclosed buildings or enclosed storage yards to be used for such
purposes if within the corporate limits or otherwise to properly dispose of
such personalty or to cease and desist from such activity as soon as notified
that such activity or unlawful keeping, leaving, storing or other activity
constitutes a nuisance. (1975 Code §
6-4-5)
6-4-6: FAILURE TO ABATE:
Whenever said owners fail to abate said nuisance, then the city shall remove
the said personalty to a location of its selection, the expenses therefor to be
billed to said owners, jointly and severally, said bill to be recoverable in a
suit at law. When said personalty has been removed and placed in storage by the
city, as provided for herein, said personalty shall be sold by the city after
the lapse of such time as is provided by law. If the proceeds of such sale are
insufficient to pay the costs of abatement, said owners shall be liable to the
city for the balance of the costs, jointly and severally, to be recoverable in
a suit of law. If the proceeds are in excess of costs, the balance shall be
paid to said owners, or deposited in the city treasury for their use. (1975
Code §
6-4-6)
6-4-7: PENALTY:
If the owners allow said nuisance to exist or fail to abate said nuisance,
they, and each of them, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in
section
1-4-2 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which said nuisance is permitted to exist;
for any other violation of this chapter not sought or held to constitute a
nuisance hereunder, a fine as provided in section
1-4-2 of this code, and each separate day of continuance of such violation
after the first day upon which said violation is chargeable shall be considered
as a separate offense against the provisions of this chapter. (1975 Code §
6-4-7; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 5
NOXIOUS WEEDS AND UNDESIRABLE VEGETATION
SECTION:
6-5-1: Definitions
6-5-2: Cutting Or Removing Required
6-5-3: Failure To Comply; No Notice Required; Assessment
6-5-4: Disposition Of Monies Received
6-5-5: Penalty
6-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
NOXIOUS WEED: As defined in Montana Code Annotated section 7-22-2101.
VEGETATION: Includes all vegetation that is unsightly, troublesome, useless, or
noxious. It shall include all weeds and vegetation growth that has been
declared noxious, destructive and detrimental to the agricultural interest or
any similar unwanted vegetation. Any grass or weeds over eight inches (8") in
height as determined by city employees. (Ord. 402, 5-2-2011)
6-5-2: CUTTING OR REMOVING REQUIRED:
The owner of any lot, place or area within the city, or agent of such owner, is
hereby required to cut or remove all vegetation from said property under his
control and one-half (1/2) of any alley or street abutting said property. It
shall be the duty of the owner, or agent of such owner, to maintain his
property so that it shall not be considered a fire hazard, or a public or
private nuisance. (Ord. 402, 5-2-2011)
6-5-3: FAILURE TO COMPLY; NO NOTICE REQUIRED; ASSESSMENT:
   A.   Abatement By City: Where a complaint has been made or the city has
reason to believe, after inspection and photographic documentation, that
"vegetation", as defined herein, is present upon a person's land within the
city limits, in violation of the law, then the city, through its designated
representative, may direct or hire the removal or eradication of unwanted
vegetation and/or grass and weeds over eight inches (8") in height in order to
bring the lot into compliance. (Ord. 402, 5-2-2011)
   B.   Assessment Of Costs; Collection: If the city exercises its right under
this chapter, then the city shall assess the lot owner, or agent of such owner,
a minimum fee to be determined by council resolution from time to time. Bills
must specify and order a payment due date of thirty (30) days from the date the
bill is sent. If the billed amount is not paid when due, the city shall proceed
in any lawful manner to collect the amount billed. (Ord. 402, 5-2-2011; amd.
2015 Code)
6-5-4: DISPOSITION OF MONIES RECEIVED:
All monies received for the payment of the cutting or removal of weeds by the
city maintenance department shall go to the general fund. (Ord. 402, 5-2-2011)
6-5-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punishable as provided in sections
1-4-1 and
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 402, 5-2-2011)
CHAPTER 6
NOISE
SECTION:
6-6-1: Definitions
6-6-2: Loud Noises Prohibited
6-6-3: Prohibited Acts
6-6-4: Exemption
6-6-5: Property Owner Liable
6-6-6: Permit For Relief
6-6-7: Violation; Penalty
6-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
words and phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
EMERGENCY WORK: Work made necessary to restore property to a safe condition
following a calamity or work required to protect persons or property from
exposure to danger or potential danger.
HEALTH: An optimal state of physical, mental and emotional well being and not
merely the absence of disease.
PERSON: Any person, persons, firm, association, copartnership, joint venture,
corporation or any entity, public or private in nature. (Ord. 371, 10-18-1999)
6-6-2: LOUD NOISES PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to make or cause to be made any excessive,
sustained or unusually loud noise or any noise measured or unmeasured which
either annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health,
peace or safety of any reasonable person of normal sensitivity within the
limits of the city, from the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. to six o'clock
(6:00) A.M., which period of time shall be known as quiet time. (Ord. 371, 10-
18-1999)
6-6-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It is unlawful to perform any of the following acts within the city:
   A.   Horns, Signaling Devices And Jake Brakes: Repeatedly sounding any horn,
signaling device or jake brakes on any truck, automobile, motorcycle, or other
vehicle on any street or public place of the city except as a warning signal.
   B.   Sound Amplifying Equipment: Using, operating, or permitting the use of
any radio receiving set, musical instrument, amplifier, television, tape
player, phonograph, or other machine or device for the production or
reproduction of sound in such a manner as to disturb the quiet, comfort, or
repose of any normally sensitive and reasonable person, or the operation of any
such sets, instruments, amplifiers, television, radio, phonograph, machine or
device in such a manner as to be in violation of this chapter.
   C.   Loudspeakers And Amplifiers For Commercial Purposes; Permit:
Installing, using or operating within the city a loudspeaker or sound
amplifying equipment in a fixed or movable position or mounted upon any sound
truck for the purpose of giving instructions, directions, talks, addresses,
lectures, or transmitting music to any person or assemblages of persons in or
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, park, place, or public property without first
obtaining a permit.
   D.   Yelling Or Shouting: Repeated yelling, shouting, hooting or whistling
within yards, outside public or private homes, on the public streets, alleys,
or parks at any time in such a manner as to annoy or disturb the quiet,
comfort, or repose of any normally sensitive and reasonable person.
   E.   Animals: Owning, keeping, having in possession or harboring any animals
which by frequent, sustained or habitual howling, barking, meowing, squawking
or any other noise in such a manner as to disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose
of any normally sensitive and reasonable person.
   F.   Exhausts: Discharging into the open air the exhaust of any steam
engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motorboat, or motor vehicle,
except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom.
   G.   Defect In Vehicle Or Load: Operating any truck, trailer, automobile,
motorcycle, or vehicle so out of repair or so loaded in such a manner as to
create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noises.
   H.   Loading, Unloading And Opening Containers: Loading, unloading, opening
or other handling of boxes, crates, containers, garbage containers, or other
objects in such a manner as to disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any
normally sensitive and reasonable person.
   I.   Construction Projects Or Repair Of Buildings: Operating equipment or
performing any construction or repair work between the hours of ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on buildings, structures or projects
or operating any pile driver, excavator, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or
electric hoist or other construction type device in such a manner as to disturb
the quiet, comfort or repose of any normally sensitive and reasonable person.
   J.   Exemption Clause: Any of the above acts performed for emergency work
for the safety, welfare, and public health of the citizens of the city and to
the extent that the noise thereby created is reasonably necessary for the
public benefit will not be construed to be in violation of this chapter. (Ord.
371, 10-18-1999)
6-6-4: EXEMPTION:
The following uses and activities shall be exempt from noise regulation:
   A.   Noise resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle when responding
to an emergency call or acting in time of emergency.
   B.   Noise resulting from emergency work or noise for which a special permit
has been granted.
   C.   Noise resulting from the operating of motorized lawn mowers fitted with
equipment type mufflers between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M.
   D.   Noise caused by home or building repair or grounds maintenance between
the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
   E.   Athletic events held in stadiums or parks.
   F.   Noise resulting from marching bands or drum and bugle corps while
practicing or parading. (Ord. 371, 10-18-1999)
6-6-5: PROPERTY OWNER LIABLE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly permit any disturbance
described in this chapter upon premises owned or occupied by him or her. (Ord.
371, 10-18-1999)
6-6-6: PERMIT FOR RELIEF:
   A.   Application: Application for a permit for relief from the noise
regulation designated in this chapter on the basis of undue hardship or for
special events open to the public may be made to the city council. The city
council may delegate the responsibility for examining and responding to the
applications to a council member or members or the mayor or other authorized
city employee.
   B.   Criteria For Approval: Any permit granted by the city council shall
contain all conditions upon which the permit has been granted and shall specify
a reasonable time that the permit shall be effective, and any other
requirements or conditions. The city council may grant the permit applied for
if the council finds that:
      1.   Additional time is necessary for the applicant to alter or modify
the activity or operation to comply with this chapter, and no other reasonable
alternative is available to the applicant; or
      2.   The activity, event, operation or noise source will be of temporary
duration, cannot be performed in a manner that would otherwise comply with this
chapter, and granting the permit is in the public interest.
      3.   The city council may prescribe any conditions or requirements deemed
necessary to minimize adverse effects upon the community or surrounding
neighborhood. (Ord. 371, 10-18-1999)
6-6-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Violation: Any person including an owner who is convicted of a
violation of this chapter shall, for each offense, be fined in a sum of not
more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) or imprisoned not to exceed ninety
(90) days, or both. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense. Law enforcement officers shall
have the authority to:
      1.   Issue a written warning on the first offense;
      2.   Issue a citation on the second offense.
   B.   Additional Remedy; Injunction: As an additional remedy, the operation
or maintenance of any noise source in violation of any provision of this
chapter and which causes discomfort and annoyance to any reasonable person of
normal sensitivity or which endangers the comfort, repose, health or peace of
residents in the area shall be a public nuisance and shall be subject to
abatement summarily by a restraining order or injunction issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 371, 10-18-1999)
CHAPTER 7
VIDEO GAMBLING
SECTION:
6-7-1: Definitions
6-7-2: Hours Of Operation
6-7-3: Penalty
6-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, video gambling machines are defined by
section 23-5-602, Montana Code Annotated, 2015. (Ord. 413, 2-16-2016)
6-7-2: HOURS OF OPERATION:
Within the city of Conrad, video gambling machines may be operated at any
establishment not otherwise restricted as to hours of operation at any hour of
the day or night, seven (7) days per week, as authorized by section 23-5-620,
Montana Code Annotated, 2015. (Ord. 413, 2-16-2016)
6-7-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 413, 2-16-2016)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
UTILITIES GENERALLY; BILLING, RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
7-1-1: Adoption Of Rules
7-1-2: Monthly Billing; Payment; Liability
7-1-3: Deposit Of Funds
7-1-4: City Finance Officer; Billing Procedure
7-1-5: Solid Waste Removal Fees And Charges
7-1-6: Water And Sewer Rates And Charges
7-1-7: Water And Sewer System Development Fees
7-1-8: Direction And Control
7-1-9: Tapping Water Main; Charges
7-1-10: Delinquent Utility Bills; Late Fees
7-1-11: Abandonment Of Water And Sewer Lines
7-1-1: ADOPTION OF RULES:
The rules and regulations for operation of the solid waste collection
department, the sewer department or the water department, and the use of
services from those systems, shall be as provided in chapters 2, 3 and 4 of
this title, and any ordinances subsequently adopted amendatory thereof and
supplemental thereto. (1975 Code § 8-4-6; amd. 2015 Code)
7-1-2: MONTHLY BILLING; PAYMENT; LIABILITY:
   A.   Monthly Billing; Liability: The amount of charges for the public
utility services provided for in chapters 2, 3 and 4 of this title shall be
billed each month to the property owner or authorized tenant of each premises
served, upon completion of the proper forms at city hall. The property owner is
ultimately responsible if the tenant or authorized agent fails to pay the
charges. (Ord. 352, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord. 357, 12-1-1997; 2015 Code)
   B.   Payment Of Charges: The charges will be billed monthly for service and
shall be due and payable by the date indicated on the billing statement. All
charges shall be billed against the property on which it is furnished and
against the owner thereof, and if for any cause any sums owing therefor become
delinquent, the service may be cut off, and in no case shall it be turned on
the same property until such delinquent sums shall have been paid in full. No
change of ownership or occupant shall affect the application of this
subsection. Such notice shall be delivered by regular mail to the user on
record at city hall. Upon failure to comply with the rules and regulations
established as a condition to the use of services or to pay any related
charges, or any charge of penalty imposed, in the time and manner herein
provided, the service may be shut off until payment of the amount due, plus a
fee to be determined by the city council assessed for turning the service off
and on. (1975 Code § 8-4-2; amd. Ord. 357, 12-1-1997; Ord. 385, 3-1-2004; 2015
Code)
7-1-3: DEPOSIT OF FUNDS:
Employees collecting bills or handling other funds of the solid waste
collection system, the sewer system and the water system shall deposit such
funds in the bank daily, and duplicate deposit receipt shall be filed with the
city finance officer. (Ord. 357, 12-1-1997; amd. 2015 Code)
7-1-4: CITY FINANCE OFFICER; BILLING PROCEDURE:
   A.   Responsibility Of City Finance Officer; Bond: The city finance officer
shall be charged with the responsibility for the proper billing, collection and
application of all charges due for service rendered and made available by the
system, and for the discontinuance of service in case of nonpayment of charges
or noncompliance with regulations; and the finance officer shall be bonded at
all times with a surety company authorized to do business in Montana, pursuant
to subsection 1-7-1B of this code, to assure the faithful carrying out of such
duties. Any failure on the part of the finance officer to comply and to enforce
compliance on the part of all officers and employees concerned with the
provisions of this title, and with the city's other regulations respecting the
water, sewer and solid waste systems, shall constitute malfeasance for which
the finance officer and the surety on his bond shall be personally liable.
(1975 Code §§
7-3-2, 8-4-4; amd. Ord. 357, 12-1-1997; 2015 Code)
   B.   Default On Water Or Sewer Bonds: In the event of default on the part of
the city in the payment of principal of or interest on any bond promptly as
each falls due, or in the keeping of any covenants herein contained, and if
such default shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days, the city council
will appoint a special superintendent for the system, with the power and
responsibility to operate the system for the city, and to recommend to the
council such revisions of the rates and charges and operating policies as may
be necessary to comply with this title, and to assure that the net revenues
will be sufficient to pay all bond principal and interest, and he shall in all
things so operate the system as to fully comply with all the requirements and
provisions of this title. The right of the holders of the bonds to require
employment of such a superintendent shall not be exclusive, and in the event of
default as herein outlined, such holder or holders shall have the right to
proceed at law or in equity to require the performance of the covenants herein
contained, in any form of action which shall to them seem appropriate. (1975
Code § 8-4-4; amd. Ord. 357, 12-1-1997)
7-1-5: SOLID WASTE REMOVAL FEES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Collection Fees; Billing With Water And Sewer Bill: The city sanitation
department will weekly, semiweekly, or daily, as required, remove all waste
from the waste receptacles and containers and transport it to the northern
Montana joint refuse disposal district. For this service, a fee is hereby
imposed by the city to be paid by each water user, owner or occupant from whose
premises the waste is removed. This fee will be billed with the monthly water
bill, and collected and paid as a part of said bill and subject to the same
penalties for nonpayment as those applicable to nonpayment of water bills where
the waste is removed from the premises of a water customer of the city.
   B.   Nonwater Customer: Where the waste is removed from the premises of a
nonwater customer, the fee will be billed monthly to the owner or occupant of
the premises. (Ord. 394, 3-3-2008)
   C.   Rates Determined By Council: The rates to be charged for waste removal
and the replacement charge for receptacles and containers furnished by the city
shall be established by resolution of the city council from time to time after
a public hearing with notice thereof given as provided by law. (Ord. 394, 3-3-
2008; amd. 2015 Code)
7-1-6: WATER AND SEWER RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Determination Of Rates, Fees And Charges:
      1.   Sewer Service: Unless otherwise prescribed by ordinance, the rates,
fees and charges, determined by the water service line and multiplier, for
sewer service, facilities and benefits directly or indirectly afforded by the
city sewer system shall be determined by the city council, taking into account
services provided and benefits received. The city council shall, in fixing said
rates, fees and charges, also take into consideration the quantity of sewage
produced, and its concentration and water pollution qualities in general and
its cost of disposal of sewage and stormwaters, and may be on the basis of
water consumption or other equitable basis the city council considers
appropriate; provided, that any rates, fees and charges shall be nearly as
possible equitable in proportion to the services and benefits rendered and
uniform for the services in all parts of the city. (Ord. 352, 1-6-1997; amd.
2015 Code)
      2.   Water Service: Unless otherwise prescribed by ordinance, the rates,
fees and charges, determined by the water service meter size and multiplier,
for water service, facilities and benefits directly or indirectly afforded by
the city water system shall be determined by the city council taking into
account services provided and benefits received necessary to maintain and
operate the system. (Ord. 357, 12-1-1997; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Periodic Adjustments; Disposition Of Funds: The rates, fees and charges
established for the services and facilities afforded by the city water and
sewer systems shall be as adjusted from time to time by resolution of the city
council duly adopted after a public hearing with notice thereof given as
provided by law, to sufficiently provide in each year income and revenues
adequate for the payment of the reasonable expense of operation and maintenance
and for the payment of sums required to be paid into the debt service fund and
for the accumulation of reserves and the making of such expenditures for
depreciation and replacement of said systems. (Ord. 352, 1-6-1997; amd. Ord.
357, 12-1-1997; Res. 14-1116, 10-15-2013; 2015 Code)
   C.   Water Meters: Water meters shall be read monthly, except that if access
cannot be gained to any premises for said purpose at the time of any meter
reading, the amount of water consumed may be estimated and corrected in the
next subsequent statement of charges. (Ord. 352, 1-6-1997)
7-1-7: WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEES:
Effective November 1, 2013, as a condition to adding a new service connection
to the water system or the sewer system, there shall be charged by the city a
water system development fee or a sewer system development fee which shall be
based upon the diameter of the water service meter and multiplier. (Res. 14-
1116, 10-15-2013; amd. 2015 Code)
7-1-8: DIRECTION AND CONTROL:
All matters relating to control and management of the public utilities system
shall be done and performed under the supervision of the public works director
in strict conformity with the provisions of this title and with any additional
rules and regulations that may be made from time to time by the city council.
(1975 Code § 8-4-1; amd. Ord. 394, 3-3-2008; 2015 Code)
7-1-9: TAPPING WATER MAIN; CHARGES:
   A.   Charges: The charge for tapping water service mains and installing
water main tapping saddles, corporations and water meters shall be at a cost to
be determined by the city council from time to time and is to be paid by the
applicant to the city. (Ord. 357, 12-1-1997)
   B.   Single Service Line: There shall be only one water service line from
the water main to any one building. (1975 Code § 8-4-9; amd. 2015 Code)
7-1-10: DELINQUENT UTILITY BILLS; LATE FEES:
When a citizen of the city receives his monthly bill for city utilities, which
includes water, sewer and garbage, and the same has not been paid by five
o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the twenty fifth of the month or five o'clock (5:00)
P.M. on the following working day if the twenty fifth falls on a Saturday,
Sunday or holiday, the new bill will include a ten dollar ($10.00) late charge;
provided, that the amount due exceeds ten dollars ($10.00), as hereinabove
computed. Once a late charge has been assessed, said charge becomes part of the
unpaid principal balance and is included in the bill for purposes of
determining whether or not the unpaid balance exceeds ten dollars ($10.00) and
is, therefore, subject to another late charge the following month. (Ord. 376,
6-17-2002)
7-1-11: ABANDONMENT OF WATER AND SEWER LINES:
   A.   Abandonment Of Water Lines: Water lines may be abandoned only upon
application by the property owner with the city. All abandoned water lines
shall be dug up at the curb stop, the curb stop shall be removed, and the line
shall be properly capped off. No water line may be abandoned without the
consent and inspection of the public works director.
   B.   Abandonment Of Sewer Lines: Sewer lines may be abandoned only upon
application by the property owner with the city. All abandoned sewer lines
shall be dug up at the edge of the property and shall be properly capped off.
No sewer line may be abandoned without the consent of and inspection by the
public works director.
   C.   Property Owner Responsible: The property owner shall be responsible for
applying for the abandonment of any water or sewer line and obtaining the
approval of the public works director. The property owner may hire a contractor
or other person or entity to perform the work. The property owner shall be
responsible for all costs and expenses involved in abandoning a water or sewer
line. (Ord. 397, 10-20-2008)
CHAPTER 2
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definitions
7-2-2: Laws And Rules Governing The Disposal Of All Waste
7-2-3: Collection Of Garbage; Private Carriers Prohibited
7-2-4: Removal Of Commercial And Other Waste
7-2-5: Preparation Of Refuse For Collection
7-2-6: Dirt And Rocks; Building Rubbish
7-2-7: Removal Of Carcasses
7-2-8: Deleterious Clothing, Bedding, Other Materials
7-2-9: Disturbing Refuse Receptacles, Containers Or Contents
7-2-10: Unauthorized Accumulation
7-2-11: Burning Of Waste Prohibited
7-2-12: Violation; Penalty
7-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, in this chapter, the following
definitions apply:
BUILDING RUBBISH: The waste material from the construction, remodeling and
repair operation on houses, commercial buildings and other structures. Building
rubbish comprises, among a great variety of rejected matter, excavated earth,
stones, bricks, plaster, wallpaper, lumber, shingles, concrete, and waste
occasioned by the installation or replacement of plumbing, heating systems,
electrical work and roofing.
COMMERCIAL WASTE: The waste which originates from places engaged primarily in
the sale or furnishing of goods or services.
GARBAGE: The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling, cooking
and consumption of foods. It is composed largely of organic matter and its
natural moisture content. Garbage originates primarily in kitchens, homes,
restaurants, hotels and other places where food is cooked or consumed.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: A. A waste or combination of wastes that, because of its
quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics,
may:
      1.   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
      2.   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported or disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   B.   Hazardous wastes do not include those substances governed by Montana
Code Annotated.
MARKET REFUSE: The refuse from wholesale and retail stores and markets
resulting from the handling, storage and selling of food products. Market
refuse originates principally in poultry, fish, vegetable and fruit markets and
from the ordinary operation of preparing food products for sale.
REFUSE: This term is used to refer to solid waste.
RESIDENTIAL WASTE: All waste which is not included in the definition of
"commercial waste" in this section.
SOLID WASTE: All putrescible and nonputrescible wastes, including, but not
limited to, garbage; rubbish; refuse; ashes; sludge from sewage treatment
plants, water supply treatment plants, or air pollution control facilities;
construction and demolition wastes; dead animals, including offal; discarded
home and industrial appliances; wood products or wood byproducts and inert
materials. The term does not mean municipal sewage, industrial wastewater
effluents, or mining wastes regulated under the mining and reclamation laws
administered by the department of environmental quality, slash and forest
debris regulated under laws administered by the department of natural resources
and conservation, or marketable byproducts. (Ord. 394, 3-3-2008)
7-2-2: LAWS AND RULES GOVERNING THE DISPOSAL OF ALL WASTE:
   A.   The removal of all waste in the city of Conrad, Montana, is governed by
and subject to this chapter, all rules of Northern Montana Joint Refuse
Disposal District, laws of the state of Montana and laws of the United States.
   B.   If any residential or commercial customer places material in garbage
receptacles in violation of any of the rules referenced above and the city of
Conrad is charged extra for disposal of the same, the city shall send a bill to
the customer in the amount of the extra charge. All customers who violate the
rules and therefore incur an extra disposal charge are responsible for those
extra charges. (2015 Code)
7-2-3: COLLECTION OF GARBAGE; PRIVATE CARRIERS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Garbage Receptacles: The city shall provide garbage receptacles to all
residential customers for collection of residential waste.
   B.   Placement Of Receptacle In Alley: All garbage and solid waste, except
as herein otherwise provided, shall be deposited in the alley nearest the
premises, or at a place designated by the city public works director, in a
receptacle provided by the city, so that the city garbage collector may remove
such garbage.
   C.   Exception To Alley Placement: Where there is no alley adjacent to the
premises, said garbage and solid waste shall be deposited into a roll-out
garbage receptacle provided by the city. Such roll-out garbage containers shall
be rolled out to the curb by the customer on the day set for garbage collection
by the city public works director. Each roll-out container shall be given a
serial number and each serial number shall be assigned to the customer or
household by the city.
   D.   Specific Penalty For Loss Or Destruction Of Roll-Out Containers: Any
person who is responsible for the loss or destruction of a roll-out container
belonging to the city shall, in addition to the general penalty for violation
of this chapter, be responsible for the cost of replacing the container. (Ord.
394, 3-3-2008)
   E.   Prohibition Against Private Carriers: The city shall be the sole
provider of garbage and solid waste disposal services within the corporate
limits of the city. (Ord. 345, 12-16-1991; amd. 2015 Code)
7-2-4: REMOVAL OF COMMERCIAL AND OTHER WASTE:
   A.   Garbage Receptacles: The city shall provide garbage receptacles to all
commercial customers for collection of commercial waste.
   B.   Commercial Waste Creating Undue Hardship: The city reserves the right
to refuse to collect commercial waste that creates undue hardship as determined
by the city public works director.
   C.   Commercial Customers: All commercial customers are subject to all rules
of Northern Montana Joint Refuse Disposal District, laws of the state of
Montana and laws of the United States in reference to waste disposal.
   D.   Removal Of Garbage: Commercial waste, garbage, refuse and market
refuse, when placed out of doors, shall be deposited in containers, with lids,
and shall be removed from the premises where such garbage originated, or such
commercial waste, garbage, refuse and market refuse will be removed by the city
garbage collectors after proper arrangements are made at the office of the city
finance officer and charges paid.
   E.   Removal When Necessary: Commercial waste, garbage, refuse and market
refuse shall be removed to the Northern Montana Joint Refuse Disposal District
from the premises where it originates when the quantity of such material makes
daily removal necessary; but, in any event, such material shall be removed as
often as is reasonably necessary. (Ord. 394, 3-3-2008; amd. 2015 Code)
7-2-5: PREPARATION OF REFUSE FOR COLLECTION:
   A.   Garbage: All garbage shall be drained of all surplus liquids, except
grease, and thereupon shall be packaged or contained in a manner which will
prevent seepage or spillage before depositing said garbage in the garbage
receptacle. No person shall cast, place, sweep or deposit anywhere within the
city any refuse in such a manner that it may be carried or deposited by the
elements upon any street, sidewalk, alley, sewer, parkway, avenue or other
public place, or into any occupied premises within the city.
   B.   Paper And Combustible Rubbish: Paper and combustible rubbish of every
kind whatsoever shall be packaged or contained in a manner that will prevent
blowing by the wind and shall then be deposited in a proper receptacle.
   C.   Lawn Trimmings; Weeds:
      1.   Grass, Weeds: Grass cut from lawns, weeds removed from yards and
gardens, and similar waste will be placed either in a box with a secure cover
or lid or in a plastic bag which is securely fastened at the top and the box or
plastic bag shall then be placed in the garbage receptacles. Alternatively, the
customer may take lawn trimmings, grass, and other yard and garden waste to the
Northern Montana Joint Refuse Disposal District roll-off site compost pile.
      2.   Hedges; Trees: Trimmings resulting from trimming or removing hedges
and trees shall be cut up into short lengths, not to exceed three feet (3'),
and securely tied or bound together, and placed in the garbage receptacles, or
removed to the Northern Montana Joint Refuse Disposal District by the occupant
or owner of the premises.
      3.   Tree Trunks: Tree trunks more than six inches (6") in diameter at
the large end shall be removed to the Northern Montana Joint Refuse Disposal
District by the occupant or owner of the premises, and will not be removed by
the city garbage collectors.
   D.   Plastic Bags: All plastic bags used to contain any of the materials
required by this chapter to be placed in plastic bags shall be of a strength
and size sufficient to handle such materials without spilling or breaking.
(Ord. 394, 3-3-2008)
   E.   Hot Ashes, Sludge: It shall be unlawful to dispose of hot ashes and
sludge from sump pits in city receptacles. (2015 Code)
7-2-6: DIRT AND ROCKS; BUILDING RUBBISH:
   A.   Hauling Away Dirt And Rocks: Dirt and rocks accumulated as a result of
improving or grading lawns and gardens, or accumulated as a result of
excavation of building sites, shall not be deposited in streets or alleys, but
shall be removed from the premises where such material originates, by the
occupant, owner, contractor, or whoever was responsible for doing the work.
Such dirt and rocks may be used to fill in low lots, with the consent of the
owners of the low lots, or may be used to fill in low streets, with the consent
of the city council or city public works director, or may be removed to the
Northern Montana Joint Refuse Disposal District.
   B.   Other Building Rubbish: Other building rubbish shall be removed to the
Northern Montana Joint Refuse Disposal District from the premises where such
rubbish originates, by the occupant, owner, contractor, or whoever was
responsible for doing the work. (Ord. 394, 3-3-2008)
7-2-7: REMOVAL OF CARCASSES:
No dead animals or offal shall be placed with, or in, any garbage or other
refuse container. All dead animals or offal shall be removed by their owner, or
other person on whose premises they may be found, to the Northern Montana Joint
Refuse Disposal District within a reasonable time as determined by the animal
control officer, no more than twenty four (24) hours after death or notice of
death. Each person removing a dead animal shall comply with the applicable
rules or requirements of the Northern Montana Joint Refuse Disposal District.
(Ord. 394, 3-3-2008; amd. 2015 Code)
7-2-8: DELETERIOUS CLOTHING, BEDDING, OTHER MATERIALS:
All rubbish, such as rags, used clothing, all bedding, mattresses, shoes and
other materials which may carry infectious or contagious substances or
communicable diseases shall not be placed in or with any garbage or other
refuse, but taken as directly as possible to the Northern Montana Joint Refuse
Disposal District. The city garbage collectors shall not retain any material of
this character nor carry the same to any premises for storage, segregation or
use. (Ord. 394, 3-3-2008)
7-2-9: DISTURBING REFUSE RECEPTACLES, CONTAINERS OR CONTENTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to move, molest, remove, handle, go through
the contents or otherwise disturb the refuse receptacles, containers or the
contents thereof, which have been properly placed by the city for service;
provided, however, that this section shall not apply to the owner or occupant
of the residence dwelling or other building, so placing the refuse and
receptacle, or to others whose legal duty it is to handle said receptacles and/
or their contents. Further, the roll-out containers provided by the city for
residential waste may be moved by the owner or occupant of the residence for
the purpose of placing the container on the curb for collection. (Ord. 394, 3-
3-2008)
7-2-10: UNAUTHORIZED ACCUMULATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or cause the accumulation of
refuse or garbage upon any premises. Such accumulation is a nuisance and is
prohibited. Failure to remove any existing accumulation of refuse within the
time specified by law shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 394,
3-3-2008)
7-2-11: BURNING OF WASTE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any waste within the city limits in
the open air or in any garbage receptacle or container of any sort. (Ord. 394,
3-3-2008)
7-2-12: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 394, 3-3-2008; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definitions
7-3-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
7-3-3: Private Sewage Disposal
7-3-4: Protection From Damage
7-3-5: Power And Authority Of Inspectors
7-3-6: Building Sewers
7-3-7: Sewer Pipe Restriction
7-3-8: Council Permission To Connect
7-3-9: Violation
7-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct from
sanitary sewage.
INSPECTOR: The person or persons duly authorized by the city to inspect and
approve the installation of building sewers and their connection to the public
sewer system.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: The city public works director or his authorized deputy,
agent or representative.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which stormwaters, surface
waters and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
groundwater, surface water and stormwater as may be present.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of
sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SHALL; MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive. (1975 Code §
7-3-1; amd. 2015 Code)
7-3-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Prohibited Deposits: It shall be unlawful for any person to place,
deposit or permit to be deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or
private property within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
city, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste which
would be regarded as sewage or industrial waste.
   B.   Discharge Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural
outlet or stream within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
city, any sanitary sewage, industrial waste, or other pollutants or polluted
waters, except where the same has been treated by the public sewer system of
the city or acceptable private sewage works.
   C.   Construction Of Privy, Septic Tank, Cesspool: Except as herein
provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool or other facilities intended or used for the disposal of
sewage.
   D.   Connection Required: The owners of all houses, buildings or properties
used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated
within the city and abutting any street, alley or right of way in which there
is now located or may in the future be located a public sewer or combined sewer
of the city, is hereby required, at their expense, to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such toilet facilities directly with the
public sewer system in accordance with the provisions of section
7-3-6 of this chapter, within sixty (60) days after date of official written
notice by the city finance officer to do so; provided, that said public sewer
is within one hundred feet (100') of the property line.
   E.   Runoff: Roofs, paved areas, yards, courts and courtyards shall be
drained into a storm sewer system or a combined sewer system where such systems
are available. Drainage from the above cited sources, and stormwater generally
shall not be drained into sanitary sewers.
   F.   Harmful Wastes: No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to
any public sewer, any harmful waters or wastes, whether liquid, solid or gas,
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in the sewers, damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works, or other interferences
with the proper operation of the sewage works. (1975 Code §
7-3-4)
   G.   Grease, Oil And Sand Interceptors: Grease, oil and sand interceptors
shall be provided when, in the opinion of the city public works director, they
are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable
grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful
ingredients.
   H.   Approval: All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by
the city public works director and the Montana state plumbing code, and shall
be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   I.   Removal And Disposal Of Material: In the maintaining of these
interceptors, the owner shall be responsible for the proper removal and
disposal by appropriate means of the captivated material and shall maintain
records of the dates and means of disposal which are subject to review by the
city public works director. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials
not performed by the owner or personnel shall be performed by currently
licensed waste disposal firms. (2015 Code)
7-3-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Public Sanitary Sewer Or Combined Sewer Unavailable: Where a public
sanitary sewer or combined sewer is not available under the provisions of
subsection 7-3-2D of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a
private sewage disposal system complying with all the requirements of the state
department of health and environmental sciences.
   B.   Connection Required: At such time as a public sewer becomes available
to a property served by a sewage disposal system as provided in subsection 7-3-
2D of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in
compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned.
   C.   Maintenance Of Private Facilities: The owner shall operate and maintain
the private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no
expense to the city. (Ord. 398, 10-20-2008)
   D.   Additional Requirements: No statement contained in this chapter shall
be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed
by the county sanitarian.
   E.   Private Hauler: A private hauler may dispose of sewage from septic
tanks, portable toilets, and similar units at the sewer manhole of the city
shop or agreed upon alternate location with the city public works director.
Private haulers shall obtain approval from the public works director prior to
disposing of sewage at the designated sewer manhole. Fees for private disposal
of sewage shall be set from time to time by resolution of the city council. Any
private hauler who disposes of sewage in violation of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 398, 10-20-2008; amd. 2015 Code)
7-3-4: PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest and shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (1975 Code §
7-3-6)
7-3-5: POWER AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
The city public works director, inspector and other duly authorized employees
of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter upon all the properties for the purpose of inspections, observations,
measurements, sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. (1975 Code §
7-3-7; amd. 2015 Code)
7-3-6: BUILDING SEWERS:
   A.   Definitions: Unless specifically indicated otherwise, the meaning of
terms used in this section shall be as follows:
ASTM: The American Society For Testing Materials.
BUILDING SEWERS: The part of the horizontal piping of the drainage system which
extends from three feet (3') outside the building and which receives the
discharge from the building drain and conveys it to the public sewer.
CS: Commercial standards specifications.
PUBLIC SEWERS: Sewers constructed in streets, alleys, roadways and easements
and are the sewers to which the building sewers connect. All public sewers are
under the control of the city.
SANITARY SEWERS: Pipes which carry sewage from building sewers, but exclude any
storm surface water or groundwater.
   B.   Connection Required: Every building having plumbing fixtures installed
or intended for human habitation and occupancy or use on premises abutting
streets, alleys, roadways or easements in which there are public sewers shall
have a connection with the public sewers.
   C.   Pipe: Piping used for building sewers shall be a minimum of four inches
(4"), and shall conform to the following specifications: (1975 Code §
7-3-8)
      1.   PVC pipe and fittings shall conform with ASTM D-3034; also use
"Standard Specifications For Polyvinyl Chloride Sewer Pipe And Fittings" with
SDR of 35 four inches (4") to fifteen inches (15").
      2.   HDPE pipe meeting ASTM D-3350, and having a cell classification of
PE 34-5434C. Workmanship and dimensions shall meet ASTM F174 requirements.
      3.   Asbestos-cement nonpressure sewer pipe shall conform to ASTM C428-
63T, type 11 or federal specification SS-P-331b.
   D.   Joints:
      1.   PVC - furnish each pipe length with a bell designed to provide
watertight joint when jointing bell and spigot with a rubber ring; also, on
service lines, PVC pipe with glue fitting may be used.
      2.   HDPE pipe jointing - heat fusion weld all field joints to meet
manufacturer's recommendations.
      3.   Asbestos-cement nonpressure sewer pipe shall be provided with a
sleeve coupling of the same composition as the pipe, sealed with rubber
compression rings.
      4.   Joints between asbestos-cement pipe and metal pipe shall be made by
means of an adapter coupling. Approved rubber adapters may be used, provided
the adapter is furnished with stainless steel compression rings. (1975 Code §
7-3-8; amd. 2015 Code)
   E.   Requirements For Services: The building sewer shall serve no more than
the buildings located on one lot, with the exception where a single building
and associated structures contingent to the building occupy more than one lot.
   F.   Restrictions:
      1.   All building sewers shall run from three feet (3') outside the
building to the public sewer. All joints shall be watertight and inspected by
the city prior to backfilling trenches. In no case will it be allowed to
connect a building sewer to the outlet of a septic tank and discharge the waste
from the septic tank into the public sewer.
      2.   Since the public sewer system of the city is sanitary sewer only, it
will not be allowed to discharge any stormwater, surface water or groundwater
into a building sewer which is connected to the public sewer.
   G.   Minimum Grades: Building sewers shall have a minimum grade from the
building to the public sewer of not less than one- fourth inch (1/4") per foot.
   H.   Wye Connection: In cases where wyes are not provided on the public
sewer or where wyes cannot be located, the city shall provide the necessary wye
connection to which the building sewer will be connected.
   I.   Sewer Charge: With respect to all public sewer connections, the city
shall make a charge equivalent to the actual cost of installing and/or
inspection of the sewers being connected to the public sewer. (1975 Code §
7-3-8)
   J.   Violation: Any person making any connection of a building sewer to the
public sewer who violates any provision of this section shall be deemed to have
committed an offense punishable in the city court as provided in section
1-4-2 of this code. (1975 Code §
7-3-8; amd. 2015 Code)
7-3-7: SEWER PIPE RESTRICTION:
No person shall use or install or permit the use or installation of orangeburg
pipe for sewer line purposes in or upon property or premises owned or
controlled by such person. (1975 Code §
7-3-9)
7-3-8: COUNCIL PERMISSION TO CONNECT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to tap, connect to or in any manner use the
sewer system of the city without the express permission of the public works
director. (1975 Code § 7-3-10; amd. 2015 Code)
7-3-9: VIOLATION:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be violating any provision of
this chapter, except section
7-3-4 of this chapter, shall be served by the city with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease the prescribed activity.
   B.   Continued Violation: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond
the time limit provided for in subsection A of this section shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty.
   C.   Liability For Loss Or Damage: Any person violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall become liable to the city for any expense,
loss or damage occasioned the city by reason of such violation. (Ord. 396, 10-
20-2008)
CHAPTER 4
WATER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Rules And Regulations
7-4-2: Permission To Connect
7-4-3: Water Meters Required
7-4-1: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Rules And Regulations Established: The rules and regulations in
relation to water shall be as follows:
      1.   All applications for the use of water must be made at the office of
the city finance officer on the printed form furnished for that purpose. Every
such application must be made by the owner of the property to be benefited, or
his authorized agent, and the applicant must state fully and truly all the
purposes for which water may be required and must agree to conform to the rules
and regulations established from time to time as a condition for the use of
water.
      2.   No person supplied with water from the city mains will be entitled
to use such water for any purpose other than those stated in the application,
or to supply in any way other persons or families.
      3.   Should it be desired to permanently discontinue the use of any water
service line for any reason, the line will be terminated at the direction of
the public works director and at the cost of the property owner.
      4.   The service pipes must be so arranged that the supply to each
separate house or premises may be controlled by a separate curb stop placed
within and near the line of the street curb, and one person, company or
association must pay for all the water used through said service for his own
use or for the use of others to whom it may be accessible.
      5.   Any rural water service line may, at the direction of the public
works director, be required to meter said line at the point where the water
line exits the city limits.
      6.   The water may at any time be shut off from the mains, with
reasonable notice, for repairs, extensions or other necessary purposes and
persons having boilers supplied by direct pressure from the mains are cautioned
against danger of explosion or collapse. The city will not be responsible for
the safety of boilers on the premises of any water consumer.
      7.   Water will not be furnished where there are defective or leaking
curb stops or service lines, and when such may be discovered, the supply will
be terminated until the proper repairs are made.
      8.   The corporation valve, service saddle, service pipes, meter and curb
stop must be kept accessible, operational and in a good state of repair and
protected from freezing at the expense of the owner or occupant, who will be
responsible for all damages resulting from leaks or breaks.
      9.   No plumber or other person shall be allowed to make connections with
the city mains, or make connections in any conduit, pipe or fixture connecting
therewith, or to connect pipes when they have been disconnected or to turn
water off or on any premises, without permission of the public works director.
Violators may be charged a penalty as provided in section
1-4-2 of this code per offense.
      10.   All replacements of connections and new connections made on the
water mains or the water supply system of the city shall be made with copper
pipe from the corporation valve on the water main to the curb stop on the
property and three (3) feet beyond.
      11.   Only licensed plumbers shall be allowed to do any work on a
connection with the city service, where water may be drawn from the city mains,
and all plumbers must make, in writing, a true and accurate return of the work
done within twenty four (24) hours after completion and before water will be
turned on and must describe the position of the service pipes, curb stops and
other fixtures outside of buildings by reference to street and lot corners, on
blank forms to be furnished by the city public works director.
      12.   Plumbers failing to perform their work according to the
establishment of the above rules and regulations, or executing such work
unskillfully or to the damage of the city waterworks, may be debarred from
making further connection with city mains.
      13.   Should the occupant of the premises turn on the water or suffer it
or cause it to be turned on after it has been shut off at the curb stop, the
occupant shall be prosecuted as the law for theft allows.
      14.   The city reserves the right, in the case of shortage of water or
for any other cause, to make any order forbidding or suspending the use of
water for irrigation or sprinkling and the city council may, in its discretion,
at any time make such order by giving notice through the city's official
newspaper, and any person violating such order shall be subject to a fine as
provided in section
1-4-2 of this code, which shall be a charge against the person supplied, and
the water shall be cut off therefor. In no case shall the water be turned on
until such charge has been paid in full.
      15.   The following acts are prohibited:
         a.   To use the city water, or permit it to be used, for any other
purpose than that for which the party pays water rates.
         b.   To permit water pipes or fixtures to remain in a leaky condition.
         c.   To allow water fixtures to run when not in use for the purpose
intended.
         d.   To open, close, turn or interfere with, or to attach to, or
connect with any fire hydrant, stop valve or curb stop.
         e.   To disturb or damage any pipe, machinery, tools or other property
of the city public works department.
         f.   To fill any bulk water tanks on any premises served by the city
except as authorized by the public works director.
      16.   In the event of a meter malfunction or failing to properly register
water usage, the consumer shall be charged at an estimated consumption rate.
      17.   The city reserves the right to set meters at the cost of the
consumers, and charge meter rates.
      18.   No person other than an authorized employee of the public works
department shall make any tap or connection with any main or distributing pipe
of the city.
      19.   The right is reserved by the city to alter, amend or add to these
rules and regulations from time to time, as in the judgment of the city council
shall be deemed expedient.
      20.   For each and every violation of the rules and regulations
established by this chapter, the offending party shall be subject to a fine of
not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) for the benefit of the water fund. When the offense is one relating
to plumbing, water rents, leakage or other illegal use or waste of water, the
public works director may stop the supply of water to the offender, and said
offender shall forfeit all payments that have been made. When water has been
turned off for violation of these rules and regulations, the city may withhold
the water until all dues and penalties have been paid in full.
   B.   Police Assistance: It shall be the duty of the police of the city to
give vigilant aid to the public works department in the enforcement of its
rules and regulations, and to this end, they shall report all violations
thereof which come to their knowledge to the office of the public works
director. (1975 Code § 8-4-2; amd. Ord. 357, 12-1-1997; Ord. 357, 12-1-1997;
Ord. 361, 11-16-1998 amd. 2015 Code; Ord. 415, 10-16-2018)
7-4-2: PERMISSION TO CONNECT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to tap, connect to or in any manner use the
water system of the city without the express permission of the public works
director. (1975 Code § 8-4-8; amd. 2015 Code)
7-4-3: WATER METERS REQUIRED:
All residences and all commercial establishments and multi- family residences
receiving city water service shall have installed, at the owner's expense,
water meters conforming to the requirements of the public works director. All
water hookups outside the city limits shall have a contract and be metered.
(Ord. 361, 11-16-1998; amd. Ord. 372, 11-1-1999; 2015 Code)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Opening Of Streets
8-1-2: Exceptions
8-1-3: Building Construction
8-1-4: Streets Temporarily Closed
8-1-5: Excavations; MPWSS Sections 02221 - 02250
8-1-6: Obstructions
8-1-7: Ditches, Canals
8-1-8: Snow And Ice Removal; Abatement; Cost Assessment
8-1-9: Signs
8-1-10: Merchandise, Sales Stands On Sidewalks
8-1-11: Loitering
8-1-12: Owner's Duty To Maintain
8-1-13: Littering
8-1-1: OPENING OF STREETS:
   A.   Application: Any person desiring to cut through or tear open the
surface of any street, alley or other roadway within the city shall first file
a written application with the city finance officer. Said application shall
state the object sought, the purpose for which said street is to be cut through
or broken open, the proposed area of such opening, and the exact location
thereof.
   B.   Action On Application:
      1.   Submittal To Public Works Director: The city finance officer shall
submit such application to the public works director, and such public works
director may, in his discretion, grant or refuse to grant such application.
      2.   Application Refused; Review By Council: The refusal of the public
works director to grant any such application is subject to review by the city
council.
   C.   Completion Of Work: Where the application is granted, whether by the
public works director or the council, the applicant shall accomplish the
proposed work within the time allowed by the public works director under his
supervision; and, in accordance with rules, regulations and specifications on
file in the city finance officer's office at the city hall, shall thoroughly
backfill any such excavation or opening and restore the surface thereof to its
previous condition or better prior to such excavation or opening.
   D.   Insurance: Before any application to open a street, avenue, alley,
sidewalk, boulevard, or other public way or which may in any way or manner be
connected with or related thereto, such applicant shall first file with the
city finance officer a certificate of insurance or its equivalent providing for
public liability coverage in the sum of not less than five hundred thousand
dollars ($500,000.00) for each person, and not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) in the aggregate for any one accident and not less than five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) property damage to protect parties from
any expense, cost, damage and any liability of any kind or character whatsoever
resulting from or which may arise as a result of said applicant's opening any
such street, avenue, alley, sidewalk, boulevard, or other public way, or which
may in any way or manner be connected therewith, or relating thereto.
   E.   Intent: It is the intent of this section to regulate the opening of
streets for repair or installation primarily of public utilities including, but
not limited to, sewer, water, electrical, gas and telephone service
connections.
   F.   Street Opening: Any opening in the surface of any public right of way
within the city shall be opened according to the Montana public works standard
specifications (MPWSS) section 02221 and OSHA standards for excavations on file
in the office of the public works director.
   G.   Backfill Of Openings: All openings shall be backfilled in accordance
with the standard specifications for backfilling on file in the office of the
public works director. The contractor shall notify the city immediately after
completion of the repair or placement of any utility service and before
backfilling commences.
   H.   Barricades And Protection Of Openings: The contractor shall, at all
times, be responsible for the barricading and protection of the opening and all
openings will conform to occupational safety and health act (OSHA), manual of
uniform traffic control devices (MUTCD) and MPWSS standards.
   I.   Fees For Street And/Or Sidewalk Openings Or Obstructions: The charges
to be made for street and/or sidewalk openings or obstructions of any kind or
character whatsoever shall be as follows:
      1.   There shall be a charge of five dollars ($5.00) for the cost of
issuing the permit.
      2.   There shall be a charge of thirty dollars ($30.00) for the cost of
inspection.
      3.   The contractor shall be responsible for all costs of reconstructing
the street opening to the original condition before the construction was
started and to the satisfaction of the public works director for a period not
to exceed five (5) years.
   J.   Protection Of City Mains And Streets:
      1.   Hand Digging: All water and sewer mains shall be uncovered by hand
digging. As the opening is being made, a person must be provided for the
purpose of watching the operations as the bucket approaches the pipe so that
the hand digging shall be provided in time to protect the city mains.
      2.   Liability For Breaking Water Or Sewer Main: The owner of the
property for which the opening or ditching is done and the person performing
the opening or digging shall be jointly and severally liable and chargeable for
the breaking of a water or sewer main with a power shovel or ditcher and shall
also pay the entire cost of replacing and repairing the same.
      3.   Steel Lugs: No equipment with steel lugs shall be used on a paved
street. Such equipment shall be mounted on rubber tires except where permitted
by the public works director.
   K.   Time Limit Specified: Before a permit may be granted, the applicant
therefor must specify the time limit within which the work will be completed
and the opening refilled. All openings in the streets and alleys must be
refilled within forty eight (48) hours after the work of opening is commenced
except in extraordinary cases and conditions for which a special permit
therefor must be granted by the public works director specifying the period of
time necessary to complete the work.
   L.   Barricades; Traffic Control: Every opening or excavation in any street,
avenue, alley or other roadway within the city must be barricaded. All
barricading and traffic control shall conform to the minimum standards as set
forth in the newest version of the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices"
for streets and highways, or any revised editions thereof. (Ord. 389, 8-16-
2004; amd. 2015 Code)
8-1-2: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions contained herein do not apply to Main Street and Fourth Avenue
Southwest as the same are state highways subject to the control of the Montana
department of transportation. (Ord. 389, 8-16-2004)
8-1-3: BUILDING CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Obstructing Streets: Any person who shall desire to occupy or obstruct
any part of any sidewalk or street during the excavation for any building, or
for the storage of materials for the construction, repair or removal of any
building, may, after having procured the permits required by law and the
provisions of this code, occupy and obstruct for such purposes not more than
one-third (1/3) of the width of such street, including the sidewalk, on the
conditions hereinafter set forth.
   B.   Enclosing Excavation Required: Any person excavating any portion of the
street or sidewalk shall construct and maintain, during the progress of such
work, a good and sufficient fence or barrier, from sidewalk to sidewalk,
enclosing such excavation; provided, that a driveway may be left in such fence
during the actual delivery of material into or from such excavation, such
driveway to be safely closed except when in actual use and shall furthermore
construct and maintain a sidewalk free from obstructions, from the permanent
sidewalk to sidewalk, not less than three feet (3') in width and composed of
plank not less than two inches (2") in thickness around such excavation, or
such materials, fence or barrier.
   C.   Lights Required: Red or amber lights shall be hung about such
excavation or deposit of materials, from dark to daylight of each day that the
same shall remain as an obstruction in the sidewalk or street.
   D.   Disposal Of Rubbish: That portion of the sidewalk or street, so to be
used, shall be only that portion directly in front of the property to be
improved, and no material shall be stored upon the street, except such as is to
be immediately used in such improvement or construction; and no rubbish removed
from the excavation of a building shall be allowed to be stored upon the
street, but the same must be removed from day to day.
   E.   Termination Of Permission: The permission herein given shall terminate
with the construction of the intended improvement and such fence, barrier and
all other obstructions shall be immediately removed thereafter. (Ord. 389, 8-
16-2004)
8-1-4: STREETS TEMPORARILY CLOSED:
Whenever, by order of the city council, any street or alley, or any portion
thereof, has been temporarily closed for constructing improvements thereon or
repairing the same, it shall be unlawful for any person other than the city
contractor or city employees, in case the city itself is constructing such
improvement, to ride or drive any animal, or operate any vehicle thereon, or to
interfere with, take down or remove any of the lights, barricades, guards or
barriers, or any portion thereof, surrounding said closed portion of such
street or alley. (Ord. 389, 8-16-2004)
8-1-5: EXCAVATIONS; MPWSS SECTIONS 02221 - 02250:
   A.   Held To Minimum Size: Excavations in streets and alleys in the city
shall be held to a minimum size. This cutting shall be done with a jack or
chipping hammer before any excavation equipment is used for excavation, so that
the undisturbed portion of the pavement is not damaged.
   B.   Specifications: All excavations will be done in accordance with Montana
public works standard specifications. (Ord. 389, 8-16-2004)
   C.   Violation; Penalty: Any person who violates any of the provisions of
this section, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-2 of this code for each separate offense. (Ord. 389, 8-16-2004; amd. 2015
Code)
8-1-6: OBSTRUCTIONS:
   A.   Fences, Buildings; Erection: No person shall erect or place or cause to
be erected or placed any building, fence or obstruction of any kind whatsoever,
in whole or in part, upon any street, alley or other public grounds within the
corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 389, 8-16-2004)
   B.   Notice To Remove: The owner of any building, fence or other obstruction
erected or placed upon any street, alley, sidewalk or other public ground
within the city shall remove the same upon being requested to do so by the
mayor or chief of police. For every violation of this subsection, the offender
shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined as provided in section
1-4-2 of this code for each and every day that he shall continue in such
violation after conviction thereof. (Ord. 389, 8-16-2004; amd. 2015 Code)
8-1-7: DITCHES, CANALS:
   A.   Covering Required: Any person who shall dig, construct, maintain, own
or use, either as proprietor, tenant or otherwise, any irrigation ditch, drain,
canal or pipe, within the corporate limits of the city, shall keep such
irrigation ditch, drain, canal or pipe substantially covered by sinking,
imbedding, covering and protecting such ditch, drain, canal or pipe in such
manner so that the same shall cause no injury to person or property, nor
obstruction or impediment to the free, convenient and safe use of any private
property or any street, avenue or alley within said corporate limits of the
city.
   B.   Streets, Avenues Or Alleys: Wherever possible, such irrigation ditch,
drain, canal or pipe shall be constructed, maintained, used, sunk and imbedded
through, along and under the surface of a street, avenue or alley of the city.
(Ord. 389, 8-16-2004)
   C.   Violation; Penalty: Any person offending against any of the provisions
of this section shall be deemed guilty of creating or maintaining a nuisance,
as the case may be and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in
section
1-4-2 of this code, and the city judge may, as a part of the judgment in such
case, order that such nuisance be abated by the chief of police at the cost of
the person so digging, constructing, maintaining, owning or using the property
causing such nuisance. (Ord. 389, 8-16-2004; amd. 2015 Code)
8-1-8: SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL; ABATEMENT; COST ASSESSMENT:
   A.   Removal From Sidewalks:
      1.   Duty To Remove: It shall be the duty of the owner or tenant of any
premises within the limits of the city to keep the sidewalks in front of and
abutting his premises free and safe for pedestrians and use all reasonable
dispatch to remove snow, ice, slush, mud, and other threats to safe foot travel
and to prevent the accumulation of the same upon such sidewalks. The sidewalks
abutting such owner's or tenant's premises must be cleared by such owner or
tenant from the night's accumulation of snow and ice or other impediment before
nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. following such accumulation thereof. It shall be the
duty of the tenant or owner of any premises occupied by him to keep the
sidewalks in front of the premises free and safe for pedestrians and to prevent
the continuance and accumulation of the same upon such sidewalks. (Ord. 399,
11-17-2008)
      2.   Abatement By City: Where a complaint has been made or the city has
reason to believe, after inspection and photographic documentation, that snow
and ice on a sidewalk, as described herein, is present upon a sidewalk in front
of and abutting his premises within the city limits, in violation of the law,
then the city, through its designated representative, may direct or hire the
removal of such snow and ice in order to bring the sidewalk into compliance.
      3.   Removal By City; Assessment Of Costs; Collection: Upon failure of
the owner, tenant or occupant of said premises to comply with the duty to
remove, then and in that event, the city shall have the right to remove such
snow, ice or other impediment, and assess against said property and party or
parties, a minimum fee to be determined by council resolution from time to
time. Any amount so assessed, together with the costs and penalties, shall
constitute a lien on the noncomplying real property and will be taxed as a
special assessment against the real property. (Ord. 399, 11-17-2008; amd. 2015
Code)
   B.   Dumping: It shall be unlawful for any person to pile, deposit or dump
snow or ice removed from private property on any road, street, avenue, alley or
any other public place within the city at any time; and any person so offending
shall be guilty of creating and fostering a nuisance, and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-2 of this code. Any person who shall be guilty of a violation of this
subsection and who shall fail to remove such ice or snow wrongfully piled,
deposited or dumped by such person within three (3) hours after he shall have
been notified so to do by the city police, shall be deemed guilty of a separate
violation for every twenty four (24) hours such failure to remove the same
continues, and subject to the same penalty for such offense provided for in
this subsection. (Ord. 389, 8-16-2004; amd. 2015 Code)
8-1-9: SIGNS:
Signs not more than four-fifths (4/5) the width of the sidewalk and securely
fastened may be suspended over the sidewalk not less than eight feet (8') above
said sidewalk, and no sign, show bill, lantern or show board, which at its
lowest part is less than eight feet (8') above the sidewalk, shall project into
any street more than one foot (1'). (Ord. 389, 8-16-2004)
8-1-10: MERCHANDISE, SALES STANDS ON SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Merchandise: Nothing herein contained shall make it unlawful for any
person to place on any sidewalk any goods, wares or merchandise which he may be
receiving or delivering; provided, that a six foot (6') clear passageway be
left upon said sidewalk; and provided, that such goods, wares or merchandise be
not suffered to remain on such sidewalk for a longer period than six (6) hours.
(Ord. 389, 8-16-2004)
   B.   Sale Stands: No person shall keep a stand for the sale of goods, wares
or merchandise upon any street, avenue, alley or sidewalk, or do any act or
thing to collect a crowd so as to interfere with traffic or pedestrians within
the corporate limits of the city, and every person who shall violate the
provisions of this subsection shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined as
provided in section
1-4-2 of this code for each separate offense thereof. (Ord. 389, 8-16-2004;
amd. 2015 Code)
8-1-11: LOITERING:
Loitering upon the streets, sidewalks or alleyways of the city is prohibited.
(Ord. 389, 8-16-2004)
8-1-12: OWNER'S DUTY TO MAINTAIN:
The owner of any property abutting or adjacent to the street or sidewalk shall
have a duty to maintain all lawns, shrubs, trees from the center of the
alleyway to the center of the street. Trees shall be trimmed so as not to hang
less than sixteen feet (16') above the street or twelve feet (12') over the
sidewalk or boulevard. Grass shall be mowed and maintained in accord with title
6, chapter 5 of this code, and shrubs, flowers and trees shall be trimmed and
maintained in such a fashion that they do not unduly encroach on the sidewalk
or street. Any person violating this provision shall be subject to the
penalties set forth in sections
6-5-3 and
6-5-5 of this code. (Ord. 389, 8-16-2004)
8-1-13: LITTERING:
The act of littering within the corporate limits of city is strictly
prohibited. "Littering" is defined as intentionally or recklessly discarding or
disposing of any garbage, waste, or other item onto or upon any sidewalk,
street, alley, or other public location. Violation of this section shall
constitute a misdemeanor and be punishable in the manner prescribed herein.
(Ord. 389, 8-16-2004)
CHAPTER 2
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definitions
8-2-2: Property Owners To Build
8-2-3: Obstructing Public Travel
8-2-4: Notice To Build
8-2-5: Cost Levied A Lien
8-2-6: Immediate Repair
8-2-7: Maintenance
8-2-8: Building Specifications; Residence District
8-2-9: Permit Required; Fee
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
ABUTTING PROPERTY: All property having a frontage upon the side or margin of a
street shall be deemed to be abutting property, and such property shall be
chargeable, as provided in this chapter for all cost of maintenance, repairs or
renewal of any form of sidewalk improvement between the said street margin and
the roadway lying in front of and adjacent to said property.
SIDEWALK: Shall be taken to include any and all structures or forms of street
improvements included in the space between the street margin and the roadway.
(Ord. 389, 8-16-2004)
8-2-2: PROPERTY OWNERS TO BUILD:
All persons owning abutting property shall build the sidewalk and all necessary
sidewalks for such property, and the same shall be built within the curb line
and, in no case shall the width of any portion of the sidewalk within the curb
line be less than the width of the walk of which it is a prolongation. (Ord.
389, 8-16-2004)
8-2-3: OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC TRAVEL:
   A.   Permit: No work which shall create any obstruction to public travel
shall be commenced until a permit therefor shall have been granted by the city
council, and the owner of abutting property shall be liable for all damage
which may arise by reason of carelessness in conducting any work upon the
adjacent sidewalk or by reason of lack of protection of the public from danger
by proper guards or signals, either by night or day.
   B.   Obstructions Prohibited:
      1.   None of the duties or privileges imposed or conferred by this
chapter shall in any way be deemed to authorize or allow the obstruction of any
street, either during or after any work upon any sidewalk, except under permit
therefor.
      2.   No material removed from any sidewalk shall be placed upon any
portion of the adjacent street, alley, place or square, unless a permit
therefor shall have been granted.
      3.   All refuse, lumber and debris remaining after the completion of any
sidewalk repairs or renewal shall be removed from the street forthwith, and any
owner, lessee or tenant of abutting property who shall fail to remove any such
obstruction from any street, alley, place or square within forty eight (48)
hours after being notified by the city so to do shall be deemed guilty of
maintaining a public nuisance and shall be subject to the penalties prescribed
therefor; and, in case of such failure to remove obstructions after notice, the
city shall cause the same to be removed and shall charge the full cost of such
removal to such owner, lessee or tenant, and the said charge shall become a
lien upon said abutting property, and shall be collected as hereinbefore
provided for the collection of cost of construction or repair of sidewalks.
(Ord. 389, 8-16-2004)
8-2-4: NOTICE TO BUILD:
Upon the city council ordering the construction of any sidewalk, the city
finance officer shall immediately give notice thereof, in writing, to the owner
of the property immediately abutting such sidewalk, or to his agent, lessee or
tenant, either by mailing or delivering the same, fully describing therein the
termini, course, width and character of the walk ordered, and allowing a period
of twenty (20) days during which the parties so desiring may construct the walk
abutting their property; and further provided, that all such walks so ordered
remaining unbuilt at the expiration of twenty (20) days from the date of said
notice, shall be built by the city at the expense of said property owner as
hereinafter provided. (Ord. 389, 8-16-2004)
8-2-5: COST LEVIED A LIEN:
The construction of all new sidewalks ordered, as hereinbefore provided, where
the owner fails to do so, shall be under the supervision and to the
satisfaction of the city council. The total cost of all sidewalks constructed
by the city, or that may be constructed or repaired by the city, in accordance
with the orders of the city council, or in the maintenance of sidewalks, shall
be certified to by the council to the city finance officer who shall transmit
forthwith a copy thereof to the owner of the property immediately abutting upon
said sidewalk, or to his agent, lessee or tenant, either by mailing or
delivering the same, which total cost of construction must be paid within one
month from the date thereof, and if not paid within said time, the same shall
become a lien or tax against the lot or lots abutting upon such sidewalk or
sidewalks, and shall bear interest at the rate of one percent (1%) per month
until paid, and shall be collected at the same time and in the same manner as
other taxes affected by such charge. (Ord. 389, 8-16-2004)
8-2-6: IMMEDIATE REPAIR:
Whenever any sidewalk which is now, or which may by reason of natural
deterioration or decay, or by reason of unevenness, rapid slopes, or from any
cause whatever become unfit or unsafe for public travel, or dangerous to the
public safety, the city council shall require the owner of the premises
abutting such sidewalk, or his agent, to immediately repair the same, and in
case of his refusal or neglect to comply with such requisition, or in case no
one can be found upon whom to serve such notice to repair such sidewalk, such
sidewalk shall be, by order of the city council, immediately removed,
remodeled, rebuilt, paved, cleaned, repaired or newly built, or such other form
of relief as may be required to make the same fit for public travel as in the
judgment of the city council may be most expedient, and the cost thereof shall
be a lien upon the lot or lots abutting upon such sidewalk, and may be enforced
or the amount may be recovered against the owner by a suit before any court of
competent jurisdiction, or may be assessed and collected as a special tax
against such lot or lots as in other cases. (Ord. 389, 8-16-2004)
8-2-7: MAINTENANCE:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting the existing powers of
the city with reference to the maintenance or control of sidewalks. (Ord. 389,
8-16-2004)
8-2-8: BUILDING SPECIFICATIONS; RESIDENCE DISTRICT:
   A.   Specifications: The installation of all new or reconstructed sidewalks
and curbs in the residential districts of the city shall be constructed and
installed in the following manner:
      1.   All curbs shall consist of integral curb and gutter with an apron
eighteen inches (18") wide.
      2.   The outside edge of the curb, back face to back face, exclusive of
the apron, shall conform to the established street width as approved by the
city council.
      3.   All new sidewalks shall be a minimum of five feet (5') in width and
shall be placed adjacent to the curb. However, where a block has an established
sidewalk pattern with a boulevard, new sidewalks in that block shall conform to
such pattern unless all existing sidewalk is replaced to match new
construction. (Ord. 389, 8-16-2004)
      4.   At all corners of streets and avenues, the curbs shall be curved
with a twenty foot (20') radius, and must be ADA compliant. (Ord. 389, 8-16-
2004; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Concrete Crosswalks: No concrete crosswalks shall be installed across
the streets or avenues.
   C.   Cost Of Crosswalks: The city shall pay the cost and expense of
installing crosswalks across the alleys within such residential districts.
   D.   Grade, Plans And Specifications: All sidewalks and curbs shall be
installed in accordance with established grades and the plans and
specifications on file at city hall and as provided by the public works
director.
   E.   Placement Of New Curb And Sidewalks: New curb and sidewalks shall be
placed on undisturbed natural soil cut to grade or upon fill material compacted
to ninety five percent (95%) density per AASHO T-180 and to the satisfaction of
the public works director. No sand or loose gravel bed shall be allowed.
   F.   Minimum Thickness; Slope: Sidewalks shall be a minimum thickness of
four inches (4") and where installed adjacent to the curb, the sidewalk shall
have a uniform slope of one- fourth inch (1/4") per foot toward the street. The
top of the curb shall not extend above the sidewalk.
   G.   Expansion Joints: For each fifty (50) linear feet of sidewalk, one
expansion joint shall be provided, using one- half inch (1/2") bituminous fiber
material, and one transverse score shall be installed for each five feet (5')
with such scores extending one inch (1") below the surface. Expansion joint
fillers shall be placed adjacent to any existing curb, sidewalk or structure.
   H.   Finish: All curb, gutter and sidewalks shall be installed continuously,
in full thickness, using a transverse broom finish as work progresses.
   I.   Materials:
      1.   Materials for curb, gutter and sidewalks shall consist of dirt free
sand and gravel with coarse aggregate not larger than three-fourths inch (3/4")
and six (6) sacks of portland cement per cubic yard of concrete. Air entrained
concrete shall be used unless otherwise specified and in all cases, minimum
compression strength shall be three thousand five hundred (3,500) pounds per
square inch in twenty eight (28) days, maximum slump of three inches (3"), and
not more than six (6) gallons of water per sack of cement. Use of ready mix
concrete meeting these requirements is preferred.
      2.   The public works director will determine, by trial, the amount of
air entraining admixture required to produce concrete having the specified air
content and this amount shall not be varied except as directed by the public
works director. Required air content shall generally contain six percent (6%)
air, plus or minus one percent (±1%).
   J.   Vehicular Travel Lanes: Six inch (6") concrete sidewalk construction
shall be required across all vehicular travel lanes, such as alleys, public or
private driveways, etc. Subbase shall be well compacted by wetting, tamping or
rolling.
   K.   Frames:
      1.   Wood: All wood forms for straight work shall be of two inch (2")
surfaced lumber free from warp; forms for curved work shall be made of suitable
material bent to the required radius and sufficiently heavy to hold its shape
during the progress of placing concrete.
      2.   Steel: An approved make of steel forms may be used in place of the
wooden forms specified above. Forms shall have a depth equal to the thickness
of the concrete to be placed against them.
      3.   Built Up, Battered, Bent, Twisted Or Broken Forms: Built up,
battered, bent, twisted or broken forms shall be removed from the work. All
forms shall be cleaned and oiled each time they are used.
   L.   Setting Of Forms: Forms shall be set upon the compacted subgrade and to
exact grade and alignment and so constructed as to resist without springing or
settlement the pressure of the concrete and the operation of the finishing
machines, and so constructed that they may be removed without injuring the
concrete.
   M.   Placement Of Concrete:
      1.   Concrete shall be placed on an even, moist subgrade, but there shall
be no pools of water standing. If the subgrade is readily dry, it shall be
sprinkled with as much water as it will absorb readily and as the public works
director may direct.
      2.   Concrete shall not be placed on a frozen subgrade, and shall not be
placed when the temperature is forty degrees Fahrenheit (40°F) or less and
falling, unless upon written permission from the public works director, and
provided all materials are heated in such a manner that the mixture is
delivered at a temperature of at least sixty degrees Fahrenheit (60°F) and
provided the concrete is protected and held at a minimum temperature of fifty
five degrees Fahrenheit (55°F) for a period of three (3) days. Permission to
proceed with cold weather concreting shall not relieve the installer of
responsibility for obtaining satisfactory results. Unsatisfactory concrete
shall be removed and replaced by installer.
      3.   Concrete slabs laid on the ground, or other similar concrete
construction, may be protected against freezing by insulation with a thick
layer of straw or other acceptable material, if approved by the public works
director. No concrete shall be placed on frozen ground.
      4.   The use of salt or other compounds to prevent concrete from freezing
will not be permitted.
   N.   Finished Walks And Driveways: Concrete walks and driveways shall be
screened transversely with a straight edge and, when the concrete has reached
proper elevation, floated with a wood float to a true and uniform plane with no
coarse aggregate showing. All edges and joints shall be rounded with an edging
tool. The use of mortar topping or drier will not be permitted. Concrete
sidewalks requiring a slightly roughened surface shall be floated to a true,
uniform surface and broomed. Excessive troweling is to be avoided as it tends
to bring too much water and fine material to the top, forming a chalky surface.
Edges and joints of sidewalks shall be edged with an edging tool having a
radius of not less than one-fourth inch (1/4").
   O.   Curb And Gutter Finish: Curb and gutter may be finished by the use of a
special shaped trowel, or curb and gutter machine which will shape the entire
upper surfaces in accordance with the dimensions and shape specified on the
drawing. The top and face of the curb and also the top of the apron on combined
curb and gutter must be finished true to line and grade and without any
irregularities of surface noticeable to the eye. Should any portion of the
gutter hold water to a depth of more than one-fourth inch (1/4"), or should any
portion of the surface or face of the curb or gutter depart more than one-
fourth inch (1/4") from a straight edge ten feet (10') in length placed on the
same parallel to the centerline of the street, or should any part of the
exposed surfaces present a wavy appearance, the same will be sufficient cause
for rejection of that portion of the work, and the public works director shall
have the right to cause the work to stop at any time, if the work being
produced is not satisfactory to him. Joints and top edge of curb shall be
rounded to a radius of one-fourth inch to one-half inch (1/4" - 1/2"), but
front edge of apron shall be left with a sharp edge to prevent an area for
water to enter between gutter and pavement.
   P.   Curing Of Fresh Cement:
      1.   Fresh concrete shall be adequately protected from heavy rains and
physical damage. Rapid evaporation of water, with resultant drying out of
surfaces shall be prevented. The curing process shall be commenced as soon
after placing of the concrete as can be done without injury to the concrete
surface. When pending or spraying methods of curing are used, the exposed
concrete surfaces shall be protected with wet burlap until the concrete surface
has set sufficiently to prevent damage from the direct application of water.
The burlap shall be applied as soon after the placing of concrete as possible
and without marring the surface of the concrete. All concrete shall be kept wet
for a period of three (3) days by ponding with water, application of a water
saturated covering or by other approved methods which will keep all surfaces
continuously wet. Wood forms left in place during curing shall be kept wet.
      2.   The use of impervious membrane coatings for curing of concrete walks
and similar exposed surfaces will be permitted only upon specific approval of
the public works director, complete and uniform coverage at the rate of two
hundred (200) square feet per gallon is required. Membrane coatings shall not
be used on surfaces where discoloration is objectionable, on surfaces which are
to be painted, or on concrete base which is to be overlaid or abutted with an
asphaltic surface course.
      3.   The freshly finished walk shall be protected from hot sun and drying
winds until it can be sprinkled or covered as above specified. The concrete
surface must not be damaged or pitted by rain drops and the installer shall
provide and use, when necessary, sufficient tarpaulins or waterproof paper.
      4.   In any case, the installer shall be responsible for the adequate
curing of all concrete during the entire curing period. Concrete which, in the
opinion of the public works director, shows conclusive evidence of improper and
inadequate curing, may be rejected.
      5.   The installer shall erect and maintain suitable barriers to protect
the work from traffic and any section damaged from traffic or other causes
occurring prior to its acceptance shall be repaired or replaced by the
installer in a manner satisfactory to the public works director.
   Q.   Removal Of Forms: Forms shall be removed not less than twenty four (24)
hours after concrete has been placed. Removal of forms shall be carefully done
without damage to the concrete. Prying against green concrete shall not be
permitted. Minor defects shall be repaired with a mortar of one part cement and
two (2) parts of fine aggregate. After the concrete has sufficiently cured, the
spaces about the walk, curb and gutter shall be backfilled.
   R.   Curb And Gutter Driveway Depressions: Curb and gutter driveway
depressions shall maintain a flow line of two inches (2") in depth, and
concrete thickness for driveways within city property shall be a minimum of six
inches (6"). New driveway depressions installed in existing standard curb and
gutter shall be under the direction of the public works director and shall
require a building application. (Ord. 389, 8-16-2004)
8-2-9: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
All curb, gutter and sidewalks installed upon city property shall require an
approved building permit. Permit applications shall be made at city hall. A fee
as set by city council resolution will be charged by the city in connection
with said permit application or the processing thereof. (Ord. 389, 8-16-2004;
amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PUBLIC LIBRARY 1
SECTION:
8-3-1: Library Established
8-3-2: Maintenance And Support
8-3-3: Taking, Mutilating Books, Property
8-3-4: Disposition Of Fines
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 2, chapter 1 of this code.
8-3-1: LIBRARY ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created and established a free public library in the city for
the use of the citizens thereof and the county of Pondera, to be known as the
Conrad Public Library, pursuant to state law. (1975 Code §
8-3-1)
8-3-2: MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT:
For the purpose of maintaining such free public library, the city council shall
annually levy in mills a tax on the taxable property in the city for the
purchase of books and other things necessary for such library, and for the
support and maintenance thereof. All such monies shall be paid into and shall
constitute the library fund. All rents received from library property shall be
paid into the library fund. The library fund shall not be used for any purpose
other than the support and maintenance of such library, and for the purchase of
books and other things necessary for such library. All monies for the purchase
of books and periodicals and for the support and maintenance of such library
shall be paid out of the library fund. (1975 Code §
8-3-2; amd. 2015 Code)
8-3-3: TAKING, MUTILATING BOOKS, PROPERTY:
No person shall maliciously or knowingly and wilfully take or carry away from
the library any book, magazine, paper or other property of such library
contrary to any rule or regulation thereof, or mutilate, injure, destroy or
deface any book, paper, picture, magazine or property of such library or
interfere with or disturb any person in charge of said library at its room, or
interfere with or disturb any person properly using or enjoying the privileges
of such library. (1975 Code §
8-3-3)
8-3-4: DISPOSITION OF FINES:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined as provided
in section
1-4-2 of this code, and all fines under this chapter shall be paid into the
library fund. (1975 Code §
8-3-4; amd. 2015 Code)
TITLE 9
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
UNIFORM ACT REGULATING TRAFFIC; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Uniform Act Regulating Traffic On Highways Adopted
9-1-2: Power Of Council
9-1-3: Crosswalks
9-1-4: U-Turns
9-1-5: Through Streets
9-1-6: Limited Speed Zones
9-1-7: Due Regard For Safety
9-1-8: Newly Laid Pavement
9-1-9: Snowmobiles Prohibited
9-1-10: Street And Avenue Classification
9-1-11: Vehicle Weight Restrictions; Special Permits
9-1-1: UNIFORM ACT REGULATING TRAFFIC ON HIGHWAYS ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption: Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly
impractical or inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty
provided, all of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions,
provisions and sections of the Montana uniform act regulating traffic on
highways 1 , as amended, is hereby adopted by the city. Any and all violations
thereof shall be considered violations of this title, and each such violation
shall subject the violator thereof to penalty provisions under this title is
proceeded hereunder.
   B.   Application: All traffic within the city will be governed and regulated
by the provisions of Montana Code Annotated title 61 and this title.
   C.   Copy On File: One full printed copy of the adopted code is on file in
the office of the city finance officer. The aforesaid uniform act regulating
traffic on highways is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
chapter as fully, and for all intent and purposes, as though set forth herein
at length. (2015 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA title 61.
9-1-2: POWER OF COUNCIL:
The city council is hereby empowered to make and enforce regulations necessary
to make effective the provisions of this title and to make and enforce
temporary regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions. (1975 Code §
9-1-4)
9-1-3: CROSSWALKS:
The city council is hereby authorized to establish and to designate and shall
thereafter maintain or cause to be maintained, by appropriate devices, marks or
lines upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in its
opinion there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway and at
such other places as it may deem necessary. (1975 Code §
9-1-6)
9-1-4: U-TURNS:
It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to make a U-turn at the
intersections of Third Avenue and Main Street, Fourth Avenue and Main Street,
and Fifth Avenue and Main Street. (1975 Code § 9-1-12)
9-1-5: THROUGH STREETS:
   A.   Designation As Through Streets: The following streets and parts of
streets within the city are hereby declared to constitute, at all points named,
through streets for the purpose of this section:
All of Main Street, and that portion of Fourth Avenue lying west of Main
Street.
   B.   Stop Required: Every operator of a vehicle or other conveyance
traveling upon such street intersecting such through street above designated
shall stop such vehicle or other conveyance at the place where such street
meets the prolongation or projection of the inside lines of the nearest
sidewalk of such through street.
   C.   Signs Required: All such streets intersecting such through streets
shall, at or near the place of intersection, be marked with signs bearing the
words "Stop" or "Thru Street" or "Through Street", such signs to be placed at a
conspicuous point; provided, that additional signs, devices or markers may be
placed and maintained in or near the roadway.
   D.   Right Of Way: Vehicles traveling on such through streets or stop
streets at the points designated shall have the right of way over vehicles
traveling on streets intersecting such through streets at the points above
designated, and it shall be the duty of the driver of any vehicle coming into
or across such designated through street or stop street from any such
intersecting street to come to a complete stop and to maintain a particularly
careful watch for vehicles traveling on said through street and shall give
preference and right of way to all such vehicles and shall not drive into or
across such through street at such points until there is a sufficient break in
the traffic to permit the same to be done with safety to the vehicle so being
driven and to other vehicles upon said through street. (1975 Code § 9-1-13)
9-1-6: LIMITED SPEED ZONES:
   A.   Limited Speed Zones: The following streets, avenues and all alleys
within the city are hereby designated and declared to be limited speed zones
for motor vehicles: (1975 Code § 9-1-14)
Second Avenue South from Main Street to Michigan Street, and Maryland Street
from Second Avenue South to Third Avenue South.
Third Avenue South from Main Street to Illinois Street, and Illinois Street
from Third Avenue South to Fourth Avenue South.
All alleys within the city.
All other streets, avenues and roadways or portions thereof which the city
hereafter designates by restricted speed signs. (1975 Code § 9-1-14; amd. 2015
Code)
   B.   Speed In Limited Speed Zones: It shall be unlawful for any person to
drive a motor vehicle of any kind within said limited speed zones at a speed
greater than fifteen (15) miles per hour.
   C.   Speed On Other Streets: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a
motor vehicle of any kind upon any street, avenue or roadway within the city
other than those streets and avenues specified in subsection A of this section,
at a speed greater than twenty five (25) miles per hour. (1975 Code § 9-1-14;
amd. Ord. 422, 12-7-2021)
9-1-7: DUE REGARD FOR SAFETY:
The driver of every vehicle shall drive such vehicle in a careful manner and
with due regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians and all vehicles
upon the street upon which such vehicle is driven or operated. (1975 Code § 9-
1-15)
9-1-8: NEWLY LAID PAVEMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or drive, or cause to be ridden or
driven, any animal, or to ride, drive or propel, or to cause or permit to be
ridden, driven or propelled, any vehicle over or across any newly laid pavement
in any public street across or around which pavement there is a barrier, or at,
over or near which there is a person or sign indicating that the street is
closed. (1975 Code § 9-1-15)
9-1-9: SNOWMOBILES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, operate or use any snowmobiles or
any other similar vehicle in traveling upon, over, across or through the
streets, alleys or public ways of the city. Any person violating the provisions
of this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-2 of this code. (1975 Code § 9-1-20; amd. 2015 Code)
9-1-10: STREET AND AVENUE CLASSIFICATION:
   A.   Collector Streets: The following are hereby designated as collector
streets:
Central Avenue, all
Dakota Street, Third, Fifth and Sixth Avenues between Virginia Street and Main
Street
Iowa Street, all
Main Street within the city limits
Solid Road within the city limits
Sunset Boulevard, all
Virginia Street from Third Avenue South to Eighth Avenue South
Wisconsin Street from Sunset Boulevard to Central Avenue
Fourth Avenue, all within the city limits
Seventh Avenue South, all (1975 Code § 9-1-21; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Residential Streets: All streets and avenues within the city limits not
listed as collector streets shall be designated as residential streets. (1975
Code § 9-1-21)
9-1-11: VEHICLE WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS; SPECIAL PERMITS:
   A.   Weight Limitations:
      1.   Collector streets shall have a load limit not to exceed eighteen
thousand (18,000) pounds per single axle and sixteen thousand (16,000) pounds
per tandem axle unit.
      2.   Residential streets shall have a load limit not to exceed fourteen
thousand (14,000) pounds per single axle and twelve thousand (12,000) pounds
per tandem axle unit. (1975 Code § 9-1-22)
   B.   Reduction Under Special Circumstances: The maximum axle and axle group
loads stated in subsection A of this section are subject to reasonable
reduction in the discretion of the city public works director during periods
when street subgrades have been weakened by water saturation or other causes.
(1975 Code § 9-1-23; amd. 2015 Code)
   C.   Special Permits:
      1.   Special Permit Required: The operation of vehicles having weights in
excess of the maximum limits specified in subsection A of this section shall be
allowed to travel upon the streets within the city only if authorized by
special permit issued by the city public works director. Such permit shall be
issued prior to use and for individual loads only.
      2.   Special Permits Issued By State: Special permits issued by the state
of Montana allowing not more than an additional two thousand (2,000) pounds per
axle, however, shall be honored on the following streets and avenues only:
Dakota Street, all
Iowa Street from Eighth Avenue SW to Fourth Avenue SW
Main Street, all within the city limits
Solid Road, that portion from Main Street east to the city limits
Fourth Avenue, all within the city limits (1975 Code § 9-1-24; amd. 2015 Code)
   D.   Penalty: Every person who is convicted of operating a vehicle having
weight in excess of the limits hereinabove prescribed or otherwise authorized,
in addition to being subject to the penalty prescribed in section
1-4-2 of this code, shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or
damage occasioned the city by reason of such violation. (1975 Code § 9-1-25)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Compliance
9-2-2: Parking Outside Of Business Or Residence Districts
9-2-3: No Parking Areas
9-2-4: Parallel Parking
9-2-5: Parking Space
9-2-6: Unattended Vehicle
9-2-7: Displaying For Sale; Repairs
9-2-8: Authority Of Chief Of Police
9-2-9: Restrictions, Type Of Vehicle
9-2-10: Official Signs
9-2-11: Time Limit Areas
9-2-12: One Side Of Street Areas
9-2-13: Parking Of Trucks, Trailers, Motor Homes Or Campers
9-2-1: COMPLIANCE:
It shall be unlawful for any driver, operator or person in charge of a motor
vehicle or other vehicle to allow the same to stand, stop or park upon any of
the streets, avenues or public ways of the city, except in accordance with the
parking regulations in this chapter set forth, or from time to time hereinafter
established and promulgated by the lawful authority as in this chapter
provided. (1975 Code §
9-2-1)
9-2-2: PARKING OUTSIDE OF BUSINESS OR RESIDENCE DISTRICTS:
   A.   Upon any highway outside of a business or residence district, no person
shall stop, park, or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or
unattended, upon the paved or main traveled part of the highway when it is
practical to stop, park, or so leave such vehicle off such part of said
highway, but, in every event, an unobstructed width of the highway opposite a
standing vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles. No
person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle upon such highway unless such
vehicle can be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from either
direction within five hundred feet (500') and unless drivers approaching from
opposite directions are visible to each other when both are at least five
hundred feet (500') from the vehicle to be stopped, turned, or parked, except
in cases of justifiable emergency.
   B.   This section shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or main traveled portion of a highway in such
manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in such position. (1975 Code §
9-2-2; amd. 2015 Code)
9-2-3: NO PARKING AREAS:
A person may not stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions of a
police officer, or official traffic control device, in any of the following
places:
   A.   On a sidewalk.
   B.   In front of a public or private driveway.
   C.   Within an intersection.
   D.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
   E.   On a crosswalk.
   F.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
   G.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop
sign, or official traffic control device located at the side of a roadway.
   H.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet (30')
of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless
the local authorities indicate a different length by signs or markings.
   I.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing.
   J.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire station
and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within
seventy five feet (75') of the entrance when properly signposted.
   K.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic.
   L.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street.
   M.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or within a
highway tunnel.
   N.   At any place where official traffic control devices prohibit stopping.
(1975 Code §
9-2-3; amd. 2015 Code)
9-2-4: PARALLEL PARKING:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, a vehicle that is stopped
or parked upon a two-way roadway must be stopped or parked with the right hand
wheels of the vehicle parallel to and within eighteen inches (18") of the right
hand curb or as close as practicable to the right edge of the right hand
shoulder.
   B.   Except when otherwise provided by the authority having jurisdiction, a
vehicle that is stopped or parked upon a one- way roadway must be stopped or
parked parallel to the curb or edge of the roadway in the direction of
authorized traffic movement, with its right hand wheels within eighteen inches
(18") of the right hand curb or as close as practicable to the right edge of
the right hand shoulder or with its left hand wheels within eighteen inches
(18") of the left hand curb or as close as practicable to the left edge of the
left hand shoulder. (1975 Code §
9-2-4; amd. 2015 Code)
9-2-5: PARKING SPACE:
It shall be unlawful for the operator or person in charge of a motor vehicle to
accomplish final stopping or parking at any place upon the streets, avenues or
public ways of the city by leaving the vehicle with a space less than two feet
(2') in front of an already parked vehicle, or by leaving a space less than two
feet (2') of the rear of an already parked vehicle. No special official sign or
marking shall be required to give notice of this parking regulation. (1975 Code
§
9-2-5)
9-2-6: UNATTENDED VEHICLE:
No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine and effectively setting the brake
thereon and, when standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to the curb
or side of the highway in such a manner as to prevent the vehicle from rolling
onto the roadway. (1975 Code §
9-2-6; amd. 2015 Code)
9-2-7: DISPLAYING FOR SALE; REPAIRS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle upon any street, avenue
or public way of the city for the principal purpose of displaying the vehicle
for sale while so parked, or for washing, greasing or performing repairs upon
the vehicle, except when an emergency repair is necessitated. No special
official sign or marking shall be required to give notice of this parking
regulation. (1975 Code §
9-2-7)
9-2-8: AUTHORITY OF CHIEF OF POLICE:
The chief of police, by and with consent of a majority of the city council
recorded in its minutes, is hereby authorized to determine and to designate
that parking is prohibited or restricted as to the length of time and as to the
size or type of vehicle when, in his opinion, parking of vehicles creates
hazardous conditions, or interfere with traffic, or causes unusual delay in
traffic. Such parking regulations or restrictions shall from time to time be in
effect in accordance with the official signs posted or markings made, and it
shall be unlawful for any operator or person in charge of any vehicle to
disregard the parking regulations so established and promulgated, and specific
authority is given to the chief of police to erect official signs or place
other markings adjacent to schools, hospitals and places of public assembly or
upon narrow streets or thoroughfares, or where congested traffic or commercial
operations or public uses require restrictions or prohibitions to be imposed
for the convenience and safety of the public. (1975 Code §
9-2-8)
9-2-9: RESTRICTIONS, TYPE OF VEHICLE:
Such regulations and restrictions may be made as to the length of time a
vehicle may be parked at one place, or as to the size, weight, or type of
vehicle, and such restrictions may prohibit parking on both sides of a street,
or on one side only. (1975 Code §
9-2-9)
9-2-10: OFFICIAL SIGNS:
When official signs are erected indicating no parking or indicating restricted
parking, and appropriate signs have been erected, such regulations shall be
effective, and it shall be the duty of the chief of police to enforce the same,
but no offense shall be deemed to have been committed unless the sign has been
erected, or the prohibited area marked, and the restrictions of time limits or
prohibitions upon size, weight or type of vehicle made public at least once by
publication of a notice setting forth the prohibition or restriction upon
parking at least one week prior to the alleged offense. (1975 Code §
9-2-10)
9-2-11: TIME LIMIT AREAS:
The following areas are by this chapter established as parking time limit
areas:
Main Street: On Main Street between Third Avenue and Fifth Avenue, a parking
time limit of two (2) hours is established, and it shall be unlawful for the
driver or person in charge of any vehicle to allow the vehicle to remain
standing or parked in such area longer than such time limit.
Third Avenue South: On Third Avenue South, both sides of the avenue, in the
half block between Main Street and the alley nearest Front Street, between the
hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M., a parking time
limit of two (2) hours is established, and it shall be unlawful for the driver
or person in charge of any vehicle to allow the vehicle to remain standing or
parked in such area longer than such time limit during such hours.
Fourth Avenue South: On Fourth Avenue South between Virginia Street and Front
Street, a parking time limit of two (2) hours is established, and it shall be
unlawful for the driver or person in charge of any vehicle to allow the vehicle
to remain standing or parked in such area longer than such time limit. (1975
Code §
9-2-11)
9-2-12: ONE SIDE OF STREET AREAS:
The following areas are by this chapter established as one side of street
parking areas only:
Maryland Street: On Maryland Street between Second and Third Avenues, parking
shall be allowed on the west side of the said street only. (1975 Code §
9-2-12; amd. 2015 Code)
9-2-13: PARKING OF TRUCKS, TRAILERS, MOTOR HOMES OR CAMPERS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
    MOTOR HOME: Any self-propelled vehicle containing living quarters.
   PICKUP CAMPER: Any portable, nonself-propelled unit containing living
quarters situated on a pickup or other self-propelled vehicle.
   STREETS AND ALLEYS: All areas within the boundary lines of dedicated streets
and alleys.
   TRAILER: Any nonself-propelled unit that requires towing.
   TRUCK: Any vehicle larger than a one ton pickup.
   B.   Parking Restricted: It shall be unlawful to park any truck, trailer,
motor home or pickup camper upon the streets or avenues of the city, with the
following exceptions:
      1.   Trucks, trailers, motor homes or pickup campers may be parked on the
streets or avenues of the city for a period not exceeding four (4) hours while
loading or unloading is in progress.
      2.   Unless special permission has been first obtained from a city police
officer.
      3.   Trucks, trailers, motor homes or pickup campers shall not be parked
on city streets and avenues unattended, with the engine running. However, the
above mentioned vehicles may be parked on city streets and avenues for a period
not to exceed sixty (60) minutes, with the engine turned off.
      4.   In all of the above listed exceptions, all trucks, trailers, motor
homes or pickup campers must comply with the weight limitations for the streets
and avenues of the city (sections
9-1-10 and
9-1-11 of this title).
   C.   Official Sign Not Required: No special official sign or marking shall
be required to give notice of this parking regulation. (1975 Code §
9-2-13)
CHAPTER 3
DRIVERS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Driving Under Influence Of Liquor, Drugs
9-3-2: City Court Jurisdiction; Children Driving
9-3-1: DRIVING UNDER INFLUENCE OF LIQUOR, DRUGS:
   A.   Liquor: It is unlawful and punishable as provided in subsection C of
this section for any person who is under the influence of intoxicating liquor
to drive or be in actual physical control of any vehicle within the city.
   B.   Narcotic Drugs: It is unlawful and punishable as provided in subsection
C of this section for any person who is a habitual user of or under the
influence of any narcotic drug, or who is under the influence of any other drug
to a degree which renders him incapable of safely driving a vehicle, to drive a
vehicle within the city. The fact that any person charged with the violation of
this section is or has been entitled to use such drug under the laws of this
state shall not constitute a defense against any charge of violating this
section. (1975 Code §
9-3-1)
   C.   Penalty: Every person who is convicted of a violation of this section
shall be subject to penalty as provided in Montana Code Annotated title 61,
chapter 8, part 4. (1975 Code §
9-3-1; amd. 2015 Code)
9-3-2: CITY COURT JURISDICTION; CHILDREN DRIVING:
   A.   Jurisdiction: The city court is hereby vested with original
jurisdiction in all proceedings concerning the unlawful operation of motor
vehicles by children under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   B.   Penalty: Whenever, after a hearing before the city court, it shall be
found that a child under the age of eighteen (18) years has unlawfully operated
a motor vehicle, the city court may:
      1.   Impose a fine, not exceeding fifty dollars ($50.00), provided such
child shall not be imprisoned for failure to pay such fine;
      2.   May revoke the driver's license of such child, or suspend the same
for such time as may be fixed by the court; and
      3.   May order any motor vehicle owned or operated by such child to be
impounded by the probation officer for such time, not exceeding sixty (60)
days, as shall be fixed by the court; provided, however, that if the court
shall find that the operation of such motor vehicle be without the consent of
the owner, then such vehicle shall not be impounded. Upon nonpayment of any
fine herein provided for, the court may order that any motor vehicle owned by
said child or operated by such child with the consent of the owner shall be
impounded until the fine shall be paid, or may order that the driver's license
of such child shall be taken up and held by the juvenile officer until payment
of said fine, or may cause both said motor vehicle and said driver's license to
be taken up and impounded until such fine shall be paid, but no child shall be
committed to or held in any detention facility or jail by reason of nonpayment
of such fine.
   C.   Summons: Whenever any child under the age of eighteen (18) years shall
unlawfully operate a motor vehicle in the presence of any officer of the police
department of the city, such officer may deliver to said child a form of
summons describing the nature of the offense, with instructions thereon to
report to the city court; and the court shall be informed thereof by the
delivery of a copy of said summons to the judge of said court, and by the
delivery of a copy of said summons to the juvenile officer of Pondera County,
Montana, who shall in turn deliver the same to the judge of said court. (1975
Code § 9-3-3)
TITLE 10
ZONING
CHAPTER 1
ZONING CODE
SECTION:
10-1-1: Regulations Adopted By Reference
10-1-1: REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
There is hereby adopted the certain document known as the “Conrad Zoning
Ordinance”, which ordinance and all subsequent amendments, is incorporated
herein by reference as if fully set out at length. At least one copy of said
ordinance and amendments thereto shall be on file in the office of the city
finance officer. (Ord. 411, 10-20-2015)
TITLE 11
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD CONTROL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Short Title
11-1-2: Findings Of Fact
11-1-3: Purpose; Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
11-1-4: Disclaimer
11-1-5: Definitions
11-1-6: Lands To Which Chapter Applies
11-1-7: Permit Procedure
11-1-8: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
11-1-9: Administrative Requirements
11-1-10: Violation; Penalty
11-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the CONRAD FLOODPLAIN ORDINANCE. (1975 Code § 4-5-
1-1)
11-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in areas of special flood hazard which increase flood heights and velocities,
and when inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood
damage, also contribute to the flood loss. (1975 Code § 4-5-1-2)
11-1-3: PURPOSE; METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public
health, safety, and general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses
due to flood conditions.
   B.   Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses: This chapter is designed for the wise
planning and development of this community's floodplains to avoid conflict
between its citizens' need to develop the land and nature's need to discharge
floodwaters. Provisions of this chapter are designed to:
      1.   Protect human life and health;
      2.   Minimize the need of public expenditure for flood control projects;
      3.   Reduce the need for rescue and relief efforts;
      4.   Lessen prolonged business interruptions;
      5.   Minimize public utility and facility damages;
      6.   Maintain a stable tax base;
      7.   Ensure potential buyers are notified when property is in a flood
hazard area;
      8.   Ensure residents of flood hazard areas are responsible for their
actions.
In order to limit flood damages in the city, this chapter has provisions for
restricting, prohibiting or guiding development activities that are subject to
flood damage. (1975 Code § 4-5-1-3)
11-1-4: DISCLAIMER:
This chapter shall not create liability on the part of any officer or employee
of the city, or the federal emergency management agency for any flood damage
that results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision
lawfully made thereunder. (1975 Code § 4-5-1-4)
11-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted to give them the meanings they have in common usage and to give
this chapter the most reasonable application:
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP OR FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: The official map issued
by the federal emergency management agency where areas of special flood hazard
are designated as zone A.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of waters; and/or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of a structure including the basement. This
means any floor used for living purposes, storage or recreation, and includes
any floor that could be converted to such use.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure that is transportable in one or more sections,
built on a permanent chassis, and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For floodplain
management purposes, it also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and other
similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than one hundred eighty (180)
days.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel or contiguous parcels of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the start of construction commenced on
or after the effective date hereof.
STRUCTURE: A walled or roofed building, including mobile homes and gas or
liquid storage tanks aboveground.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: A. Includes: Any repair, reconstruction or improvement
of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either:
      1.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
      2.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred. For the purpose of this definition, "substantial improvement"
is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   B.   Does Not Include: The term does not, however, include either:
      1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      2.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or a state inventory of historic places. (1975 Code § 4-5-1-5)
11-1-6: LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES:
This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the city as identified by the federal emergency management
agency, hereinafter referred to as FEMA, in its flood insurance rate map, dated
June 7, 1974, and having an effective date of June 1, 1986. This map is adopted
by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. It is on file at the
office of the city finance officer, 413 South Main, Conrad, Montana, or at such
other address of the city finance officer as may be established from time to
time. (1975 Code § 4-5-1-6; amd. 2015 Code)
11-1-7: PERMIT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Permits And Contents Of Permit: Permits shall be required for all
proposed structures, placement of manufactured homes, and other development in
the community within flood prone areas. A permit shall also be required for any
proposed watercourse alteration or development.
      1.   Permit Contents: Before construction or development begins within
any area of special flood hazard, a permit shall be obtained from the city,
hereinafter referred to as the responsible agency. The permit shall
specifically include:
         a.   For residential structures: Elevation in relation to mean sea
level of the building site before construction and, of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all proposed structures;
         b.   For nonresidential structures: Elevation in relation to mean sea
level to which any structure will be floodproofed;
         c.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in subsection 11-1-8B2c of this chapter; and
         d.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of the proposed development.
      2.   Plans: The permit application may contain plans, in duplicate, drawn
to scale showing:
         a.   Location and dimensions of the development site.
         b.   Proposed structures; buildings, manufactured homes, bridges,
culverts, etc. (including existing structures where appropriate).
         c.   Placement, number, and type of anchors for manufactured homes.
         d.   Utility connection locations; sewer, water, gas, and electric.
         e.   Bridge and culvert plans must include hydraulic computations by a
registered engineer.
         f.   Fill location and dimensions.
         g.   Storage of materials.
         h.   Drainage facilities.
         i.   Watercourse alterations including plan drawings, cross sections,
and hydraulic computations.
         j.   Applicants may be asked to furnish additional information if
deemed necessary by the responsible agency. (1975 Code § 4-5-2-1)
   B.   Permit Review: All permit applications shall be reviewed using the best
available base flood elevation and floodway data from any federal, state or
local source to: 1) assure sites are reasonably safe from flooding; 2)
determine that all necessary permits have been obtained from those federal,
state or local agencies from which prior approval is required; and 3) to
determine if the proposed development adversely affects the flood carrying
capacity of a flood prone area. For the purposes of this chapter, "adversely
affects" means damage to adjacent properties because of rises in flood stages
attributed to physical changes of the channel and the adjacent overbank areas.
      1.   If it is determined that there is no adverse effect and the
development is not a building, the permit shall be granted without further
considerations.
      2.   If it is determined that there is an adverse effect, technical
justification (i.e., by a registered professional engineer) for the proposed
development shall be required.
      3.   If the proposed development is a building, the following provisions
of this chapter shall apply. (1975 Code § 4-5-2-2)
11-1-8: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard, the following
standards are required:
      1.   Anchoring:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads including the effects of
buoyancy.
         b.   All manufactured homes should be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy. Methods of anchoring may include, but are
not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors.
      2.   Construction Materials And Methods: All new construction and
substantial improvements shall be constructed using methods, materials and
utility equipment that resist or minimize flood damage.
      3.   Utilities:
         a.   All electrical, heating, ventilating, plumbing, air conditioning,
and other service facilities shall be designed and located to prevent water
from entering or accumulating within the components during flooding conditions.
         b.   All new and replacement water supply systems and sanitary sewer
systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the system. Sanitary sewer systems shall be designed to minimize or
eliminate discharge into floodwaters.
         c.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      4.   Subdivision Proposals:
         a.   All proposed subdivisions, manufactured home parks and
subdivisions, and other developments shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
         b.   All proposed subdivisions, manufactured home parks and
subdivisions, and other developments shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
         c.   All proposed subdivisions, manufactured home parks and
subdivisions, and other developments shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage.
         d.   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for proposed
subdivisions, manufactured home parks and subdivisions and other proposed
developments which contain at least fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres,
whichever is less. (1975 Code § 4-5-3-1)
   B.   Specific Standards: Where base flood elevation data has been provided
by FEMA, the provisions below are required. If said data is not available, the
responsible agency must use judgment and be guided by the mapped 100-year flood
boundaries, past flood accounts described in newspapers, photos and eyewitness
accounts, or by high water marks on buildings, telephone poles, bridges or
other structures. The responsible agency, wherever possible, should designate
the floodproofing elevation. The following provisions would then be required:
      1.   Residential Construction:
         a.   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above base
flood elevation.
         b.   Manufactured homes shall be placed so that the lowest floor is
above the base flood elevation.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the base
flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities,
shall:
         a.   Be floodproofed so that above the base flood level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
         b.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
         c.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certification shall
be provided to the responsible agency as set forth in subsection 11-1-9A of
this chapter. (1975 Code § 4-5-3-2)
11-1-9: ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Information To Be Obtained And Maintained: The responsible agency shall
maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the provisions of this
chapter. Where the responsible agency has utilized available base flood
elevation data or determined base flood depths and applied the specific
standards, the following is required:
      1.   For new or substantially improved residential structures and
manufactured homes:
         a.   Obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved structures; and
         b.   Record whether or not the structure contains a basement.
      2.   For all new or substantially improved nonresidential structures:
         a.   Obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the structure has been floodproofed.
         b.   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in subsection
11-1-8B2c of this chapter. (1975 Code § 4-5-4-1)
   B.   Alteration And Encroachment Of Watercourses: The responsible agency
shall:
      1.   Notify adjacent communities and the Montana floodplain management
section of the department of natural resources and conservation, state of
Montana (DNRC) prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and
submit evidence of such notification to the federal emergency management agency
(FEMA); and
      2.   Require that the flood carrying capacity is not diminished within
the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse; and
      3.   Where the watercourse is filled, impounded, dredged or diverted or
where levees or floodwalls are constructed, require that the flood carrying
capacity not be diminished. (1975 Code § 4-5-4-2)
   C.   Encroachments: Encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development shall be prohibited in any
floodway unless a technical evaluation demonstrates that the encroachments will
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge. (1975 Code § 4-5-4-3)
11-1-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to
comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person
who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding five
hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment not to exceed thirty (30) days, or
by both such fine and imprisonment for each such offense, and in addition shall
pay costs and expenses incurred by the city in prosecuting the case. Each day
such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
   B.   Additional Remedies: Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city
from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation. (1975 Code § 4-5-5-1)
TITLE 12
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Regulations Adopted By Reference
12-1-1: REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
There is hereby adopted the certain document known as the “Conrad Subdivision
Ordinance”, which ordinance and all subsequent amendments, is incorporated
herein by reference as if fully set out at length. At least one copy of said
ordinance and amendments thereto shall be on file in the office of the city
finance officer. (Ord. 412, 10-20-2015)
