CITY CODE
of
CUT BANK, MONTANA
2006
Code current through:
Ord. 16-3, passed 12-19-2022
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
One West Fourth Street * 3rd Floor * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Cut Bank, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 16-3, passed December 19, 2022. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
CUT BANK CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this city code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Cut Bank. This city
code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the CUT BANK CITY CODE and is
hereby published by authority of the council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this city code by title in any legal documents. (2006 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2006 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this city code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and such ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in its
proper place in each copy of this city code. Each such replacement page shall
be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the
city code. (2006 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this city code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The city clerk-treasurer shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk-
treasurer. Any person having custody of a copy of the city code shall make
every effort to maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances
passed. Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement
pages when such are delivered or made available to such person through the
office of the city clerk-treasurer. Such code books, while in actual possession
of officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of
the city and shall be returned to the office of the city clerk-treasurer when
directed so to do by order of the council. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this city
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this city code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances vacating
streets, alleys or other public places; improvement ordinances; bond
ordinances; ordinances relating to elections; ordinances relating to the
transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the city; and all special
ordinances. (2006 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this city code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2006 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Currently Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this city code. (2006 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this city code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The council hereby
declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision,
paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any
one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses
or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this city code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this city code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
city code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been
changed in the content of this city code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2006 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The city of Cut Bank, county of Glacier, state of Montana.
CODE: The municipal code of the city of Cut Bank.
COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Cut Bank.
COUNTY: The county of Glacier, state of Montana.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Cut Bank".
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MCA: Montana Code Annotated, as amended.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the city.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a county officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Cut Bank".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: The word "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, clubs,
societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to
individuals.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Montana.
STREET: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person or, in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2006 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Execution On Fine
1-4-3: Acts Punishable Under Different Sections
1-4-4: Liability Of Officers And Employees
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Penalty: Whenever in any provision of this code or other ordinance of
the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful, a
misdemeanor or an offense, or whenever in any such provision or ordinance the
doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful, where no specific penalty is otherwise provided therefor, any person,
upon conviction for the violation of any such provision of this code or
ordinances, shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars
($500.00) or by imprisonment not to exceed six (6) months, or both such fine
and imprisonment, for each such offense.
   B.   Limitation; Compliance With Statute: The provisions of subsection A of
this section notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than or less than
that established by state statute for the same offense; nor shall terms of
imprisonment be greater than that established by state statute for the same
offense.
   C.   Separate Offense For Each Day: Unless specifically provided otherwise,
or the context thereof so dictates, each day any violation of any provision of
this code or any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA §§ 7-5-109 and 7-5-4207.
1-4-2: EXECUTION ON FINE:
   A.   Fine Only: If the judgment is for a fine alone, execution may issue
thereon as on a judgment in a civil case.
   B.   Fine And Imprisonment: If the judgment is for a fine and imprisonment
until the fine is paid, the defendant shall be committed to the custody of the
county jail and detained until the judgment is complied with. The imprisonment
shall not exceed that amount set by resolution of the Glacier County board.
(2006 Code)
1-4-3: ACTS PUNISHABLE UNDER DIFFERENT SECTIONS:
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may proceed
under both, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the same person
for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit
shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty
being enforced. (2006 Code)
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any city officer or
employee shall be so construed so as to make such officer or employee liable
for any fine or penalty provided in this code for a failure to perform such
duty, unless the intention of the city council to impose such a fine or penalty
on such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the
section creating the duty. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Mayor
1-5-2: Council Composition And Term
1-5-3: President Of Council
1-5-4: Vacancies In Office
1-5-5: Duties
1-5-6: Ordinance Publication
1-5-1: MAYOR:
   A.   Qualifications: No person shall be eligible for the office of mayor
unless such person is a citizen of the United States, is at least twenty one
(21) years of age, has been a resident of the state for at least three (3)
years and a resident of the city or area which has been annexed by the city for
a period of two (2) years next preceding his election.
   B.   Term Of Office: The mayor shall serve for a term of four (4) years.
   C.   Powers And Duties: The mayor shall have those powers and duties
established by state statute. (2006 Code)
1-5-2: COUNCIL COMPOSITION AND TERM:
There shall be two (2) aldermen representing each ward of the city. At each
city election hereafter, one alderman shall be elected from each city ward, as
described in this code 1 , for a term of four (4) years or until his successor
is elected and qualified. (2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-7-1 of this title.
1-5-3: PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL:
At the time of taking office, the city council shall elect one of the members
of the council who shall be styled president of the council and who shall
preside at all meetings of the council in the absence of the mayor and, in the
absence of the president of the council, shall elect one of their own body to
occupy his place temporarily, who shall be styled acting president of the
council, and the president and acting president, when occupying the place of
mayor, shall have the same privileges as other members of the council, and all
acts of the president and acting president, while so acting, shall be binding
upon the council and upon the city as if done by the mayor. (2006 Code)
1-5-4: VACANCIES IN OFFICE:
In the event an office of alderman shall become vacant through death, moving
out of the ward, or for any other reason, the mayor shall appoint, with the
approval of the city council, a resident of the ward to fill the unexpired
portion of the term, until the next general election, when the unexpired term
shall be filled by regular election. (2006 Code)
1-5-5: DUTIES:
Aldermen, members of the city council, the legislative and policy making branch
of the government of the city, shall devote so much of their time to the duties
of their office as an efficient and faithful discharge thereof may require.
They shall attend all meetings of the council unless lawfully excused
therefrom, and perform all duties which by the nature of their office they
would reasonably perform, such as the passing of ordinances and resolutions,
and the investigation and study of work done for the city according to the
character of committee upon which they may severally be appointed. (2006 Code)
1-5-6: ORDINANCE PUBLICATION:
All ordinances passed by the city council shall be either published in one
issue of a daily or weekly newspaper of general circulation in the city or
posted by the city clerk-treasurer by posting written copies of said ordinance,
in not less than three (3) conspicuous places within the limits of the city, as
the council shall direct and prescribe. (Ord. 1.00; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 6
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Residency Requirements
1-6-2: Bond Requirements
1-6-3: Clerical And Administrative Assistance
1-6-4: City Judge
1-6-5: City Superintendent
1-6-6: Street Commissioner
1-6-1: RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All employees of the city are required to maintain residency within the
city limits or within a twenty (20) minute response time to their place of
employment. In establishing and verifying the twenty (20) minute response time,
the city superintendent shall have full discretion.
   B.   All employees desiring to live outside of the city limits shall:
      1.   Obtain written permission from his or her respective department head
and the city superintendent.
      2.   Provide a personal, one party line telephone connection to his or
her place of residency. (Ord. 394, 9-15-1997)
1-6-2: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Bond Required; Amounts: All city officials required to give bond shall
make, execute and deliver such bond before entering upon the discharge of
official duty. Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, shall give bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed.
   B.   Specific Bond Amounts: Except when otherwise provided by law or
ordinance, the following officers of the city shall execute the following
official bonds to the city: (Ord. 2.04)
City clerk-treasurer   $10,000.00
   Utility billing clerk   1,000.00
   Chief of police   2,000.00
City judge   1,000.00
   Reserve police officers   1,000.00
   C.   Approval And Filing Of Bond; Surety Restriction: Unless otherwise
expressly provided by statute or ordinance, every official bond shall be
approved by the council and filed with the city clerk-treasurer within the time
prescribed for filing oath. The city clerk-treasurer shall record all bonds
filed with him. No officer shall become a surety on the official bond of
another officer. (Ord. 2.04; amd. 2006 Code)
   D.   Form; Signatures Required: Unless otherwise provided by statute or
ordinance, all official bonds shall be in form joint and several and made
payable to the state of Montana, city of Cut Bank in such penalty and with such
conditions as required by law or ordinance. All official bonds shall be signed
and executed by the principal and two (2) or more sufficient sureties or by the
principal and one or more surety companies organized as such under the laws of
this state or licenses to do business herein.
   E.   Scope Of Bond:
      1.   Every official bond executed by an officer pursuant to the
provisions of this section is in force and obligatory on the principal and
sureties therein for any and all breaches of the conditions thereof committed
during the time such officer continues to discharge any of the duties of or
hold the office, and whether such breaches are committed or suffered by the
principal officer, his deputy or clerk.
      2.   Every bond is in force and obligatory upon the principal and
sureties therein for the faithful discharge of all duties which may be required
of the officer by any law or ordinance enacted subsequent to the execution of
such bond and such condition shall be expressed therein.
      3.   Every official bond executed by an officer pursuant to this section
is in force and obligatory upon the principal and sureties therein to and for
the state of Montana, city of Cut Bank and to and for the use and benefit of
all persons who may be injured or aggrieved by the wrongful act or default of
such officer in his official capacity; and any person so injured or aggrieved
may bring suit on such bond in his own name without an assignment thereof. No
such bond is void on the first recovery of a judgment thereon, but suit may
afterwards be brought from time to time and judgment recovered thereon by the
city or by any person to whom a right of action has accrued against such
officer and his sureties, until the whole penalty of the bond is exhausted.
      4.   The principal and sureties upon an official bond are also in all
cases liable for the neglect, default or misconduct in office of any deputy,
clerk or employee appointed or employed by such principal.
   F.   Conditions Of Bond: The condition of every official bond shall be that
the principal shall well, truly and faithfully perform all official duties then
required by him by law or ordinance, and also such additional duties as may be
imposed on him by any law of the state subsequently enacted, and by any
ordinance of the city subsequently enacted, and that he will account for and
pay over and deliver to the person or officer entitled to receive the same all
monies or other properties that may come into his hands as such officer.
   G.   Insufficient Sureties; Additional Bond:
      1.   Whenever it is shown by the affidavit of a credible witness, or
otherwise comes to the knowledge of the city council, that the sureties on any
bond given pursuant to the provisions of this section, or any of them, have,
since the bond was approved, died or removed from the state, become insolvent,
or from any other cause have become incompetent or insufficient sureties on
such bond, the council may issue a citation to the officer requiring him, on a
day therein named, not less than five (5) days nor more than ten (10) days
after date, to appear and show cause why such office should not be vacated,
which citation shall be served and return thereof made before the time set to
show cause. If the officer fails to appear or show good cause why such office
should not be vacated on the day named, or fails to give ample additional
security, the council shall make an order vacating the office, and the same
shall be filled as provided by law. (Ord. 2.04)
      2.   The additional bond shall be in such penalty as directed by the
council and in all other respects similar to the original bond. Every such
additional bond so filed and approved is of like force and obligation upon the
principal and sureties thereon from the time of its execution and subjects the
officer and his sureties to the same liabilities, suits and actions as are
prescribed respecting the original bonds of officers. In no case is the
original bond discharged or affected when an additional bond has been given,
but the same remains of like force and obligation as if such additional bond
had not been given. The officer and his sureties are liable to the city and to
the party injured by a breach of any condition of an official bond, after the
execution of the additional bond, upon either or both the bonds. (Ord. 2.04;
amd. 2006 Code)
   H.   Failure To Provide Bond: If any person elected or appointed to office
in the city required by this section to give bond shall fail or neglect to give
the city an official bond in the sum and within the time as required by the
provisions of this section, such office may thereupon by the city council by a
vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all members elect, be declared vacant.
   I.   Reference To Provisions: All the provisions and conditions of this
section shall form a part of all official bonds without being repeated therein,
and a reference to this section by number or otherwise in an official bond
shall be deemed and considered as adopting and incorporating all the provisions
and conditions of this section into such bond as fully and completely to all
intents and purposes as if the provisions and conditions of this section were
fully and completely repeated and set forth therein. (Ord. 2.04)
1-6-3: CLERICAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANCE:
The city council may approve payment of claims submitted by clerical and
administrative help in conjunction with the preparation and work involved in
the necessary undertaking relevant to the financial system of the city where
such assistance is necessary during periods of time in the year when a peak
volume of work shall be performed. (Ord. 2.36; amd. 2006 Code)
1-6-4: CITY JUDGE:
The office of city judge of the city court of the city of Cut Bank, Montana,
shall be filled by appointment by the mayor of the city of Cut Bank with the
advice and consent of the city council.
To be eligible for appointment as city court judge for the city of Cut Bank, a
person must meet all requirements set forth in state of Montana statutes for
qualifications of a justice of the peace, be a resident of Glacier County for
at least one year, must maintain residency within the city limits or within a
twenty (20) minute response time to their place of employment as determined by
the city superintendent, and after appointment meet all other qualifications
required by law. Any person so appointed who does not reside within the city of
Cut Bank's limits shall in addition be required to provide a personal, one
party line telephone connection to his or her place of residency. (Ord. 2010-
04, 12-20-2010, eff. 12-20-2010)
1-6-5: CITY SUPERINTENDENT:
   A.   Definition: As used in this code and in the ordinances of the city, the
term "city superintendent" means any employee or agent of the city who is
designated as city superintendent. The term "city superintendent" also means
and includes each of the following, and where each of the following terms is
used in this code and in the ordinances of the city, said term includes the
term "city superintendent":
   Street commissioner
Supervisor of waterworks
City engineer
Engineer representing the city
Superintendent of department of sanitation
   B.   Duties: The city superintendent is hereby empowered, authorized and
directed to perform all of the acts and duties of all of the persons or
officers designated in subsection A of this section. (Ord. 2.32; amd. 2006
Code)
1-6-6: STREET COMMISSIONER:
   A.   Office Created; Appointment: There is hereby created the office of
street commissioner in and for the city. It shall be the duty of the mayor of
the city to appoint, subject to confirmation by the city council, some suitable
person to discharge the duties of said office.
   B.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the street commissioner:
      1.   To see that all ordinances, resolutions and orders of the city
council relating to streets, alleys, sidewalks, boulevards and cleaning and
flushing of sewers are complied with;
      2.   To make a full monthly report, in writing, to the city council of
all work done, where done, cost of same, and all monies expended in his
department, and for what purpose, and it shall be his duty to take charge of
all tools, materials or the property belonging to the city and employed in
working on the streets, and shall, under the direction of the council, make
suitable provisions for the safekeeping of the same while under his care and
control, and shall at all times keep an accurate and descriptive list of the
same, and at the expiration of his term of office, return to the city clerk-
treasurer an accurate copy of said list;
      3.   To see that all statutes, ordinances, orders and regulations
respecting the use or occupation of portions of the streets for the purpose of
erecting, altering, repairing or removing buildings are observed and enforced.
It shall be his duty to repair without unnecessary delay any street that shall
have become impassable or unsafe, clean out and flush all sewers when
necessary, and employ competent labor for same;
      4.   To perform all the duties devolved upon him by this code and city
ordinances relating to sidewalks and have all labor upon the sidewalks, ordered
by the city council, performed in accordance with the ordinances relating
thereto; to make all ordinary repairs on sidewalks as this code and city
ordinances provide and see that the same are kept in good and safe condition
for the public travel, subject to instructions and direction of the city
council; to oversee the construction and maintenance of all existing sidewalks,
or sidewalks that may be ordered by the council; and whenever it shall be
necessary to rebuild or construct any sidewalk, he shall report the same to the
city council who shall, if in their judgment such improvements are necessary,
order such improvements as are provided by ordinance;
      5.   To report all violations of provisions of this code and ordinances
relating to sidewalks, streets and sewers to the city council, and is
authorized and empowered, under the instructions of the city council, to employ
competent persons and procure necessary materials to make repairs or construct
or do any work that may have been ordered as herein provided; and
      6.   To perform all other duties prescribed for him by this code or any
ordinance of the city, or resolution or order of the city council. (Ord. 2.40)
   C.   Conservator Of The Peace: The street commissioner shall have the same
authority to make arrests as a police officer of the city. (Ord. 2.40; amd.
2006 Code)
CHAPTER 7
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Election Procedure
1-7-2: Ward Boundaries
1-7-1: ELECTION PROCEDURE:
The procedure for holding city elections shall be as provided by state law.
(2006 Code)
1-7-2: WARD BOUNDARIES:
The boundaries of the wards for election and other purposes within the city are
as follows:
Ward 1 shall consist of Glacier County voting precincts nos. 1 and 2 and shall
include all land and area within the city which is east of South Central Avenue
and North Central Avenue and south of the Burlington Northern right of way.
Ward 2: Ward 2 shall consist of Glacier County voting precincts nos. 3 and 4
and shall include all land and area within the city which is not included in
ward 1. (Ord. 5.04)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PARK ADVISORY BOARD
SECTION:
2-1-1: Authority
2-1-2: Board Created; Appointment; Qualifications; Term
2-1-3: Vacancy In Office
2-1-4: Officers
2-1-5: Powers And Duties
2-1-6: Meetings
2-1-7: Compensation
2-1-8: Finances; Contracts
2-1-9: City Superintendent
2-1-1: AUTHORITY:
The authority for this chapter is specifically contained in Montana Code
Annotated section 7-16-4103(3), wherein the city is authorized, at its
discretion, to place any or all of said institutions under the control and
management of the park advisory board. Those powers, duties, obligations, and
rights contained in Montana Code Annotated title 7, chapter 16, part 41, which
are not expressly delegated to the park advisory board shall be reserved unto
the city council. (Ord. 2010-03, 11-1-2010)
2-1-2: BOARD CREATED; APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM:
   A.   Composition; Appointment: There is hereby created a park advisory board
which shall be composed of the mayor of the city of Cut Bank and six (6) other
members. Those six (6) members shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice
and consent of the city council.
   B.   Continuance In Office: Each person serving on the park advisory board
immediately preceding the effective date hereof shall continue to serve the
remainder of his or her term as originally appointed.
   C.   Qualifications: Each of the six (6) persons to be appointed shall have
the following qualifications for park commissioner:
      1.   Must be at least eighteen (18) years of age;
      2.   Must be a resident of the state of Montana;
      3.   Must be a resident of the city of Cut Bank, a resident of an area of
the city of Cut Bank which has been annexed, or a person who lives within a
four (4) mile radius of the Cut Bank city limits who has shown particular
interest or has special abilities to benefit the city of Cut Bank by serving on
this advisory board.
   D.   Term Of Office: The term of office of each park commissioner shall be
three (3) years from and after July 1 of the year in which the appointment is
made and when a successor is appointed and qualified. (Ord. 2010-03, 11-1-2010)
2-1-3: VACANCY IN OFFICE:
   A.   Residency: A seat on the board shall be considered vacant if the
individual appointed as a park commissioner ceases to be a resident or person
living within four (4) miles of the city of Cut Bank's limits.
   B.   Failure To Attend Meetings Or To Qualify: Any park commissioner who
shall refuse or neglect to attend three (3) consecutive meetings without leave
of absence from the board or who shall fail for a period of twenty (20) days
from and after his or her appointment to qualify as herein required shall be
deemed to have vacated his or her office, and thereupon, his or her successor
may be appointed. (Ord. 2010-03, 11-1-2010)
2-1-4: OFFICERS:
   A.   Officers Of The Board: In July of each year, the park advisory board
shall meet and organize by electing one of their members as president and one
of its members as vice president. Each of these officers shall hold their
office for a period of one year. The president, and in his absence, the vice
president, shall preside at all meetings of the board and perform such other
duties as shall be required and directed by the board. The mayor shall not be
eligible to hold these offices.
   B.   Clerk:
      1.   The city clerk-treasurer, or her appointee, shall be ex officio
clerk of the park advisory board, and shall attend all meetings of the board
and keep correct minutes of all proceedings of the board in a book provided for
that purpose, to be called "Record Of The Board Of Park Commissioners Of The
City Of Cut Bank" or by transcribing the recorded meetings. It shall be the
duty of clerk to keep an accurate account of all transactions for the park
advisory board, to keep all transactions of the board separate from other city
accounts, to make and submit in writing to the board at the first meeting in
August of each year a report, under oath, showing in detail all of the receipts
and disbursements made from the park fund by the city council during the year,
which report shall be in duplicate, and after being approved by the board, one
of the duplicates shall be filed in the office of the city clerk-treasurer and
the other retained in the records of the park advisory board.
      2.   In the absence of the clerk at any meeting held by the board, the
board shall designate one of its members as clerk pro tem to keep the minutes
of the meeting, which minutes shall be delivered to the clerk to be transcribed
into the record book of the board. The minutes of the meeting and the record
book, when approved by the board, shall be prima facie evidence of the matters
and things therein recited in any court of the state of Montana. (Ord. 2010-03,
11-1-2010)
2-1-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Duties: The park advisory board shall advise the governing body of the
city of Cut Bank as to the management and control of the swimming pool, skating
rinks, playgrounds, civic center, youth center, and any combinations thereof,
and of all parks belonging to the city of Cut Bank. The park advisory board
shall have the following powers and be charged with the following duties:
      1.   To lay out, establish, improve, and maintain parkways, drives, and
walks in the parks of the city of Cut Bank, and to make plats thereof and to
file the same in the office of the city clerk-treasurer, and to determine when
and what parks shall be opened to the public.
      2.   The park advisory board shall promulgate all rules and regulations
for the use of parks, lands, buildings, improvements, and recreational programs
by the public and to provide penalties for the violation of such rules and
regulations, said penalties having full force and effect upon approval by
resolution of the governing body of the city of Cut Bank.
   B.   Program Of Public Recreation And Playgrounds: The park advisory board
may also operate a program of public recreation and playgrounds, and for this
purpose, may acquire, equip and maintain land, buildings, and other
recreational facilities and may provide advice to the governing body in regard
to expenditure of funds from the park fund for these purposes. (Ord. 2010-03,
11-1-2010)
2-1-6: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular And Special Meetings: The park advisory board shall hold an
annual meeting in July of each year and shall meet periodically throughout the
year at such times as the board shall, by rule, prescribe. Special meetings may
also be held at the call of the president, or in his or her absence, the vice
president, giving to each member of the board at least forty eight (48) hours'
prior notice in writing of the time and place of holding such meeting. All park
advisory board meetings are public meetings, and the park advisory board shall
post public notice of its meetings at least forty eight (48) hours prior to any
meeting in three (3) public places such as city hall, the U.S. post office, the
county courthouse or such other public places to enable the public a meaningful
opportunity to participate in its meetings.
   B.   Quorum: A majority of the entire board shall be necessary to constitute
a quorum for the transaction of the business of the board. (Ord. 2010-03, 11-1-
2010)
2-1-7: COMPENSATION:
No member of the park advisory board shall receive compensation for his or her
services rendered under the provisions of this chapter except for any actual
and necessary expense incurred by any member of the board while acting under
the orders of the board in the transaction of any business in its behalf may be
paid upon being allowed and audited by the board and submitted for approval of
the governing body of the city of Cut Bank. (Ord. 2010-03, 11-1-2010)
2-1-8: FINANCES; CONTRACTS:
   A.   Funds: All monies raised by taxes for park purposes, or received by any
member of the park advisory board for public purposes, or from any other
source, shall be paid into the city treasury, and the city clerk-treasurer
shall keep all monies in a separate fund to be known as the park fund. The park
advisory board shall have no power to incur liability on behalf of the city
from the park fund in the city of Cut Bank's annual budget as adopted each
fiscal year. (Ord. 2010-03, 11-1-2010)
2-1-9: CITY SUPERINTENDENT:
   A.   Utilize Services Of Superintendent: In recognition that much of the
maintenance, upkeep, and improvements made or required to be performed in the
city parks, buildings, and facilities are performed by city personnel under the
direct supervision of the city superintendent, the park advisory board may
continue to utilize the services of the city superintendent to advise and carry
out the duties and responsibilities of the city of Cut Bank.
   B.   Resolution Of Conflicts: Any conflict which may occur between the park
advisory board and the city superintendent shall first be taken to the mayor
for resolution. If either party remains unsatisfied with the mayor's proposed
resolution, then that party may appeal directly to the city council, operating
as a whole, and the decision of the city council shall be final. (Ord. 2010-03,
11-1-2010)
CHAPTER 2
BOARD OF APPEALS FOR ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
2-2-1: Board Created; Membership; Appointment; Term
2-2-2: Duties Generally
2-2-3: Rules And Regulations; Appeals
2-2-1: BOARD CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; TERM:
There is hereby established a board of appeals for abatement of dangerous
buildings in and for the city. The board of appeals shall consist of five (5)
members, none of whom are employees of the city. The city superintendent shall
be an ex officio member of the board and shall act as secretary to the board.
The board members shall be appointed by the city council and shall hold office
until a member resigns or is removed by the council. (Ord. 2.52)
2-2-2: DUTIES GENERALLY:
It shall be the duty of the board of appeals to provide the final
interpretation of the provisions of the code for the abatement of dangerous
buildings, and in all appeals from any notice and order or any action of the
city superintendent requesting the abatement of a dangerous building. (Ord.
2.52; amd. 2006 Code)
2-2-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS; APPEALS:
The board of appeals shall adopt reasonable rules and regulations for
conducting its business and shall render all decisions and findings in writing
to the appellant, with a copy to the city superintendent. All appeals to the
board shall be processed in accordance with the code for the abatement of
dangerous buildings. Failure of any person to file an appeal in accordance with
the provisions of said code shall constitute a waiver of his right to
administrative hearing and adjudication of the notice and order or any portion
thereof. Copies of all rules and regulations adopted by the board shall be
delivered to the city superintendent, who shall make them freely accessible to
the public. (Ord. 2.52; amd. 2006 Code)
TITLE 3
REVENUE AND FINANCE
CHAPTER 1
SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Special Improvement Lighting District No. 1
3-1-2: Other Special Improvement Lighting Districts
3-1-1: SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT LIGHTING DISTRICT NO. 1:
   A.   Initial Costs:
      1.   Three-fourths (3/4) of the entire cost and expense of furnishing,
installing and equipping lighting units, together with the necessary
connections and appurtenances; and three-fourths (3/4) of the entire cost of
maintaining lights thereon and supplying electrical current therefor for the
first year, provided for in resolution 14 passed by the city council on May 16,
1921, for the purpose of erecting and furnishing lighting units and maintaining
lights thereon for the first year as set forth and specified in said
resolution, shall be paid by the entire district, special improvement lighting
district no. 1, each lot and parcel of land within the district to be assessed
for that part of the cost to be paid by the district which its number of linear
feet in front of or abutting the streets and avenues included within said
district, bears to the total number of linear feet in front of or abutting the
streets and avenues to be lighted within the special improvement lighting
district no. 1; and the other one-fourth (1/4) of the entire cost of
maintaining said lights and supplying electrical current therefor in the
district for the first year shall be paid by the city out of the general fund
or other fund provided for that purpose.
      2.   The cost and expense of furnishing, installing and equipping the
lighting units, together with the necessary connections and appurtenances,
shall be paid in eight (8) equal annual installments, and for the entire cost
and expense of said improvements, bonds are to be drawn on the funds of the
special improvement lighting district no. 1 and made payable exclusively from
said funds. Such bonds shall be of the denomination of one hundred dollars
($100.00) or multiples or fractions thereof. Such assessments shall be paid in
eight (8) annual installments and the payments of said annual installments of
said assessments and of said cost and expense shall be extended over a period
of eight (8) years from and after the completion of the installation of such
lighting fixtures and appurtenances in the district. All monies derived from
the collection of said assessments, and all monies paid by the city out of the
general fund, or other fund, for the purpose of erecting and furnishing said
units, shall constitute a fund to be known as "Special Improvement Lighting
District No. 1 Fund".
   B.   Annual Assessment: The entire cost and expense of maintaining the
lights and furnishing electrical current therefor shall be paid by an annual
assessment against the property in the district and by the city, in such
proportions as are designated in subsection A1 of this section for the first
year, and in such proportion as may hereafter be designated by the city council
for the succeeding years. All monies derived from the collection of the
assessments and from the amount so paid by the city shall be paid into a fund
to be known as the "Special Improvement Lighting District No. 1 Maintenance
Fund", and warrants shall be drawn on said fund for the payment of such costs
and maintaining the lights and furnishing electrical current therefor. (Ord.
3.00)
3-1-2: OTHER SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT LIGHTING DISTRICTS:
   A.   District Revolving Fund Established: In order to secure prompt payment
of any special improvement district bonds or warrants, or interest thereon,
issued in payment for improvements to be made in special improvement lighting
district no. 2, special improvement district no. 5 and special improvement
districts hereafter created, there is hereby created and established special
improvement district revolving fund no. 1 of the city. (Ord. 3.04)
   B.   Funds Provided: For the purposes of providing funds for such revolving
fund of the city council, the council:
      1.   Transfer From General Fund: May, in its discretion, from time to
time, transfer to said revolving fund from the general fund of the city, such
amount or amounts as deemed necessary to secure the prompt payment of the bonds
and warrants, and interest thereon, to be issued by special improvement
district no. 5, and special improvement lighting district no. 2, and all other
special improvement districts hereinafter created. Monies transferred from the
general fund shall be a loan to be repaid as monies from special improvement
districts are collected.
      2.   Tax Levy: Shall, in addition to such transfer or transfers from the
general fund, levy and collect for such revolving fund hereby created each
year, in addition to all other taxes, a tax on all of the taxable property in
the city, equal in amount to the delinquencies in the payment of special
assessments and interest thereon during the year immediately preceding; such
levy, together with such transfer, not to exceed in any one year five percent
(5%) of the principle amount of the then outstanding special improvement
district bonds and warrants, as provided under Montana Code Annotated title 7,
chapter 12. (Ord. 3.04; amd. 2006 Code)
   C.   Excess Funds: Whenever there is in the revolving fund an amount in
excess of the amount which the council deems necessary for the payment or
redemption of maturing bonds or warrants and interest thereon, the city council
may:
      1.   Transfer To General Fund: By vote of all its members at a meeting
called for that purpose, order such excess, or any part thereof, transferred to
the general fund of the city, only in the event that none of the special
improvement district bonds affected by the revolving fund created herein remain
outstanding and unpaid; or
      2.   Purchase Of Properties: Use such excess, or any part thereof, for
the purchase of property at sales for delinquent taxes and assessments, or
both, or which may have been struck off and sold to the county for delinquent
taxes or assessments, or both, and against which property there may be any
unpaid assessments for special improvements, including special improvement
district no. 5, special improvement lighting district no. 2, and other
districts hereafter created, on account whereof there are outstanding special
improvement district bonds or warrants of the city. (Ord. 3.04)
CHAPTER 2
STREET MAINTENANCE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Purpose And Intent
3-2-2: Definition
3-2-3: Boundaries Of Districts
3-2-4: Taxes Assessed
3-2-5: Street Improvement District Funds
3-2-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose: The public interest, health, convenience and safety requires
that the maintenance hereinafter described be done and that street maintenance
districts should be created and established within the city for the purpose of
doing such maintenance and all work proper and incidental thereto.
   B.   Intent: The city council declares that it is the intention of said
council to establish and create street maintenance districts within the city
for the maintenance of all of the streets, avenues and alleys within the city
and doing other work properly incidental thereto. (Ord. 13.38)
3-2-2: DEFINITION:
"Maintenance", as used in this chapter, includes, but is not limited to,
sprinkling, graveling, oiling, chip sealing, seal coating, overlaying,
treating, general cleaning, sweeping, flushing, snow removal, and leaf and
debris removal, the operation, maintenance, and repair of traffic signal
systems, the repair of traffic signs, the placement and maintenance of pavement
markings, and curb and gutter repair. "Maintenance" also includes the
preparation and improvement of streets, avenues and alleys within the
maintenance districts so that the maintenance will be of a durable and
continuing benefit, as provided in Montana Code Annotated section 7-12-4405.
Such "maintenance" may be done by contract or by forces employed by the city,
or by both, in such manner as the city council may from time to time elect.
(Ord. 13.38; amd. 2006 Code)
3-2-3: BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS:
The boundaries of the street maintenance districts are as defined, and the
streets, avenues, alleys and public places constituting each district are as
described in resolution 890 of the city which is hereby referred to and by this
reference made a part hereof for all purposes. (Ord. 13.38)
3-2-4: TAXES ASSESSED:
The city council finds and determines that all real property situated within
the boundaries of the proposed districts as set forth in this chapter will be
specially benefited by doing the maintenance and the creation of the street
maintenance districts as herein set forth, and the city council hereby declares
that all real property situated within the boundaries of each of said districts
will be specially benefited by doing the maintenance and the creation of said
street maintenance districts as herein set forth; that each of said street
maintenance districts shall be assessed with the entire cost of creating said
street maintenance district, doing the described maintenance and doing all work
properly incidental thereto, and each lot or parcel of land within each
district shall be assessed for that part of the whole cost which its area bears
to the area of the entire district in which said lot or parcel of land is
located, exclusive of streets, avenues, alleys, and public places. (Ord. 13.38)
3-2-5: STREET IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT FUNDS:
The assessments shall be payable annually into street improvement district
funds appropriately numbered, and shall constitute a lien upon the property
upon which levy is made in the manner and to the extent provided by law. All
assessments to be levied as herein stated:
   A.   Fund Number One: Upon lots or parcels of land located within street
maintenance district number one shall constitute a fund to be known as street
maintenance district number one fund;
   B.   Fund Number Two: Upon lots or parcels of land located within street
maintenance district number two shall constitute a fund to be known as street
maintenance district number two fund;
   C.   Fund Number Three: Upon lots or parcels of land located within street
maintenance district number three shall constitute a fund to be known as street
maintenance district number three fund; and
   D.   Fund Number Four: Upon lots or parcels of land located within street
maintenance district number four shall constitute a fund to be known as street
maintenance district number four fund. (Ord. 13.38)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSES GENERALLY
SECTION:
4-1-1: Definitions
4-1-2: License Required; Fees; Term
4-1-3: Businesses Exempt From Fees
4-1-4: Duties Of Clerk-Treasurer
4-1-5: Contents Of License
4-1-6: Failure To Renew; Late Charge
4-1-7: Separate License For Multiple Businesses, Branch Establishments
4-1-8: Change Of Location
4-1-9: Posting Required
4-1-10: Unlawful Businesses
4-1-11: Refusal To Issue; License Revocation
4-1-12: Violation; Penalty
4-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
BUSINESS: Any and all industries, pursuits, commercial enterprises,
occupations, professions and avocations, except those carried on in a temporary
manner by a religious, charitable, fraternal, educational or like nonprofit
organization solely as projects for fund raising.
CITY: The city of Cut Bank, a municipal corporation of the state of Montana,
county of Glacier.
COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Cut Bank.
EMPLOYEE: All owners, proprietors, partners, managers, salesmen or employees
engaged in or associated directly with the management and conduct of the
business concerned.
NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION: Any association, firm or corporation organized for
religious, charitable, educational, civic, scientific or literary purposes
which does not contemplate the distribution of pecuniary gains, profits or
dividends to its members.
PERSON: Any individual, firm,, association, partnership or corporation.
YEAR: A calendar year beginning January 1 and ending December 31. (Ord. 6.16,
12-20-2004)
4-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES; TERM:
   A.   License Required: For the protection and general welfare of the
inhabitants of the city, it is hereby declared that every business conducted
within the city shall be subject to the police power of the city and,
accordingly, no person shall engage in business in the city without first
obtaining a license as hereinafter provided, unless such person is expressly
made exempt by the laws of the state from such licensing authority by the city.
   B.   Schedule Of Fees: Annual license fees for businesses shall be as
follows:
      1.   For all businesses except those listed below, the annual license fee
shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      2.   For transient/itinerant/door to door retail merchants, the license
fee shall be forty dollars ($40.00).
      3.   For home businesses, the license fee shall be twenty five dollars
($25.00).
      4.   There shall be no proration of license fees for home businesses,
itinerant vendors or transient retail merchants.
   C.   License Renewal: All licenses shall expire on December 31 of the year
in which the license is issued, unless otherwise specified.
   D.   Manner Of Payment: All licenses herein provided for are payable in
advance to the city clerk-treasurer. In no case shall the license be granted
for longer than one year. No license fees will be prorated. (Ord. 6.16, 12-20-
2004)
4-1-3: BUSINESSES EXEMPT FROM FEES:
All businesses within the city limits shall obtain a business license. However,
all businesses identified on schedule A attached to ordinance 6.16 on file in
the office of the city clerk-treasurer are exempt from paying business license
fees by Montana law and, therefore, shall not be required to pay a business
license fee. (Ord. 6.16, 12-20-2004)
4-1-4: DUTIES OF CLERK-TREASURER:
   A.   Generally: The city clerk-treasurer shall collect all fees for the
licenses required by this chapter. The city clerk-treasurer shall procure
blanks for applications, books of account, receipts and license forms used in
connection with the issuance of business licenses.
   B.   Application For License; Contents: All businesses required to be
licensed by this chapter shall make application in writing, which application
shall contain the following information:
      1.   The full business name, permanent address and phone number of
applicant.
      2.   Brief description of the nature of the business.
      3.   The location or locations of the business in the city, giving the
street address and phone number of each location and the name of the person in
charge at each location.
      4.   The number of local employees of the business, including owners,
partners, proprietors and managers.
      5.   The length of time the right to do business is desired, when
applicable. (Ord. 6.16, 12-20-2004)
      6.   The endorsement of the city building inspector or city
superintendent evidencing that the location sought to be licensed does not
violate the city zoning and building ordinances; provided, however, that such
endorsement shall not be required on an application for renewal of a license.
      7.   If the party actually applying for a license is the agent or
representative of the applicant, the full name, address and phone number of
said agent or representative, and the full name, address and phone number of
the principal, if different than that of the applicant.
   C.   Issuance Or Denial Of License: It shall be the duty of the city clerk-
treasurer to issue a license within thirty (30) days upon presentation of a
properly completed application blank, together with tender of the appropriate
license fee payable in advance, unless an inspection by the county health
officer, city sanitary inspector, fire inspector, building inspector or city
superintendent indicates a violation of a city ordinance or state law or
regulation existing at the place of business sought to be licensed, in which
case a written description of said violation specifying the steps necessary to
qualify the premises for license shall be furnished to the applicant by the
city clerk- treasurer. (Ord. 6.16, 12-20-2004; amd. Ord. 2.32)
4-1-5: CONTENTS OF LICENSE:
Each license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall state upon its
face the following:
   A.   Name of the licensee and any other name under which business is to be
carried on.
   B.   Number of "employees" as defined in section
4-1-1 of this chapter.
   C.   The local address and phone number of the business.
   D.   The amount of the license fee.
   E.   The date of issuance and date of expiration.
   F.   Such other and further information as the ordinances of the city shall
require. (Ord. 6.16, 12-20-2004)
4-1-6: FAILURE TO RENEW; LATE CHARGE:
Failure to renew the license shall result in the following delinquent charges:
   A.   If a resident license is not paid prior to March 1 of the year due, an
additional charge of five dollars ($5.00) will be assessed, and an additional
five dollars ($5.00) will be added for every thirty (30) day period beyond
April 1.
   B.   A nonresident vendor, merchant or contractor business license fee is
due on opening day of such business and subject to a ten dollar ($10.00)
penalty if not paid within thirty (30) days of initial opening and an
additional five dollars ($5.00) for every thirty (30) day period beyond the
initial thirty (30) days.
   C.   Nothing contained in this section shall prohibit the city from
suspending or revoking a business license for failure to renew said license
within twelve (12) months after the date the license fees were due. (Ord. 6.16,
12-20-2004)
4-1-7: SEPARATE LICENSE FOR MULTIPLE BUSINESSES, BRANCH ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Multiple Businesses: Any person licensed by the city conducting more
than one business at the time of license application shall be required to
purchase a license for each business that they operate.
   B.   Branch Establishments: A license shall be obtained in the manner herein
provided for each branch establishment or location of a business; provided,
however, that warehouses and distributing plants used in connection with and
incidental to a licensed business, where no sales are made, shall not be deemed
to be a branch establishment. Drive-in banking locations are not considered
separate locations for existing banking institutions. (Ord. 6.16, 12-20-2004)
4-1-8: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
A licensee shall have the right to change the location of the licensed
business, provided the new location complies with the requirements of the
ordinances of the city. (Ord. 6.16, 12-20-2004)
4-1-9: POSTING REQUIRED:
Every license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises where the business is conducted, and any
license for a business without a fixed place of business shall be carried upon
the person of the licensee and shall be shown to any resident of the city or
city official upon demand. (Ord. 6.16, 12-20-2004)
4-1-10: UNLAWFUL BUSINESSES:
The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to grant permission to
carry on or conduct any unlawful business or to conduct any business in an
unlawful manner or to grant immunity to any business from lawful regulation and
control. (Ord. 6.16, 12-20-2004)
4-1-11: REFUSAL TO ISSUE; LICENSE REVOCATION:
Whenever the city council shall deem it best for the public interest to do so,
it may, by resolution passed by a majority vote of the city council and
approved by the mayor and attested by the city clerk, refuse to authorize the
issuance of any license herein provided for, and the city council hereby
expressly reserves, by resolution or affirmative vote of a majority of the city
council and approved by the mayor and attested by the city clerk-treasurer, the
right to revoke any and all licenses that may have been issued as herein
provided when it shall deem best for the public interest to do so. (Ord. 6.16,
12-20-2004)
4-1-12: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Every person who commences or carries on a business,
trade, profession or occupation for the transaction or carrying on of which a
license is required by the provisions of this chapter without procuring a
license as herein prescribed, or who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.   Penalty Imposed: Every person carrying on or engaging in the
transaction of any business for which a license is required, without first
procuring the proper license therefor, and any person making material
misrepresentations or omissions in an application for a license shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided by a fine
of not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) per infraction. (Ord. 6.16, 12-20-2004)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definition
4-2-2: State Provisions Adopted By Reference; Compliance Required
4-2-3: License Required; Fees
4-2-4: Application For License
4-2-5: Issuance Of License; Records Kept
4-2-6: Term Of License; Expiration
4-2-7: Transfer Of License
4-2-8: Display Of License
4-2-9: Days And Hours Of Sales; Business Restrictions
4-2-10: Underage Persons
4-2-11: Drinking In Public; Public Display And Exhibition Of Alcoholic
Beverages
4-2-12: Prohibited Acts
4-2-13: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
4-2-14: Administration And Enforcement
4-2-15: Violation; Penalty
4-2-16: Convictions Reported To State
4-2-1: DEFINITION:
The phrase "Montana alcoholic beverage code", as used in this chapter, is
defined as title 16, chapters 1 through 6, Montana Code Annotated. (Ord. 11.00)
4-2-2: STATE PROVISIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Statute Sections Adopted: The following sections of the Montana
alcoholic beverage code are hereby incorporated by reference and adopted as
part of this chapter: 16-1-101, 16-1-106, 16-3-101, 16-3-103, 16-3-105, 16-3-
106, 16-3-201, 16-3-301 through 16-3-311, inclusive, 16-4-101 through 16-4-106,
inclusive, 16-4-201 through 16-4-207, inclusive, 16-4-301, 16-4-402(1) and (3),
16-4-407, 16-4-501 through 16-4-503, inclusive, 16-6-301, 16-6-305, 16-6-310,
and 16-6-311.
   B.   Compliance: The city hereby recognizes its power to enforce the Montana
alcoholic beverage code in full concurrence with state law. To that end,
whenever the state legislature amends or repeals the Montana alcoholic beverage
code, the amendments or repeals shall automatically take effect in the city
code. Whenever the Montana department of revenue amends or repeals any
regulation, or makes any new or supplementary regulations under the Montana
alcoholic beverage code or any act amendatory or supplementary thereto, then
the amendments or repeals shall automatically take effect in the city code.
Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as an abrogation on the part of
the city of any of the state's powers to apply and enforce the Montana
alcoholic beverage code. (Ord. 11.00; amd. 2006 Code)
4-2-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES:
   A.   License Required; Fees Established: Any person, firm, or corporation
who desires to sell alcoholic beverages in the city shall first obtain a
license from the Montana department of revenue. Each seller of alcoholic
beverages shall pay license fees to the state as provided in Montana Code
Annotated section 16-4-501. Each seller of alcoholic beverages shall also pay
license fees to the city as provided in subsection C of this section.
   B.   City May Issue And Modify Fees By Resolution: The city reserves the
right to issue and modify city license fees by resolution of the city council.
   C.   City License Fees: Each seller of alcoholic beverages, whether for
consumption on or off premises, shall pay the following city license fees by
June 30 of each year:
      1.   Each beer retailer, one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      2.   Each retailer of beer and wine, two hundred dollars ($200.00).
      3.   Each retailer of beer, wine, and liquor, a sum equal to five-
eighths (5/8) of the fee for an all beverage license collected by the Montana
department of revenue, three hundred twelve dollars fifty cents ($312.50).
(Ord. 11.00; amd. 2006 Code)
4-2-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Every person required by this chapter to obtain a license shall follow the
application procedures required by the Montana department of revenue. The
application shall be accompanied by the license fee as required in section
4-2-3 of this chapter, and if the applicant is an agent, such applicant shall
accompany the application with principal's acknowledgement of such agency.
(Ord. 11.00; amd. 2006 Code)
4-2-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; RECORDS KEPT:
Upon approval of an applicant's license by the Montana department of revenue,
and timely payment of all state and city licensing fees, the city shall issue
to the applicant a receipt acknowledging payment of all city fees which shall
constitute a city license. The city clerk-treasurer shall keep a copy of this
chapter in his or her office, and shall keep appropriate records of city
licenses issued, including the date filed, name of applicant, character and
location of the business, and reference to the file number, if any. (Ord.
11.00; amd. 2006 Code)
4-2-6: TERM OF LICENSE; EXPIRATION:
Each license shall be issued for a one year period to begin on July 1 and to
expire at midnight of June 30 of each succeeding year. All licenses issued in
any year shall expire at midnight of June 30 following the date of issuance of
such license. (Ord. 11.00; amd. 2006 Code)
4-2-7: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
Before a transfer of any license may be made, an application to the city,
accompanied by satisfactory evidence of an approval of the transfer of the
license issued by the Montana department of revenue, shall be provided. (Ord.
11.00)
4-2-8: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Any and all licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be, at
all times, prominently displayed in the place of business of such licensee.
(Ord. 11.00)
4-2-9: DAYS AND HOURS OF SALES; BUSINESS RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Days And Hours Established: All licensed establishments wherein
alcoholic beverages are sold, offered for sale or given away at retail shall be
closed on any day between two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
   B.   Presence On Premises: During such hours, all persons except the
alcoholic beverage licensee and employees of such licensed establishment shall
be excluded from the licensed premises.
   C.   Sales Prohibited; Certain Businesses Exempt From Closing Hours: During
the hours when the licensed establishments where alcoholic beverages are sold
at retail are required by this chapter to be closed, it shall be unlawful to
sell, offer for sale, give away, consume, or allow the consumption of alcoholic
beverages. When an establishment licensed to sell alcoholic beverages is
operated in conjunction with a hotel, restaurant, bus depot, railway terminal,
grocery store, pharmacy, or other lawful business other than that of the sale
of alcoholic beverages, then such other lawful business need not be closed.
   D.   Consumption Prohibited: No alcoholic beverages shall be consumed, or
allowed to be consumed upon or in any premises licensed to sell beer or liquor
at retail during the hours set out in subsection A of this section.
   E.   Violation; Penalties: A violation of any of the provisions of this
section shall be deemed a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, the offender shall
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code; the persons acting as servants, employees, or agents shall
be severally liable in the same manner as their employer or principals. (Ord.
11.04; amd. 2006 Code)
4-2-10: UNDERAGE PERSONS:
   A.   Possession Of Alcoholic Beverages:
      1.   A person who has not reached the age of twenty one (21) years
commits the offense of possession of an alcoholic beverage if he or she
knowingly has in his or her possession an "alcoholic beverage", as defined by
the Montana Code Annotated 1 , except a person who has not reached the age of
twenty one (21) years does not commit the offense of possession of an
intoxicating substance when in the course of his or her employment, he or she
bags, carries or transports beer for customers at a grocery store.
      2.   A person convicted of the offense of possession of an alcoholic
beverage shall be subject to penalty as provided in Montana Code Annotated
section 45-5-624. (Ord. 10.12; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Sales To Prohibited:
      1.   Prohibitions:
         a.   Except in the case of an alcoholic beverage provided in a
nonintoxicating quantity to a person under twenty one (21) years of age by his
parent or guardian, physician or dentist for medicinal purposes, a licensed
pharmacist upon the prescription of a physician, or an ordained minister or
priest in connection with a religious observance, a person may not sell or
otherwise provide an alcoholic beverage to a person under twenty one (21) years
of age.
         b.   A parent, guardian, or other person may not knowingly sell or
otherwise provide an alcoholic beverage in an intoxicating quantity to a person
under twenty one (21) years of age.
         c.   For the purposes of this subsection, "intoxicating quantity"
means a quantity of an alcoholic beverage that is sufficient to produce:
            (1)   A blood, breath, or urine alcohol concentration in excess of
0.05; or
            (2)   Substantial or visible mental or physical impairment.
      2.   A person convicted of a violation of this subsection shall be fined
not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or be imprisoned in the county
jail for any term not to exceed six (6) months, or both. A person convicted of
a second violation of this subsection shall be fined not to exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) or be imprisoned in the county jail for any term not to
exceed six (6) months, or both. (Ord. 10.16; amd. 2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 16-1-106.
4-2-11: DRINKING IN PUBLIC; PUBLIC DISPLAY AND EXHIBITION OF ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES:
   A.   Definitions: As per adoption of Montana Code Annotated section 16-1-106
in section
4-2-2 of this chapter, the state definitions shall apply. In addition thereto,
the following words and phrases, as used herein, shall be defined as follows:
    BUSINESS DISTRICT: That portion of the city which comprises the following
designated areas:
      1.   All of U.S. Highway 2, which transects the city and is designated as
Main Street within the city;
      2.   All of that street designated as truck route, which runs parallel to
U.S. Highway 2 and Main Street through the city;
      3.   All that portion of Central Avenue in the city from that
intersection known as First Street South and Central Avenue to that portion of
Central Avenue which exits the city and becomes U.S. Highway 287, exiting the
city to the north;
      4.   The east half of First Avenue Southwest between First Street and
Main Street; and
      5.   Within one-half (1/2) block on either side of any business
establishment licensed to sell beer and wine or licensed to be a retail liquor
seller.
   PUBLIC DISPLAY OR EXHIBITION OF BEER OR LIQUOR: The carrying or transporting
of open containers containing any alcoholic beverage in a "public place" as
defined in Montana Code Annotated section 16-1-106; but does not include empty
containers; nor does it include carrying or transporting unopened alcoholic
beverages in sacks or other containers; it further does not include the
collection and transportation of empty containers for salvage, recycling, or
refuse collection purposes.
   PUBLIC DRINKING: The drinking and consuming of any alcoholic beverage in any
"public place" defined in Montana Code Annotated section 16-1-106.
   B.   Prohibitions: "Public drinking" and "public display or exhibition of
beer or liquor" as defined herein are hereby prohibited, and it shall be
unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to engage in these activities as
defined in this section within the city limits.
   C.   Exemptions:
      1.   Petition For Exemption: Any person, business, organization, or group
may petition the city council for the purpose of waiving enforcement of this
section during any activity or event, such as the Lewis and Clark Festival or a
public street dance. If the council permits said special exemption, then no
person may be charged with violating this section during said permitted event.
The city council may permit any such event by passing a resolution to that
extent.
      2.   Metal Can Containers Permitted: While other provisions of this code
prohibit glass containers in any of the city's parks 1 , this section shall not
be construed as prohibiting any person from using the city's Main Street Park
for a family picnic or similar activity, wherein canned beer or alcoholic
beverages are consumed.
   D.   Signs Posted: The city shall have available and shall provide two (2)
signs, said signs stating that the city has an open container ordinance
prohibiting public drinking, exhibition or display. Each retail licensee
selling beer, wine or liquor shall place these signs in his business
establishment in a prominent location so that the patrons are advised of this
section. No penalty may be imposed on the business owner for failure to post
these signs.
   E.   Violation; Penalties: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor greater than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a first offense
within a calendar year. A second conviction shall result in a fine of not less
than three hundred dollars ($300.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). A third or subsequent conviction shall result in a fine not less
than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 11.06, 6-18-2001; amd. 2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-5-1 of this code.
4-2-12: PROHIBITED ACTS:
All acts or omissions which are prohibited or declared unlawful by the portions
of the Montana alcoholic beverage code herein adopted by reference or by such
regulations as may be made by the Montana department of revenue which shall
have the full force and effect of law, are hereby prohibited and declared
unlawful. (Ord. 11.00)
4-2-13: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
If any license issued by the Montana department of revenue, under the
provisions of the Montana alcoholic beverage code, becomes revoked or suspended
under the provisions of said code, the companion license issued under the
provisions of this chapter shall be automatically revoked or suspended for the
same period, and in the event such action by the Montana department of revenue
shall, on appeal, be modified or set aside, the suspension or revocation of the
license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall likewise be
automatically affected. (Ord. 11.00)
4-2-14: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Duties Of City Clerk-Treasurer: The city clerk-treasurer shall be
charged with the collection of license fees. The city clerk- treasurer shall
prepare and keep appropriate records as provided in section
4-2-5 of this chapter. All expenses in connection with the administration of
this chapter shall, so far as possible, be charged against the funds collected
under this chapter.
   B.   Enforcement:
      1.   Every person, firm, association or corporation licensed under the
provisions of this chapter shall be subject to regulation, inspection, control
and supervision under the general police power of the city, and all of the
ordinances now in force, or which may hereafter be adopted in aid of such
police power and regulation, and every such license shall be subject to
suspension and revocation as hereinbefore provided.
      2.   The city recognizes the right, among others, reserved by the Montana
alcoholic beverage code to the city, to enact ordinances for the enforcement of
said code. To that end, the penal provisions of the Montana alcoholic beverage
code are hereby adopted as the law of the city, and the city court is hereby
vested with the jurisdiction, and the duty is hereby imposed upon the city
attorney, chief of police, and city court judge to enforce the same. (Ord.
11.00; amd. 2006 Code)
4-2-15: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
In addition to the revocation or suspension of license as provided in section
4-2-13 of this chapter, any person who shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
unless otherwise provided in this chapter, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 11.00; amd. 2006 Code)
4-2-16: CONVICTIONS REPORTED TO STATE:
In case of the conviction of any licensee hereunder of any violation of this
chapter in the city court, the city judge shall, within ten (10) days
thereafter, whether or not an appeal has been taken from the judgment or
conviction, transmit to the Montana department of revenue a certified copy of
the record of conviction. (Ord. 11.00)
CHAPTER 3
TRADE STIMULATORS; STAMP TAX
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Trade Stimulators Permitted; Compliance With Provisions
4-3-3: Use Tax Established; Tax Stamp Posted
4-3-4: Administration Of Provisions
4-3-5: Enforcement Officials; Inspections
4-3-6: Violation; Penalty
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The words and phrases used in this chapter shall be given the following
interpretations:
CLERK-TREASURER: The clerk-treasurer of the city of Cut Bank, Montana.
PERSON: Includes every individual, partnership, corporation, association, or
organization.
TRADE STIMULATOR: Any device or object housing, containing or enclosing, or
having as a part thereof numbered tickets, variegated symbols and tokens or any
pull board, ticket board or punchboard or their equivalents, any one or more of
which announces that an award will be made to a purchaser thereof in terms of
merchandise or other thing of value, but does not mean a slot machine or
mechanical device. (Ord. 6.00)
4-3-2: TRADE STIMULATORS PERMITTED; COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
It shall be lawful for any "person", as defined herein, to exhibit for use and
for sale and to exhibit, sell and use "trade stimulators", as defined herein,
so long as the use thereof is not in violation of the laws of the state, and so
long as the use thereof is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 6.00; amd. 2006 Code)
4-3-3: USE TAX ESTABLISHED; TAX STAMP POSTED:
No "trade stimulator" as defined in section
4-3-1 of this chapter, shall be exhibited by any person in the city without
having affixed thereon in a conspicuous place a use tax stamp showing the
payment of such use tax. Said use tax shall be simultaneously cancelled by said
exhibitor indicating by unerasable writing over the face thereof, identified by
his initials and the date of cancellation of each stamp. Such use tax stamp
will show that a special tax has been paid thereon at the true rate hereby
levied and imposed, that being the sum of two percent (2%) of the value of the
total number of such tabs, tickets, pallets, punches or similar things on the
board or the full cash return of such trade stimulators to the exhibitor, as
computed by the purchase price posted by the exhibitor as the going price of
each number ticket, variegated symbol, token or its equivalent. (Ord. 6.00;
amd. 2006 Code)
4-3-4: ADMINISTRATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The city clerk-treasurer is hereby authorized and empowered to provide
the use tax stamps in such design, title, forms and denominations as will be
appropriate, and to collect the monies therefor, and shall, within thirty (30)
days thereof, place the proceeds from the sale of such use tax stamps to the
general fund of the city; provided, however, that out of said proceeds there
shall be paid, on claims regularly presented against the city and approved by
the proper officials of the city, the costs and expenses of administering the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   The city clerk-treasurer is hereby authorized and empowered to supply
use tax stamps upon direct application from exhibitors and direct payment to
the clerk-treasurer, and it shall be the duty of the city clerk-treasurer to
accept payment for said stamps and deposit the same as herein provided, and the
city clerk-treasurer shall at all times be liable and accountable to the city
for the value of any such stamps in the hands of the clerk-treasurer. (Ord.
6.00)
   C.   The city clerk-treasurer shall set up and maintain appropriate records
to reflect the supply, deposits, purchasers, purchases, and movements of such
use tax stamps and payments therefor. (Ord. 6.00; amd. 2006 Code)
4-3-5: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS; INSPECTIONS:
The city clerk-treasurer, the city attorney and the city police shall enforce
the provisions of this chapter, and for such purposes, may inspect and search
any premises wherein said trade stimulators are kept, or any persons having
custody of the same, and inspect any such trade stimulators, and the stamp
supplies of exhibitors, proceeding under applicable Montana search warrant
requirements. All exhibitors shall, upon demand of said officers or
representatives, or any one or more of them, forthwith display any and all of
such devices or stamps, cancelled or uncancelled, in their custody or on the
premises. Any police officer encountering any such article without such stamps
affixed thereto shall seize the article, and the same may be used as evidence
of such violation. (Ord. 6.00; amd. 2006 Code)
4-3-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter, failure to purchase and have affixed and/or
cancelled such use tax stamps, reuse of a canceled stamp on other than the
original trade stimulator, or permitting minors to patronize a trade stimulator
shall be a misdemeanor, and any person, firm, association or corporation found
guilty of such violation shall be guilty of such misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 6.00; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PAWNSHOPS, SECONDHAND SHOPS AND JUNK SHOPS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Records Kept
4-4-2: Purchases From Underage Persons
4-4-3: Violation; Penalty
4-4-1: RECORDS KEPT:
   A.   Purchases:
      1.   Register Required: Every pawnbroker or junk dealer shall keep a
register, in which shall be entered a description of every article pawned to
him or purchased by him, with:
         a.   The date of the pawning or purchasing;
         b.   Date when the article shall be redeemed;
         c.   The name of the person by whom the same was pawned or by whom
purchased; and
         d.   The amount loaned thereon or paid therefor.
      2.   Register Open To Inspection: The register shall always be open to
inspection and examination of any peace officer or other persons.
   B.   Sales: In case of the sale of any article pawned or pledged, the
pawnbroker or junk dealer shall enter upon said register:
      1.   The name of the purchaser;
      2.   The time of the sale; and
      3.   The price paid therefor. (Ord. 10.00; amd. 2006 Code)
4-4-2: PURCHASES FROM UNDERAGE PERSONS:
No keeper, owner, proprietor, operator or agent of any pawnshop, secondhand
shop or junk shop within the city shall purchase or receive any article or
thing from any minor under the age of eighteen (18) years without first
obtaining the written consent of the parents or guardian of such minor, which
written consent shall be retained and held subject to inspection at all times
by any member of the police force of the city. (Ord. 10.00; amd. 2006 Code)
4-4-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 10.00; amd. 2006 Code)
TITLE 5
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Enumeration Of Nuisance Conditions
5-1-2: Examination Of Premises
5-1-3: Notice Of Nuisance Condition; Abatement
5-1-4: Nuisance On Unoccupied Premises; Abatement By City
5-1-5: Dangerous Nuisances; Immediate Abatement By City
5-1-6: Liability For Abatement Costs
5-1-7: Judgment Against Violator; Penalty
5-1-1: ENUMERATION OF NUISANCE CONDITIONS:
   A.   Offensive Premises: Any person who shall suffer or permit any drain,
sewer, yard, grounds or premises belonging to or controlled by him, as agent,
tenant or otherwise, either within the city or within three (3) miles thereof,
to become nauseous, foul, offensive or injurious to the public health, or
unpleasant and disagreeable to adjacent residents or persons passing by, shall
be deemed guilty of committing a nuisance.
   B.   Burial Of Human Bodies: Any person who arranges burial of or buries the
body of a deceased person shall bury the body only within property designated
by the city council as a cemetery. Any person who buries a dead human body in
any property within the city not designated as a cemetery by the city council
is guilty of committing a nuisance.
   C.   Manure Or Garbage Piles; Permit For Burning: Any person who throws out,
piles, or deposits any waste or refuse materials within the city limits shall
follow the rules and regulations prescribed by the county board of health,
unless such materials are piled or deposited for immediate removal. Any person
who burns any straw, hay, paper, wood, boards, boxes, manure or other substance
or material in any street or alley in the city, shall obtain a permit from the
county board of health. Any person who fails to abide by the rules and
regulations prescribed by the county board of health or who fails to obtain a
burning permit from the county board of health shall be guilty of committing a
misdemeanor.
   D.   Offensive Substances Or Businesses:
      1.   Any person who conducts any business or occupation that is dangerous
or hazardous to public health within three (3) miles of the city is guilty of
maintaining a nuisance. Such businesses or occupations that are dangerous or
hazardous to public health include businesses or occupations that:
         a.   Agitate or expose any lime, ashes, coal, dry sand, hair,
feathers, or other substance or material that is liable to be blown by the wind
in the city; or
         b.   Boil any offal, swill, bones, or fat in the city in ordinary
cooking; or
         c.   Conduct the business of bone crushing, bone boiling, frying, or
rendering the lard or tallow, gut cleaning, or make other products from dead
animals.
      2.   Any person violating this subsection, upon conviction thereof, shall
be deemed guilty of maintaining a public nuisance. (Ord. 8.00; amd. 2006 Code)
   E.   Obstructing Flow Of Water: Any person who places or deposits any dirt,
soil, or other material into or upon any streets or alleys of the city in such
manner, place, or quantity as to obstruct the free flow of water along the
natural or established grade of said street or alley, or who refuses or
neglects to remove the same within twenty four (24) hours after notice, either
oral or written, by the street commissioner or city superintendent, is guilty
of committing a nuisance. (Ord. 8.00; amd. Ord. 2.32; 2006 Code)
   F.   Killing Or Slaughtering Animals: It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation to kill or slaughter any animals within the city limits or
within three (3) miles thereof, or use or occupy any building for such purpose
without a special permit from the city council and under such rules and
regulations as the county board of health may provide.
   G.   Water Flowing From Premises: Any person who throws, allows, or permits
any water or other liquid to run or flow from or off of any premises owned,
occupied or controlled by such person, except the lawful sprinkling of lawns or
streets, into or upon any sidewalk or streets or alleys or adjacent premises
shall be deemed guilty of committing a nuisance. (Ord. 8.00; amd. 2006 Code)
   H.   Accumulation Of Junk Items And Rubbish:
      1.   Prohibited; Nuisance Declared: It shall be unlawful for any person
or corporation to allow, suffer or permit the accumulation of old discarded
automobile bodies, old discarded furniture, old discarded appliances, old
lumber, old paper, and other rubbish upon any property owned, occupied or
controlled by such person or corporation within the city limits, and
accumulation of materials and rubbish above named shall be deemed a nuisance.
(Ord. 8.32)
      2.   Penalty; Abatement By City: Any person who refuses or fails to
remove all nuisance materials and remedy any nuisances within thirty (30) days
of receiving notice as provided in section
5-1-3 of this chapter from any property owned, occupied, or controlled by him
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in section
5-1-7 of this chapter. As an additional and concurrent remedy, the city may
remove the nuisance materials and assess the cost of such removal against the
property, to be added to the next annual assessment roll and paid as other
taxes and assessments. (Ord. 8.32; amd. 2006 Code)
5-1-2: EXAMINATION OF PREMISES:
For the purpose of carrying the provisions of this chapter into effect, it
shall be the duty of the county board of health, chief of police, police
officers, or street commissioner or city superintendent to make, from time to
time, a thorough and systematic examination of the city, under the rules
adopted or to be adopted by the county board of health, and ascertain and
report to the proper authority for prosecution all violations of this chapter,
and for such purpose, said officers shall be permitted during reasonable hours
to visit and enter into and upon any building, lot, ground or premises within
the jurisdiction of the city to make an investigation and examination thereof.
(Ord. 8.00; amd. Ord. 2.32; 2006 Code)
5-1-3: NOTICE OF NUISANCE CONDITION; ABATEMENT:
   A.   Issuance Of Notices: In all cases wherein no specific provision is set
out in this code defining what are nuisances and how the removal of the same
may be effected, abated or prevented, in addition to what is declared to be
such herein, those offenses known to the common law of the land as nuisances
may, in the event that the same exist within the city or within three (3) miles
thereof, be considered and treated as nuisances and proceeded against as in
this chapter provided. It shall be the duty of the county board of health,
police officers, street commissioner or city superintendent, or a member of the
city council, when so required, to notify the author of any nuisance within the
city limits or within three (3) miles thereof, either by verbal or written
notice, to abate and remove such nuisance, provided such notice shall be
required preliminary to the commencement of the prosecution of same. (Ord.
8.00; amd. Ord. 2.32; 2006 Code)
   B.   Failure To Abate; Filing Of Complaint: If such nuisance is not abated
within twenty four (24) hours after the notice aforesaid, then it shall be the
duty of the chief of police, police officers or county board of health to
forthwith file a complaint under oath, before the city judge, setting forth the
facts constituting the nuisance, to abate or remove the nuisance and enforce
the provisions and penalties herein contained. (Ord. 8.00; amd. 2006 Code)
5-1-4: NUISANCE ON UNOCCUPIED PREMISES; ABATEMENT BY CITY:
In the event that there is any nuisance upon, in or about any unoccupied lot or
premises within the jurisdiction of the city, such lot or premises being owned
by an unknown or absent person or by a person whom the officers cannot find,
the county board of health, chief of police, or police officer may cause such
nuisance to be removed or abated, the same to be done at the expense of the
owner. If suit for the recovery of costs for abating or removing such nuisance
against the owner of the property or authority of the nuisance, the city
council may, by proper action and procedure, assess such costs to the property,
and such costs shall be lien against the property and collected as a tax. (Ord.
8.00; amd. 2006 Code)
5-1-5: DANGEROUS NUISANCES; IMMEDIATE ABATEMENT BY CITY:
When any nuisance is dangerous to the health or safety of persons or the
community, and the continuance thereof is likely to result in expense to the
city, and the same is so situated that it may be abated or removed without
injury to private property, it shall be the duty of the chief of police, police
officers, street commissioner or city superintendent, or county board of health
to abate and remove the same without waiting for the conviction of the author
thereof from liability as herein provided. (Ord. 8.00; amd. Ord. 2.32; 2006
Code)
5-1-6: LIABILITY FOR ABATEMENT COSTS:
Any person found guilty of keeping, maintaining, permitting or allowing any
nuisance shall be liable for all costs and expense of abating or removing the
same, and such costs and expense shall be taxed as a part of the costs in any
prosecution of the party liable therefor upon his conviction thereof. (Ord.
8.00)
5-1-7: JUDGMENT AGAINST VIOLATOR; PENALTY:
   A.   Judgment; Failure To Abate: When judgment shall be rendered against any
person for creating, maintaining, permitting or keeping any nuisance, it shall
be the duty of the court rendering judgment to order the defendant to forthwith
abate and remove such nuisance within twenty four (24) hours, this penalty to
be in addition to other penalties herein provided. And in the event that the
defendant fails to remove or abate said nuisance within twenty four (24) hours,
said defendant may be adjudged by the city judge to be in contempt of court and
may be fined not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00) or imprisoned not to exceed
ten (10) days for such contempt, and it shall be the duty of the police
officer, chief of police or county board of health to abate the nuisance and
charge the same to the owner of the property or author of the nuisance as
herein provided. (Ord. 8.00; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Separate Offense For Each Day: Any person having been found guilty of
maintaining, creating, permitting or keeping any nuisance, who shall fail or
neglect to remove the same within twenty four (24) hours next after judgment of
conviction, shall for each additional twenty four (24) hours thereafter while
such nuisance continues, be subject to a like penalty for a separate offense as
herein provided. (Ord. 8.00)
   C.   General Penalty: Every person convicted of an offense under any section
or subsection of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 8.00; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 2
WEEDS; HAY
SECTION:
5-2-1: Nuisance Weeds Defined
5-2-2: Growth Of Nuisance Weeds
5-2-3: Stacking Hay, Grain Or Straw; Permit
5-2-4: Supervision And Enforcement Of Provisions
5-2-5: Enforced Removal Of Nuisance Weeds From Premises
5-2-6: Penalties For Violation
5-2-1: NUISANCE WEEDS DEFINED:
All weeds, grass, and any other wild or uncared for vegetation growing to a
height in excess of eight inches (8") or growing larger in diameter than eight
inches (8") for such weeds with a prostrate growing pattern and those weeds
even if less than eight inches (8") in height or diameter which are budding or
preparing to go to seed on premises located within the City of Cut Bank, are
hereby declared and determined to be nuisance weeds. (Ord. 13-01, 6-17-2013)
5-2-2: GROWTH OF NUISANCE WEEDS:
It shall be a public offense punishable as hereinafter provided and it is
hereby declared to be a nuisance, for any owner, owner's representative,
contract purchaser, or any occupant of real property within the City, to
maintain, cause, permit, or suffer any growth of nuisance weeds as defined
hereinabove to exist in or upon any premises in the City owned by or occupied
by such owner, owner's representative, contract purchaser, or occupant, or upon
the boulevards or the one-half (1/2) of any public roads, streets, and alleys
adjacent thereto. (Ord. 13-01, 6-17-2013)
5-2-3: STACKING HAY, GRAIN OR STRAW; PERMIT:
No person shall be permitted to stack hay, grain or straw within the City
limits without a permit from the Chief of the Fire Department, and when permits
are granted, said person shall protect said stacks of hay, grain or straw from
fire by sheds or coverings, to be built and constructed as the Chief of the
Fire Department and Fire Committees shall direct. (Ord. 8.36; amd. 2006 Code)
5-2-4: SUPERVISION AND ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Code Enforcement Officer or the Police Department
or such other person or persons as the City Council may from time to time
direct to enforce the provisions of this chapter, and upon a determination that
a violation of this chapter exists shall ascertain the name and mailing address
of the owner, owner's representative, contract purchaser, or the occupant of
the premises and the description of the premises where the violation exists.
The name and mailing address of the owner may be obtained from the current
assessment list maintained by the Office of the Glacier County Assessor or the
Montana Department of Revenue. (Ord. 13-01, 6-17-2013)
5-2-5: ENFORCED REMOVAL OF NUISANCE WEEDS FROM PREMISES:
The following provisions shall apply in cases where removal of the nuisance
weeds from the premises is sought in addition to, or in place of, prosecution
for violation of section
5-2-2 of this chapter.
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Written notice of violation shall be served upon
the owner, owner's representative, contract purchaser, or the occupant
directing that said nuisance weeds shall be cut and removed from the premises
within ten (10) days or the City will cause said nuisance weeds to be removed,
with cost thereof to be charged against said owner, owner's representative,
contract purchaser, or the occupant. Notice of Violation shall be made by
posting a copy of said notice on the premises and by mailing a copy of said
notice to the owner, owner's representative, contract purchaser, and the
occupant by first class United States mail. Said notice shall be deemed
complete on the day the notice is posted or mailed.
   B.   Action Upon Non-Compliance: Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any
owner, owner's representative, contract purchaser, or any occupant, to
exterminate or remove such nuisance weeds growing, lying or located upon the
property or upon the one-half (1/2) of any road, street, or alley, lying next
to the lands, or any boulevard abutting thereon, before the date specified in
the notice described in subsection A of this section, or at any time after the
specified date that such weeds reach a height or diameter of eight inches (8")
or getting near going to seed and remain in that manner for a period of seven
(7) days, the City is hereby authorized to exterminate or remove such nuisance
weeds and report to the City Clerk the same, together with vouchers of the cost
of such extermination and removal, plus ten percent (10%) additional to cover
administrative costs. If the cost of such extermination and removal are not
paid forthwith, then the total costs shall be assessed against the lot or
parcel of land from which or adjoining which the nuisance weeds shall have been
exterminated or removed.
The City Clerk shall each year prepare a resolution containing a list of all
lots and parcels of land in the City from which, and adjacent to which, the
weeds were exterminated or removed, which list shall contain opposite the
number of such lots, or description of such parcels of land, the name of the
owner or owners, if known, and the cost of removing such nuisance weeds. The
City Clerk shall present a resolution to the City Council with the vouchers in
support of each removal or extermination, and when the same is passed by the
Council and approved by the Mayor in the same manner as other resolutions then
a copy of the resolution shall be certified to the County Assessor or the
Montana Department of Revenue and County Treasurer by the Clerk for collection
in the same manner as other taxes.
   C.   Amount Of Charges: A fee of thirty dollars ($30.00) per hour per person
for each hour worked but in no event shall less than forty dollars ($40.00) per
lot minimum be charged for nuisance weed extermination work performed by the
City.
   D.   Access To Premises: Any and all officers charged with enforcement of
this chapter may go upon the lands infested with nuisance weeds, or suspected
thereof, for any purposes necessary to such enforcement.
   E.   Penalty Enforcement: The removal of said nuisance weeds and the
assessment of the costs thereof as provided in this section shall not prevent
the enforcement of the penalties provided for in section
5-2-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 13-01, 6-17-2013)
5-2-6: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION:
Any owner, owner's representative, contract purchaser or occupant of the
property violating the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). The
imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or
permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required to correct or
remedy such violation within a reasonable time. Each seven (7) days that
prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense. The
enforcement of the penalties provided for in this section shall not prevent the
enforced removal of the nuisance weeds, and the assessment of the cost thereof,
as provided for in section
5-2-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 13-01, 6-17-2013)
CHAPTER 3
DRILLING WELLS FOR OIL, GAS OR OTHER HYDROCARBONS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Drilling Prohibited; Nuisance Declared
5-3-2: Penalty; Abatement
5-3-1: DRILLING PROHIBITED; NUISANCE DECLARED:
The drilling of any well for oil, gas or other hydrocarbons within the city
limits is hereby prohibited and is hereby determined to be a nuisance. (Ord.
8.12)
5-3-2: PENALTY; ABATEMENT:
   A.   Any person, association, partnership, corporation or other business
entity convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 8.12; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   In addition to the penalty provided in subsection A of this section,
the city shall be entitled to take such steps in the abatement of such drilling
as may be authorized by the laws of the state and the remedies provided for in
this subsection shall be deemed to be cumulative and not alternate remedies.
(Ord. 8.12)
CHAPTER 4
LITTERING
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Prohibited Acts And Regulated Activities
5-4-3: Sweeping Litter Into Gutters Prohibited
5-4-4: Permitting Accumulation Of Uncontainerized Litter Prohibited
5-4-5: Litter From Construction Sites Prohibited
5-4-6: Litter From Loading Or Unloading Operation Prohibited
5-4-7: Violation; Penalty
5-4-8: Enforcement
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
LITTER: Any quantity of uncontainerized garbage, trash, refuse, rubbish,
debris, or other waste material including, but not limited to, cans, bottles,
jars, treated or untreated paper, wrappings, ashes, cigarettes, cardboard,
rags, yard clippings, leaves, grass, wood, glass, dead animals or parts
thereof, scrap metal, salvaged metal, motor vehicle parts including bodies,
discarded furniture, used appliances, or any other matter which constitutes a
threat to public health or safety.
This is not to preclude persons who compost materials described above such as
leaves, grass, or wood chips from doing so in a manner not constituting a
threat to public health or safety. A person may also leave grass clippings or
leaves in their yards as a means of protecting gardens or flowerbeds over the
course of a winter when it is their intent to properly dispose or incorporate
these materials the following spring and not to create a public health or
safety concern. A person may also recycle metal so long as it is not done in a
manner creating a public health or safety issue by drawing in insects such as
creating breeding places for mosquitoes, attracting rodents or vermin such as
skunks or otherwise creating a public health concern. However, this is intended
to allow a private citizen the ability to recycle materials on an occasional
basis and is not meant to allow a permanent recycling business in any
residential area of the city. A person may also have wood piles for burning as
firewood but such should be neatly stacked and not scattered about the yard or
area so as to be unduly unsightly or creating a public health or safety concern
including, but not limited to, creating a fire hazard.
LITTER RECEPTACLE: A container designed for and suitable for the depositing of
litter.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, company, partnership, firm, association or
organization subject to the jurisdiction of the city of Cut Bank as it now
exists or as it may exist subsequent to annexation or addition or by
jurisdictional extension properly adopted by the city council of the city of
Cut Bank.
The city of Cut Bank recognizes that certain businesses within the business or
industrial zoning districts operate businesses which as a necessary part of
their business involve the collecting of scrap metal, used appliances, motor
vehicles or parts, salvaged metal, paper or cardboard, and other such materials
defined as "litter" hereinabove, that these businesses so long as they continue
operations in a manner not creating either public health or safety issues or
creating an unsightly or disorganized mess may continue to operate their
business pursuant to appropriate industry standards of that type of business.
(Ord. 2010-01, 4-19-2010)
5-4-2: PROHIBITED ACTS AND REGULATED ACTIVITIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit litter in or
upon any street, sidewalk, or other public place or any private property,
except in public or private containers designed and intended for the collection
of litter. Persons placing litter in containers shall do so in such a manner as
to prevent its being carried or deposited by the elements upon any streets,
sidewalks, or other public or private property.
   B.   No person shall drive or move any truck or other motor vehicle unless
such vehicle is so constructed or loaded so as to prevent any load, contents,
or litter from falling, being blown or otherwise being deposited upon any
street, alley or other public place or any private property.
   C.   In any prosecution for violation of this chapter involving a motor
vehicle, proof that a particular vehicle was the origin of the litter, together
with proof that the defendant was at the time of the alleged violation the
registered owner of the motor vehicle, shall constitute in evidence a
rebuttable presumption that the registered owner was the person who committed
the violation. If a law enforcement officer has the ability to charge a
violation of this chapter to a particular person other than the owner, then the
registered owner shall not be charged. (Ord. 2010-01, 4-19-2010)
5-4-3: SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall sweep into and leave or deposit in any gutter, alley,
street, or other public place within the city of Cut Bank any accumulation of
litter from any building or lot or from any public or private sidewalk or
driveway.
   B.   Every person owning or occupying property shall keep the sidewalks and
alleys abutting such property free of litter.
   C.   It is the duty of every person distributing or causing to be
distributed commercial handbills, leaflets, fliers, yard sale notices or other
such advertising to take reasonable measures to ensure such materials are
handled so as to prevent them from littering any public or private property.
All such materials must be removed and properly disposed of within twenty four
(24) hours of the end of the sale or event. (Ord. 2010-01, 4-19-2010)
5-4-4: PERMITTING ACCUMULATION OF UNCONTAINERIZED LITTER PROHIBITED:
Any person being the owner, tenant, or person in control of private property
shall at all times within reason and in a timely manner maintain the premises
free of any uncontainerized litter. Any person who shall suffer or permit any
yard, grounds, or premises (including parking lots) belonging to or controlled
by him, as agent, tenant, or otherwise, within the city limits of the city of
Cut Bank, to become nauseous, foul, offensive or injurious to the public
health, or unpleasant and disagreeable to adjacent residents or persons passing
by, shall be guilty of committing a nuisance. At such times as described
herein, in addition to the penalties provided in this chapter, those persons
charged with enforcing the provisions of ordinance 8.00 along with its
subsequent amendments defining nuisances and codified in chapter 1 of this
title are to be followed and enforced. (Ord. 2010-01, 4-19-2010)
5-4-5: LITTER FROM CONSTRUCTION SITES PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person being the owner or person in charge of any property upon
which a structure is being constructed or demolished shall permit the
accumulation of uncontainerized litter upon such property or permit litter
therefrom to become blown or scattered upon such property or any other property
or public place.
   B.   No person being the owner or person in charge of any property upon
which a structure is being constructed or demolished shall fail to provide
adequate containers to hold all litter upon such property or otherwise being
produced by the construction or demolition. All containers shall be utilized to
prevent any litter from being blown or otherwise scattered upon the property or
any other property nearby.
   C.   It is the duty of the owner, agent, contractor or any other person in
charge of any property involving either construction or demolition of any
structure to cause, maintain, permit or allow any accumulation of litter or
rubbish on the site before, during and after the completion of the construction
or demolition project. A further part of this duty is to make appropriate
arrangements for the disposal of this litter and rubbish at facilities
authorized for final disposition. All such litter and rubbish shall be
containerized by the end of each day or more often if weather conditions
require more frequent collection prior to being blown or scattered. (Ord. 2010-
01, 4-19-2010)
5-4-6: LITTER FROM LOADING OR UNLOADING OPERATION PROHIBITED:
No person owning or having charge of any premises or business upon which
objects or materials are being loaded or unloaded from any motor vehicle or
other device of conveyance shall permit any uncontainerized litter resulting
from such loading or unloading to accumulate upon such property or to be blown
or scattered upon any other property or public place. (Ord. 2010-01, 4-19-2010)
5-4-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
It is a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to do any
act required by this chapter. Every person convicted of a violation of any
provision of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first
conviction. A second offense shall be punished by a fine of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00). A third
or subsequent offense shall be punished by a fine of two hundred dollars
($200.00). (Ord. 2010-01, 4-19-2010)
5-4-8: ENFORCEMENT:
This chapter may be enforced by any city police officer, the city code
enforcement officer, or by the city superintendent.
A private citizen who observes another person littering may file a written,
signed and dated statement with the Cut Bank police department. The police
shall investigate the matter and determine if further prosecution for violation
of this chapter is warranted. (Ord. 2010-01, 4-19-2010)
TITLE 6
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: Scope Of Provisions
6-1-2: Supervision And Control By Mayor
6-1-3: City Council Authority
6-1-4: Appointment And Terms Of Members
6-1-5: Police Commission
6-1-6: Examination Of Applicants
6-1-7: Qualifications Of Members
6-1-8: Active And Eligible Lists; Filling Vacancies
6-1-9: Exemptions Of Members
6-1-10: Compensation; Benefits
6-1-11: Appeals And Hearings Before Police Commission
6-1-12: Suspensions; Additional Police Personnel
6-1-13: Restrictions On Activities
6-1-14: Police Reserves
6-1-15: Fund For Salaries Of Officers On Reserve List
6-1-16: Municipal Police Officers' Retirement System
6-1-1: SCOPE OF PROVISIONS:
The police department of the city is hereby organized in accordance with the
provisions hereof, and said police department shall be managed and controlled
as in this chapter provided. (Ord. 2.20)
6-1-2: SUPERVISION AND CONTROL BY MAYOR:
The mayor of the city shall have charge of and supervision over and shall
appoint all the members of the police department of the city. Subject to the
provision hereof, the mayor shall have the power to suspend or remove any
member or officer of the police department 1 . The mayor shall be, and he is
hereby authorized, in conjunction with the police commission, to make rules and
regulations, not inconsistent with the provisions hereof, the laws of the
state, or the ordinances of the city, for the government, direction,
management, and discipline of the police force. (Ord. 2.20)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  6-1-12 of this chapter.
6-1-3: CITY COUNCIL AUTHORITY:
In addition to the provisions of this chapter, the city council may make any
ordinances, not inconsistent with this chapter or any law of the state, for the
government of the police department and for regulating the powers and duties of
its officers and members. (Ord. 2.20)
6-1-4: APPOINTMENT AND TERMS OF MEMBERS:
   A.   Application And Examination: All appointments to the police force shall
be by the mayor and confirmed by the city council, but no such appointment
shall be made until an application for such position on the police force has
been filed with the mayor and by him referred to the police commission, and
such applicant has successfully passed the examination required to be held by
such police commission, and a certificate from such police commission that the
applicant has qualified for such appointment has been filed with the mayor.
(Ord. 2.20)
   B.   Probationary Term: Every applicant who has passed such examination and
received such certificate shall first serve for a probationary term of not more
than one year. At any time before the end of such probationary term, the mayor
may revoke such appointment. After the end of such probationary period, and
within thirty (30) days thereafter, the appointment of such applicant shall be
submitted to the city council, and if such appointment is confirmed by the city
council, such applicant becomes a member of the police force and shall hold
such position during good behavior unless suspended or discharged as provided
by law. (Ord. 2.20; amd. 2006 Code)
6-1-5: POLICE COMMISSION:
   A.   Commission Created; Composition: There is hereby created a board to be
known as the "police commission", which shall be comprised of three (3)
residents of the city, who shall have the qualifications required by law to
hold a municipal office, and who shall hold office for a term of three (3)
years except as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 2.20)
   B.   Appointment; Terms: At the first regular city council meeting in the
month of May 1954, the mayor shall, subject to the approval of the city
council, appoint three (3) members, one to serve for one year, one for two (2)
years and one for three (3) years from the date of their appointment and
confirmation. Thereafter, one such member shall be appointed annually at the
first regular meeting of the city council in May of each year to serve for a
term of three (3) years from the date of his appointment and confirmation.
(Ord. 2.20; amd. 2006 Code)
6-1-6: EXAMINATION OF APPLICANTS:
   A.   Referral To Commission; Certificate Required: All applicants for
positions on the police force shall have been referred to the police
commission, shall be required to successfully undergo an examination before the
police commission, and shall receive a certificate from said commission that
the applicant is qualified for such appointment to the police force for the
probationary period.
   B.   Examination; Rules And Regulations: It shall be the duty of the police
commission to examine all such applicants as to their age, legal, mental, moral
and physical qualifications, and their ability to fill the office as a member
of the police force. It shall also be the duty of the police commission,
subject to the approval of the mayor, to make such rules and regulations
regarding such examination not inconsistent with this chapter or the laws of
the state.
   C.   False Statements; Dismissal: Any applicant who shall make any false
statement to the police commission as to his age or other qualifications
required, at his examination before the police commission, shall be subject to
suspension or dismissal from the police force, after trial. (Ord. 2.20)
6-1-7: QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS:
   A.   Age:
      1.   The members of the police department, at the time of their
appointment as provided herein, shall not be less than eighteen (18) years of
age and shall meet the minimum qualifying standards for employment promulgated
by the state board of crime control; provided, however, that the city council
shall have the power, by ordinances duly passed and approved, to retire any
police officer on half pay, who shall have arrived at the age of sixty five
(65) years, or who shall have served continuously as a police officer for a
period of not less than twenty five (25) years, or who shall have become
incapacitated to perform the duties of his office by reason of injury or
accident sustained while actually engaged in the performance of his duties as
an officer.
2. The members of the police department on the active list at the time of their
appointment under this chapter shall not be less than eighteen (18) years of
age.
B. Citizenship And Residency: In every case, a police officer shall be a
citizen of the United States. Such qualification shall also apply to every
officer on the eligible list at the time he shall be transferred to the active
list. (Ord. 2.20; amd. 2006 Code)
6-1-8: ACTIVE AND ELIGIBLE LISTS; FILLING VACANCIES:
A. Council Determination: The city council shall have absolute and exclusive
power to determine and limit the number of police officers and members to
comprise the police force, to reduce the number of the police force at any
time, and to divide the police membership into two (2) lists, one an active
list, of persons who shall be actually employed and receive pay while so
employed, and one an eligible list, of persons who shall not receive pay while
not actually employed as an officer or member.
B. Membership On Lists: Officers or members of the active list, temporarily
relieved from duty, shall become members of the eligible list without pay and
shall be first entitled to reinstatement in the active list, in case of
vacancy, according to their seniority in the service, and all others on the
eligible list shall be entitled to fill a vacancy in the order of their
appointment.
C. Number Of Members On Eligible List Limited: In no event shall there be any
officers or members placed on the eligible list, except in case of temporary
reduction of the police force, when the number already on the eligible list
shall equal in number twenty percent (20%) of the active list. (Ord. 2.20)
6-1-9: EXEMPTIONS OF MEMBERS:
No member of the police force shall be liable to military or jury duty, nor to
arrest on civil process while actually on duty. (Ord. 2.20; amd. 2006 Code)
6-1-10: COMPENSATION; BENEFITS:
A. Minimum Wage: From and after the effective date hereof, there shall be paid
to each duly confirmed member of the police department a minimum wage for a
daily service of eight (8) consecutive hours' work, of at least two hundred
eighty dollars ($280.00) per month for the first year of service, and
thereafter, at least two hundred eighty dollars ($280.00) per month plus one
dollar ($1.00) per month for each additional year of service up to and
including the tenth year of such additional service.
B. Compensation For Sickness Or Injury: Whenever any member of the police
department of the city shall, on account of sickness or disability suffered or
sustained while an officer and not caused or brought on by dissipation or
abuse, be confined to any hospital or his home, and shall require medical
attention and care, such officer shall be, by the city council, allowed his
salary as such police officer, during his absence, and an amount equal to his
expenses while confined for such injury or sickness. (Ord. 2.20; amd. 2006
Code)
6-1-11: APPEALS AND HEARINGS BEFORE POLICE COMMISSION:
A. Commission To Hear And Decide Appeals: The police commission has
jurisdiction and it is its duty to hear and decide appeals brought by any
member or officer of the police department who has been disciplined, suspended,
removed, or discharged by an order of the mayor.
B. Appeals In Writing: An appeal brought by any member of the police force
shall be in writing in the form required by the police commission, and a copy
shall be served upon the mayor at least thirty (30) days before the time fixed
for the hearing of the appeal.
C. Rights Of Police Officer; Hearing:
1. The appealing police officer has the right to be present at the hearing in
person and by counsel and to be heard and to give and furnish evidence in the
police officer's appeal.
2. All hearings shall be open to the public.
D. Subpoena Authority Of Police Commission: The chairman or acting chairman of
the police commission shall have power to issue subpoenas, attested in its
name, to compel the attendance of witnesses at the hearing, and any person duly
served with a subpoena is bound to attend in obedience thereto. The police
commission shall have the same authority to enforce obedience to the subpoena
and to punish the disobedience thereof as is possessed by a judge of the
district court in like cases; provided, however, that punishment for
disobedience is subject to review by the district court of the proper county.
E. Decision By Police Commission: The police commission shall, after the
conclusion of the hearing, decide the appeal and shall have the power, by a
decision of a majority of the commission, to sustain, modify, or overrule the
disciplinary order of the mayor.
F. Enforcement Of Decision: The mayor shall make an order enforcing the
decision of the police commission. The decision or order is subject to review
by the district court of the proper county on all questions of fact and all
questions of law. (Ord. 2.20; amd. 2006 Code)
6-1-12: SUSPENSIONS; ADDITIONAL POLICE PERSONNEL:
A. Authority To Suspend 1 : The mayor, or chief of police subject to the
approval of the mayor, shall have the power in all cases to suspend a police
officer or any officer for a period not exceeding ten (10) days in any one
month, without any hearing or trial, such suspension to be with or without pay
as the order of suspension may determine.
B. Additional Police Personnel: The mayor shall have the power and authority,
at any time when he deems it expedient, to employ not to exceed two (2) persons
at one time for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days to do police duty who
are not members of the police department. (Ord. 2.20)
C. Calling Into Active Service: Police officers or officers on the retired list
shall retire from the active list of police officers, but shall be subject to
call for police service or active duty whenever an emergency shall require or
the active list is temporarily insufficient for proper policing of the city,
all under the rules and regulations as the police commission or city council
shall prescribe. (Ord. 2.20; amd. 2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  6-1-2 of this chapter.
6-1-13: RESTRICTIONS ON ACTIVITIES:
A. A member of the police force of the city may be employed in another
department of the city. However, the member may not hold political office in
the city.
B. The fact that a person is an officer or member of the police department does
not deprive the person's spouse or any member of the person's family of the
right to participate in political activity or to hold public or political
office.
C. An officer or member of the police department may participate in political
activity; provided, that the officer does not do so while on duty or in uniform
or that it does not otherwise interfere with the performance of duties. (Ord.
2.20; amd. 2006 Code)
6-1-14: POLICE RESERVES:
A. Qualifications: Reserve officers shall meet the qualifications required
under Montana Code Annotated Sections 7-32-213 and 7-32-214.
B. Police Officers Incapacitated In Line Of Duty: Whenever any police officer
shall receive injuries or disabilities while on duty, or in active discharge of
the duties of a police officer, and in the line of duty, which injuries or
disability shall, in the opinion of the police commission or city council, be
of such character to impair his ability as an active police officer, or
incapacitate him for the further discharge of his duties as such, he shall
become a member of the police reserves of the city in like manner as though he
had arrived at the age of transfer to the reserve list of the department.
C. Payment Of Police Reserves:
1. Whenever any police officer shall, from age or disability, become
transferred from the active list of the police officers of the city to the
reserve list of the city, he shall thereafter be paid in monthly payments from
the funds in this chapter provided, a sum equal to one-half (1/2) the salary he
was receiving during the year prior to the time he passed to the police reserve
list.
2. Upon the death of any police officer of the city, his/her surviving,
dependent spouse, if there be such a surviving spouse, shall, as long as said
spouse remains his/her spouse, be paid from the police reserves fund a sum
equal to one-half (1/2) the salary such police officer was receiving during the
year prior to the time such police officer passes to the police reserve list.
If such police officer shall leave any dependent minor children, then upon the
death of such police officer, provided he/she leaves no surviving spouse, or
upon the death or remarriage of his/her spouse, then the surviving dependent
minor children, collectively, if there be more than one dependent minor child,
shall be paid the same monthly payments as are herein provided to be paid to
the surviving spouse, until such minor child or minor children shall have
attained the age of eighteen (18) years or shall have married; provided
further, that the payments herein provided for be made to the surviving spouse
and/or children shall not be made if such payments will require an increase in
the millage tax levy now provided for by subsection 6-1-15A of this chapter.
3. Payments as herein provided for, to be made to any minor child of police
officers, shall be paid to the duly appointed, qualified and acting guardian of
such child for the use of the minor until the minor shall have reached the age
of eighteen (18) years or shall have married. In case there is more than one
minor child, upon each such child reaching the age of eighteen (18) years, the
pro rata payments to such child shall cease and shall be made to the remaining
minor children until the youngest child shall reach the age of eighteen (18)
years or shall have married.
4. The term "police officer", as used herein, shall include all those on the
reserve list as well as "active police" and/or "police officers". (Ord. 2.20;
amd. 2006 Code)
D. State Law Controlling: Nothing in this section shall be construed as
conflicting with state law. Any part of this section that conflicts with state
law shall be null and void; the remaining parts of this section not in conflict
with state law shall remain in full force and effect. (2006 Code)
6-1-15: FUND FOR SALARIES OF OFFICERS ON RESERVE LIST:
A. Tax Levy:
1. For the purpose of paying the salaries of police officers who have been
placed upon the reserve list, the city council shall, in the manner provided by
law, and at the time of the levy of the annual tax, levy a special tax of not
to exceed one mill on the dollar upon the assessed valuation of all taxable
property within the limits of the city, which tax shall be collected as other
taxes and, when so collected, shall be paid into the fund created for the
payment of such salaries of police officers upon the reserve list.
2. However, in case the demand against such fund shall be heavier than the levy
can provide, then and in such case, such additional levy of not to exceed one
mill may be made until such returns from the first mill levy are sufficient to
meet the demand.
B. Salary Deductions: The city clerk-treasurer shall retain from the monthly
salary of all police officers upon the active list a sum equal to three percent
(3%) of the monthly compensation paid each officer for his services as such
police officer. The said monthly deduction from the salaries of such police
officers shall be paid into the fund created by the tax levy for the purpose of
paying the salaries of police officers upon the reserve list.
C. Gifts And Monies Applied To Fund: All monies withheld from salaries of
police officers for the violation of rules and regulations of the police
department, all bequests, gifts or emoluments paid or given on account of any
extraordinary service of any member of the police department, except when
specifically allowed to be retained by such officer by the mayor and chief of
police, and all monies derived from the provisions of this chapter shall be
placed in the fund created by the tax levy of taxable property and percentum of
salaries withheld from such police officers.
D. Investment Of Fund: All monies in said fund in excess of such amount as
shall be deemed necessary from time to time to meet current payments to reserve
police officers shall be invested as hereinafter provided, and all interest on
any and all monies belonging to said fund from whatever source derived shall
belong to and be paid into said fund. (Ord. 2.20)
E. Trustees Of Fund:
1. Appointment; Term: A board of trustees of said fund is hereby created, which
board shall consist of the mayor, city clerk- treasurer and city attorney, and
two (2) members of the police department from the active list who shall be
selected by a majority vote of the members of the police department on said
active list, who shall serve for a term of two (2) years, except as hereinafter
provided. Upon the effective date hereof, the two (2) members of the police
department shall be selected as herein provided, one to be selected for a term
of two (2) years, the other for one year. A certificate of the election of the
members of the police department selected for the board of trustees shall, upon
such selection being made, be certified to the city clerk-treasurer by the
chairman and secretary of the meeting at which selection was made. (Ord. 2.20;
amd. 2006 Code)
2. Auditing Of Fund; Investment; Report On Retirement: The board of trustees of
the fund shall audit the same from time to time at least twice during each year
and report the condition of said fund annually to the city council on or before
April 1 of each year. The board of trustees shall invest the monies in said
fund from time to time as may be directed by the city council, but the monies
in said fund shall not be invested in anything other than bonds of the United
States or of the state of Montana, or bonds or warrants of the city of Cut Bank
which are general liabilities of the whole city. The trustees shall make sale
of such bonds or securities when desirable and as directed by the city council.
All such bonds and warrants shall be deemed part of the fund and shall be kept
in the possession of the city clerk-treasurer, and the clerk-treasurer shall be
responsible therefor in the same manner as he is for all other monies or funds
of the city. Before any member of the police department is placed on the
reserve list by the city council, the board of trustees of the fund shall
report to the city council in writing their recommendations as to whether or
not such member shall be placed upon the reserve list.
F. Limit Of Use Of Fund: The fund shall not be used for any purpose whatsoever
other than the payment to members of the police department on the reserve list
of the amounts to which they are entitled under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2.20)
6-1-16: MUNICIPAL POLICE OFFICERS' RETIREMENT SYSTEM:
The police department of the city of Cut Bank, Montana, shall be under, subject
to and within the provisions of the municipal police officers' retirement
system (statewide plan) laws of the state of Montana, as set forth in Montana
Code Annotated sections 19-9-101 through 19-9-1102, inclusive, and all
amendments thereto. The said police department retirement system shall be
managed, conducted, governed and controlled as in said state law and this
section. (Ord. 2007-02, 9-10-2007, eff. 9-30-2007)
CHAPTER 2
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-2-1: Composition; Meetings; Bylaws
6-2-2: Chief And Assistant Chief
6-2-3: Application For Membership; Removals; List Of Members
6-2-4: Control Of Equipment
6-2-5: Command Of Department And Property
6-2-6: Powers Of Arrest
6-2-7: Report Of Property To Council
6-2-8: Compensation; Report Service Of Members
6-2-9: Authority To Order Destruction Of Structures
6-2-10: Right Of Property Owner
6-2-11: Inspection; Condemnation Of Buildings
6-2-12: Disability Fund For Disabled Firefighters
6-2-1: COMPOSITION; MEETINGS; BYLAWS:
   A.   Composition: The volunteer fire department of the city shall consist of
one chief of the volunteer fire department and one assistant chief of the
volunteer fire department and at least ten (10) volunteer firefighters in
addition to the said officers.
   B.   Meetings And Bylaws: The department shall hold a business meeting at
least once in each month and may adopt such bylaws regulating the time of such
meetings, the appointment of other officers subordinate to such named officers,
set forth their duties, and such other matters not inconsistent with the
ordinances of the city as the department shall require; and the bylaws may
provide for the infliction of fines for nonattendance at meetings or fires or
infringement of discipline, which fines shall be paid into the treasury of the
department. The bylaws shall, before becoming effective, be submitted to the
city council and approved by the council. (Ord. 2.24; amd. 2006 Code)
6-2-2: CHIEF AND ASSISTANT CHIEF:
The mayor shall nominate and, by and with the advice and consent of the
council, shall appoint the chief and assistant chief of the fire department,
each to hold office from the first Monday of May following the date of
appointment and until his successor shall have been appointed and qualified.
Each may be removed for cause by the mayor with the approval of the council,
after hearing, if demanded by the officer upon notice of removal. (Ord. 2.24)
6-2-3: APPLICATION FOR MEMBERSHIP; REMOVALS; LIST OF MEMBERS:
Applicants for membership in the department shall be submitted to the council
for its approval before application shall be favorably acted upon by the fire
department, and the city clerk- treasurer shall keep a correct list of all
officers and members of the department. Any firefighter may be removed in the
same manner as an officer thereof. Upon request of the mayor or council, the
chief or assistant chief of the department shall furnish the council with a
correct list of all officers and members of the department. (Ord. 2.24)
6-2-4: CONTROL OF EQUIPMENT:
All equipment furnished by the city shall be under the personal control of the
chief of the department, subject to the orders of the council. The chief shall
file with the city clerk-treasurer receipts for all property committed to his
custody and shall be held responsible for the ordinary care of said property
until the same shall be surrendered or until he shall file a receipt from his
successor in office. (Ord. 2.24)
6-2-5: COMMAND OF DEPARTMENT AND PROPERTY 1 :
   A.   Chief And Assistant Chief: The chief, or in his absence the assistant
chief, shall take full command of the department and of all property involved
at all fires or alarms thereof, and shall, on the spot, by verbal order, make
such disposition of the department and of the property as he shall deem most
expedient, and shall make all necessary reports required by state statutes or
city ordinances.
   B.   Officers, Order Of Rank: In the absence of the chief or the assistant
chief, the department officers shall take full command at fires or alarms in
the order of their rank, with the full power of the chief, which order of rank
shall be designated in the bylaws.
   C.   Compel Assistance Of Citizens: If, when present at any fire, the
officer in command shall ascertain that the department force is inadequate to
protect property or extinguish or restrain fire, said officer is hereby
required and authorized to compel the assistance of any and all inhabitants of
the city, not physically disqualified, and shall retain such assistance as long
as shall be required in his judgment. (Ord. 2.24)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 2, article A of this title.
6-2-6: POWERS OF ARREST:
For the purpose of this chapter, all officers of the department, when present
at fires, shall have full authority to arrest any person who shall disobey any
lawful order of the chief in command of said fire or any person who shall
violate any provision of any ordinance of the city or the laws of the state,
and commit said person to jail, and thereafter proceed as by law required. The
chief of police and all police officers of the city are required to obey all
lawful orders of the chief in command at any fire. (Ord. 2.24; amd. 2006 Code)
6-2-7: REPORT OF PROPERTY TO COUNCIL:
On the first Monday of March of each year and at other times as required by the
council, the chief shall present to the council a detailed report of all city
property held by the department. At such time, he shall also make a statement
of all property lost or destroyed or worn out since the last preceding report
and an estimate of the repairs and supplies required for the ensuing year.
(Ord. 2.24)
6-2-8: COMPENSATION; REPORT SERVICE OF MEMBERS:
Each member of the department present at any fire within the limits of the city
shall receive compensation as established by ordinance of the city council. The
officer in command at any fire shall make a detailed report of the time of
service of each member at each fire, which same shall be presented to the
council at the next regular meeting succeeding such fire reported. (Ord. 2.24;
amd. 2006 Code)
6-2-9: AUTHORITY TO ORDER DESTRUCTION OF STRUCTURES:
The chief of the department, or in his absence, the officer in command at any
fire, may, during the progress of said fire, order any building, fence or
structure cut down or removed when the same, in his judgment, becomes necessary
in order to check or control the fire. He shall have the power to cause any
building or structure to be destroyed for the purpose of checking or
extinguishing the fire, and he shall have, at any time, the power, with the
consent of the council, to order the removal of any portion of any building or
structure which may be standing after a fire whenever, by a resolution of the
city council, such portion of any building or structure so remaining may be
adjudged to be dangerous to persons or property. (Ord. 2.24; amd. 2006 Code)
6-2-10: RIGHT OF PROPERTY OWNER:
The owner of any building that is on fire shall have prior right over the chief
or anyone in command of said fire as to the disposition of the contents in said
building. (Ord. 2.24)
6-2-11: INSPECTION; CONDEMNATION OF BUILDINGS:
The chief and the assistant chief shall have the power to enter and examine any
building within the city limits for the purpose of inspecting the same;
provided, that such inspection is made within reasonable hours; and, with the
consent of the city council, may condemn any such building and order the same
to be rebuilt, repaired or removed so as to be entirely consistent with public
safety. (Ord. 2.24)
6-2-12: DISABILITY FUND FOR DISABLED FIREFIGHTERS:
   A.   Board Of Trustees Created; Membership: A board of trustees to be known
as the trustees of the firefighter's disability fund is hereby created and
shall consist of the following persons: mayor, city clerk-treasurer, city
attorney, chief of the fire department and one member of the fire department
who shall be selected by a majority of the members of the Cut Bank fire
department. The fire department member shall be selected at a meeting to be
held between May 1 and May 10 of each year in which a mayor is elected and
shall hold office during the incumbency of the mayor. In the event that the
office of the fire department member should become vacant, a majority of the
members of the fire department shall elect a successor to hold the balance of
the term.
   B.   Audit Of Funds: The board of trustees shall audit the disability fund
from time to time and at least twice during each fiscal year, and report the
condition of the fund annually to the city council, which report shall be made
on or before April 1 of each year. No payment shall be made from the disability
fund, except upon the order of the council, upon the written recommendation of
the board of trustees of the fund.
   C.   Use Restricted: The fund shall not be used for any purpose whatsoever
other than the relief of firefighters belonging to the fire department of the
city. Said fund shall remain in the city treasury and shall be drawn upon by
warrant of the mayor, countersigned by the clerk-treasurer, in such sum as may
be allowed as hereinafter provided. When such fund shall be exhausted, no
further warrants may be drawn thereon.
   D.   Benefit Allowance; Rates:
      1.   Benefits shall only be allowed on the recommendation of the board of
trustees, or a majority thereof, approved by the city council. Whenever the
board of trustees shall recommend to the council the payment of any benefit to
any member of the fire department, disabled in the line of duty, the
recommendation shall be in writing, stating the name of the beneficiary; the
character of the disability; when, where and how received; and the amount to be
allowed and paid the said beneficiary. The benefit paid to any member of the
fire department shall amount to the loss of salary and reasonable cost of
medicine and medical services incurred by any such member on account of said
disability, and in the event of any member of the fire department becoming
disabled for life, or suffering death in the line of duty, the board of
trustees of the fund may, subject to the approval of the council in each
instance, make a suitable allowance to such member or his heirs.
      2.   The rates governing the payment of benefits under this section shall
be determined by the city council. (Ord. 2.28; amd. 2006 Code)
ARTICLE A. REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS DURING FIRES 1
SECTION:
6-2A-1: Command At Fires
6-2A-2: Order Closure Of Businesses
6-2A-3: Right Of Way Of Emergency Vehicles
6-2A-4: Following Fire Apparatus; Stopping Near Fire
6-2A-5: Violations; Penalties
6-2A-6: State Law Controlling
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  7-2-11 of this code, provisions for regulating driving over fire hoses.
6-2A-1: COMMAND AT FIRES 1 :
The chief of the fire department, and in his absence, the assistant chief of
the fire department, shall have sole and absolute control and command over all
other members of the department and all other persons present at fires and the
movement of all persons or property within the streets in the area threatened
by fire. The firefighter or officer of the fire department who first arrives at
a fire shall be the officer in command until the chief or assistant chief of
the fire department arrives. (Ord. 8.04)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section 6-2-5 of this title.
6-2A-2: ORDER CLOSURE OF BUSINESSES:
The chief of the fire department, or in this absence, the assistant chief of
the fire department, shall have power during any fire, and while the fire
department is engaged in putting out any fire or caring for property at any
fire, to order any place of business in the vicinity of said fire closed for
such length of time as deemed necessary, and any person refusing to comply with
such order shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction, shall be fined
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 8.04; amd. 2006 Code)
6-2A-3: RIGHT OF WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   "Authorized emergency vehicles", by which term is meant fire apparatus
and fire vehicles, vehicles of the police department and ambulances and any
other vehicle deemed an "authorized emergency vehicle" by the state, shall have
the right of way over other vehicles. (Ord. 8.04; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of Montana Code
Annotated section 61-9-402 or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making
use of an audible signal only, the operator of every other vehicle shall yield
the right of way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as
close as possible to, the right hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any
intersection and shall stop and remain in that position until the authorized
emergency vehicle or police vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed
by a police officer or highway patrol officer.
   C.   Upon approaching a stationary authorized emergency vehicle or police
vehicle that is displaying visible signals of flashing or rotating amber, blue,
red, or green lights, the operator of the approaching vehicle shall:
      1.   Reduce the vehicle's speed, proceed with caution, and, if possible,
considering safety and traffic conditions, move to a lane that is not adjacent
to the lane in which the authorized emergency vehicle or police vehicle is
located or move as far away from the authorized emergency vehicle or police
vehicle as possible; or
      2.   If changing lanes is not possible or is determined to be unsafe,
reduce the vehicle's speed, proceed with caution, and maintain a reduced speed,
appropriate to the road and the conditions, through the area where the
authorized emergency vehicle or police vehicle is stopped. (2006 Code)
6-2A-4: FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS; STOPPING NEAR FIRE:
The operator of a vehicle, other than one on official business, may not follow
a fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire call closer than five hundred
feet (500') or drive into or stop the vehicle within five hundred feet (500')
of where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire call. (Ord. 8.04;
amd. 2006 Code)
6-2A-5: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Violation Of Provisions; Penalties:
      1.   It is a misdemeanor for a person to violate any of the provisions of
this article unless the violation is declared to be a felony.
      2.   Each person convicted of a misdemeanor for a violation of any of the
provisions of this article for which another penalty is not provided shall be
subject to penalty pursuant to Montana Code Annotated section 61-8-711.
      3.   Except as provided in subsection A4 of this section, failure to pay
a fine imposed under this chapter is a civil contempt of the court. On failure
of payment of a fine, the court may:
         a.   Order enforcement of the fine by execution in the manner provided
in Montana Code Annotated section 25-13-204 and under the provisions of Montana
Code Annotated title 25, chapter 13; or
         b.   If the court finds that the person is unable to pay, order the
person to perform community service.
      4.   If property is not found in an amount necessary to satisfy the
unpaid portion of the fine and if the court makes a written finding that
community service is inappropriate, the person shall be imprisoned in the
county jail and the imprisonment shall be the number of days that the fine is
divisible by the dollar amount of the incarceration credit contained in Montana
Code Annotated section 46-18-403.
      5.   Upon conviction, the court costs or any part of the court costs may
be assessed against the defendant in the discretion of the court. (Ord. 395, 9-
15-1997; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Offenses Committed By Underage Persons: A person under eighteen (18)
years of age who is convicted of an offense under this article shall not be
punished by incarceration, but shall be punished by:
      1.   A fine not to exceed the fine that could be imposed on him if he
were an adult; provided, that such person may not be imprisoned for failure to
pay such fine;
      2.   Revocation of his driver's license by the court or suspension of the
license for a period set by the court, not less than thirty (30) days;
      3.   Impoundment, by a law enforcement officer designated by the court,
of the motor vehicle operated by the person for a period of time not exceeding
sixty (60) days if the court finds that he either owns the vehicle or is the
only person who uses the vehicle; or
      4.   Any combination of subsections B1 through B3 of this section. (Ord.
395, 9-15-1997)
6-2A-6: STATE LAW CONTROLLING:
Nothing in this article shall be construed as conflicting with state law. Any
part of this article that conflicts with state law shall be null and void; the
remaining parts of this article not in conflict with state law shall remain in
full force and effect. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE A. DOGS
SECTION:
6-3A-1: Animal Control Officer; Pound Established
6-3A-2: Definitions
6-3A-3: License Agents
6-3A-4: Registration And Vaccination Required; Registration Fee
6-3A-5: Tag And Collar
6-3A-6: Running At Large Prohibited
6-3A-7: Animals Exposed To Rabies
6-3A-8: Nuisance Animals
6-3A-9: Vicious Dogs
6-3A-10: Care Of Impounded Animals
6-3A-11: Impoundment And Redemption Provisions
6-3A-12: Teasing Or Unauthorized Release Of Dogs
6-3A-13: Number Of Dogs; Annual Surcharge
6-3A-14: Kennel Licenses
6-3A-15: Cleanup And Disposal Of Feces
6-3A-16: Violation; Penalty
6-3A-1: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER; POUND ESTABLISHED:
There shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with the advice and consent of
the city council, an animal control officer, who shall establish and maintain a
pound. (Ord. 7.00; amd. 2006 Code)
6-3A-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, unless the context otherwise indicates, the following
words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
AT LARGE: Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the owner
or a member of his immediate family or a person authorized by the owner, either
by leash, cord, chain or other restraining device.
CONTROL: Controlled by a leash, of a length of no greater than ten feet (10') 1
, held by a person physically capable of controlling the dog, or within the
limits of the premises controlled by the owner or other persons consenting
thereto, or inside a vehicle or other enclosure, including adequately fenced
property, controlled by the owner or other persons consenting thereto.
DOG: Shall be intended to mean both male and female.
IMPOUND FEE: The amount of twenty dollars ($20.00) or any other dollar amount
as set by the Cut Bank city council from time to time by resolution, ordinance
or other legislative means duly enacted, for an owner or keeper of any dog
impounded by the Cut Bank animal control officer or city police officer to
redeem his/her dog prior to release of the dog from impoundment.
LICENSING AUTHORITY: The Cut Bank city council.
OWNER: Any person or persons, firm, association partnership, corporation or
other legal entity owning, keeping or harboring a dog and shall include those
persons caring for a dog in the absence of the regular owner.
SURRENDER FEE: The amount of twenty five dollars ($25.00) or any other dollar
amount as set by the Cut Bank city council from time to time by resolution,
ordinance or other legislative means duly enacted where an owner wishes to
relinquish ownership of a dog or refuse to claim said dog from the city. (Ord.
7.04, 11-19-2001; amd. 2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 6-3A-9C1 of this article, leash length four feet (4') for
  restraining a vicious dog.
6-3A-3: LICENSE AGENTS:
The city court clerk and the animal control officer shall both be license
agents and may appoint additional license agents as he/she may deem necessary
or expedient. (Ord. 7.04, 11-19-2001)
6-3A-4: REGISTRATION AND VACCINATION REQUIRED; REGISTRATION FEE:
   A.   Requirements; Fees: All dogs kept, harbored or maintained in the city
shall be vaccinated and registered on or before April 15 of each year.
Registration tags shall be issued by the city clerk-treasurer upon proof of
vaccination for rabies and upon payment of a registration fee of five dollars
($5.00) per year for every spayed female or neutered male dog. Nonspayed female
dogs or nonneutered male dogs shall have a registration fee of ten dollars
($10.00) per year. Should said license fee not be paid on or before April 15
annually, then said license fee shall be deemed delinquent, and in the event
that the license fee hereby levied becomes delinquent, the license agent shall
cause to be levied and collected, in addition to the license fee above set
forth, a ten dollar ($10.00) delinquent fee. The owner shall state at the time
of application for registration and upon printed forms provided for such
purpose his/her name, address, and the name, breed, color, and sex of each dog
owned or kept by him. Proof of vaccination shall consist of a certificate of
vaccination from a registered, licensed, and practicing veterinarian, after
which the license agent shall issue the registration tag upon payment of the
registration fee hereinabove set forth. The penalty shall not apply to new
registrations.
   B.   Exemptions: The provisions of this section shall not be intended to
apply to dogs whose owners are nonresidents, temporarily within the city, nor
to dogs brought into the city for the purpose of participating in any dog show,
nor to guide dogs properly trained to assist persons with disabilities when
such dogs are actually being used for the purpose of aiding them in going from
place to place, or to trained dogs utilized for law enforcement purposes.
However, upon request from the animal control officer or any city law
enforcement officer, the owner shall provide proof of vaccination, as required
herein. (Ord. 7.04, 11-19-2001; amd. 2006 Code)
6-3A-5: TAG AND COLLAR:
   A.   Issuance Of Tag: Upon proof of vaccination and payment of the
registration fee as provided herein, the license agent shall issue to the owner
a registration certificate and metallic tag for each dog so registered. The
shape of the tag shall be changed every year and shall have stamped thereon the
year for which it was issued and a number corresponding with the number of the
certificate. A green tag shall be issued for a male, a red tag for a female, a
yellow tag for a spayed female, and a blue tag for a neutered male.
   B.   Collar: It is recommended that every owner shall provide his/her dog
with a collar to which the license tag may be affixed, and the owner shall be
responsible to see that the collar and tag are constantly worn.
   C.   Fee For Replacement Tags: In case the tag is lost or destroyed, a
duplicate will be issued by the license agent upon payment of a fee of two
dollars ($2.00).
   D.   Nontransferability Of Tags: The license tags shall not be transferable
from one dog to another. (Ord. 7.04, 11-19-2001)
6-3A-6: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
No dog may run at large, and any owner or keeper of any dog found to be running
at large at any time within the corporate limits of the city, whether such dog
be registered or unregistered, shall be under strict liability, found guilty of
a misdemeanor and subject to the penalties specified in section
6-3A-16 of this article. Any animal found running at large shall be subject to
the impoundment provisions of section
6-3A-11 of this chapter. (Ord. 7.04, 11-19-2001; amd. 2006 Code)
6-3A-7: ANIMALS EXPOSED TO RABIES:
Every dog or other animal which has been bitten by, or exposed to, any animal
suspected to have been infected with rabies shall be forthwith seized and taken
up by the animal control officer or any other law enforcement officer and
securely and separately impounded. All such animals shall be quarantined in the
pound or at a licensed veterinary hospital for a period of fourteen (14) days.
It shall be the duty of the person seizing such dog to notify the county public
health officer of every such animal impounded. If, after observation under the
supervision of the county public health office for such period, any such animal
is adjudged free of rabies, the owner may reclaim the animal, upon payment of
the regular keeping fees, the surrender fee, and upon compliance with the
licensing requirements. In the event that any animal under quarantine is
diagnosed as being rabid, it shall be disposed of only under the orders and
directions of the county public health officer in his absolute discretion.
(Ord. 7.04, 11-19-2001; amd. 2006 Code)
6-3A-8: NUISANCE ANIMALS:
   A.   Acts Declared Nuisance: It is hereby declared a public nuisance for any
dog or other animal to destroy property or injure other pets; to bite or chase
after persons not trespassing upon the property of, or injuring or attempting
to injure the person, family or property of the owner; to chase vehicles in
public streets or ways; or to howl, yelp or bark for a prolonged period of
time.
   B.   Issuance Of Tickets; Filing Complaints:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to own, harbor, keep or maintain any
such nuisance animal, and it shall be the duty of the animal control officer
and any other law enforcement officer to issue tickets and file complaints for
all such violations occurring in their presence.
      2.   Any person aggrieved by a nuisance animal may file a written
statement with the animal control officer or any other law enforcement officer
charging the owner with the violation of this section, where the offense is not
committed in the presence of the animal control officer or any other law
enforcement officer.
      3.   The animal control officer or any other law enforcement officer
shall then investigate the matter and if, in their discretion, they feel a
complaint is warranted, file said complaint in city court.
   C.   Third Conviction; Seizure Of Animal: Upon a third conviction under this
section, the nuisance animal shall be seized and taken up by the animal control
officer or any other law enforcement officer. (Ord. 7.04, 11-19-2001; amd. 2006
Code)
6-3A-9: VICIOUS DOGS:
   A.   Definitions:
    VICIOUS ANIMAL: Any dog with one or more convictions within subsection C of
this section.
   VICIOUS BEHAVIOR: Behavior of any dog which demonstrates any or all of the
following behaviors:
      1.   An attack which requires a defensive action by any person or animal
to prevent bodily injury and/or property damage, or which results in bodily
injury or property damage, in a place where such person or animal is conducting
himself peaceably and lawfully.
      2.   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to
attack unprovoked, as evidenced by its habitual or repeated chasing, snapping,
or barking at human beings or domestic animals so as to potentially cause
injury or to otherwise endanger their safety.
   B.   Complaint; Consequences:
      1.   Compliant Filed; Surrender And/Or Impoundment Of Dog: Whenever a
verified complaint shall be filed with the city judge that any dog has bitten a
person, and that the person bitten was not, at the time, trespassing upon the
property of or injuring or attempting to injure the person, family or property
of the owner, or teasing the dog, the city judge shall issue an order requiring
the owner of such dog to surrender the same to the animal control officer or
any other law enforcement officer for quarantine within twenty four (24) hours
after service of the order. Such order may be served by the animal control
officer or any other law enforcement officer, and if the owner cannot be found
at his place of residence, the order may be served by leaving it with a person
of suitable age and discretion at, or by placing it in, a prominent place on
every door of such residence. It is unlawful for any person to refuse or
neglect to surrender any such dog within twenty four (24) hours after the
service of such order herein provided, and the animal control officer or any
other law enforcement officer shall forthwith seize and impound such animal. In
the event that the owner is unknown, upon the filing of such verified
complaint, the animal control officer or any other law enforcement officer
shall seize and impound such animal without notice.
      2.   Period Of Quarantine: All dogs impounded under this subsection shall
be quarantined at the shelter or at a licensed veterinary hospital for the
period and under the same conditions as stated in section
6-3A-7 of this article.
      3.   Destruction Of Dog Authorized: Any dog which has bitten persons
under the circumstances set forth in this subsection on two (2) separate
occasions shall be humanely euthanized by the animal control officer. Provided,
however, that if any dangerous, fierce or vicious dog is found running at large
and cannot be safely taken up and impounded, such dog may be euthanized or
tranquilized by the animal control officer or any other law enforcement
officer.
   C.   Standards And Requirements For Owner Of Vicious Dog: Any person or
owner, keeper or harborer of a "vicious animal" as defined in subsection A of
this section, within the municipal limits of the city, shall be subject to the
following standards:
      1.   Leash And Muzzle: No person shall permit a vicious animal to go
outside its kennel or pen unless such vicious animal is securely leashed with a
leash no longer than four feet (4') in length. No person shall permit a vicious
animal to be kept on a chain, rope, or other type of leash outside its kennel
or pen unless a person is in physical control of the leash and capable of
physically controlling the animal. Such vicious animal may not be leashed to
inanimate objects such as trees, posts, buildings, etc. In addition, all
vicious animals on a leash outside the animal's kennel shall at all times be
muzzled by a muzzling device sufficient to prevent such vicious animal from
biting persons or other animals.
      2.   Confinement:
         a.   All vicious animals shall be securely confined indoors or in a
securely enclosed and locked pen or kennel, except when leashed and muzzled as
provided in subsection C1 of this section. Such pen, kennel or structure shall
have secure sides and a secure top attached to the sides. All structures used
to confine vicious animals shall be locked with an adequate lock when such
animals are within the structure. Such structure shall have a secure bottom or
floor attached to the sides of the pen, or the sides of the pen shall be
embedded in the ground not less than two feet (2'). All structures erected to
house vicious animals shall comply with all zoning and building regulations of
the city. All such structures shall be adequately lighted and ventilated and
kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
         b.   No vicious animal may be kept on a porch, patio or in any part of
a house or structure that would allow the vicious animal to exit such building
on its own volition. In addition, no such animal may be kept in a house or
structure when the windows are open or when screen windows or screen doors are
the only obstacles preventing the vicious animal from exiting the structure.
      3.   Signs: All owners, keepers or harborers of vicious animals within
the city shall display in a prominent place on their premises a sign easily
readable by the public using the words "Danger, Vicious Animal". In addition, a
similar sign is required to be posted on the kennel or pen of such animal.
      4.   Identification Photographs: All owners, keepers or harborers of
vicious animals shall provide to the city court clerk two (2) color photographs
of the animal clearly showing the color and approximate size of the animal.
      5.   Reporting Requirements: All owners, keepers or harborers of vicious
animals shall, within ten (10) days of the incident, report the following
information, in writing, to the animal control officer or city court clerk:
         a.   The removal from the city or death of the vicious animal;
         b.   The new address of the vicious animal owner, should the owner
move within the corporate city limits.
      6.   Rebuttable Presumptions: There shall be a rebuttable presumption
that any "vicious animal", as defined in subsection A of this section, within
the city limits is in fact an animal subject to the requirements of this
section.
      7.   Failure To Comply: It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or
harborer of a vicious animal within the city limits to fail to comply with the
requirements and conditions set forth in this subsection. Any vicious animal
found to be the subject of a violation of this subsection shall be subject to
immediate seizure and impoundment. In addition, failure to comply will result
in the revocation of the license of such animal, resulting in the immediate
removal of the animal from the city.
      8.   Violations And Penalties: Any person violating or permitting the
violation of any provision of this subsection shall, upon conviction in city
court, be fined a sum not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) and not more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00). In addition to the fine imposed, the court
may sentence the defendant to imprisonment in the county jail for a period not
to exceed thirty (30) days. A mandatory twenty four (24) hour sentence will be
imposed. In addition, the court shall order the vicious animal removed from the
city. Should the defendant refuse to remove the vicious animal from the city,
the city court judge shall find the defendant owner in contempt and order the
immediate confiscation and impoundment of the animal. Each day that a violation
of this subsection continues shall be deemed a separate offense. In addition to
the foregoing penalties, any person who violates this subsection shall pay all
expenses, including shelter, food, handling, veterinary care, and testimonial
expenses, necessitated by the enforcement of this subsection. (Ord. 7.04, 11-
19-2001; amd. 2006 Code)
6-3A-10: CARE OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
It shall be the duty of the animal control officer to receive into the pound
all animals brought in pursuance of the provisions of this article and to take
care of and properly feed all impounded animals. (Ord. 7.00)
6-3A-11: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Impoundment:
      1.   It shall be the duty of every animal control officer or other law
enforcement officer to attempt to apprehend any dog found running at large
contrary to the provisions of this article and to impound such dog in the city
shelter or other suitable place.
      2.   The animal control officer or other law enforcement officer shall,
upon receiving any dog, make a complete registry, entering the breed, color and
sex of such dog and the number of the registration tag, if known.
   B.   Notice Of Impoundment; Redemption: Not later than two (2) days after
the impounding of any dog, the owner shall be notified, in writing or by
telephone, or if the owner of the dog is unknown, written notice shall be
posted for four (4) days at three (3) or more conspicuous places in the city,
describing the dog and the place and time of taking. The owner of any dog so
impounded may reclaim such dog upon proof of compliance with rabies vaccination
provisions as provided in section
6-3A-4 of this article, and upon payment of all costs and charges incurred by
the city for impounding and maintenance of such dog, and upon purchasing a
license for said impounded dog, if that dog had not been licensed prior to
capture. In no event shall any owner be allowed to redeem the dog without
paying a surrender fee 1  in addition to the above referenced costs and
charges. The surrender fee, daily impound fees and all other such costs
incurred by the city shall be billed at rates established periodically by the
city council 2 .
   C.   Disposition Of Unclaimed Or Infected Dogs:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the animal control officer to keep all dogs
so impounded for a period of four (4) days. If, at the expiration of four (4)
days from the date of notice to the owner or of the posting of notice, such dog
shall not have been redeemed, whether registered or not, it may be destroyed or
adopted out subject to any surrender fees which may apply and any adoption fees
as established in this code or by resolution. If the dog is adopted out, the
provisions of Montana Code Annotated section 7-23-4202 shall apply.
      2.   Any dog which appears to be suffering from rabies, hydrophobia,
mange, or other infectious or dangerous disease shall not be released, but may
be forthwith destroyed.
      3.   No dog of fierce, dangerous or vicious propensities, and no female
in heat shall be released from confinement, except upon approval of the animal
control officer and after payment of all applicable fees and charges. (Ord.
7.04, 11-19-2001; amd. 2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  6-3A-2 of this article, definition of "surrender fee".
  2. See section
2 6-3A-2 of this article, definitions of "impound fee" and "surrender fee" for
  specific amounts.
6-3A-12: TEASING OR UNAUTHORIZED RELEASE OF DOGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to tease, harass, or torture by any means
any dog which is within the city limits. It shall further be unlawful for any
person to intentionally release any dog from the premises of the owner or to,
in any manner or by any means, lure such dog from the premises of the owner or
the property, vehicle, or enclosure in which such dog is contained. (Ord. 7.04,
11-19-2001)
6-3A-13: NUMBER OF DOGS; ANNUAL SURCHARGE:
Any person or family that keeps, harbors or maintains in or upon the same
premises more than three (3) dogs over twelve (12) months of age shall pay an
annual surcharge in the following amounts over and above normal registration
fees:
   Number Of Dogs   Surcharge Amount
   1 to 3   None
   4   $ 25.00
   5   50.00
   6+   100.00
(Ord. 704, 11-19-2001)
6-3A-14: KENNEL LICENSES:
   A.   License Required: A kennel license shall be required by any owner who
wishes to maintain more than two (2) dogs for commercial purposes for boarding,
training or breeding.
   B.   Inspection: The intended facilities shall be inspected by the animal
control officer upon initial application and annual renewal, such inspection to
include the physical facilities as well as assessment as to the effect such
facility may have on the neighborhood.
   C.   Recommendation: Following the inspection, the animal control officer
will recommend to the licensing authority either approval or disapproval of the
application.
   D.   Fee: There shall be an annual kennel fee of one hundred dollars
($100.00), with the number of dogs being specified in the initial application
and any application for renewal.
   E.   Zoning: Kennels may be allowed in all zoned areas inside the city
limits.
   F.   Renewals: Licenses shall be renewed within thirty (30) days of the
expiration date, or the application will be treated as a new application. In
any event, the license shall expire on December 31 of each year, no matter when
obtained during the year. In the event a kennel license is renewed, and there
is no increase in the number of dogs stated in the application upon which the
renewal is based, then consent is unnecessary for such renewal. In the event
there is an increase in the number of dogs, a new application shall be
submitted to the city for approval for the license to be renewed.
   G.   Exclusions: No fee may be required of any veterinary hospital, city
owned animal shelter, or government zoological park.
   H.   Separate Facilities: Every facility regulated by this section shall be
considered a separate enterprise and shall have an individual license. (Ord.
7.04, 11-19-2001)
6-3A-15: CLEANUP AND DISPOSAL OF FECES:
Any owner or caretaker of any dog(s) shall be responsible for cleanup and
proper disposal of any and all feces deposited on any public or private
properties within the city limits. (Ord. 7.04, 11-19-2001)
6-3A-16: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Violation of any part of this article, except as otherwise herein set forth
concerning "vicious animals", shall constitute a misdemeanor, and any owner or
other person found guilty of violating any provisions of this article shall be
punished by a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense. For each subsequent offense
occurring within the same calendar year involving the same dog, the fine shall
be doubled over that amount imposed for the prior offense, but in no case shall
the fine exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 7.04, 11-19-2001)
ARTICLE B. LIVESTOCK AND DOMESTIC FOWL
SECTION:
6-3B-1: Livestock Prohibited
6-3B-2: Domestic Fowl Restricted
6-3B-1: LIVESTOCK PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definition: Wherever the word "livestock" is used in this section, it
shall include, but not be limited to, all animals of the horse, mule, sheep,
goat and swine varieties or species. (Ord. 7.12; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   Livestock Stable Or Enclosure: It shall be unlawful for any person,
association, corporation, partnership or any thereof to hereafter maintain,
erect, build or in any way establish any stable, building, structure or
enclosure of any kind, including fences and corrals, for the housing or
confining of livestock within the corporate limits of the city.
      2.   Maintaining Livestock: It shall be unlawful for any person,
association, corporation or partnership to allow any property owned by them to
be used primarily for feeding, grazing or otherwise keeping and maintaining
livestock within the corporate limits of the city.
      3.   Use Of Property For Grazing: It shall be unlawful for any person,
association, corporation or partnership to use any property within the
corporate limits of the city primarily for the purpose of feeding, grazing or
otherwise keeping or maintaining livestock within the corporate limits of the
city. (Ord. 7.12)
   C.   Penalty: Any person, association, corporation or partnership found
guilty of violating any provisions of this section shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 7.12; amd. 2006 Code)
6-3B-2: DOMESTIC FOWL RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any domestic fowl, such as
turkeys, ducks, geese, or chickens, to permit such fowl to trespass upon the
premises of another or upon any of the streets, avenues or boulevards within
the city. Such owner or keeper, if permitting said fowl to so trespass, shall,
on conviction, be fined in any sum not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00).
(Ord. 7.08)
CHAPTER 4
MINORS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Loitering Of Minors Between Fourteen And Eighteen Years Of Age
Prohibited
6-4-2: Loitering Of Minors Under The Age Of Fourteen Years Prohibited
6-4-3: Responsibility Of Parents, Guardians, Or Other Adult Persons Who Have
The Care And Custody Of A Minor
6-4-4: Exceptions
6-4-5: Violations And Penalties
6-4-1: LOITERING OF MINORS BETWEEN FOURTEEN AND EIGHTEEN YEARS OF AGE
PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any minor who is fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, or
seventeen years of age to loiter, idle, wander, stroll, or be present in or
upon the public streets, avenues, alleys, highways, roads, parks, playgrounds
or other public grounds, public places, public buildings, cafes, theaters and
other places of amusement and entertainment, and vacant lots or other
unsupervised places during the following times:
   A.   Between the hours of 12:30 o’clock A.M. and 6:00 o’clock A.M. of every
day during the year. (Ord. 16-2, 7-5-2016; amd. Ord 16-2, 8-15-2022)
6-4-2: LOITERING OF MINORS UNDER THE AGE OF FOURTEEN YEARS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of fourteen years to loiter,
idle, wander, stroll, or be present in or upon the public streets, avenues,
highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, public
places, public buildings, cafes, theatres and other places of amusement and
entertainment, and vacant lots or other unsupervised places, between the hours
of 10:30 O’clock P.M. and 6:00 o’clock A.M. on each and every day of the week.
(Ord. 16-2, 7-5-2016; amd. Ord 16-2, 8-15-2022)
6-4-3: RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS, GUARDIANS, OR OTHER ADULT PERSONS WHO HAVE
THE CARE AND CUSTODY OF A MINOR:
It shall be unlawful for a parent, guardian or other adult person having the
care and custody of a minor to allow or permit a minor to violate the
provisions of Section I and II hereinabove.
In any prosecution under this Section III it shall not constitute a defense
thereto that the parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and
custody of a minor did not have knowledge that such minor was in violation of
the provisions of this ordinance. It is the intent of the City Council that
minors should be in their homes during the proscribed hours hereinabove listed
and that it is the duty of the parent, parents, guardians, foster parents and
other adults having the care and custody of minors to insure that the minor is
home unless the minor can establish to the satisfaction of a law enforcement
officer that the minor has on his or her person a written permission which
meets the requirements of this Ordinance. This part of the ordinance shall be
enforced with strict liability and does not require knowledge, purpose or
negligent proof for a conviction. (Ord. 16-2, 7-5-2016; amd. Ord 16-2, 8-15-
2022)
6-4-4: EXCEPTIONS:
Provided, however, that the provisions of Sections I and II shall not apply to
a minor accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, foster parent, or other
adult person having the care and custody of the minor, or when the minor is
upon an emergency errand or legitimate business directed by his or her parent,
guardian, foster parent, or other adult person having the care and custody of
the minor.
Provided further that the provisions of Section I and II shall not apply to a
minor while engaged in any gainful employment or occupation for his or her
livelihood or part of his or her livelihood nor while traveling to and from
such employment but shall not exceed more than one half hour going to or from
such place of employment when so working.
Provided further, that any minor who is living with his parent, parents,
guardian, foster parent or other adult person having the minor’s care and
custody, shall have on his or her person a written permission signed by the
parent, parents, guardian, foster parent or other adult person’s signature and
which states with specificity the nature of the emergency on that particular
day, legitimate business on that particular day, or place of employment
including days worked and hours of employment. The stated reason shall be
verifiable and reasonable. (Ord. 16-2, 7-5-2016; amd. Ord 16-2, 8-15-2022)
6-4-5: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Each violation of the provisions of this Ordinance shall constitute a separate
offense.
A minor violating the applicable provisions of this Ordinance shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be dealt with in accordance with the laws of the
State of Montana regarding crimes and offenses committed by juveniles being
persons under the age of 18 years.
Any parent, parents, guardians, foster parents, or other adult persons having
the care and custody of a minor violating the provisions of this Ordinance
shall upon trial and conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not less
than $50.00 or more than $500.00. Subsequent convictions within the same
calendar year shall be fined a greater amount than a prior conviction in the
same calendar year. (Ord. 16-2, 7-5-2016; amd. Ord 16-2, 8-15-2022)
CHAPTER 5
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Fireworks Prohibited
6-5-2: Violation; Penalties
6-5-1: FIREWORKS PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful to possess, sell, use or explode fireworks as defined in
Section 50-37-101 Montana Code Annotated within the city limits of the City of
Cut Bank, Montana, at any time.
   B.   For purposes of this chapter, possess or possession means that the
person who is in a public place or outdoors at a residence has fireworks in
hand or in their immediate physical control when said fireworks are in such a
state as to be immediately lit or exploded or otherwise utilized. (Ord. 387, 6-
15-1992; amd. 2006 Code; Ord. 8.20, 9-6-2016)
6-5-2: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person, firm, partnership, association, or corporation violating the
provisions hereof shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $100.00 or more than $500.00. Second or
subsequent convictions should be fined more than the prior conviction. A third
or subsequent conviction may also include a jail sentence of up to ten (10)
days in the Glacier County Detention Center. (Ord. 387, 6-15-1992; amd. 2006
Code; Ord. 8.20, 9-6-2016)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
STATE TRAFFIC LAWS; ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
7-1-1: State Traffic Laws Adopted
7-1-2: Police Department Authority
7-1-3: Unlawful Operation Of Vehicles By Children
7-1-1: STATE TRAFFIC LAWS ADOPTED:
   A.   All of the sections in the uniform act regulating traffic on highways
found in Montana Code Annotated title 61, chapters 1 through 13 in its
entirety, and any and all acts supplementary thereto and amendatory thereof are
hereby adopted in their entirety as traffic ordinances of the city.
   B.   The city agrees to, and it is hereby bound by, the terms and conditions
of the agreement, marked exhibit A, attached to ordinance 320 on file in the
office of the city clerk-treasurer, and for all purposes made a part hereof.
(Ord. 12.04; amd. 2006 Code)
7-1-2: POLICE DEPARTMENT AUTHORITY:
The police department of the city is hereby authorized and directed to direct
traffic within the city, and to make and enforce any regulations necessary to
facilitate the unhampered and unimpaired flow of traffic in the city. (Ord.
12.01, 8-7-2000)
7-1-3: UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF VEHICLES BY CHILDREN:
   A.   Definition Of Motor Vehicle: A "motor vehicle" is every vehicle which
is self-propelled and in, upon or by which any person or property is, or may
be, transported or drawn upon the streets, avenues, alleys and highways within
the city, except devices moved by human power or used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
   B.   Original Jurisdiction Of City Court: The city court is hereby vested
with original jurisdiction in all proceedings concerning the unlawful operation
of motor vehicles by children under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   C.   Summons: Whenever any child under the age of eighteen (18) years shall
unlawfully operate a motor vehicle in the presence of any officer of the police
department, such officer may deliver to said child a form of summons describing
the nature of the offense, with instructions thereof to report to the city
court; and the court shall be informed thereof by the delivery of a copy of
said summons to the probation officer of Glacier County, who shall in turn
deliver the same to the judge of said court. (Ord. 10.04)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL VEHICLE AND TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Vehicle Defined
7-2-2: Through Or Arterial Streets; One-Way Streets
7-2-3: Stop Streets
7-2-4: Yield Right Of Way Streets
7-2-5: Posting Of Signs
7-2-6: Left Turn At Main And Central
7-2-7: Traffic Control Legend At Main And Central
7-2-8: Speed Limits
7-2-9: U-Turns
7-2-10: Truck Regulations
7-2-11: Driving Over Fire Hose
7-2-12: Lugs On Wheels Prohibited
7-2-13: Sound Amplification Systems In Vehicles
7-2-14: Display Unofficial Sign, Signal Or Device
7-2-15: Deface Or Interfere With Signs Or Barricades
7-2-1: VEHICLE DEFINED:
   A.   Definition: Except as provided in subsection B of this section,
"vehicle" means every device in, upon, or by which any person or property may
be transported or drawn upon a public highway, except devices moved by animal
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   B.   Statutes:
      1.   In Montana Code Annotated title 61, chapters 3 and 4, "vehicle"
means "motor vehicle" as defined in Montana Code Annotated section 61-1-102.
      2.   In Montana Code Annotated title 61, chapter 8, part 4, "vehicle"
does not include a "bicycle" as defined in Montana Code Annotated section 61-1-
123.
      3.   In Montana Code Annotated title 61, chapter 8, part 4, except
sections 61-8-440 through 61-8-442, "vehicle" includes a "snowmobile". (2006
Code)
7-2-2: THROUGH OR ARTERIAL STREETS; ONE-WAY STREETS:
The following streets and avenues and parts of streets and avenues are hereby
designated as through or arterial streets:
   A.   Main Street: Main Street, from the easterly limits of the city through
the city to the westerly limits of the city, except that all vehicles
proceeding along Main Street shall be controlled by the traffic control signal
at the intersection thereof with North and South Central Avenue.
   B.   Railway Street: Railway Street from the easterly limits of the city
through the city to the westerly limits of the city, except that all vehicles
proceeding along Railway Street shall stop at the intersection thereof with
North Central Avenue, as indicated by the four-way stop sign.
   C.   Other Streets:
      1.   First Street Northwest and First Street Northeast are hereby
designated through streets and all traffic on avenues intersecting First Street
Northwest and First Street Northeast shall come to a complete stop prior to
entering First Street Northwest and First Street Northeast.
      2.   Second Street Northeast is hereby designated a through street and
all traffic on First, Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Avenues Northeast
intersecting Second Street Northeast shall come to a complete stop prior to
entering Second Street Northeast.
      3.   Second Street Southeast and Second Street Southwest are hereby
designated through streets, and all traffic intersecting Second Street
Southeast and Second Street Southwest shall come to a complete stop prior to
entering Second Street Southeast and Second Street Southwest.
   D.   Stopping Of Vehicles, Other Conveyances:
      1.   All vehicles and other conveyances to which this chapter applies,
when approaching the above designated through or arterial streets, shall come
to a full and complete stop before entering said through or arterial street or
avenue.
      2.   No vehicles, conveyances or animals being ridden by a rider shall
enter such through or arterial street or avenue until they can do so without
impeding or interfering with the progress of other vehicles, conveyances or
riders proceeding along aforesaid streets or avenues.
   E.   One-Way Streets: The following streets and avenues and parts of streets
and avenues are hereby designated as one-way streets:
Fourth Avenue Southwest between East Main Street and First Street Southwest
where all vehicles shall travel only in a southwesterly direction. (Ord. 12.01,
8-7-2000)
7-2-3: STOP STREETS:
In addition to the stops required before entering the through streets
designated in section
7-2-2 of this chapter, all vehicles, conveyances and riders shall come to a
full and complete stop before entering any of the following street
intersections:
   A.   Railway Street and North Central Avenue: All traffic, as indicated by
the stop signs.
   B.   Main Street and North and South Central Avenue: When the traffic
control signal light located at the intersection has been rendered inoperative
due to mechanical or electrical power failure, all northbound and southbound
traffic.
   C.   First Street Southwest and Highway 2: All westbound traffic.
   D.   Fifth Avenue Southwest and Highway 2: All northbound traffic.
   E.   West Railway Street and Highway 2: All westbound traffic.
   F.   Second Street Northeast and Second Street Northwest and North Central
Avenue, posted with stop signs as well as red blinker signal light: All
eastbound and westbound traffic. In addition to this stop intersection, all
northbound and southbound traffic along North Central Avenue is required to
slow down and enter this intersection with caution, as indicated by a yellow
blinker signal.
   G.   School year restrictions:
      1.   During the school year, normally between September and June, at the
intersection of First Street Southeast and Third and Fourth Avenues Southeast,
all eastbound/westbound and northbound/southbound traffic; during such time,
these intersections will be posted for a four-way stop.
      2.   During the school year, normally between September and June, on
Monday through Friday, and during the school hours, normally eight o'clock (8:
00) A.M. to four thirty o'clock (4:30) P.M. of each regular school day, when
school is in session, there shall be stop signs visible and in effect at the
school crosswalks on Second Avenue Southeast and Third Avenue Southeast so that
all traffic going north or south on said avenues shall come to a complete stop
during the hereinabove mentioned times and places, and stop signs shall be
placed in said areas visible to the public. Said stop signs shall be moved when
the stop signs are not to be in effect, allowing traffic to proceed without the
requirement of a stop. (Ord. 12.01, 8-7-2000)
   H.   All traffic will come to a complete stop at the intersections
hereinafter designated, effectuating a four-way stop so that all eastbound/
westbound and northbound/southbound traffic will come to a complete stop at
these intersections. Stop signs will be placed at said intersections warning
eastbound/westbound and northbound/southbound traffic to come to a complete
stop before entering these intersections. These four-way stop intersections
are:
      1.   The intersection of Second Avenue Southeast and First Street
Southeast.
      2.   The intersection of Second Avenue Southeast and Third Street
Southeast.
      3.   The intersection of Fifth Avenue Southwest and First Street
Southwest.
      4.   The intersection of First Avenue Southeast and First Street
Southeast.
      5.   The intersection of Third Avenue Southeast and Third Street
Southeast. (Ord. 12.02, 8-1-2005)
      6.   The intersection of Second Avenue Southwest and Third Street
Southwest. (Per correspondence dated 5-21-2009)
   I.   First Street Southeast and First Street Southwest and South Central
Avenue: All traffic on First Street Southeast and First Street Southwest shall
come to a full and complete stop before entering South Central Avenue. (Ord.
12.01, 8-7-2000)
   J.   First Street Southwest: All traffic on First Street Southwest shall
come to a full and complete stop before entering First Avenue Southwest.
   K.   First Street Southeast: All traffic on First Street Southeast shall
come to a full and complete stop before entering Fifth Avenue Southeast. (Ord.
397, 5-20-2002)
   L.   Third Street Southeast and Sixth Avenue Southeast: All traffic on Sixth
Avenue Southeast at the intersection with Third Street Southeast shall come to
a full and complete stop before entering the intersection. Stop signs shall be
visibly placed so that all northbound and southbound traffic on Sixth Avenue
Southeast at the intersection with Third Street Southeast are notified that a
stop is required before entering or crossing Third Street Southeast. (Ord.
2009-01, 3-16-2009)
   M.   Third Street Southwest and Third Avenue Southwest and Fourth Avenue
Southwest: The two (2) intersections on Third Street Southwest and Third Avenue
Southwest and Fourth Avenue Southwest shall have stop signs placed requiring
all east and westbound traffic on Third Street Southwest to stop before
proceeding into the intersections.
   N.   Fourth Avenue Southeast and Mountainview Boulevard and Fourth Street
Southeast: Where Fourth Avenue Southeast intersects with Mountainview Boulevard
a stop sign shall mark the intersection requiring all east and westbound
traffic on Fourth Street Southeast to stop and yield to the north and
southbound traffic on Fourth Avenue Southeast.
   O.   Fourth Avenue Southwest and First Street Southwest: Presently there is
a stop sign located on the 10 block of Fourth Avenue Southwest requiring
southbound traffic to stop prior to entering the intersection with First Street
Southwest. The northbound lane of traffic on First Street Southwest on the 100
block shall also have a stop sign to require all northbound traffic on First
Street Southwest to stop prior to entering the intersection with First Street
Southwest. (Ord. 17-02, 9-5-2017)
7-2-4: YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY STREETS:
   A.   Eastbound And Westbound: All eastbound and westbound traffic shall
yield the right-of-way to northbound and southbound traffic at the following
intersections:
      1.   First Street Southeast and Southwest at the intersection with the
following avenues:
         a.   South Central Avenue.
         b.   First Avenue Southeast.
         c.   Second Avenue Southeast.
         d.   During the normal summer school vacation period, or between June
through August, and when so posted, Third and Fourth Avenue Southeast.
         e.   Sixth Avenue Southeast.
         f.   Seventh Avenue Southeast.
         g.   Eighth Avenue Southeast.
         h.   Ninth Avenue Southeast.
         i.   Third Avenue Southwest.
         j.   Eleventh Avenue Southeast. (Ord. 12.01, 8-7-2000)
      2.   First Street Northeast and First Street Northwest at the
intersection with North Central Avenue.
      3.   Second Street Northwest at the intersection with Fifth Avenue
Northwest.
      4.   Third Street Southeast and Third Street Southwest at the
intersection with South Central Avenue.
      5.   Third Street Southeast at the intersection with Fourth and Fifth
Avenues Southeast.
      6.   Third Street Southeast at the intersection of Seventh Avenue
Southeast.
      7.   Fourth Street Southeast at the intersection of Sixth Avenue
Southeast.
   B.   Northbound And Southbound: All northbound and southbound traffic shall
yield the right-of-way to eastbound and westbound traffic on:
      1.   First Street Southwest at the intersection with Second Avenue
Southwest.
      2.   First Avenue Southeast at the intersection with Third Street
Southeast.
      3.   Fourth Street Southeast at the intersection with Seventh Avenue
Southeast. (Ord. 12.01, 8-7-2000)
      4.   Fourth Street Southeast at the intersections of First, Second and
Third Avenue Southeast: Fourth Street Southeast shall have yield signs placed
at these intersections of First, Second, and Third Avenue Southeast so that all
north and southbound traffic on these avenues must yield to the east and
westbound traffic of Fourth Street Southeast.
Third Street Southeast and Southwest shall be marked with signage so as to give
all east and westbound traffic the right-of-way. Those intersecting avenues
presently not controlled by signage shall have yield signs thus requiring all
north and southbound traffic approaching Third Street Southeast or Southwest to
either yield the right-of-way to all east and westbound traffic or to obey the
signage authorized in this chapter. (Ord. 17-02, 9-5-2017)
7-2-5: POSTING OF SIGNS:
The intersections designated in sections
7-2-2,
7-2-3 and
7-2-4 of this chapter shall be posted with stop or yield right-of-way signs
made according to the size and specifications established by the laws of the
State of Montana and the rules and regulations of the Montana Department of
Transportation. (Ord. 12.01, 8-7-2000; amd. 2006 Code)
7-2-6: LEFT TURN AT MAIN AND CENTRAL:
Vehicles or conveyances wishing to make a left hand turn at the intersection of
Main Street and Central Avenue may do so. (Ord. 12.01, 8-7-2000)
7-2-7: TRAFFIC CONTROL LEGEND AT MAIN AND CENTRAL:
All vehicles or conveyances approaching or traveling upon or over the
intersection of Main Street with Central Avenue, where such traffic is governed
by said traffic signal there installed, shall be governed by the following
provisions:
   A.   Red Or Stop: When the light upon the traffic signal facing such
vehicles is red, or when the sign or indicator upon the traffic signal facing
such vehicle bears the word "Stop", all vehicles approaching shall come to a
full and complete stop before entering the intersection and then may enter the
intersection only to make a right turn, but shall yield the right of way to
pedestrians lawfully within the crosswalks and to other vehicles lawfully using
the intersection. All other vehicles facing such red light shall remain stopped
until the light changes to green, before proceeding across such intersections.
   B.   Green Or Proceed: When the light upon the traffic signal facing such
vehicle is green, all vehicles previously stopped at such intersection shall
immediately resume travel and cross said intersection, and all vehicles
approaching said intersection shall continue their course across said
intersection.
   C.   Yellow Or Caution:
      1.   When the light upon the traffic signal facing such vehicle is
yellow, all vehicles approaching such intersection shall come to a full and
complete stop before entering said intersection, and shall remain stopped until
the change of the traffic signal indicates that such vehicle may proceed across
said intersection.
      2.   All vehicles which have entered said intersection, either before or
at the time such light turns or changes to yellow, may proceed across said
intersection.
   D.   Inoperative Traffic Signal: When the traffic signal at said
intersection is not in actual operation, due to electrical or mechanical
failure, then the provisions of subsection 7-2-3B of this chapter shall control
the operation of traffic approaching and traveling over or across said
intersection. (Ord. 12.01, 8-7-2000)
7-2-8: SPEED LIMITS:
Any person driving a vehicle on the streets and avenues of the city shall drive
the same at a careful and prudent speed not greater than is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic surface and other conditions then
existing, and no person shall drive any vehicle at such a speed as to endanger
the life, limb or property of other persons. Except in those instances where a
lower speed is specified in this chapter, it shall be prima facie lawful for
the driver of a vehicle to drive the same at a speed not exceeding the
following, but in any case when such speed would be unsafe it shall not be
lawful:
   A.   School: Fifteen (15) miles per hour when traveling on any street or
avenue in the same block in which a school is located.
   B.   Driver's View Obstructed: Fifteen (15) miles an hour when approaching
within fifty feet (50') and in traversing an intersection of streets and
avenues when the driver's view is obstructed. A driver's view shall be deemed
to be obstructed when, at any time during the last fifty feet (50') of his
approach to such intersection, he does not have a clear and uninterrupted view
of such intersection, and of the traffic upon all of the streets and avenues
entering such an intersection, for a distance of two hundred feet (200') from
such intersection. For vehicles traveling upon a properly designated through or
arterial street, this speed limitation shall not apply.
   C.   Curves Or Grades: Fifteen (15) miles an hour in traversing or going
around curves or traversing a grade, when the driver's view is obstructed
within a distance of one hundred feet (100') along such street or avenue in the
direction in which he is proceeding.
   D.   Business And Residential Districts; Trailer Courts: Twenty five (25)
miles an hour on streets and avenues in the business and residential districts;
except, that the speed limit shall be fifteen (15) miles an hour within the
confines of any trailer court within the city, and in the hospital area on
Seventh and Eighth Avenues Southeast, between Second Street Southeast and Third
Street Southeast, and Second Street Southeast between Seventh and Eighth
Avenues Southeast.
   E.   Alleys: Ten (10) miles an hour on any alley within the city.
   F.   North Central Avenue: Fifteen (15) miles an hour for the final one
hundred fifty feet (150') of distance from the south on North Central Avenue in
a northerly direction to the intersection of Second Street Southeast.
   G.   Second Street Northwest: Fifteen (15) miles an hour for the final one
hundred fifty feet (150') of distance from the intersection of Second Street
Northwest and North Central Avenue.
   H.   Railway Street: Ten (10) miles an hour on Railway Street at its
intersection with North Central Avenue, with a sign to be placed two hundred
feet (200') west of the intersection of West Railway Street and North Central
Avenue showing the speed limit to be ten (10) miles an hour, and a sign placed
one hundred fifty feet (150') east of the intersection of East Railway Street
and North Central Avenue showing the speed limit to be ten (10) miles an hour.
(Ord. 12.01, 8-7-2000)
7-2-9: U-TURNS:
A driver of any vehicle is prohibited from making a U-turn upon any part of the
following designated streets or avenues or at any of the intersections with
said streets or avenues:
   A.   Main Street from the east at Tenth Avenue Southeast to the west at
Fourth Avenue Southwest.
   B.   Railway Street from First Avenue Northeast to the alley extending
through block 1 of the first addition to Cut Bank.
   C.   North and South Central Avenue, from the intersection with First Street
Southeast and Southwest to the intersection with Railway Street. (Ord. 12.01,
8-7-2000)
7-2-10: TRUCK REGULATIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Vehicles:
      1.   Definition: "Prohibited vehicle" means any motor vehicle other than
a passenger vehicle or a truck commonly referred to as a "half-ton" or "three-
quarter-ton" pickup truck.
      2.   Restriction On Travel:
         a.   No prohibited vehicle shall be allowed at any time on the
following streets and avenues:
            (1)   Fifth Avenue Southwest between its intersection with First
Street Southwest and the southerly city limits.
            (2)   First Street Southwest between its intersection with Fifth
Avenue Southwest and South Central Avenue.
         b.   This restriction shall not apply to prohibited vehicles while
making deliveries of personal property to, or picking up personal property
from, businesses or residences located on the restricted portions of Fifth
Avenue Southwest or First Street Southwest.
   B.   Width And Length Of Loads: Trucks or other vehicles having loads
extending more than four feet (4') to the rear of said vehicle or having loads
or cross arms wider than eight feet (8') are required to hang a red flag or
other signs of warning at the extreme width of load as well as rear, and at
night provide warning lights so that traffic can easily tell the extreme limit
of space required for vehicles. (Ord. 12.01, 8-7-2000)
   C.   Trucks Prohibited On Certain Streets:
      1.   For the purpose of this subsection, the word "truck" shall be
construed as meaning a motor truck of size or loading capacity of over "three-
quarter (3/4) ton" rating.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor truck to operate
or drive any truck upon Main Street in the city, between the point where such
Main Street intersects with the westerly boundary line of the city, and the
point where such Main Street intersects with the easterly boundary line of the
city, except for loading and/or unloading. (Ord. 12.24)
7-2-11: DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE 1 :
No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the fire department
when laid down on any street or avenue, alley or private or public driveway, to
be used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the fire
department official in command. (Ord. 12.01, 8-7-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 6, chapter 2, article A of this code for additional provisions
  regarding fire apparatus.
7-2-12: LUGS ON WHEELS PROHIBITED:
All person owning, operating or managing steam engines, gas engines and
tractors are required, in moving the same along the streets and alleys of the
city, to remove all lugs from wheels. (Ord. 12.28; amd. 2006 Code)
7-2-13: SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEMS IN VEHICLES:
   A.   Definitions: Unless the context requires otherwise, the following
definitions apply:
    MOTOR VEHICLE: A vehicle propelled by its own power and designed to
transport persons or property upon the highways, streets, and alleys within the
city. The term includes any moped, power driven bicycle, motorcycle, motor
scooter, automobile, truck or any other vehicle propelled by a motor of any
kind.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE: Any sound produced by a sound amplification system either
on or from within a motor vehicle, which can clearly be heard at a distance of
fifty feet (50') or more. Measurement standards shall be by the auditory
senses, based upon direct line of sight. Words or phrases need not be
discernable and bass reverberations are included.
   SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM: Any device, instrument or system, whether
electrical, mechanical or otherwise, for amplifying sound or for producing or
reproducing sound, including, but not limited to, any radio, stereo, musical
instrument, phonograph, tape player, compact disc player, boom box, loudspeaker
or sound or musical recorder or player, or any other such electronic device
used for the amplification of noise.
   B.   Use Of Loud Amplification Systems Prohibited: No driver or occupant of
a motor vehicle on any public or private property located within the exterior
boundaries of the city shall operate or permit the operation of a sound
amplification system from either on or within a motor vehicle so that the sound
is plainly audible at a distance of fifty feet (50') or more from the motor
vehicle.
   C.   Exemptions:
      1.   A system being operated to request assistance of an emergency nature
or to warn of a hazardous situation; or
      2.   A system being operated on a motor vehicle belonging to a railroad,
gas, electric, communications or water utility company or governmental entity
when engaged in official business only; or
      3.   An authorized emergency vehicle such as an ambulance or fire truck;
or
      4.   Audio alarm systems installed in motor vehicles; or
      5.   Any system granted written permission by the city council after the
owner or operator has requested said exemption be used for legitimate business
needs or purposes which outweigh the public's right to be free from unnecessary
noise or disturbance of the peace. (Ord. 12.70, 9-18-2000; amd. 2006 Code)
7-2-14: DISPLAY UNOFFICIAL SIGN, SIGNAL OR DEVICE:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place or maintain
or to display upon, or in view of, any street any unofficial sign, signal or
device which purports to be, or is, an imitation of, or which resembles an
official traffic sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of
traffic, or which hides from view an official traffic sign or signal. Every
such prohibitive sign, signal or device is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance, and the police department is hereby empowered to remove the same, or
to cause the same to be removed without notice. (Ord. 12.53)
7-2-15: DEFACE OR INTERFERE WITH SIGNS OR BARRICADES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully deface, injure, move, obstruct
or interfere with any official traffic sign, signal or barricade. (Ord. 12.53)
CHAPTER 3
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definitions
7-3-2: Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
7-3-3: Certain Time And Purpose Restrictions
7-3-4: Manner Of Parking
7-3-5: Vehicles Transporting Explosives, Poisonous Materials
7-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever in this chapter the following terms are used, they shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, unless otherwise herein provided:
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle propelled by its own power and designed primarily
to transport persons or property upon the highways of the state, including
trailers, semitrailers, and house trailers.
PROHIBITED VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle, other than a passenger vehicle or a
truck, commonly referred to as a "half-ton", "three- quarter-ton" or "one-ton"
pickup truck.
TRAILER: Every vehicle, with or without motor power, designed to carry property
or passengers and to be drawn by a motor vehicle, including a house trailer and
semitrailer.
TRUCK: Every motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for
transportation of property.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property may be
transported or drawn upon a public highway, except devices moved by animal
power and bicycles. (Ord. 12.57, 1-3-2000)
7-3-2: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
It shall be unlawful for any owner, driver, operator or person in charge of any
vehicle to stop or allow to stop, stand or allow to stand, or park or allow to
park such vehicle at any of the following places, except where necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic, or except in compliance with directions of a
peace officer:
   A.   Sidewalk: On a sidewalk.
   B.   Driveway: In front of a public or private driveway.
   C.   Intersection: Within an intersection.
   D.   Fire Hydrant: Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
   E.   Crosswalk:
      1.   On a crosswalk.
      2.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
   F.   Approach To Traffic Signal: Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach
to any flashing beacon, stop sign, or traffic control signal located at the
side of a roadway.
   G.   Safety Zone: Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within
thirty feet (30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of the
safety zone, unless the local authorities indicate a different length by signs
or markings.
   H.   Railway Crossing: Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a
railway crossing.
   I.   Fire Station: Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any
fire station and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire
station within seventy five feet (75') of said entrance when properly posted.
(Ord. 12.57, 1-3-2000)
   J.   Street Excavation: Alongside or opposite any street excavation or
obstruction when stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic. (Ord.
12.57, 1-3-2000; amd. 2006 Code)
   K.   Double Parking: On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at
the edge or curb of a street.
   L.   Bridge: Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel.
   M.   Official Signs: At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   N.   Loading Zone: In front of an area designated as a loading zone.
   O.   Theater: In front of any theater entrance or exit, during the time the
theater is open for business, and when said area is posted by appropriate
signs.
   P.   Temporarily Posted Areas: Within any temporarily posted area, so posted
for emergency purposes, or so posted for snow removal or street sweeping
purposes. (Ord. 12.57, 1-3-2000)
   Q.   Handicapped Parking: Upon the ways of this state within the exterior
boundaries of the city when any such parking space has been appropriately
marked or signed as a designated handicap parking spot pursuant to resolution
of the city council and approval of the mayor of the city, except when such
vehicle conveying a handicapped person properly displays a handicap license
plate or decal properly issued by the state of Montana or other license plate
or vehicle registration authority. (Ord. 396, 5-20-2002)
   R.   Specific Streets Or Parts Of Streets:
      1.   On the south side of East Railway Street from the intersection
thereof with North Central Avenue, in an easterly direction to the intersection
thereof with First Avenue Northeast.
      2.   At any time: a) on the southwesterly side of First Street Southwest
between the intersection of First Street Southwest with Fifth Avenue Southwest
and a point on the southwesterly side of First Street Southwest forty feet
(40') westerly from said intersection; and b) on the northeasterly side of
First Street Southwest between the intersection of First Street Southwest with
Fifth Avenue Southwest and U.S. Highway 2, except for unloading as indicated by
appropriate signs.
      3.   No prohibited vehicle shall be stopped or parked at any time on the
southwesterly side of First Street Southwest between the intersection of First
Street Southwest with Fifth Avenue Southwest and the alley in the O'Haire
Addition to the city. (Ord. 12.57, 1-3-2000)
7-3-3: CERTAIN TIME AND PURPOSE RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any owner, driver, operator or person in charge of any
vehicle to stop or allow to stop, stand or allow to stand, or park or allow to
park such vehicle on any street, avenue or alley within the following areas,
except for the time and purpose so designated:
   A.   Loading Or Unloading:
      1.   In front of any hotel or other building or location, when so posted,
except for the purpose of loading or unloading, for a period of time not to
exceed the time indicated on the sign governing that location.
      2.   In any alley, except for loading and unloading, and only during the
time the actual loading or unloading is taking place.
   B.   Business District; Two Hour Parking: It shall be unlawful to park any
vehicle for a period of time longer than two (2) hours between the hours of
nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on any day, excepting
Sundays or legal holidays when the business establishments are closed, in the
business district within the following designated areas:
On East and West Main Street between Second Avenue Southeast and Second Avenue
Southwest.
On First Avenue Southeast between East Main Street and the alley running in an
easterly-westerly direction through blocks 10 and 7 of the original townsite.
On First Avenue Northeast between East Main Street and East Railway Street.
On South and North Central Avenue between First Street Southeast and First
Street Southwest and East and West Railway Street.
On First Avenue Southwest between West Main Street and the alley running in an
easterly-westerly direction through blocks 3 and 6 of the original townsite.
   C.   Boats, Trailers, Campers:
      1.   Time Limit: No person shall be allowed to park a boat, trailer,
camper or other motor vehicle on any of the streets within the city at any time
for a period of more than five (5) days continuously, except as provided in
subsection B of this section, where no such boat, trailer, camper or other
motor vehicle may be parked for a period of time longer than two (2) hours in
the area designated therein.
      2.   Parking Boats Within Business District:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or display boats of
any kind or size, for any purpose whatever, within that part of the business
district as outlined in subsection B of this section, unless such boat is
attached to a motor vehicle by a trailer customarily used to haul boats.
         b.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or display any boat
within the area described above even when attached to a motor vehicle by means
of a trailer customarily used for hauling boats, for more than two (2) hours.
   D.   Trucks: It shall be unlawful for the driver of any truck of a size or
load with a carrying capacity greater than one ton to park at any time, except
while actually engaged in loading or unloading, within the area designated in
subsection B of this section.
   E.   Vehicles For Sale: It shall be unlawful for any automobile or implement
dealer, or any other person, to park either new or used automobiles or other
motor vehicles being held for sale upon the public streets of the city, at any
time, except on days when such new or used automobiles or motor vehicles are in
actual use by the owner thereof or his employees or members of his family. This
does not apply to an individual who is not a car dealer, and who has his own
personal car for sale.
   F.   Recreational Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive on
or park on any streets or alleys within the territorial limits of the city with
any three (3) or four (4) wheel all- terrain vehicle or any other such
recreational vehicle not designated primarily for transportation of people or
property. (Ord. 12.57, 1-3-2000)
7-3-4: MANNER OF PARKING:
It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle or other vehicle on any street
or avenue within the city, except in the following manner:
   A.   Parallel Parking; Exceptions:
      1.   Parallel Parking: All vehicles shall be parked with the right side
of the vehicle next to the curb and parallel thereto, with the right side
wheels of said vehicle at a distance of not greater than eighteen inches (18")
from such curb, and said vehicle at least three feet (3') from any other
vehicle standing on such street or avenue. (Ord. 12.57, 1-3-2000)
      2.   Exception, Angle Parking:
         a.   Angle Parking: On the easterly side of Central Avenue between the
intersection thereof with First Street Southeast and the intersection thereof
with Railroad Street, where vehicles shall be parked at an angle of thirty
degrees (30°) with the curb, with the right front wheel of the vehicle resting
against said curb. No vehicles may utilize this angle parking when the total
length of the vehicle exceeds nineteen feet six inches (19'6"). The city of Cut
Bank shall post signs on each end of each of these two (2) blocks notifying the
public that vehicles exceeding nineteen feet six inches (19'6") in length are
prohibited from parking on this side of these streets, those streets being the
ten (10) blocks of South Central Avenue and North Central Avenue. All vehicles
parking in this area must fit within the painted parking area and not have any
part of the motor vehicle or any other cargo which protrudes into the lane of
travel. Any vehicles parked in these angled parking areas, regardless of length
or manner of parking, which protrude into the travel lane are in violation of
this chapter. (Ord. 2009-02A, 10-18-2010)
         b.   Parking During Church Functions:
            (1)   Automobiles may be angle parked at the following designated
places during church and during regular hours of worship, and at all other
times parallel parking shall be required at these places:
First Baptist Church: On the westerly side of Sixth Avenue Southeast between
First and Second Streets, and on the south side of First Street Southeast
between Sixth Avenue Southeast and the alley in block 6 of the second addition.
Presbyterian Church: On the easterly side of Central Avenue South between
Second and Third Streets, and on the south side of Second Street Southeast from
Central Avenue to the alley.
St. Margaret's Catholic Church And Assembly Of God Church: The easterly side of
Second Avenue Southeast between First and Second Streets and on the south side
of First Street Southeast between Second Avenue Southeast and the alley in
block 14 of the original townsite.
St. Paul's Lutheran Church: On the east side of Sixth Avenue Southeast between
East Main Street and First Street Southeast.
            (2)   Residents of the areas designated in subsection A2b(1) of
this section whose automobiles have been parked parallel prior to or during
church functions shall not be held in violation of this section.
   B.   Physicians Parking In Prohibited Areas: Any regularly licensed and
practicing physician, surgeon, or physician's assistant may, in cases of
emergency, park any vehicle operated by such person or under such person's
direction and control in prohibited areas; provided, however, that such vehicle
will be removed at the earliest possible moment and shall not be locked or
placed in such condition that the same cannot be moved.
   C.   One-Way Streets: Those persons parked on one-way streets shall park
their vehicles in the direction of allowed travel at or next to the curb, at a
distance not greater than eighteen inches (18") from said curb on either side
of the street. (Ord. 12.57, 1-3-2000)
   D.   Handicapped Parking Area: The authorized driver of a vehicle may park
in a designated and posted handicapped parking area located on South Central
Avenue, on the north side of Second Street Southeast next to the Catholic
Church facilities where there may be two (2) marked and designated handicap
parking places, or any other area as approved by the city council. (Ord. 2009-
02A, 10-18-2010)
   E.   Bus Stop: Authorized buses may utilize the designated and posted
parking area located on West Main Street as a bus stop or for any other area so
posted and designated by the city council. (Ord. 12.57, 1-3-2000; amd. 2006
Code)
   F.   Patient Parking: Two (2) designated and marked patient parking spots
located on the west side of the ten (10) block of Second Avenue Southeast and
more specifically in front of number 8, Second Avenue Southeast that being the
Veteran's Administration Clinic Building. Said patient parking spots shall have
signs posted which allow patient parking only between the hours of seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M. (Ord. 2009-02A, 10-18-2010)
7-3-5: VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES, POISONOUS MATERIALS:
   A.   Definitions:
      1.   Terms Defined: Unless the context requires otherwise, the following
definitions apply:
    EXPLOSIVES: Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly
used or intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains
any oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities, or packing that an ignition by fire, friction, concussion,
percussion or detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause such
sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects or of
destroying life or limb.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID: Any liquid which has a flashpoint of seventy degrees
Fahrenheit (70°F) or less, as determined by Tagliabue or equivalent closed cup
test device.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle propelled by its own power and designed
primarily to transport persons or property upon the highways of the state, and
also includes trailers, semitrailers, and house trailers.
   POISON: A substance which, when introduced into the system, either directly
or by absorption, produces violent, morbid, or fatal changes or which destroys
living tissue with which it comes in contact.
   VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property may be
transported or drawn upon a public highway, except devices moved by human or
animal power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
      2.   Other Terms: In addition to the foregoing, in interpreting and
enforcing the terms of this section, all other definitions set out in the
Montana Code Annotated shall govern and apply.
   B.   Prohibited Parking:
      1.   Explosives: No person shall stand or park any motor vehicle, truck
or other vehicle containing, carrying or transporting explosives in any alley
or on any of the streets or avenues in the city at any time.
      2.   Flammable Liquids: No person shall stand or park any motor vehicle,
truck or other vehicle containing, carrying or transporting a tank or other
container capable of containing in excess of six hundred (600) U.S. gallons of
flammable liquids in any alley or on any of the streets or avenues in the city,
except on East and West Railway Street at any time.
      3.   Poison: No person shall stand or park any motor vehicle, truck or
other vehicle containing, carrying or transporting poison in any alley or on
any of the streets or avenues in the city at any time. (Ord. 12.60; amd. 2006
Code)
CHAPTER 4
BICYCLES AND SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Bicycles Prohibited On Certain Streets
7-4-2: Lights Required On Bicycles
7-4-3: Enforcement; Bicycle Impoundment And Redemption
7-4-4: Snowmobile Operation
7-4-1: BICYCLES PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS:
No person shall ride, operate or propel any bicycle, or motor scooter or other
vehicle, excepting automobiles, trucks, and trailers, upon any portion of Main
Street between the intersection thereof with Second Avenue Southwest and Second
Avenue Southeast, except for the purpose of crossing Main Street, and no person
shall ride, operate or propel any of said vehicles upon any portion of Central
Avenue between the intersection thereof with First Street Southeast and First
Street Southwest and Railroad Street. (Ord. 12.44)
7-4-2: LIGHTS REQUIRED ON BICYCLES:
   A.   No person shall ride, operate, or propel any bicycle, or motor scooter,
or other vehicle, excepting automobiles, trucks, and trailers, upon any of the
streets, avenues or alleys within the city during nighttime, without said
vehicle being equipped with at least one lighted lamp on the front thereof,
visible under ordinary atmospheric conditions from a distance of at least five
hundred feet (500') in front of said vehicle and also with a reflector mirror,
or other reflector material, or lighted lamp on the rear of said vehicle,
exhibiting a red light visible under like conditions from a distance of at
least five hundred feet (500') to the rear of such vehicle. (Ord. 12.44; amd.
2006 Code)
   B.   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with an
essentially colorless front facing reflector, essentially colorless or amber
pedal reflectors, and a red rear facing reflector. Pedal reflectors shall be
mounted on the front and back of each pedal.
   C.   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with either
tires with retroflective sidewalls or reflectors mounted on the spokes of each
wheel. Spoke mounted reflectors shall be within seventy six millimeters (76 mm)
(3 inches) of the inside of the rim and shall be visible on each side of the
wheel. The reflectors on the front wheel shall be essentially colorless or
amber and the reflectors on the rear wheel shall be amber or red. (2006 Code)
7-4-3: ENFORCEMENT; BICYCLE IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION:
   A.   Enforcement And Impoundment By Police: The violation of sections
7-4-1 and
7-4-2 of this chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance and it shall be the
duty of all police officers of the city to take up and impound any of said
vehicles being ridden, operated or propelled within the city in violation of
said provisions. (Ord. 12.44)
   B.   Impoundment For Violation: Upon the impounding of any vehicle, as
hereinabove provided, it shall be the duty of the chief of police or any other
police officer, to take the same to the county jail or a city building where
the same shall be impounded and safely kept.
   C.   Redemption Of Bicycle: At any time before the sale of said vehicle
impounded under the provisions of this section, the owner thereof may redeem
the same.
   D.   Sale Of Unredeemed Bicycles; Notice:
      1.   Authority; Notice: Whenever any vehicle shall be impounded under the
provisions of this section and shall remain in the custody of the city for a
period of more than six (6) months without being redeemed, the chief of police
shall immediately thereafter give notice of sale of said vehicle in the
following manner:
The notice shall be in writing and shall give a thorough and complete
description of the vehicle to be sold. At least five (5) days before the sale,
the notice shall be posted at the courthouse, the post office and city hall.
      2.   City Officials Prohibited From Purchasing: No officer of the city
shall purchase or be interested directly or indirectly in the purchase of any
such vehicle, if the same is sold. (Ord. 12.44; amd. 2006 Code)
   E.   Record And Report Of Impounded Bicycles:
      1.   The chief of police shall keep a record of all vehicles impounded,
showing the names of the owners, if known, whether redeemed or sold, the amount
for which sold, an itemized statement of the cost of impounding and keeping
such vehicle and the disposition made of all monies received.
      2.   The chief of police shall, at the first meeting of the city council
in each month, make a written record to the council of the business in his
office in connection with sales and impounding of vehicles under this section.
   F.   Disposition Of Excess Proceeds: When the proceeds of the sale of any
vehicle shall exceed the amount of penalty, fines, fees, and costs, the chief
of police shall pay such excess to the city clerk-treasurer, and the owner of
such vehicle shall be entitled to a warrant on the city clerk-treasurer for
such excess upon presenting to the council satisfactory evidence of such
owner's right thereto.
   G.   Redemption By Owner After Sale: Whenever any vehicles shall be sold
under the provisions of this section, the owner shall have the privilege to
redeem the same within ten (10) days after such sale by paying the purchaser or
his successor in interest the amount of the bid therefor, and ten dollars
($10.00) in addition thereof, to recompense such purchaser for his expense and
trouble. (Ord. 12.44)
7-4-4: SNOWMOBILE OPERATION:
   A.   Operation Prohibited: It shall be illegal for any person to operate a
snowmobile on any city street, avenue, sidewalk, parkway, park or alley within
the city limits.
   B.   Compliance With State Law: Nothing contained herein is intended to be
inconsistent with or modify the existing state law in regard to the operation
of snowmobiles, and all definitions, requirements, etc., as now provided for in
state law are recognized within the city as governing and controlling the
operation of snowmobiles. (Ord. 12.48; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 5
ABANDONED VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-5-1: Definitions
7-5-2: Impoundment Of Vehicle
7-5-3: Notice To Owner
7-5-4: Junk Vehicles; Release For Disposal
7-5-5: Reclamation Of Vehicle
7-5-6: Sale Of Unclaimed Vehicle
7-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in this chapter:
DEPARTMENT: The department of justice of the state of Montana acting directly
or through its duly authorized officers or agents.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle propelled by its own power and designed primarily to
transport persons or property upon the highways of the state and also includes
trailers, semitrailers, and house trailers.
VEHICLE: Any device in, upon, or by which any person or property may be
transported or drawn upon a public highway. It also means "motor vehicle", as
defined in this section. (Ord. 386, 9-16-1991)
7-5-2: IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLE:
   A.   Impoundment Of Certain Vehicles: The city police may take into custody:
      1.   Any vehicle found abandoned for a period of forty eight (48) hours
or more on any public highway within the city, or for a period of five (5) days
or more on any city street, public property, or private property.
      2.   Any vehicle abandoned on private property, at the request of the
owner or person in lawful possession or control of the private property.
      3.   Any vehicle otherwise coming into the possession of the city police
department which is unclaimed by its true owner.
   B.   Impoundment By City Or Hired Personnel: The city police may use its
personnel, equipment, and facilities for the removal and storage of the
vehicle, or may hire other personnel, equipment, and facilities for this
purpose. (Ord. 386, 9-16-1991)
7-5-3: NOTICE TO OWNER:
   A.   Notify Owner Of Vehicle Location: Within seventy two (72) hours after
any vehicle is removed and held, the city police shall make reasonable efforts
to ascertain the name and address of the owner, lienholder, or person entitled
to possession of the vehicle taken into custody. If such name and address are
ascertained, the city police shall notify such owner and lienholder or person
of the location of the vehicle.
   B.   Registered Or Certified Letter: If the vehicle is registered in the
office of the department, notice shall be deemed given when a registered or
certified letter addressed to the registered owner of the vehicle and
lienholder, if any, at the latest address shown by the records in the office of
the department, return receipt requested and postage prepaid thereon, is mailed
at least thirty (30) days before the vehicle is sold as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 386, 9-17-1991)
   C.   Publication Of Notice In Newspaper: If the identity of the last
registered owner cannot be determined, or if the registration contains no
address for the owner, or if it is impossible to determine with reasonable
certainty the identity and addresses of all lienholders, notice by one
publication in one newspaper of general circulation in the county shall be
sufficient to meet all requirements of notice. Such notice by publication may
contain multiple listings of abandoned vehicles. Any such notice shall be
provided in the same manner as prescribed in Montana Code Annotated section 25-
13-701(1)(b). (Ord. 386, 9-16-1991; amd. 2006 Code)
7-5-4: JUNK VEHICLES; RELEASE FOR DISPOSAL:
A vehicle found by law enforcement officials to be a "junk vehicle", as defined
by Montana Code Annotated section 75-10-501, and certified as having an
appraised value of five hundred dollars ($500.00) or less may be directly
submitted for disposal in accordance with the provisions of Montana Code
Annotated title 75, chapter 10, part 5, upon a release given by the city
police. In the release, the city police shall include a description of the
vehicle, including year, make, model, serial number, and license number if
available. If the vehicle is being stored by a motor vehicle wrecking facility,
the city police shall transmit the release to the motor vehicle wrecking
facility, and the facility shall consider the release to meet the requirements
for records under Montana Code Annotated sections 75-10-512 and 75-10-513. If
the vehicle is being stored by a "qualified tow truck operator", as defined in
Montana Code Annotated section 61-8-903, the city police shall transmit the
release to the operator. Vehicles described in this section may be submitted
for disposal without notice and without a required holding period. A licensed
vehicle that otherwise meets the definition of a "junk vehicle", as defined in
Montana Code Annotated section 75-10-501, and that has a value of five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or less may be directly submitted for disposal as provided in
this section. (Ord. 386, 9-16-1991; amd. 2006 Code)
7-5-5: RECLAMATION OF VEHICLE:
The owner, lienholder, or person entitled to possession of the vehicle may
reclaim it at any time after it is taken into custody and before it is sold.
Such person shall present to the city police satisfactory proof of ownership or
right to possession, and pay the costs and expenses incurred in the removal,
storage, and custody of the vehicle. Such person shall not be required to pay
storage charges for a period longer than ninety (90) days. (Ord. 386, 9-16-
1991)
7-5-6: SALE OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE:
   A.   Sale If Not Reclaimed:
      1.   If a vehicle is not reclaimed as provided in section
7-5-5 of this chapter within thirty (30) days after notification by registered
mail or prescribed publication, the city police may sell it at public auction
in the manner provided in Montana Code Annotated sections 25-13-701 through 25-
13-709.
      2.   After any vehicle has been so sold, the former owner or person
entitled to possession has no further right, title, claim or interest in or to
the vehicle.
   B.   Certificate Of Sale:
      1.   When any vehicle is so sold, the city police, at the time of the
payment of the purchase price, shall execute a certificate of sale in duplicate
and shall deliver the original certificate to the purchaser and retain the
copy.
      2.   The certificate of sale shall contain the name and address of the
purchaser, the date of sale, the consideration paid, a description of the
vehicle, and a stipulation that no warranty is made as to the condition or
title of the vehicle.
   C.   Issuance Of Certificate Of Ownership: The department shall issue a
certificate of title upon presentation by the purchaser of the certificate of
sale and payment of the fees required by law. (Ord. 386, 9-16-1991; amd. 2006
Code)
   D.   Transmitting Return Of Sale And Balance Of Proceeds:
      1.   When any vehicle is sold as provided in subsection A of this
section, the city police shall transmit to the department and to the city
clerk-treasurer, respectively, a return of sale setting forth a description of
the vehicle, the purchase price, the name and address of the purchaser, the
costs incurred in the sale, and the costs and expenses incurred in the removal,
storage, and custody of the vehicle.
      2.   With the return of sale, the city police shall transmit to the city
clerk-treasurer the balance of the proceeds of the sale after deducting the
costs incurred in the sale and the costs and expenses incurred in the removal,
storage, and custody of the vehicle.
      3.   Upon receipt of the return of sale and such balance from the city
police, the city clerk-treasurer shall file the return in his office and
deposit the balance in the city street fund on all vehicles seized by the city
police.
   E.   Determination Of Costs And Expenses: The costs incurred in the sale,
and the costs and expenses incurred in the removal, storage and custody of the
vehicle shall be the amount thereof actually incurred. If the vehicle is stored
in or on city property, a charge of ten dollars ($10.00) per day for such
storage shall be made. (Ord. 386, 9-16-1991)
CHAPTER 6
TRAFFIC LAWS ENFORCEMENT; PENALTIES
SECTION:
7-6-1: Violation Of Traffic Provisions
7-6-2: Parking Violations
7-6-1: VIOLATION OF TRAFFIC PROVISIONS:
   A.   It is a misdemeanor for a person to violate any of the provisions of
this title unless the violation is declared to be a felony.
   B.   Each person convicted of a misdemeanor for a violation of any of the
provisions of this title for which another penalty is not provided shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   C.   Except as provided in subsection D of this section, failure to pay a
fine imposed under this section is a civil contempt of the court. Upon failure
of payment of a fine, the court may:
      1.   Order enforcement of the fine by execution in the manner provided in
Montana Code Annotated section 25-13-204 and under the provisions of Montana
Code Annotated title 25, chapter 13; or
      2.   If the court finds that the person is unable to pay, order the
person to perform community service.
   D.   If property is not found in an amount necessary to satisfy the unpaid
portion of the fine and if the court makes a written finding that community
service is inappropriate, the person shall be imprisoned in the county jail and
the imprisonment shall be the number of days that the fine is divisible by the
dollar amount of the incarceration credit contained in Montana Code Annotated
section 46-18-403. (Ord. 395, 9-15-1997; amd. 2006 Code)
7-6-2: PARKING VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Issuance Of Warning Tickets: The police department of the city, by and
through its officers, is hereby authorized and directed to issue warning
tickets within the city for any violations of chapter 3 of this title occurring
in those areas not designated in subsection 7-3-3B of this title.
   B.   Deferral Or Suspension Not Allowed: Upon conviction or entry of plea of
guilty, the city court may not defer imposition or suspend any part of the fine
imposed as sentencing for parking violations. (Ord. 12.57, 1-3-2000; amd. 2006
Code)
CHAPTER 7
HANDHELD USE OF MOBILE TELEPHONES AND OTHER ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS DEVICES
SECTION:
7-7-1: Definitions
7-7-2: Prohibited Activities
7-7-3: Penalty
7-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein:
BICYCLE: Mechanical transportation device propelled solely by human power,
having two (2) tandem wheels, and a seat height of more than twenty five inches
(25") from the ground; or a mechanical transportation device equipped with two
(2) or three (3) wheels, foot pedals to permit muscular propulsions, and an
independent power source that provides a maximum of two (2) brake horsepower,
with a piston or rotor displacement of not more than 3.05 cubic inches, fifty
centimeters (50 cm).
ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE: Mechanical transportation device
having two (2) nontandem wheels, being self-balancing, and designed to
transport only one person with an electric propulsion system that limits the
maximum speed to twelve and one-half (121/2) miles per hour.
ENGAGE IN A CALL: Talking into or listening on a handheld mobile telephone, but
not including holding a handheld mobile telephone to activate, deactivate, or
initiate a function of the telephone.
HANDHELD MOBILE TELEPHONE: A mobile telephone with which a user engages in a
call using at least one hand.
HANDS FREE ACCESSORY: An attachment, add on, built in feature, or addition to a
mobile telephone, whether or not permanently installed in a motor vehicle, that
when used allows the vehicle operator to maintain both hands on the steering
wheel.
HANDS FREE MOBILE TELEPHONE: A handheld mobile telephone that has an internal
feature or function or that is equipped with a hands free accessory, whether or
not permanently part of the handheld mobile telephone, by which a user engages
in a call without the use of either hand, whether or not the use of either hand
is necessary to activate, deactivate, or initiate a function of the telephone.
IMMEDIATE PROXIMITY: The distance that permits the operator of a handheld
mobile telephone to hear telecommunications transmitted over a handheld mobile
telephone, but does not require physical contact with the operator's ear.
MOBILE ELECTRONIC DEVICE: Any handheld or other portable electronic equipment
capable of providing data communication between two (2) or more persons,
including a text messaging device, a mobile telephone when used for text
messaging, a paging device, a personal digital assistant, or a laptop computer;
equipment that is capable of playing a video game or a digital video disk;
equipment on which digital photographs are taken or transmitted; or any
combination of those functions.
The term does not include two-way radios, audio equipment, or any equipment
installed in a motor vehicle for the purpose of providing navigation, emergency
assistance to the operator of the motor vehicle, or video entertainment to the
passengers in the rear seats of the motor vehicle.
MOBILE TELEPHONE: A cellular, analog, wireless, or digital telephone capable of
sending or receiving telephone communications without an access line for
service.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Mechanical transportation device propelled by its own power and
designed or used to transport persons or property upon streets, alleys, and
other public rights-of-way, except those moved by animal power or used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. This includes any car, truck,
motor home, motorcycle, quadricycle, and medium speed electric vehicle having a
maximum speed of forty five (45) miles per hour, propelled by an electric motor
or other device that transforms electrical energy into motion, stores
electricity in batteries, ultracapacitors, or other devices charged from a
power grid or renewable electrical energy source, fully enclosed with at least
one door for entry, and having a wheelbase of forty inches (40") or greater and
a wheel diameter of ten inches (10") or greater.
MOTORIZED NONSTANDARD VEHICLE: Mechanical transportation device propelled by
its own power, using an internal combustion engine or an electric motor and
having a wheelbase of less than forty inches (40") and a wheel diameter of less
than ten inches (10"). This includes any motorized skateboard and pocket
rocket.
OPERATING: Being in actual physical control of a vehicle, whether or not the
vehicle is moving, while in a driving lane on any public street or highway
right-of-way, riding a bicycle on a sidewalk, or being in actual physical
control of a moving vehicle on an alley right-of-way.
USING OR USE: Holding a handheld mobile telephone or a mobile telephone in the
user's hand, or holding said devices or telephones to the user's ear or in
immediate proximity to the user's ear or face, or activating or physically
manipulating or controlling a mobile electronic device.
VEHICLE: Any motorized vehicle, motorized nonstandard vehicle, electric
personal assistive mobility device, or bicycle. (Ord. 15-01, 11-9-2015)
7-7-2: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, a person may not operate
a vehicle while using a handheld mobile telephone to engage in a call or while
using a mobile electronic device.
   B.   Subsection A of this section does not apply to:
      1.   The use of a handheld mobile telephone for the sole purpose of
communicating with any of the following regarding an emergency situation:
         a.   An emergency response operator;
         b.   A hospital, physician's office, or health clinic;
         c.   An ambulance company or service;
         d.   A Fire Department; or
         e.   A Police Department.
      2.   Any of the following persons while in the performance of their
official duties and within the scope of their employment:
         a.   A public safety officer as defined in section 44-4-401, Montana
Code Annotated; and
         b.   A firefighter or operator of an ambulance or other authorized
emergency vehicle as defined in section 61-8-102, Montana Code Annotated.
      3.   The use of a hands free accessory or hands free mobile telephone.
(Ord. 15-01, 11-9-2015)
7-7-3: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation under this chapter shall be fined not to
exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00). A conviction under this chapter is not to
be reported as a traffic regulation violation for purposes of points under
section 61-11-203, Montana Code Annotated. (Ord. 15-01, 11-9-2015)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Outside Stairways And Street Openings
8-1-2: Merchandise, Signs, Awnings Or Obstructions
8-1-3: Removal Of Snow And Ice From Adjacent Sidewalks
8-1-4: Repair Of Dangerous Or Impassable Sidewalks
8-1-5: Encroachments
8-1-6: Location Of Telephone And Electric Light Poles
8-1-7: Roller Skates, Skateboards And Sleds On Public Ways
8-1-8: Tractor Engines Crossing Cement Crosswalks
8-1-9: Penalty
8-1-1: OUTSIDE STAIRWAYS AND STREET OPENINGS:
   A.   Permit Required; Application:
      1.   No outside stairways fronting on the streets or alleys of the city
and no openings in sidewalks of any kind whatsoever shall be constructed or
placed within any of the streets, alleys or sidewalks of the city without a
permit therefor having been first duly granted by the city council.
      2.   Any person wishing to construct any such outside stairways or
openings shall present a written application for a permit to the city council
setting forth therein a complete description of the stairway or opening
desired, the type and kind of construction and the place or places where the
same is to be constructed. (Ord. 13.20)
   B.   Railings And Coverings: All outside stairways shall be provided with
metallic railings and gates in accordance with the requirements of the city
engineer, the street commissioner, or the city superintendent, and all openings
in the streets and alleys or sidewalks shall be provided with a substantial
iron covering and shall be constructed to the satisfaction of the street
commissioner, city engineer or city superintendent.
   C.   Extension From Property Line: No outside stairway or opening in any
sidewalks in the city or in any streets or alleys thereof shall extend outward
more than three feet (3') from the property line. (Ord. 13.20; amd. Ord. 2.32)
8-1-2: MERCHANDISE, SIGNS, AWNINGS OR OBSTRUCTIONS:
   A.   Permit Required; Application:
      1.   No person, firm, corporation or association shall deposit, store,
keep or place upon or over the sidewalks, streets or alleys of the city any
goods, wares, merchandise, signs, awnings or obstructions of any kind
whatsoever without first obtaining a permit therefor from the city council.
      2.   All applicants for such a permit shall petition the council in
writing, minutely describing the article or thing sought to be placed upon or
over said streets, sidewalks or alleys and the manner of placing the same, and
all obstructions so placed in accordance with any permit granted shall be
placed upon the direction and to the satisfaction of the city engineer, street
commissioner or city superintendent.
   B.   Order Repair Or Removal Of Dangerous Obstructions, Articles:
      1.   Any obstructions, articles or things on, over or above the streets,
sidewalks or alleys of the city which may become dangerous or unsafe may be
ordered removed by the city engineer, street commissioner or city
superintendent by giving notice thereof to the owner, agent of an owner, or
tenant maintaining the same.
      2.   In the event the same is not repaired or removed within twenty four
(24) hours after receiving such order, the said owner, agent or tenant shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and the city engineer or city superintendent shall remove
or repair said obstructions, articles or things. (Ord. 13.20; amd. Ord. 2.32;
2006 Code)
   C.   Display Of Merchandise Prohibited: Each separate article of merchandise
that is displayed upon the sidewalk shall constitute a separate offense and
each period of twenty four (24) hours beginning at one minute after six o'clock
(6:01) A.M. and ending at six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 13.32; amd. 2006 Code)
   D.   Loading Or Unloading Merchandise Upon Or Across Sidewalks:
      1.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to load or unload
any goods, wares or merchandise of any kind upon or across the sidewalks of the
city, or to stand such goods, wares or merchandise upon the sidewalks while
waiting to be loaded or unloaded to or from the premises fronting the sidewalk.
      2.   Exceptions; Permit Required:
         a.   Whenever new equipment, furniture or fixtures are being installed
in any store or place of business which cannot conveniently be moved in or out
of such store or place of business from the back door and the alley, an
application for a permit for such loading or unloading shall be made to the
chief of police, and the application shall specify the approximate time during
which the use of sidewalks by pedestrians shall be obstructed. The chief of
police may grant such permit if he believes the application to be reasonable
and necessary.
         b.   Whenever supplies are to be delivered to a store or place of
business, other than merchandise to be displayed for sale, and the arrangement
and the construction of the premises make it very difficult or impossible to
deliver such supplies through the rear door of the place of business, an
application to load and unload and carry such supplies upon or across the
sidewalks shall be made to the chief of police; and the application shall
specify the approximate length of time during which the use of the sidewalk by
pedestrians will be obstructed. The chief of police may grant such application
whenever he believes the application to be reasonable and necessary.
      3.   Moving Household Goods: This section shall not be construed so as to
make it unlawful to load or unload household goods or carry household goods
upon or across public sidewalks when being moved into or out of premises being,
or to be used, for residential purposes. (Ord. 13.36; amd. 2006 Code)
8-1-3: REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE FROM ADJACENT SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Removal Required: It shall be the duty of the owner and tenant of any
premises within the limits of the city to keep the sidewalk in front of and
adjoining his premises free and safe for pedestrians and, with all possible
dispatch, to remove snow, ice, slush, mud and other impediments to safe and
convenient foot travel, and prevent the continuance and accumulation of the
same upon such sidewalk.
   B.   Dumping In Streets Restricted: In no case in the business districts of
the city shall the snow, ice, slush, mud and other material removed from such
sidewalks be dumped or deposited within the adjoining streets, avenues or
alleys within two feet (2') of the curb line.
   C.   Time Limit For Removal: Sidewalks shall in all cases be freed from the
night accumulation of snow, water or slush, mud or other like impediments
before nine o'clock (9:00) on the following morning. (Ord. 13.20)
   D.   Dangerous Conditions: When, from freezing snow, water or slush thereon
or by reason of the smoothness resulting from the wear of foot travel or from
any cause whatsoever, sidewalks are rendered dangerous, unsafe, or difficult to
the free passage of pedestrians, it shall be the duty of the aforesaid owners
and tenants of the premises in front of which said sidewalks have been
constructed to sprinkle sand or ashes on said sidewalk; and in cases of
permanent polish or smoothness as aforesaid, the owners shall remove the same
in accordance with the directions of the street commissioner, city engineer or
city superintendent. (Ord. 13.20; amd. Ord. 2.32)
8-1-4: REPAIR OF DANGEROUS OR IMPASSABLE SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Responsibility Of Owners And Tenants:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the owners and tenants of any premises
within the limits of the city to keep the sidewalks in front of and adjoining
their premises in good, safe and substantial condition, and the owners shall
see that all breaks or unsoundness of any character resulting from natural
deterioration or from any cause whatsoever, be repaired with all possible
dispatch.
      2.   When by reason of the construction or repair of sidewalks from any
cause, any sidewalk or section thereof is removed or rendered dangerous or
impassable to the public, such spaces or openings shall be securely fenced; and
from dark until sunrise, red lights shall be maintained thereon while such
dangerous conditions exist; and a plank walk not less than two inches (2") in
thickness and not less than three feet (3') in width shall be constructed
around such construction or dangerous walk, the same to extend from sidewalk to
sidewalk on each side of said opening or obstruction. (Ord. 13.20)
   B.   Enforcement By City Officials:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the chief of police and members of the
police department to enforce provisions of this section, and police officers
shall immediately report any broken, defective or unsafe sidewalk to the owner
of the premises in front of which such defect exists and notify him to repair
the same forthwith. Police officers shall also report all such defective walks
and crossings as well as the particulars of any accidents that may occur, the
names of witnesses and persons injured thereby, to the chief of police,
specifying the hour at which the owner as aforesaid was notified to repair his
walk, and the chief of police shall in turn notify the street commissioner,
city engineer or city superintendent thereof.
      2.   Upon the refusal or neglect of the owner of any premises to remove
obstructions from, or to make necessary repairs to, the walk in front of the
same, and when, in the opinion of the street commissioner, city engineer or
city superintendent, immediate repairs or removal of the obstruction is
necessary to prevent accidents, said street commissioner, city engineer or city
superintendent may forthwith proceed with the same; the full cost of said
repairs or removal of such obstruction shall be collected or assessed as
provided in chapter 2 of this title. Absence of notice to owners to repair or
remedy dangerous walks or remove obstructions therefrom shall not constitute a
valid excuse against the payment of any fine or damages by such owners or
occupants, and nothing contained in any of the sections of this chapter, or
chapter 2 of this title, shall be construed as to release the owners or
occupants of the real estate from the duty of keeping the sidewalk in front of
or adjoining their respective premises at all times in a safe and passable
condition, and in a good and thorough state of repair, but such duty is hereby
expressly enjoined and imposed upon all such owners and occupants. (Ord. 13.20;
amd. Ord. 2.32)
8-1-5: ENCROACHMENTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to allow encroachments
such as eaves, marquees or other projections that extend into the space two and
one-half feet (21/2') back of the face of the curb, and also any such
encroachments that are less than seven and one-half feet (71/2') above the
sidewalk; or in the event there is no sidewalk, then the same applies to using
the shoulder of the road for the control point. These terms and conditions
apply anywhere within the corporate city limits. (Ord. 13.04; amd. 2006 Code)
8-1-6: LOCATION OF TELEPHONE AND ELECTRIC LIGHT POLES:
   A.   Permit Required; Application: It shall be unlawful for any person,
association, corporation or company to make or cause to be made any excavations
in any of the streets, avenues, alleys or any public grounds within the city,
for the purpose of erecting or placing any telegraph, telephone, electric light
or other light pole or poles to be used for any light purposes, or to erect any
poles therein without first making application to the city council for a permit
to do the same 1 . Such application shall show the location of such poles when
erected and the location of such poles shall be in all cases made under the
supervision of the city engineer, the city superintendent or the city council.
(Ord. 15.36; amd. Ord. 2.32)
   B.   Existing Poles; Compliance Required: Any such poles erected prior to
the effective date hereof shall take the same status as if the same had not
been erected, and the owner of such poles shall be immediately served with a
copy of this section by registered mail. Such owner shall, within three (3)
days after receiving a copy of said section, make application to the city
council for a permit for the location of such poles, as provided in subsection
A of this section.
   C.   Noncompliance; Removal Of Poles: Any such poles erected without
receiving a permit, or any such poles remaining in the streets, avenues, alleys
or other public grounds within five (5) days after the effective date hereof
without the permission of the city council, are hereby declared to be a
nuisance. It is hereby made the duty of the chief of police to at once give the
party responsible therefor written notice requiring him to forthwith remove the
same; and, unless such parties shall begin removal of the same within five (5)
days of receipt of such notice and have the same removed within thirty (30)
days, it shall be the duty of the chief of police to proceed to remove the same
and report the cost thereof to the city judge who shall tax the same as costs
in a judgment of confession and collect the same as any other costs are
collected. (Ord. 15.36)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-3-3 of this title for excavation permit requirement.
8-1-7: ROLLER SKATES, SKATEBOARDS AND SLEDS ON PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   No person shall ride, operate, propel or otherwise use roller skates,
skateboards, skiffs, sleds, toboggans, wagons, tricycles, scooters, or any
other similar coasting, sliding or rolling devices for amusement or
recreational purposes upon the motor vehicular traffic portions of any of the
highways, streets, or avenues within the city.
   B.   The use of any of the devices referred to in subsection A of this
section shall be confined to the sidewalks or any of the highways, streets or
avenues within the city and the portions of the street and avenue intersections
designated as crosswalks for pedestrian traffic. (Ord. 13.08; amd. 2006 Code)
8-1-8: TRACTOR ENGINES CROSSING CEMENT CROSSWALKS:
   A.   From and after the effective date hereof, it will be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to take, draw or propel or run any tractor engine
upon, along or across any cement crosswalks within the city, or to cause the
same to be done, excepting only as hereinafter expressly permitted.
   B.   It is permitted and lawful for any person, firm or corporation to take,
draw, propel or run a tractor engine upon, along or across cement walks within
the city, provided such person, firm or corporation shall lay down or cause to
be laid down upon such cement crosswalks planks of the thickness of not less
than two inches (2"). Such tractor engine shall be taken, drawn, or propelled
upon such planks, provided such tractor engine or wheels thereof shall in no
manner be permitted to rest upon or touch such street crosswalks. (Ord. 13.12;
amd. 2006 Code)
8-1-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 13.20; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SIDEWALK, DRIVEWAY AND CURB CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
8-2-1: Council Authority To Order Construction
8-2-2: Payment Of Cost Assessments
8-2-3: Special Sidewalk And Curb Fund
8-2-4: Construction Under Direction Of City Officials
8-2-5: Permit Required For Construction
8-2-6: Sidewalks, Location And Specifications
8-2-7: Curbs And Gutters, Location And Specifications
8-2-8: Driveways And Alley Approaches, Specifications
8-2-9: Curb And Gutter Construction
8-2-10: Sidewalks, Driveways, Approaches, Gutters
8-2-11: Driveway Restrictions
8-2-1: COUNCIL AUTHORITY TO ORDER CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Order Without Forming Special Improvement District: The city council
may order sidewalks and curbs constructed in front of any lot or parcel of land
without the formation of a special improvement district, and whenever the
council shall order any such sidewalk or curb constructed, such order shall be
entered upon the minutes of the council and shall name the street or portions
thereof along which said sidewalk or curb is to be constructed.
   B.   Notice To Property Owner: After the making of such order, written
notice thereof shall be given the owner or agent of the owner of such property
by serving said notice by registered mail addressed to said owner or agent.
   C.   Construction By City; Assessment Of Costs: If said owner or agent shall
fail or neglect, for a period of thirty (30) days after the date of service of
said notice, to cause such sidewalk or curb to be constructed, the city may
construct or cause to be constructed such sidewalk or curb and shall assess the
costs thereof, including engineering costs, against the property in front of
which the same is constructed. (Ord. 13.20)
8-2-2: PAYMENT OF COST ASSESSMENTS:
The payment of assessments to defray the costs of construction of said
sidewalks or curbs may be spread over a term not to exceed eight (8) years,
payment to be made in equal annual installments. (Ord. 13.20)
8-2-3: SPECIAL SIDEWALK AND CURB FUND:
There is hereby created a fund to be known as the "special sidewalk and curb
fund", into which all assessments levied or assessed as above provided for
shall be deposited, and payment for the construction of such sidewalks or curbs
constructed as above provided for by the city shall be made by special warrants
drawn against said fund, which said warrants shall bear interest at the rate of
six percent (6%) per annum. (Ord. 13.20; amd. 2006 Code)
8-2-4: CONSTRUCTION UNDER DIRECTION OF CITY OFFICIALS:
All sidewalks and curbs constructed within the city shall be constructed to the
satisfaction and in accordance with the directions of the city engineer, street
commissioner or city superintendent. (Ord. 13.20; amd. Ord. 2.32)
8-2-5: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Requirement: No sidewalks, curbs, gutters, driveways, or approaches
shall be constructed upon any of the streets, avenues, alleys, or public places
within the city unless written application shall first be made for a permit to
do so.
   B.   Application: Such applications shall be made on forms to be supplied by
the city clerk-treasurer and shall set forth the name and address of the
applicant and the nature of the work proposed to be done.
   C.   Fee: Such application shall be accompanied by cash in an amount to be
established by the city council from time to time, which said money shall
constitute payment for the services of the city in inspecting and approving
such work. (Ord. 13.24)
8-2-6: SIDEWALKS, LOCATION AND SPECIFICATIONS:
All sidewalks hereafter constructed in the city shall be constructed and laid
out as follows:
   A.   Width; Grade:
      1.   Sidewalks abutting upon Main Street shall be five feet four inches
(5'4") wide, and on all other streets, the sidewalks shall be four feet six
inches (4'6") wide, unless permission is granted by the city council upon
recommendation of the city building inspector or city superintendent to alter
or vary the width of such sidewalk. (Ord. 13.24; amd. Ord. 2.32)
      2.   All sidewalks shall be laid upon the grade of the streets upon which
the same are constructed.
      3.   Sidewalks in alleys shall be two feet (2') wide and shall be laid
next to the property line.
   B.   Position; General Requirements: Every sidewalk shall be constructed so
as to conform with the position of other sidewalks already constructed. Where
there is no sidewalk already constructed, every sidewalk shall be constructed
with the outer edge directly adjacent to the inner edge of the curb herein
provided for; or the city council, upon application, may make whatever other
variance in the size, construction, materials, location and position of
sidewalks, curbs, walkways, driveways, fences, retaining walls and other
appurtenances and improvements related thereto it determines to be proper.
   C.   Spreading And Finishing Concrete: The concrete shall be spread as soon
as mixed in a layer of such depth that, after having been thoroughly compacted,
it shall not be, in any place, less than four inches (4") thick, and smoothed
off with a straight edge guided by the tops of the forms, and afterwards
floated to a perfectly uniform surface and true to sidewalk grade, and shall be
divided into blocks which are created by expansion/contraction joints. (Ord.
13.24)
8-2-7: CURBS AND GUTTERS, LOCATION AND SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Location: All curbs and gutters hereafter constructed in the city shall
be constructed so that the side of the curb nearest the property line shall be
ten feet (10') from the property line of the property in front of which said
curb is constructed, unless the city council, upon application, grants its
approval to vary or deviate from this distance, location and position. (Ord.
13.24)
   B.   Specifications:
      1.   All new curbs and gutters shall consist of combined curb and gutter
constructed of structural concrete in conformity with the standard drawings no.
02528-1, 02528-2, 02529-1, 02529-5, 02529-6, 02529-7, 02529-8, and 02529-9,
contained in appendix A to ordinance 190, on file in the office of the city
clerk- treasurer, except where they are being constructed in a location where
they will not match or conform to those already in place. If such is the
situation, then and in that event, the curbs and gutters shall conform to those
already in place. All curbs shall be separated from any abutting sidewalk by an
expansion joint, and no curbs or curbs and gutters shall be constructed as an
integral part of any sidewalks. (Ord. 13.24; amd. 2006 Code)
      2.   The curb and gutter shown in standard drawing no. 02528-2 shall be
installed only after special approval by the city council after consultation
with the city engineer or city superintendent. (Ord. 13.24)
8-2-8: DRIVEWAYS AND ALLEY APPROACHES, SPECIFICATIONS:
All new driveways or alley approaches shall be constructed in conformity with
standard drawing no. 02529-2 in appendix A to ordinance 190, on file in the
office of the city clerk-treasurer, and shall be not less than six inches (6")
thick. (Ord. 13.24; amd. 2006 Code)
8-2-9: CURB AND GUTTER CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Materials:
      1.   Structural Concrete: Structural concrete shall conform to the
requirements of section 03310, in appendix A to ordinance 190, on file in the
office of the city clerk-treasurer.
      2.   Reinforcing Steel: Reinforcing steel shall conform to the
requirements of section 03210, in appendix A to ordinance 190, on file in the
office of the city clerk-treasurer.
      3.   Preformed Expansion Joint Materials: Joint material shall comply
with the requirements of AASHTO M-213, in appendix A to ordinance 190, on file
in the office of the city clerk-treasurer. (Ord. 13.24; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Construction Methods:
      1.   General:
         a.   It is the intent of this specification to require machine laid or
hand formed combined concrete curb and gutter.
         b.   The curb machine shall be a self-propelled type equipped with a
material hopper, distribution screw and adjustable curb forming devices capable
of laying and compacting the concrete mix to the lines, grades and cross
section as shown on the plans.
         c.   Curb machines may be designed to utilize steel forms, or may be
of the slip form extruded concrete type. (Ord. 13.24)
      2.   Subgrade Preparation:
         a.   Excavation for the construction shall be the required depth, and
the subgrade or base course upon which the concrete is to be placed shall have
a firm and even surface, and shall be compacted as called for in section 02230,
in appendix A to ordinance 190, on file in the office of the city clerk-
treasurer. (Ord. 13.24; amd. 2006 Code)
         b.   Excavation shall be as required to permit placing of curb, gutter
and/or combined curb and gutter to the lines as shown on the plans.
      3.   Erecting Forms:
         a.   Steel or wooden forms shall be staked securely in place, true to
line and grade.
         b.   Sufficient support shall be given to the form to prevent movement
in any direction, resulting from the weight of the concrete or the concrete
placement. Forms shall not be set until the subgrade has been compacted within
one inch (1") of the established grade. Forms shall be clean and well oiled
prior to setting in place.
         c.   When set, the top of the form shall not depart from plan
elevation or design grade more than one-fourth inch (1/4") when checked with a
ten foot (10') straightedge. The alignment shall not vary more than one-half
inch (1/2") in ten feet (10'). Immediately prior to placing the concrete, forms
shall be carefully inspected for proper grading, alignment, and rigid
construction. Adjustments and repairs as needed shall be completed before
placing concrete.
      4.   Placing Concrete:
         a.   The subgrade shall be properly compacted and brought to specified
grade before placing concrete. The subgrade shall be thoroughly dampened
immediately prior to the placement of the concrete. Concrete shall be spaded
and tamped thoroughly into the forms to provide a dense, compacted, concrete
free of rock pockets. The exposed surfaces shall be floated, finished and
broomed.
         b.   The rate of concrete placement shall not exceed the rate at which
the various placing and finishing operations can be performed in accordance
with these specifications. (Ord. 13.24)
         c.   If the concrete is to be placed by the extruded method, the
contractor shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the engineer or city
superintendent that the machine is capable of placing a dense, uniformly
compacted concrete to exact section as per the tolerances in subsection C of
this section. (Ord. 13.24; amd. Ord. 2.32)
      5.   Stripping Forms And Finishing:
         a.   Removal Of Forms: Forms may be removed on the day following pour
if the concrete is sufficiently set that removal will be without danger of
chipping or spalling. When forms are removed before the expiration of the
curing period, the edges of the concrete shall be protected with moist earth,
or sprayed with curing compound. All forms shall be cleaned, oiled and examined
for defects before they are used again.
         b.   Broomed Finish: The surface of concrete curbs and gutters shall
be finished true to the lines and grades shown on the plans. Concrete shall be
worked until the coarse aggregate is forced down into the body of the concrete
and no coarse aggregate is exposed. The surface shall then be floated with a
wooden float to a smooth and uniform surface. When the concrete in the curb and
gutter has hardened sufficiently, the surface shall be given a broom finish.
The broom shall be of an approved type. Strokes shall be made without tearing
the concrete. The broomed finish shall produce regular corrugations not over
one-eighth inch (1/8") in depth.
      6.   Curing: Curing shall be done in accordance with good construction
practice.
      7.   Joints For Combined Curb And Gutter:
         a.   Preformed expansion joint material one-half inch (1/2") thick
shall be provided in combined curb and gutter at PCs and PTs, and at curb turns
at block corners or alley approaches. The joint filler shall be cut to the
cross section of the combined curb and gutter.
         b.   Expansion/contraction joints shall be provided between the
expansion joints at not more than fifteen foot (15') intervals. Where shorter
sections are necessary for closure, the interval may be less than fifteen feet
(15'), but no section shall be less than five feet (5').
         c.   Construction joints shall, in general, be located at expansion
joints. Where it is determined necessary to discontinue placing at locations
other than expansion joints, a keyed construction joint shall be located at a
contraction joint location.
      8.   Curb Backfill:
         a.   The curb backfill to a level of four inches (4") below the top of
curb shall be completed before final grading of the subgrade and placement of
base courses.
         b.   In areas where lawns exist, the top four inches (4") of backfill
bringing it level up to the top of the curb shall be black loam or good topsoil
which is suitable for the growth of lawns. It shall be placed out from the curb
a sufficient distance and in an mount to replace turf or lawn removed during
installation. Backfill shall be completed by grading to match the existing
lawns.
      9.   Prime And Seal Coat Preparation: The edge of the gutter adjacent to
the asphalt surfacing shall be painted with an asphalt prime coat before the
pavement surface course is placed. When an asphalt seal coat is specified, the
application of oil and cover aggregate shall lap three inches (3") over the
gutter to provide a good seal on the joint between the concrete and pavement.
(Ord. 13.24)
   C.   Tolerances: The work shall be performed in a manner which results in a
curb and gutter constructed to a specified line and grade, uniform in
appearance and structurally sound. Curb and gutter found with unsightly bulges,
ridges, low spots in the gutter or other defects shall be removed and replaced
at the owner's expense if the engineer or city superintendent considers them to
be irreparable. Grade shall not deviate more than one- fourth inch (1/4"), and
alignment shall not vary more than one- half inch (1/2") from plan elevation,
grade or alignment. Tolerance may be checked by use of survey instruments,
straightedges, or water puddling. (Ord. 13.24; amd. Ord. 2.32)
8-2-10: SIDEWALKS, DRIVEWAYS, APPROACHES, GUTTERS:
   A.   Materials:
      1.   Structural Concrete: Structural concrete shall conform to the
requirements of section 03310, in appendix A to ordinance 190, on file in the
office of the city clerk-treasurer.
      2.   Reinforcing Steel: Reinforcing steel shall conform to the
requirements of section 03210, in appendix A to ordinance 190, on file in the
office of the city clerk-treasurer.
      3.   Preformed Expansion Joint Material: Joint material shall comply with
the requirements of AASHTO M-213, in appendix A to ordinance 190, on file in
the office of the city clerk-treasurer.
   B.   Construction Methods:
      1.   General: Sidewalks and driveway approaches, either new or
replacement, valley gutters and curbturn fillets shall be constructed at the
locations shown on the permit application.
      2.   Subgrade Preparation: Excavation for the construction shall be to
the required depth, and the subgrade upon which the concrete is to be placed
shall have a firm and even surface, and shall be compacted as called for in
section 02230, in appendix A to ordinance 190, on file in the office of the
city clerk-treasurer. (Ord. 13.24; amd. 2006 Code)
      3.   Erecting Forms:
         a.   Forms, wood or steel, shall be staked securely in place, true to
line and grade.
         b.   Sufficient support shall be given to the form to prevent movement
in any direction, resulting from the weight of the concrete or the concrete
placement. Forms shall not be set until the subgrade has been compacted within
one inch (1") of established grade. Forms shall be clean and well oiled prior
to setting in place. When set, the top of the form shall not depart from grade
more than one-fourth inch (1/4") when checked with a ten foot (10')
straightedge. The alignment shall not vary more than one-half inch (1/2") in
ten feet (10'). Immediately prior to placing the concrete, forms shall be
carefully inspected for proper grading, alignment and rigid construction.
Adjustments and repairs as needed shall be completed before placing concrete.
      4.   Placing Concrete:
         a.   The subgrade shall be properly compacted and brought to specified
grade before placing concrete. The subgrade shall be thoroughly dampened
immediately prior to the placement of the concrete. Concrete shall be spaded
and tamped thoroughly into the forms to provide a dense, compacted concrete
free of rock pockets. The exposed surfaces shall be floated, finished and
broomed.
         b.   The rate of concrete placement shall not exceed the rate at which
the various placing and finishing operations can be performed in accordance
with these specifications.
      5.   Stripping Forms And Finishing:
         a.   Removal Of Forms: Forms may be removed on the day following pour
if the concrete is sufficiently set that removal will be without danger of
chipping or spalling. When forms are removed before the expiration of the
curing period, the edges of the concrete shall be protected with moist earth,
or sprayed with curing compound. All forms shall be cleaned, oiled and examined
for defects before they are used again.
         b.   Broomed Finish: The surface of concrete shall be finished true to
the lines and grades shown on the plans. Concrete shall be worked until the
coarse aggregate is forced down into the body of the concrete and no coarse
aggregate is exposed. The surface shall then be floated with a wooden float to
a smooth and uniform surface. When the concrete has hardened sufficiently, the
surface shall be given a broom finish. The broom shall be an approved type. The
strokes shall be square across the concrete from edge to edge with adjacent
strokes overlapped. Strokes shall be made without tearing the concrete. The
broomed finish shall produce regular corrugations not over one-eighth inch (1/
8") in depth.
      6.   Curing: Curing shall be in accordance with good construction
practice.
      7.   Joints:
         a.   Preformed expansion joints shall be installed at the locations
shown in the standard details.
         b.   Contraction joints shall be provided between expansion joints at
the intervals noted in the standard details.
      8.   Backfill:
         a.   In areas where lawns exist, the top four inches (4") of backfill
bringing it level up to the top of the sidewalk or driveway shall be black loam
or good topsoil which is suitable for the growth of lawns. It shall be placed
out from the sidewalk or driveway a sufficient distance and in amount to
replace turf or lawn removed during installation. Backfill shall be completed
by grading to match the existing lawn.
         b.   Where lawns do not exist, the top four inches (4") of backfill
shall be impervious dirt and shall be placed to conform with the topical
sections shown on the plans.
         c.   Backfill shall be compacted to prevent settlement, and the
surface shall be leveled off to a neat appearing and free draining surface.
(Ord. 13.24)
      9.   Tolerances: The work shall be performed in a manner which results in
the item being constructed to line and grade, uniform in appearance and
structurally sound. Items found with unsightly bulges, ridges, low spots or
other defects shall be removed and replaced at the contractor's expense if the
engineer or city superintendent considers them to be irreparable. Grade shall
not deviate more than one-fourth inch (1/4"), and alignment shall not vary more
than one-half inch (1/2") from plan elevation, grade or alignment. Tolerances
may be checked by use of survey instruments, straightedges, or water puddling.
(Ord. 13.24; amd. Ord. 2.32)
8-2-11: DRIVEWAY RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Width:
      1.   No driveways across the sidewalks or intersecting the streets of the
city shall be wider than ten feet (10') when the same leads into a privately
owned garage not operated for profit and in which no business is conducted, nor
wider than twenty feet (20') when the same leads into a garage or other
establishment in which a business is conducted or is operated for profit, nor
wider than thirty feet (30') when the same leads into a filling station or
service station or similar place of business.
      2.   The width of all driveways shall be plainly and clearly marked by
curbs, or in the absence of curbs, by markers installed by the city.
   B.   Gasoline Pumps Or Other Mechanized Dispensing Devices: No gasoline
pumps or other mechanized dispensing devices shall be placed upon any property
within the city, so that service therefrom shall be rendered to automobiles or
other vehicles placed upon any sidewalks within the city and no service shall
be rendered nor shall any merchandise be dispensed to any automobile or other
vehicle located upon any sidewalk within the city. (Ord. 13.28)
   C.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this section, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 13.28; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 3
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Compliance With Chapter
8-3-2: Exception, City Contracts
8-3-3: Application For Permission
8-3-4: Bond Requirements
8-3-5: Insurance
8-3-6: Deposit Required; Fund Established
8-3-7: Street Opening Fees
8-3-8: Restoration Of Surface
8-3-9: Barricades And Lights At Excavations
8-3-10: Penalty
8-3-1: COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to cut through or tear
open any surface of any street, alley or other roadway within the city without
first complying with the conditions set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 13.00)
8-3-2: EXCEPTION, CITY CONTRACTS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not be applicable to any person, firm or
corporation operating under a formal written contract with the city, which
contract involves the opening of a street, alley or public way. (Ord. 13.00)
8-3-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMISSION:
Any person, firm or corporation desiring to cut through or tear open the
surface of any street, alley, or other roadway within the city shall first file
a written application with the city engineer or city superintendent. Said
application shall state the object sought, the purpose for which said street is
to be cut through or broken open, the proposed area of such opening, and the
exact location thereof. (Ord. 13.00; amd. Ord. 2.32)
8-3-4: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Opening City Streets; Restoration:
      1.   Any applicant for permission to open any asphalt or concrete
surfaced city street, alley, or other roadway, except that portion of U.S.
Highway 2 lying within the city limits, shall post with the city clerk-
treasurer a bond in the penal sum of one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00).
      2.   Said bond shall be payable to the city, to protect the city from any
liability of any kind or character whatsoever, which may arise as a result of
said applicant's opening any such street, alley, or other roadway, or which may
in any way or manner be connected therewith, or related thereto; and further
conditioned that the permittee shall properly refill the subsurface and restore
the surface of any and all excavations or openings.
   B.   Opening U.S. Highway 2: Any application for permission to open any
portion of U.S. Highway 2 lying within the city limits shall post a bond with
the city clerk-treasurer in the penal sum as follows:
      1.   Amount Of Bond:
         a.   For trenches not exceeding two thousand (2,000) square feet of
surface area, two thousand dollars ($2,000.00);
         b.   For trenches exceeding two thousand (2,000) square feet of
surface area or in unusual cases, a higher amount as mutually agreed upon
between the city and the state of Montana.
      2.   Bond Payable To City And State: The bond shall be made payable to
the city of Cut Bank, and to the state of Montana, as their interests appear
according to their expenditures, to guarantee that all work shall be done and
completed in a good, competent and workmanlike manner, and in compliance with
the specifications hereto specified.
      3.   Inspection: All work on that portion of U.S. Highway 2 lying within
the city limits shall be subject to inspection by the engineers of the state of
Montana, and any work found to be unacceptable shall be removed and
satisfactorily corrected before the bond covering such work is released. (Ord.
13.00)
8-3-5: INSURANCE:
   A.   Application For Permission To Open Street: Any person, partnership,
firm, association, corporation, or any other entity, before making any opening
in any street, alley, or other roadway within the city, shall first apply for
permission to do so to the city engineer or city superintendent, and in case
there is no city engineer or the office is vacant, then to the city building
inspector or city superintendent. (Ord. 13.00; amd. Ord. 2.32)
   B.   Insurance Requirements: If permission is granted, such applicant shall
file with the city clerk-treasurer a certificate of insurance or its equivalent
providing for public liability coverage in the sum of fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) for each person, and an aggregate sum of one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00) for more than one person on account of any one accident,
and twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) property damage to protect parties
from any expense, cost, damage, and any liability of any kind or character
whatsoever resulting from or which may arise as a result of said applicant's
opening any such street, alley, or other roadway, or which may in any way be
connected therewith, or relating thereto. (Ord. 13.00)
8-3-6: DEPOSIT REQUIRED; FUND ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Deposit: Before any application to open a concrete or asphalt surfaced
street, alley, or other roadway shall be granted, the applicant shall also have
on deposit with the city clerk- treasurer the sum of one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) in cash to secure the payment of the fees hereinafter provided for.
   B.   Fund: All monies so deposited shall be placed by the city clerk-
treasurer in a special fund to be known as the "street opening deposit fund",
and all withdrawals therefrom shall be by warrant issued upon a claim duly and
regularly presented and approved as provided by law.
   C.   Refund Of Deposit: The depositor shall be entitled a return of his
money as soon as all fees and charges herein provided for are paid in full.
(Ord. 13.00)
8-3-7: STREET OPENING FEES:
The fees and charges to be made for any concrete or asphalt street openings of
any kind or character whatsoever shall be as follows:
   A.   Minimum Charge: There shall be a minimum charge of five dollars ($5.00)
for openings of any kind or character whatsoever in any asphalt or concrete
surfaced street, alley, or other roadway.
   B.   Rates: The following rates are hereby established:
      1.   For an opening not exceeding one hundred (100) square feet, one
dollar ($1.00) per square foot.
      2.   For an opening over one hundred (100) square feet, one dollar
($1.00) per square foot for the first one hundred (100) square feet and seventy
five cents ($0.75) per square foot for each square foot over one hundred (100)
square feet.
   C.   Square Foot: For the purposes of this section, a fraction of a square
foot is to be considered a full square foot. (Ord. 13.00)
8-3-8: RESTORATION OF SURFACE:
   A.   Refilling And Compaction:
      1.   Every opening in any street, alley, or roadway of the city in which
excavation of material below the surface or grade of the street, alley, or
roadway is made shall be brought back, refilled, and compacted in such a manner
so as to allow the surface to be replaced, repaired, and maintained in at least
the same condition in which the surface existed before the opening and
excavation was made.
      2.   It shall be the duty and responsibility of any person making any
opening in a street, alley, or roadway of the city to bring back, refill or
replace the subsurface material in the excavation with the same degree of
compaction and quality of material required in the specifications for
subsurface fill utilized by the city to establish standards for subsurface work
and contract performance in the most recent similar street, alley, and roadway
improvement projects carried on or done by or for or on behalf of the city in
similar streets, alleys, or roadways.
   B.   Compliance With City Requirements:
      1.   All of the work to be done below the surface including the refilling
of the excavation and the bringing back and compaction of the subsurface to a
condition satisfactory to the city, and the cost and expense of such work,
shall be borne and completed by the person making the opening separately and
apart from repairs to the surface. (Ord. 13.00)
      2.   In excavations where more than one foot (1') of refill is required,
the city engineer or city superintendent, and in the absence of the city
engineer, the city building inspector or city superintendent, shall be notified
prior to the subsurface material being placed in the excavation that the refill
operation is about to occur. (Ord. 13.00; amd. Ord. 2.32)
      3.   The actual replacement and repair of any surface shall not be
performed by the person making the excavation unless it is done under a written
contract for surfacing to which the city is a party. All surface repairs and
replacements shall be performed by the city unless the permit granted by the
city for the excavation specifically mentions that some other person may
perform the repairs or replacements. The cost of surface repair shall be met
from the fees and charges for any excavation not expended by the city for
materials used in resurfacing, and shall be retained by the city to defray
engineering and inspection costs and shall be credited to the street fund. All
repairs shall be approved by the city superintendent upon completion. (Ord.
13.00; amd. 2006 Code)
8-3-9: BARRICADES AND LIGHTS AT EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   Barricades: Every opening in any street, alley, or other roadway within
the city shall be barricaded on both sides of the opening to the full length of
such opening, and such barricades shall be kept in place at all times when such
openings exist.
   B.   Lights: The person making such opening shall, between the hours of five
o'clock (5:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. of each day, keep red or
amber lantern lights burning or adequate flares placed at said excavation, one
on each end and along each side of such excavation at intervals of five feet
(5') or fraction thereof so that same can be seen from all directions for the
purpose of warning anyone upon said street of the danger as to such opening.
When such opening is running lengthwise within the block along such street or
alley, then such red or amber lights or flares shall be placed at the ends
thereof and every five feet (5') within the intersections and every twenty feet
(20') along such opening within the block at each side thereof. All of said red
or amber lights or flares shall be burning and placed in a conspicuous position
so that the same can be seen by anyone located in the vicinity thereof
approaching from any direction. Said lights at the ends of said excavation
shall be kept lighted and burning between said hours of five o'clock (5:00)
P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. of each day. (Ord. 13.00)
8-3-10: PENALTY:
Violations of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 13.00; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 4
STREET NAMES
SECTION:
8-4-1: Street Names Changed And Renamed
8-4-2: New Streets
8-4-1: STREET NAMES CHANGED AND RENAMED:
The names of the following streets within the city are hereby changed and
renamed as follows:
Street Name, Location
(To City Limits)   Renamed To
Central Avenue   South Central Avenue
from Main Street southward
Central Avenue    North Central Avenue
from Main Street northward
Main Street   East Main Street
from Central Avenue eastward
Main Street   West Main Street
from Central Avenue westward
First Street North   First Street Northeast
from North Central Avenue eastward
Second Street North   Second Street Northeast
from North Central Avenue eastward
First Street North   First Street Northwest
from North Central Avenue westward
Second Street North   Second Street Northwest
from North Central Avenue westward
First Street South   First Street Southeast
from South Central Avenue eastward
Second Street South   Second Street Southeast
from South Central Avenue eastward
Third Street South   Third Street Southeast
from South Central Avenue eastward
Fourth Street South   Fourth Street Southeast
from South Central Avenue eastward
First Street South   First Street Southwest
from South Central Avenue westward
Second Street South   Second Street Southwest
from South Central Avenue westward
Third Street South   Third Street Southwest
from South Central Avenue westward
Fourth Street South   Fourth Street Southwest
from South Central Avenue westward
First Avenue West   First Avenue Northwest
from West Main Street northward
Second Avenue West   Second Avenue Northwest
from West Main Street northward
Third Avenue West   Third Avenue Northwest
from West Main Street northward
Fourth Avenue West   Fourth Avenue Northwest
from West Main Street northward
Fifth Avenue West   Fifth Avenue Northwest
from West Main Street northward
Sixth Avenue West   Sixth Avenue Northwest
from West Main Street northward
First Avenue West   First Avenue Southwest
from West Main Street southward
Second Avenue West   Second Avenue Southwest
from West Main Street southward
Third Avenue West   Third Avenue Southwest
from West Main Street southward
Fourth Avenue West   Fourth Avenue Southwest
from West Main Street southward
Fifth Avenue West   Fifth Avenue Southwest
from West Main Street southward
Sixth Avenue West   Sixth Avenue Southwest
from West Main Street southward
First Avenue East   First Avenue Northeast
from East Main Street northward
Second Avenue East   Second Avenue Northeast
from East Main Street northward
Third Avenue East   Third Avenue Northeast
from East Main Street northward
Fourth Avenue East   Fourth Avenue Northeast
from East Main Street northward
Fifth Avenue East   Fifth Avenue Northeast
from East Main Street northward
Sixth Avenue East   Sixth Avenue Northeast
from East Main Street northward
Seventh Avenue East   Seventh Avenue Northeast
from East Main Street northward
Eighth Avenue East   Eighth Avenue Northeast
from East Main Street northward
Ninth Avenue East   Ninth Avenue Northeast
from East Main Street northward
First Avenue East   First Avenue Southeast
from East Main Street southward
Second Avenue East   Second Avenue Southeast
from East Main Street southward
Third Avenue East   Third Avenue Southeast
from East Main Street southward
Fourth Avenue East   Fourth Avenue Southeast
from East Main Street southward
Fifth Avenue East   Fifth Avenue Southeast
from East Main Street southward
Sixth Avenue East   Sixth Avenue Southeast
from East Main Street southward
Seventh Avenue East   Seventh Avenue Southeast
from East Main Street southward
Eighth Avenue East   Eighth Avenue Southeast
from East Main Street southward
Ninth Avenue East   Ninth Avenue Southeast
from East Main Street southward
(Ord. 13.16)
8-4-2: NEW STREETS:
The following unnamed streets are hereby designated and named as follows:
Fifth Avenue West: The old county road which extends in a northerly direction
from the intersection of West Main Street with Fourth Avenue Southwest, crosses
the B.N. railroad, and intersection with First Street Northwest is hereby
designated as a street and named Fifth Avenue West.
Eighth Avenue Northeast: The new street constructed between the west end of the
high school football field and the east end of the civic center extending from
East Main Street to East Railway Street is hereby designated as a street and
named Eighth Avenue Northeast. (Ord. 13.16)
200 Block Of First Avenue Northwest: The street to the north of Second Street
Northwest directly behind the Motorola Building shall be designated as the 200
block of First Avenue Northwest. (Ord. 13.17, 10-4-2004)
CHAPTER 5
MUNICIPAL PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Glass Or Similar Containers Prohibited
8-5-1: GLASS OR SIMILAR CONTAINERS PROHIBITED 1 :
   A.   Definition: "Municipal park or playground" means any park or playground
owned, operated or controlled by the city.
   B.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   No person, while present in any municipal park or playground, shall
have in his possession, or under his control, any container or other object
which is made of glass or of any other similar material which will break or
shatter.
      2.   No person shall take into any municipal park or playground, or in
any other way cause to be placed therein or thereon, any container or other
object which is made of glass or of any other similar material which will break
or shatter.
   C.   Violations; Penalties: It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to
violate any of the provisions of this section. Every person convicted of a
violation of this section shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Upon conviction, the court costs, or any part thereof, may
also be assessed against the defendant in the discretion of the court. (Ord.
8.16; amd. 2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 4-2-11C2 of this code for exemptions.
CHAPTER 6
URBAN FORESTRY
SECTION:
8-6-1: Definitions
8-6-2: Duties And Responsibilities
8-6-3: Planting Authorized; Permit Required
8-6-4: Application; Conditions Of Permit
8-6-5: Tree Species
8-6-6: Prohibited Trees
8-6-7: Tree Requirements And Restrictions
8-6-8: Spacing
8-6-9: Public Tree Care
8-6-10: Pruning Standards
8-6-11: Tree Topping
8-6-12: Pruning And Corner Clearance
8-6-13: Dead Or Diseased Trees
8-6-14: Removal Of Stumps
8-6-15: Protection Of Trees
8-6-16: Appeal
8-6-17: Violations; Penalties
8-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
PARK TREES: Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the City, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
STREET TREES: Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on public
rights-of-way lying between property lines on either side of all parkways,
streets, avenues, or alleys within the City. (Ord. 12-01, 8-20-2012)
8-6-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
There is henceforth created an Urban Forestry Board whose members shall be
appointed by the Mayor and approved by the City Council for the City of Cut
Bank. This board shall be an advisory board which must set its meetings and
adopt agendas pursuant to State of Montana law on public meetings.
   A.   Comprehensive Plan: It shall be the responsibility of the Urban
Forestry Board to study, investigate, counsel, develop and administer a written
plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or
disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets, and in other public
areas. Such plan will be reviewed annually by the Urban Forestry Board and upon
approval shall constitute the official Comprehensive City Tree Plan.
   B.   Tree Inventory: The Urban Forestry Board shall promote and supervise
the establishment of a tree inventory for street and park trees. The inventory
shall be updated with the results of ground inspections every three (3) years.
(Ord. 12-01, 8-20-2012)
8-6-3: PLANTING AUTHORIZED; PERMIT REQUIRED:
Permission is hereby given to owners of real estate in the City to improve
their premises by planting trees and properly cultivating, protecting and
caring for the same in the boulevards or parkways adjoining their property,
provided said trees, or the cultivation or protection thereof, shall, in no
case, interfere with the full use of said streets for public purposes; and
provided further, that no person, association or corporation shall plant or
trim any tree within the limits of any parkway, street, avenue, or alley in the
City without having first obtained a written permit to do so from the Urban
Forestry Board. (Ord. 12-01, 8-20-2012)
8-6-4: APPLICATION; CONDITIONS OF PERMIT:
   A.   Application For Permit: It shall be the duty of any property owner to
make request, in writing, to the Urban Forestry Board, stating the variety and
precise location of each tree to be planted and requesting permission therefor;
and the board shall grant such permission if, after personal investigation, it
considers the location such that it will allow the normal growth and
development of each tree.
   B.   Permit Conditions: The permit shall specify the location, variety and
grade of each tree, the method of planting, including supplying of suitable
soil, and no permit shall be granted unless the provisions of this section be
complied with.
   C.   No Charges Imposed: No charge shall be made for the investigation or
the permit, and no trees shall be planted except in accordance with its terms.
(Ord. 12-01, 8-20-2012)
8-6-5: TREE SPECIES:
The Urban Forestry Board develops and maintains a list of desirable trees for
planting along streets in three (3) size classes based on mature height: small
(under 20 feet), medium (20 feet to 40 feet) and large (over 40 feet). Efforts
shall be made to ensure a sufficient diversity of tree species. (Ord. 12-01, 8-
20-2012)
8-6-6: PROHIBITED TREES:
Carolina poplar, Canadian poplar, Lombardi poplar, silver leaf maple, or box
elder trees shall not be planted in streets, avenues or alleys of the City.
(Ord. 12-01, 8-20-2012)
8-6-7: TREE REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
No tree shall be planted measuring less than one inch (1") in diameter of
trunk, one foot (1') above the ground, and the lowest branch of all trees shall
not be less than fourteen feet (14') above the ground where the same extends
over sidewalks, streets, driveways, alleys or any place where traffic passes
under such tree or branch. See section
11-5-6, "Fences And Screening", of this Code for more height and setback
restrictions. (Ord. 12-01, 8-20-2012)
8-6-8: SPACING:
   A.   From Other Trees: The spacing of street trees will be in accordance
with the three (3) species size classes listed in section
8-6-5 of this chapter, and no trees may be planted closer together than the
following: small trees, fifteen feet (15'); medium trees, twenty five feet
(25'); and large trees, thirty five feet (35'); except in special plantings
designed or approved by a landscape architect.
   B.   Curbs, Sidewalks And Alleyways: The distance trees may be planted from
curbs or curb lines, sidewalks and alleyways will be in accordance with the
three (3) species size classes listed in section
8-6-5 of this chapter, and no trees may be planted closer than two feet (2')
for small trees and three feet (3') for medium or large trees to any curb,
sidewalk or alley.
   C.   Street Corners: No street tree shall be planted within thirty five feet
(35') of any street corner, measured from the point of nearest intersecting
curbs or curb lines.
   D.   Fireplug: No street tree shall be planted within ten feet (10') of any
fireplug.
   E.   Utilities: No street trees other than those species accepted as small
trees by the Urban Forestry Board may be planted under or within twenty five
feet (25') or taller than fifteen feet (15') of any overhead utility wire. No
tree shall be planted within twenty five feet (25') of a utility pole. (Ord.
12-01, 8-20-2012)
8-6-9: PUBLIC TREE CARE:
   A.   Public Safety; Symmetry And Beauty: The City shall have the right to
plant, prune, maintain and remove trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of
all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be
necessary to ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and
beauty of such public grounds.
   B.   Power Of City To Remove: The Urban Forestry Board may remove or cause
or order to be removed any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition
or which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines,
gas lines, water lines, or other public improvements, or is affected with any
injurious fungus, insect, or other pest. This section does not prohibit the
planting of street trees by adjacent property owners providing that the
selection and location of said trees is in accordance with sections
8-6-5,
8-6-6,
8-6-7 and
8-6-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 12-01, 8-20-2012)
8-6-10: PRUNING STANDARDS:
All tree pruning on public property shall conform to the ANSI A300 standards
for tree care operations. (Ord. 12-01, 8-20-2012)
8-6-11: TREE TOPPING:
   A.   Definition: "Topping" is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to
stubs larger than three inches (3") in diameter within the tree's crown to such
a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
   B.   Crown Reduction: Crown reduction by a qualified arborist may be
performed where appropriate and in such a manner as to not constitute topping
as hereinabove defined.
   C.   Exemptions: Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or
certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning
practices are impractical may be exempted from this chapter at the
determination of the Urban Forestry Board. (Ord. 12-01, 8-20-2012)
8-6-12: PRUNING AND CORNER CLEARANCE:
   A.   Pruning Required: Every owner of any tree overhanging any street, alley
or right-of-way within the City shall prune the branches so that such branches
shall not severely obstruct the light from any street lamp or obstruct the view
of any street intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of fourteen
feet (14') above street surface or nine feet (9') above the sidewalk and alley
surface.
   B.   Removal Required: Such owners shall remove all dead, diseased or
dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the
safety of the public.
   C.   City's Right To Prune: The City shall have the right to prune any tree
or shrub on private property when it interferes with the proper spread of light
along the street from a streetlight, or interferes with visibility of any
traffic control device or sign or sight triangle at intersections or alleyways.
   D.   Utility Tree Trimming: Tree limbs that grow near high voltage
electrical conductors shall be maintained clear of such conductors by the
electric utility company in compliance with ANSI A300 standards and any
applicable franchise agreements. (Ord. 12-01, 8-20-2012)
8-6-13: DEAD OR DISEASED TREES:
   A.   City's Right To Cause Removal: The City shall have the right to cause
the removal of any dead or diseased trees on private property within the City,
when such trees constitute a hazard to life and property, or harbor insects or
disease, which constitute a potential threat to other trees within the City.
   B.   Notice To Owner: The Urban Forestry Board will notify, in writing, the
owners of such trees. Removal shall be done by said owners at their own expense
within sixty (60) days after the date of service of notice.
   C.   Failure To Comply: In the event of failure of owners to comply with
such provisions, the City shall have the authority to remove such trees and
charge the cost of removal on the owner's Property Tax notice. (Ord. 12-01, 8-
20-2012)
8-6-14: REMOVAL OF STUMPS:
All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of the
ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of the
ground. (Ord. 12-01, 8-20-2012)
8-6-15: PROTECTION OF TREES:
   A.   Maintenance Of Overall Forest: In order to maintain the overall forest,
reasonable efforts shall be made to replace trees that are removed and to
protect quality trees that are endangered.
   B.   Removal By Action Of Urban Forestry Board Or Natural Causes: Trees
removed by decision of the Urban Forestry Board or by natural causes shall be
replaced somewhere in the forest on a one for one basis within one year
provided there has been funding approved or available to comply with this
requirement. The City Council for the City of Cut Bank reserves the right to
determine all budgetary matters. The location and species of any replacement
tree shall be determined by the Urban Forestry Board.
   C.   Protection From Damage During Construction, Sidewalk Repair, Utility
Work: Trees of desirable species and good health shall be protected as much as
possible from damage during construction, sidewalk repair, utilities work above
and below ground, and other similar activities. The zone of protection shall
include the ground beneath the canopy of the tree. (Ord. 12-01, 8-20-2012)
8-6-16: APPEAL:
Any person may appeal any ruling or order concerning trees to the Urban
Forestry Board, who may hear the matter and make decisions. If a person is not
happy with a decision made by the Urban Forestry Board, that person may appeal
the decision to the Cut Bank City Council which shall make a final decision.
(Ord. 12-01, 8-20-2012)
8-6-17: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation who or which is the owner or occupant or in
possession, control or management of any lot, block or parcel of land within
the City who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 12-01, 8-20-2012)
TITLE 9
UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
UTILITY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Use, Service And Rate Regulations
9-1-2: Mandatory Connection To Public Water And Sewer
9-1-3: Annexation As Requirement For Water Service
9-1-4: Late Payment Fees For Delinquent Bills
9-1-5: Prohibited Placement Of Water And Sewer Lines
9-1-6: Thawing Water Lines With Welding Machines
9-1-1: USE, SERVICE AND RATE REGULATIONS:
The city council shall by resolution provide for user charges, the
classification of users, applications for service, and use of the service for
all municipal utilities providing service within the city. The resolutions will
outline the utility's procedure for discontinuance of service, reestablishment
of service, and the extension of service to users within and outside city
limits. At no time may rate increases for comparable classifications and zones
outside the city limits exceed those set within the city limits as per Montana
Code Annotated section 69-7-201. (2006 Code)
9-1-2: MANDATORY CONNECTION TO PUBLIC WATER AND SEWER:
   A.   Water And Sewer Connection By Residences: All dwelling houses, or
apartment houses, or cabins, or any buildings used as dwelling places by human
beings shall have running water and be connected to the city water mains; and
sinks, washbowls, bathing facilities and toilets therein shall be connected to
the city public sanitary sewers in all blocks and at all places where public
lateral sanitary sewers have been constructed at the effective date hereof.
   B.   Sewer Connections:
      1.   Owner Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for any person, whether
owner, tenant under lease, tenant at will, tenant by sufferance, or occupant,
to use or occupy any dwelling house, apartment house, cabin or any kind of
building used as a dwelling place by human beings, unless the sinks, washbowls,
bathing facilities and toilets therein are connected to the city sanitary
sewers, in all blocks where the public lateral, sanitary sewers have been
constructed at the effective date hereof.
      2.   Tenant Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for any person to rent
or let for hire to another person, or to allow another person to use rent free,
any dwelling house, apartment house, cabin or any kind of building used as a
dwelling house by human beings unless the sinks, washbowls, bathing facilities
and toilets therein be connected to the city sanitary sewers, in all blocks
where the public sanitary sewers have been constructed at the effective date
hereof.
      3.   Exception Where Public Sewer Not Available: As to these blocks,
railroad rights of way, and other places where no public, lateral sanitary
sewers have been constructed at the effective date hereof, this section shall
not apply until public, lateral sanitary sewers have been constructed and in
operation for six (6) months. This section shall apply to all persons and
property within such blocks, railroad rights of way, and other places the same
as though the sewers had been constructed and in operation at the time of the
effective date hereof.
   C.   Use Of Privies, Septic Tanks Restricted: It shall be unlawful for any
person, whether owner, tenant under lease, tenant at will, tenant by
sufferance, or occupant, of any building whether used as a dwelling place by
human beings, place for conducting and carrying on any kind of business, or for
any use whatever, if located within any block where the public lateral sanitary
sewers have been constructed at the effective date hereof, to use any cesspool,
septic tank, or outhouse or privy.
   D.   Properties Not Connected Declared Nuisance: All places, premises and
properties which are not connected to the city water mains and public lateral
sanitary sewer lines, as required by this section, shall be deemed to
constitute a nuisance. (Ord. 14.16)
   E.   Penalty: Any person or corporation violating the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 14.16; amd. 2006 Code)
9-1-3: ANNEXATION AS REQUIREMENT FOR WATER SERVICE:
   A.   Authority: This section is adopted pursuant to the authority granted
the city council in Montana Code Annotated section 7-13-4314 concerning
annexation as a requirement for receiving service, and pursuant to the
authority granted the city council in Montana Code Annotated section 69-7-201
regarding adoption of rules and regulations for the municipal water utility,
and, finally, pursuant to the general authority granted to the city council
pursuant to Montana Code Annotated sections 7-1-4123 and 7-1-4124 regarding
legislative powers.
   B.   Annexation Prior To Initiation Of Service: It shall be the policy of
the city and the municipal water utility, at the sole option of the city
council, to require any person, firm or corporation who desires to become a
user of the municipal water supply that, prior to initiation of service, the
council may require the person, firm or corporation to agree to petition to be
annexed into the municipal boundaries. Said annexation shall be accomplished by
petition pursuant to those statutes contained in Montana Code Annotated title
7, chapter 2, part 46.
   C.   Annexation Subsequent To Initiation Of Service:
      1.   The city council, in conjunction with the municipal water utility,
does hereby require any person, firm or corporation receiving city water to
petition for annexation to be included within the municipal boundaries as a
condition to continuing to receive city water services.
      2.   The city council does hereby reserve their right to notify any
person, firm or corporation who is presently receiving municipal water services
that the city may discontinue said water service absent said person, firm or
corporation petitioning the city to be annexed, and that said service may not
be restored absent such a petition, as provided in Montana Code Annotated title
7, chapter 2, part 46. (Ord. 14.18, 12-16-1999)
   D.   Violations; Penalties: Any person, firm or corporation residing either
inside or outside of the corporate limits of the city, which city owns the
municipal water system and furnishes water services as a public utility, who
shall wilfully turn on the water line after the same has been shut off by, or
under the direction of, the city council for noncompliance with this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 14.18, 12-6-1999; amd. 2006 Code)
9-1-4: LATE PAYMENT FEES FOR DELINQUENT BILLS:
When a citizen of the city receives his monthly bill for city utilities, which
includes water, sewer and garbage, and the same has not been paid by five
o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the twentieth of the month or five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
on the following working day if the twentieth falls on a Saturday, Sunday or
holiday, the new bill will include a ten dollar ($10.00) late charge; provided,
that the amount due exceeds ten dollars ($10.00). Once a late charge has been
assessed, said late charge becomes part of the unpaid principal balance and is
included in the bill for purposes of determining whether or not the unpaid
balance exceeds ten dollars ($10.00) and is, therefore, subject to another late
charge the following month. (Ord. 14.20, 11-19-2001; amd. 2006 Code)
9-1-5: PROHIBITED PLACEMENT OF WATER AND SEWER LINES:
   A.   Placement In Ditches:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for anyone to place a water main in a sewer
ditch or vice versa.
      2.   Ditches for the sewer shall be at least ten feet (10') from those of
the water pipes, or vice versa.
   B.   Penalty: Anyone violating any of the provisions of this section shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 14.12; amd. 2006 Code)
9-1-6: THAWING WATER LINES WITH WELDING MACHINES:
The use of welding machines to thaw water lines and mains is hereby prohibited
within the city. Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 14.01; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 2
WATER LINE CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Compliance With Regulations
9-2-2: Plan And Construction Requirements; State Approval
9-2-3: Materials Required
9-2-4: Method Of Construction
9-2-5: Special Conditions, Water Line Near Sewer Line
9-2-6: Application To Public Water Lines Only
9-2-7: Violations; Penalties
9-2-1: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
A person desiring to construct a water line extension within the corporate
limits of the city, which water line will be turned over to the city for
operation and maintenance upon completion, shall be required to construct said
water line in accordance with the specifications set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 14.04)
9-2-2: PLAN AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS; STATE APPROVAL:
   A.   Plan Required; Specifications:
      1.   Before any water line is installed in the city, a plan and profile
of the proposed installation shall be submitted to the city council for their
consideration.
      2.   The plan will show the location of the water line in relation to the
centerlines of the streets, location of all valves and the location of fire
hydrants. The location of valves and fire hydrants shall be dimensioned from
property lines of the block or centerlines of the streets. The profile shall
show the grade to which it is proposed to place a line below the streets. All
water lines shall be placed sufficiently deep so that a minimum of six feet
(6') of cover from the finished grade of the street is obtained. Should the
street in which the line is being laid not be to proper grade at the time of
construction, it will be required to obtain from the engineer representing the
city or the city superintendent the finished grade of the street and the water
line shall be laid sufficiently deep so that a six foot (6') minimum cover is
obtained after the street has been brought to proper grade.
   B.   Plan Submitted To State; Approval Required: The plan and profile shall
be complete enough so that it can be submitted to the Montana state department
of public health and human services for their approval prior to construction.
In no case will construction be started before written approval is obtained
from the Montana state department of public health and human services and the
city council.
   C.   Supervision; Inspection:
      1.   Any water line installation made in the city shall be under the
supervision of the engineer representing the city or the city superintendent.
The engineer or city superintendent shall approve the layout of the work and
shall be responsible to see that the water line is being laid to the grades
specified on the plans.
      2.   During construction, it shall be required to have an inspector or
the city superintendent on the work. The inspector or the city superintendent
shall be an employee of the engineer representing the city or an employee of
the city. The inspector or city superintendent shall be authorized to inspect
all work done and all materials furnished. Such inspection may extend to all or
any part of the work and to the preparation, fabrication or manufacture of the
materials to be used. The inspector or city superintendent will not be
authorized to revoke, alter or waive any requirements of the specifications;
however, he is authorized to call attention to any failure of the work or
materials to conform to these specifications. He shall have the authority to
revoke materials or suspend the work until any question at issue can be
referred to and decided by the engineer or city superintendent. The cost of
employing the inspector, engineer or city superintendent shall be borne by the
person making said improvements.
   D.   Pressure Test: After the water line has been laid and partially
backfilled, all joints, fittings and valves shall be subjected to a hydrostatic
pressure test of fifty percent (50%) above the normal operating pressure. The
"normal operating pressure" is defined as the maximum pressure in the water
system in the city. All such tests shall be conducted in the presence of the
engineer, inspector, and/or city superintendent. (Ord. 14.04; amd. Ord. 2.32)
   E.   As Constructed Drawings: Before the water line will be accepted by the
city council, "as constructed drawings" shall be submitted to the city council.
These drawings shall be prepared on regular plate A 4 x 20 plan and profile
paper and shall be prepared in India ink to serve as a permanent record for the
city. These final drawings shall show the final grade and alignment of the
water line as constructed and the final location of all valves in relation to
property lines or street intersection. (Ord. 14.04)
9-2-3: MATERIALS REQUIRED:
   A.   Pipe:
      1.   Any pipe installed in the city shall be class 150 cast iron and
shall conform in regard to dimensions, weights and tolerances to federal
specifications for pipe, water, cast iron (bell and spigot) no. WW-P-421. The
mechanical joint and accessories shall conform in regard to dimensions, weights
and tolerances to American standard specification A21.11.
      2.   The use of asbestos cement pipe in installations within the city is
to be allowed only after careful study in each specific instance to determine
the suitability of such material for the particular installation under
consideration, and in every instance where a majority of the council determines
that concrete asbestos pipe is not suitable to be used in an installation, it
shall not be installed or accepted as a part of the water distribution system
of the city.
   B.   Fittings: All pipe fittings installed in the city shall be class 250
and conform in regard to dimensions, weight and tolerances to American standard
specifications A21.10 for short body cast iron fittings.
   C.   Valves And Valve Boxes:
      1.   Any gate valves installed in the city shall be iron body, full
bronze mounted, parallel seat, double gate valves of some standard make. Valves
shall be thoroughly tested to three hundred (300) pounds psi and shall be
suitable for working pressure of not less than one hundred fifty (150) pounds
psi. There shall be no iron against iron construction in the wedging mechanism
or the moving parts of the valve when closed. They shall be of a design that
will ensure, in closing, a perfect contact between the gates and the seats and
shall be easily operated by hand. Each valve shall have gates moving parallel
to their respective seats with a bronze or noncorrodible metal wedging device
between them, so arranged that it acts upon gates equally. (Ord. 14.04)
      2.   Names of the manufacturer of the valves being furnished shall be
submitted to the engineer or city superintendent for his approval. (Ord. 14.04;
amd. Ord. 2.32)
      3.   Any valve boxes installed in the city shall be cast iron adjustable
(screw type) valve boxes with a minimum four inch (4") diameter shaft. The
valve boxes shall be of sufficient length to allow adjustment to the finished
surface grade of the street. The covers furnished on the boxes shall have the
word "WATER" cast on them.
   D.   Hydrants:
      1.   Hydrants installed in any water line in the city shall be Corey type
as manufactured by Pacific States Cast Iron Pipe Company, Provo, Utah.
      2.   Hydrants installed on four inch (4") water lines shall be provided
with two inch (2") hose connections. Hydrants installed on six inch (6") or
larger water lines shall be provided with two inch (2") hose connections and
one six inch (6") steamer connection.
      3.   The hydrants shall be so constructed that all the working parts may
be removed through the head without the use of special wrenches.
      4.   All hydrants furnished shall be provided with a sidewalk breaking
flange using drilled steel bits of a proper size to allow for easy shearing and
optimum holding. The hydrant shall be of sufficient length that the sidewalk
breaking flange is just above the surface of the ground. The operating nut
shall be pentagon (5 sided) in shape and shall be finished with a slight taper
to one and one-half inches (11/2") from point to flat. (Ord. 14.04)
9-2-4: METHOD OF CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Trenches: Trenches shall be excavated sufficiently wide to allow for
placing and working around the pipe. No trench shall be less than two feet (2')
in width. On larger diameter pipe, the trench width shall be sufficient to
allow at least six inches (6") between the bell and the trench walls. Trenches
shall be excavated to the lines and grades approved by the city council. When
rock is encountered in the trench bottom, it shall be excavated to sufficient
depth to admit refilling under the body and bell of the pipe with at least
three inches (3") of fine dry earth or sand, which shall be carefully tamped so
as to firmly fit the under half of the pipe. When quicksand or other unsuitable
material is encountered in the bottom of the trench, it shall be excavated at
least six inches (6") below the grade and a solid foundation built with gravel,
broken stone or concrete, all in such a manner as the engineer or city
superintendent shall direct. (Ord. 14.04; amd. Ord. 2.32)
   B.   Pipes: The pipe shall be lowered in the ditch with rope slings and with
the bell end of the pipe pointing in the direction the line is being laid. The
pipe shall be laid to conform with the lines and grades specified and so that
the body of the pipe (not the bell) will bear firmly on the bottom of the
trench. Bell holes of ample size shall be dug at each joint to permit the
joints to be made properly. Before jointing the pipe, one teaspoon of powdered
calcium hypochlorite shall be placed in each length of pipe.
   C.   Joints:
      1.   All joints shall be yarned with the manufacturer's recommended
pounds of square braided jute which shall be driven in, with proper tools, to
provide for a uniform depth of lead around the circumference of the pipe.
Joints shall then be filled with hot lead, care being taken to make certain
that the lead is hot enough so that it will not chill as it enters the bell. A
joint runner of proper size should be used to prevent the jointing material
from running out. Each joint shall be filled with the manufacturers recommended
pounds of lead. The joints shall then be caulked by experienced workers and
with tools of proper size. In no case will large caulking tools, which might
become wedged between the bell and spigot of the pipe, be allowed. All fittings
and valves shall be jointed to the pipe in the same manner as described above
for pipe joints. (Ord. 14.04)
      2.   If mechanical joint pipe is used, rather than bell spigot, it shall
be laid as described above for bell and spigot pipe. Care shall be taken to
make certain that the spigot is centrally located in the bell so that a secure
and tight joint may be obtained. The bolts shall be tightened progressively so
that the gland is brought up toward the pipe flange evenly and so that the same
distance is maintained between the gland and the face of the flange at all
points around the socket. Each joint shall be provided with a copper wire bond
from one pipe to the proceeding pipe so that it will be possible to have a
complete electrical circuit for the entire length of the line. The copper wire
may be spot welded to each pipe or connected through the joint all in a manner
satisfactory to the engineer, inspector and/or city superintendent. Upon
completion of the line and after hydrostatic pressure tests have been
completed, each joint shall be wrapped with burlap and hot asphalt.
      3.   The joint, when finished, shall be completely covered and protected
from any action from the surrounding ground.
   D.   Types Of Pipes And Joints: These specifications cover types of pipe and
joints now being manufactured and in common use. It is possible that, in the
future, new types of joints will be manufactured. These joints may be used only
if prior approval has been obtained from the engineer representing the city or
the city superintendent.
   E.   Concrete Blocks: Concrete blocks shall be poured between the
undisturbed part of the trench and the fittings in cases where the water line
changes direction, such as at tees, bends and elbows. Wherever a line dead
ends, a concrete block shall be poured between the end of the line and the
undisturbed part of the trench. Concrete blocks shall be poured between the
undisturbed part of the trench and the fire hydrants. These concrete blocks
shall be of sufficient size to hold the line firmly in place when excessive
pressures, due from water hammer, are placed on the line.
   F.   Backfilling Between Joints: As soon as the line has been laid and
inspected by the inspector, the engineer, or the city superintendent, the line
may be backfilled between the joints. Backfilling shall be done with the
excavated material (when same is suitable) and shall be placed in thin layers,
each layer being thoroughly compacted before the next layer is placed.
Backfilling shall be to a depth of at least eighteen inches (18") over the top
of the pipe.
   G.   Pressure Test: After the line has been backfilled and compacted between
each joint, the line shall be subjected to a hydrostatic pressure test of fifty
percent (50%) above the maximum working pressure of the line. The duration of
each pressure test shall be at least thirty (30) minutes. Each valved section
of the line shall be slowly filled with water and the specified test pressure,
measured at the point of lowest elevation, shall be applied by means of a pump
connected to the pipe in a satisfactory manner. Before applying the test, all
air shall be expelled from the line. To accomplish this, taps shall be made, if
necessary, at the points of highest elevations and afterwards tightly plugged.
All joints shall be carefully examined during the pressure test and any joint
found to be leaking shall be caulked or tightened until the leak is stopped.
All pipe, fittings or valves found under test to be defective shall be removed
and replaced and the test again applied. This procedure shall be continued
until the line is approved by the inspector or the engineer representing the
city, or the city superintendent.
   H.   Layers Of Backfill: After tests have been completed, the remainder of
the line shall be backfilled. Backfill shall be in layers, each layer being
thoroughly tamped with a tamper weighing not less than twenty (20) pounds and
having a surface of not more than eight inches (8") in diameter. Rocks larger
in volume than six inches (6") cubed shall be excluded in the backfill around
the pipe and for a distance of two feet (2') over the pipe.
   I.   Surfacing Improved Or Graveled Streets: On improved streets or alleys,
such as streets and alleys having concrete, cement asphalt or road mix oil
surfaces or on graveled streets where the amount of traffic requires that the
street be repaired and left in as good a condition as before the work
commenced, the backfill shall be tamped for the entire depth of the trench and
until at least ninety percent (90%) of the original density has been acquired.
After the trench has been thoroughly compacted and approved by the engineer or
city superintendent, a surface, conforming to the type of surface in place on
the undisturbed part of the streets or alleys, shall be replaced over the
trench excavation and the streets or alleys shall be left in as good a
condition as before the work commenced.
   J.   Tamping Unimproved Streets: On unimproved streets or alleys, when a
covering of two feet (2') has been placed on top of the pipe, as above
described, tamping may be dispensed with and water used for settling the
backfill as directed by the engineer, inspector or city superintendent and the
streets or alleys left in as good a condition as before the work commenced.
   K.   Gate Valves: On any water line installed in the city, sufficient gate
valves shall be installed so that the services in each block may be
discontinued without disrupting the service in the adjacent blocks. Gate valves
shall be installed ahead of each hydrant. Each valve shall be provided with a
valve box of the type described in subsection 9-2-3C3 of this chapter. (Ord.
14.04; amd. Ord. 2.32)
9-2-5: SPECIAL CONDITIONS, WATER LINE NEAR SEWER LINE:
In cases where a water line crosses a sanitary sewer within two feet (2') of
the sanitary sewer, it will be necessary to remove a twenty foot (20') section
of the sanitary sewer (10 feet each side of the water line). This section shall
be replaced with cast iron pipe. When it is necessary to run a water line
parallel to a sanitary sewer and less than ten feet (10') away from the
sanitary sewer, it will be required to remove and replace with cast iron pipe
that portion of the sanitary sewer which is closer than ten feet (10') from the
water line. (Ord. 14.04)
9-2-6: APPLICATION TO PUBLIC WATER LINES ONLY:
The specifications of this chapter for the construction of water lines are
intended to and shall apply only to public water lines in the streets, avenues
and alleys in the city, and such specifications are not intended to and shall
not apply to the construction of private water lines built to connect private
or publicly owned buildings not in the streets and alleys with the public water
lines. (Ord. 14.04)
9-2-7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Illegal Connections: It shall be unlawful for any person to connect any
new public water lines to the existing public water lines without complying
with this chapter and without first obtaining the approval of the city engineer
or city superintendent. If any public water lines shall be connected to
existing public water lines without having complied with this chapter, the city
may cause the connection between the new line and the older existing line to be
broken and may forbid further use of the offending water line until this
chapter shall be complied with. (Ord. 14.04; amd. Ord. 2.32)
   B.   Penalty Imposed: Every contractor, corporation or person who shall
construct or participate in the construction of any water line in the streets,
avenues and alleys within the city limits in such a manner as to violate any or
all of the foregoing specifications shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 14.04; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SEWERS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Definitions
9-3-2: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
9-3-3: Hearing Board; Arbitration
9-3-4: Use Of Public Sewers Required
9-3-5: Private Wastewater Disposal
9-3-6: Sanitary Sewers, Building Sewers And Connections
9-3-7: Public Sewer Use Restrictions And Requirements
9-3-8: Tampering With Wastewater Facilities
9-3-9: Violations; Penalties
9-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') (1.5 m) outside the inner face of the building wall. (See definitions
of Service Connection Or Service Tap and Service Pipe Or Service Line.)
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called "house connection". (See definitions of
Service Connection Or Service Tap and Service Pipe Or Service Line.)
CITY ADMINISTRATOR: The mayor of the city or any person authorized by him to
act as administrator of the sanitary sewer department.
CITY COUNCIL: The duly elected governing body of the city, including the mayor.
CITY SEWER: The system operated by the city for the collection, transmission,
and treatment of sewage.
CITY STANDARDS: Those standards adopted by the city council which pertain to
the design, materials, and construction practices for sanitary sewers.
CITY SUPERINTENDENT: The duly appointed city superintendent of the city or any
person authorized to perform acts in his behalf.
COLLECTION MAIN OR MAIN: A sewer pipe owned, operated, and maintained by the
city, which is used for the collection of sewage and to which service
connections are made.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
COMMERCIAL SERVICE: Any sewer usage other than solely for residential purposes.
Where a single structure has combined business and residential usage, the sewer
service shall be considered "commercial service". Schools, hospitals, clinics,
nursing homes, churches, trailer parks, apartments, condominiums, and rooming
houses having two (2) or more rooms on a rental basis are examples of
"commercial services".
DEVELOPER: Any individual, firm, corporation or other entity who causes
improvements to be made upon land, with said improvement requiring sewer
service.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
GARBAGE: The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of foods.
HEARING BOARD: That board appointed according to provisions of section
9-3-3 of this chapter.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The wastewater from industrial processes, trade, or business
as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
MAY: Is permissive. (See definition of Shall.)
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer flows,
into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or ground
water.
PERMITTEE: Any user which obtains a written permit to cause construction work
to be performed in accordance with the permit.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogenion concentration
of 10-7.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 cm) in any
dimension.
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION: The Montana public service commission.
PUBLIC SEWER: A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
RESIDENTIAL SERVICE: Sewer usage solely for residential purposes.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that carries liquid and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm, and surface waters that are not
admitted intentionally.
SERVICE CONNECTION OR SERVICE TAP: The connection at the collection main which
connects the customer's service pipe to the main. (See definitions of Building
Drain and Building Sewer.)
SERVICE PIPE OR SERVICE LINE: The piping from the service connection at the
main to the customer's premises. (See definitions of Building Drain and
Building Sewer.)
SEWAGE: The spent water of a community. The preferred term is "wastewater".
SEWER: A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
SHALL: Is mandatory. (See definition of May.)
SLUG: Any discharge of water or wastewater which, in concentration of any given
constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration longer
than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average twenty four (24)
hour concentration of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect
the collection system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
STORM DRAIN (Sometimes Termed "Storm Sewer"): A drain or sewer for conveying
water, ground water, subsurface water, or unpolluted water from any source.
SUPERINTENDENT: The city superintendent or his authorized deputy, agent, or
representative.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface of,
or is in suspension in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in "Standard Methods For The
Examination Of Water And Wastewater" and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewer and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
USER, CUSTOMER, OR CONSUMER: An individual, partnership, association, firm,
public or private corporation or government agency receiving sewer service. In
the case of a tenant, the property owner is considered the customer or
consumer.
WASTEWATER: The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
ground water, surface water and storm water that may be present.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or
"water pollution control plant".
WATERCOURSE: A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently. (Ord. 392, 12-18-1995)
9-3-2: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   Right Of Entry: The superintendent and other duly authorized employees
of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing pertinent to discharge to the community system in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Authority Limited: The superintendent or other duly authorized
employees are authorized to obtain information concerning industrial processes
which have a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the
wastewater collection system. The industry may withhold information considered
confidential. The industry shall establish that the revelation to the public of
the information in question might result in an advantage to competitors.
   C.   City Easement: The superintendent and other duly authorized employees
of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater
facilities lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any,
on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. 392, 12-
18-1995)
9-3-3: HEARING BOARD; ARBITRATION:
   A.   Council Act As Board: The city council shall act as a hearing board for
arbitration of differences between the superintendent and sewer users on
matters concerning interpretation and execution of the provisions of this
chapter by the superintendent.
   B.   Cost Of Arbitration: The cost of the arbitration will be divided
equally between the city and the sewer user. (Ord. 392, 12-18-1995)
9-3-4: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Garbage Deposits Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or
private property within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
city, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   B.   Prohibited Discharges: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural
outlet within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any
sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Privies And Septic Tanks: Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be
unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank,
cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   D.   Connection To Public Sewer Required: The owner(s) of all houses,
buildings, or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or
other purposes, situated within the city and abutting on any street, alley, or
right of way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a
public sanitary or combined sewer of the city, is hereby required at the owner
(s) expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within thirty (30) days after date of official
notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within five hundred feet
(500') of the property line. (Ord. 392, 12-18-1995)
9-3-5: PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL:
   A.   Connection To Private System: Where a public sanitary or combined sewer
is not available under the provisions of subsection 9-3-4D of this chapter, the
building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal system
complying with the provisions of this section.
   B.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Application; Supplementary Documents: Before commencement of
construction of a private wastewater disposal system, the owner shall first
obtain a written permit signed by the superintendent. The application for such
a permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city, which the applicant
shall supplement by any plans, specifications, and other information as are
deemed necessary by the superintendent.
      2.   Permit And Inspection Fee: A permit and inspection fee shall be paid
to the city at the time the application is filed, in an amount specified by the
city council from time to time.
   C.   Inspection Of Installation: A permit for a private wastewater disposal
system shall not become effective until the installation is completed to the
satisfaction of the superintendent. The superintendent shall be allowed to
inspect the work at any stage of construction, and, in any event, the applicant
for the permit shall notify the superintendent when the work is ready for final
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within forty eight (48) hours of the receipt of notice by the
superintendent, holidays or weekends excepted. (Ord. 392, 12-18-1995)
   D.   Compliance With Regulations And Requirements:
      1.   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the department of
public health and human services of the state of Montana. (Ord. 392, 12-18-
1995; amd. 2006 Code)
      2.   No permit shall be issued for any private wastewater disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than three thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet (square meters). No
septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   E.   Discontinuing Use Of Septic Tanks: At such time as a public sewer
becomes available to a property served by a private wastewater disposal system,
as provided in subsection 9-3-4D of this chapter, a direct connection shall be
made to the public sewer within sixty (60) days, in compliance with this
chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private wastewater
disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with suitable
material.
   F.   Operation In Sanitary Manner: The owner shall operate and maintain the
private wastewater disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no
expense to the city.
   G.   Discharge Into Sanitary Sewer Or Sewer Lagoon; Permit Requirements:
      1.   An owner proposing to discharge waste from a private wastewater
disposal system, or any other user proposing to dispose waste of any kind, into
a sanitary sewer, including the sewer lagoons of the city, shall secure a
permit.
      2.   Unless allowed by the city under the terms and conditions of the
permit, a separate permit shall be secured for each separate discharge.
      3.   This permit will state the specific location of discharge, the time
of day the discharge is to occur, the volume of the discharge and the
wastewater constituents and characteristics.
      4.   If a permit is granted for the discharge of such wastes into a
sanitary sewer, or either of the city's sewer lagoons, the user shall pay the
applicable user charges and fees and shall meet such other conditions as
required by the city. (Ord. 392, 12-18-1995)
   H.   Additional Requirements Of County Board Of Health: No statement
contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with any additional
requirements that may be imposed by the county board of health. (Ord. 392, 12-
18-1995; amd. 2006 Code)
9-3-6: SANITARY SEWERS, BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Public Sewer Connection Or Repair; Permit Required: No unauthorized
person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening into, use, alter, or
disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a
written permit from the superintendent.
   B.   Classes Of Building Sewer Permits; Fees:
      1.   Classes: There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits:
a) for residential and commercial service; and b) for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes.
      2.   Application; Supplementary Documents: In either case, the owner or
his agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the city. The
permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the superintendent.
      3.   Permit, Inspection And Tapping Fees: A permit and inspection fee for
a residential or commercial building sewer permit and for an industrial
building sewer permit shall be paid to the city at the time the application is
filed, in an amount specified by the city council from time to time. In
addition to the permit and inspection fee, a tapping fee in an amount specified
by the city council from time to time shall be paid to the city at the time the
application is filed, where the property requiring sewer service has not been
previously connected with the city sewer. (Ord. 392, 12-18-1995)
      4.   Service Line Installation Or Repairs; Permit Requirements: Any and
all installation, repair, replacement or alteration of service lines from the
main to the consumers premises shall require a permit issued by the city. The
permit shall set forth the reason for work and description of work to be
performed. The holder of the city permit shall be primarily responsible for
compliance with city standards, the state plumbing code, these rules and
regulations, or any other applicable rules and regulations. (Ord. 392, 12-18-
1995; amd. 2006 Code)
   C.   Owner Responsibilities: All costs and expense incidental to the
installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   D.   Separate Connection For Each Building; Exception: A separate and
independent building sewer shall be provided for every building; except where
one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private
sewer is available nor can be constructed to the rear building through an
adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building sewer from the front
building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one
building sewer, but the city does not and will not assume any obligation or
responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such single
connection aforementioned.
   E.   Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the
superintendent, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   F.   Conformance With Building And Plumbing Codes: The size, slope,
alignment, materials of construction of all sanitary sewers including building
sewers, and methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and regulations of
the city and the state of Montana. In the absence of suitable code provisions
or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and WPCF manual of practice no. 9 shall
apply.
   G.   Building Drains: Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought
to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in
which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the building sewer.
   H.   Drainage Of Roof Runoff And Ground Water To Public Sewer Prohibited: No
person shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation drains, areaway
drains, or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a building sewer
or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public
sanitary sewer, unless such connection is approved by the superintendent and
the Montana state department of public health and human services, for purposes
of disposal of polluted surface drainage.
   I.   Building Sewer Connection Into Public Sewer; Compliance With Codes,
Standards: The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, and the state of Montana, or the
procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF
manual of practice no. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and
watertight and verified by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed
procedures and materials shall be approved by the superintendent before
installation.
   J.   Inspection Before Connection To Public Sewer: The applicant for the
building sewer permit shall notify the superintendent when the building sewer
is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection and
testing shall be made under the supervision of the superintendent or his
representative.
   K.   Excavations 1 :
      1.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
      2.   Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
      3.   The customer, at the customer's expense, is responsible for the
excavation from the point of intended use to the main and restoration of the
surface to acceptable condition, all of which shall be done in strict
compliance with any ordinance, resolution or regulation of the city governing
excavations in streets and alleys.
      4.   All excavations in the city streets, alleys or other property
require a permit issued by the city superintendent for a fee in an amount
established by the city council from time to time.
      5.   The customer, at the customer's expense, shall maintain all service
piping and appurtenances in good condition, operable and free from leaks.
Failure to do so may be cause for discontinuance of service. It is the
customer's responsibility to repair any leaks in the service lines immediately
upon discovery. (Ord. 392, 12-18-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 8, chapter 3 of this code.
9-3-7: PUBLIC SEWER USE RESTRICTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Unpolluted Waters: No person shall discharge, or cause to be
discharged, any unpolluted waters such as storm water, surface water, ground
water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, or cooling water to any sewer, except
storm water runoff from limited areas, which storm water may be polluted at
times, may be discharged to the sanitary sewer by permission of the
superintendent and the Montana state department of public health and human
services.
   B.   Storm Sewers: Storm water other than that exempted under subsection A
of this section, and all other unpolluted drainage, shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to
a natural outlet approved by the superintendent and the Montana state
department of health. Unpolluted industrial cooling waters or process waters
may be discharged, on approval of the superintendent, to a storm sewer,
combined sewer, or natural outlet.
   C.   Prohibited Waters And Wastes: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewers:
      1.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard including, but
not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of less than one
hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) or sixty degrees centigrade (60°C)
using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21. These wastes include, but
are not limited to, gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, etc., in solid,
liquid, or gaseous form.
      2.   a. Toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient
quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to contaminate the
sludge of any municipal system, to injure or interfere with any sewage
treatment process, or equipment, constitute a hazard to humans or animals,
create a public nuisance, or result in the pass through of inadequately treated
wastes to receiving waters.
         b.   Each user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an
increase in the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge of the sanitary
sewer treatment works shall pay for such increased costs.
      3.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
      4.   No person shall discharge to a public sewer or storm drainage system
wastes which cause, threaten to cause, or are capable of causing, either alone
or by interaction with other substances:
         a.   A fire or explosion;
         b.   Obstruction of flow in sewer system or injury of the system or
damage to the wastewater collection, treatment or disposal facilities;
         c.   Danger to life or safety of personnel;
         d.   A nuisance or prevention of the effective maintenance or
operation of the sewer system, through having a strong or unpleasant odor;
         e.   Air pollution by the release of toxic or malodorous gases or
malodorous gas producing substances;
         f.   Interference with the wastewater treatment process;
         g.   The city's effluent or any other product of the treatment
process, residues, sludges, or scums, to be unsuitable for reclamation and
reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process;
         h.   A detrimental environmental impact or nuisance in the waters of
the state or a condition unacceptable to any public agency having regulatory
jurisdiction over the agency;
         i.   Discoloration or any other condition in the quality of the city
treatment works effluent in such a manner that receiving water quality
requirements established by law cannot be met;
         j.   Conditions at or near the city treatment works which violate any
statute or any rule, regulation or ordinance of any public agency or state or
federal regulatory body; and
         k.   Quantities or rates of flow which overload the city collection or
treatment facilities or cause excessive city collection or treatment costs, or
may use a disproportionate share of the city facilities.
   D.   Limitations On Certain Discharges: The following described substances,
materials, waters and wastes shall be limited in discharges to municipal
systems to concentrations or quantities which will not harm either the sewers,
the sludge of any municipal system, the wastewater treatment process or
equipment; will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or will not
otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. The
superintendent may set limitations lower than the limitations established in
the regulations below if, in his opinion, such more severe limitations are
necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his opinion as to the
acceptability, the superintendent will give consideration to such factors as
the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, the wastewater treatment
process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment plant, and other
pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions on materials or
characteristics of waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which
shall not be violated without approval of the superintendent are as follows:
      1.   Wastewater having a temperature higher than one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) or sixty five degrees centigrade (65°C).
      2.   Wastewater containing petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils,
or product of mineral oil origin.
      3.   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fat, or
grease.
      4.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded (see definition of
"properly shredded garbage" in section
9-3-1 of this chapter). Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers
from homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering
establishments, or similar places where garbage originates from the preparation
of food in kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the premises or when
served by caterers.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or deleterious substances to
such degree that any such material received in the composite wastewater at the
wastewater treatment works exceeds the limits established by the superintendent
for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing pollutants which result in the
presence of toxic or obnoxious gases, vapors or fumes within the POTW in
quantities which may cause acute worker health and safety concerns or public
nuisance.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      8.   Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both, which constitute a
"slug" as defined in section
9-3-1 of this chapter.
      9.   Waters and wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over the receiving waters.
      10.   Any waters or wastes which, by interaction with other waters or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
      11.   Pollutants which cause corrosive structural damage to the POTW but
in no case discharges with pH lower than 5.0 unless the POTW is specifically
designed to accommodate such discharges.
      12.   Any trucked or hauled wastes unless the POTW is designed to
adequately treat the wastes and the facility has points designated for such
discharges.
   E.   Authority Of Superintendent Regarding Injurious Discharges: If any
waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged to the public
sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the characteristics
enumerated in subsection D of this section, and which, in the judgment of the
superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater facilities,
processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard
to life or constitute a public nuisance, the superintendent may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
(Ord. 392, 12-18-1995)
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges.
If the superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the superintendent and the Montana state department of
public health and human services.
   F.   Grease, Oil And Sand Interceptors:
      1.   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts or any flammable
wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. (Ord. 392, 12-
18-1995; amd. 2006 Code)
      2.   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
superintendent and the Montana state plumbing code, and shall be located as to
be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      3.   In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the
captivated material and shall maintain records of the dates and means of
disposal which are subject to review by the superintendent. Any removal and
hauling of the collected materials not performed by the owner or personnel
shall be performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
   G.   Commercial Garbage: The following provisions shall apply to commercial
garbage:
      1.   A wastewater discharge permit shall be obtained for disposal of
waste from garbage grinders or garbage disintegrating machines, except for
those installed in dwellings.
      2.   a. Waste from garbage grinders shall not be discharged into a
sanitary sewer, except where the user has obtained a permit for that specific
use from the city, and agrees to undertake whatever self-monitoring is required
to enable the city to equitably determine the user charges based on the waste
constituents and characteristics.
         b.   Such grinders shall shred the waste to a degree that all
particles will be carried freely under normal flow conditions prevailing in the
public sewer. Garbage grinders shall not be used for grinding plastic, paper
products, inert materials, garden refuse, human, animal or fowl constituents
and metals. Excessive or unnecessarily large quantities of water shall not be
used to flush ground garbage into the sanitary sewer.
      3.   The following provisions shall supplement the building and plumbing
codes or other applicable rules and regulations of the city and the state of
Montana:
         a.   Any type of business or establishment such as, but not limited
to, restaurants, bakeries, donut shops, takeout or drive-in eating
establishments, ice cream or milk drive-in stations, hospitals, hotels,
markets, recreation or reception halls, etc., where any grease or other
objectionable materials may be discharged into a public or private sewage main
or disposal system shall have a grease interceptor.
         b.   Interceptors shall be constructed in accordance with the prior
approved design by the superintendent.
         c.   Each grease interceptor shall be so installed and connected that
it shall be at all times easily accessible for inspection, cleaning and removal
of the intercepted grease. A grease interceptor may not be installed in any
part of a building where food is handled. Proper location of the grease
interceptor shall meet the plumbing code and the approval of the
superintendent.
         d.   Each business establishment for which a grease interceptor is
required shall have an interceptor, which shall serve only that business
establishment.
         e.   Buildings remodeled for use requiring interceptors shall be
subject to these regulations.
         f.   Waste discharge from fixtures and equipment in the above
mentioned types of establishments which may contain grease or other
objectionable materials, including, but not limited to, scullery sinks, pot and
pan sinks, dishwashers, food waste disposals, soup kettles, etc., and floor
drains located in areas where such objectionable materials may exist, may be
drained into the sanitary waste through the interceptor when approved by the
superintendent. Exception: toilets, urinals, and other fixtures containing
fecal material may not flow through the interceptor.
         g.   The interceptors shall be maintained in efficient operating
condition by periodic removal of the accumulated grease. No such collected
grease shall be introduced into any drainage piping or public or private sewer.
(Ord. 392, 12-18-1995)
         h.   Abandoned grease interceptors shall be emptied and filled as
required for abandoned septic tanks in the state plumbing code. (Ord. 392, 12-
18-1995; amd. 2006 Code)
         i.   The cover for grease interceptors shall be one-half inch (1/2")
thick steel plate reinforced as required by the superintendent, said
reinforcing to depend upon the load to be imposed on the plate. Except as
otherwise provided, the cover shall be gastight on all interceptors and the
waste shall enter the interceptor through the inlet pipe only.
         j.   Interceptors shall be installed in such a manner that drainage
from areas outside the area intended to be served may not enter.
   H.   Pretreatment Or Flow Equalization Facilities: Where pretreatment or
flow equalization facilities are provided or required for any waters or wastes,
they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation
by the owner at his expense.
   I.   Structure To Facilitate Observation, Sampling And Measurement Of
Wastes: When required by the superintendent, the owner of the property serviced
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable
structure together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such structures, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
superintendent. The structure shall be installed by the owner at his expense,
and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   J.   Required Information From User: The superintendent may require a user
of sewer services to provide information needed to determine compliance with
this chapter. These requirements may include:
      1.   Wastewater's discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period.
      2.   Chemical analyses of wastewaters.
      3.   Information on raw materials, processes, and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality.
      4.   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent,
or other materials important to sewer use control.
      5.   A plot plan of sewers of the user's property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location.
      6.   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities.
      7.   Details of systems to prevent and control the loss of materials
through spills to the municipal sewer.
   K.   Test And Analyses Determinations: All measurements, tests, and analyses
of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this
chapter shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of "Standard
Methods For The Examination Of Water And Wastewater", published by the American
Public Health Association. Sampling methods, location, times, durations, and
frequencies are to be determined on an individual basis subject to approval by
the superintendent.
   L.   Special Agreements: No statement contained in this section shall be
construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city
and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the city for treatment. (Ord. 392, 12-18-1995)
9-3-8: TAMPERING WITH WASTEWATER FACILITIES:
No person shall wilfully break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper
with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is part of the wastewater
facilities. (Ord. 392, 12-18-1995)
9-3-9: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation; Remedial Action: Any person found to be violating
any provision of this chapter, except section
9-3-8 of this chapter, shall be served by the city with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   B.   Penalty Imposed: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the
time limit provided for in subsection A of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code.
   C.   Liability For City Costs: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the city by reason of such violation, including attorney fees
reasonably incurred by the city in recovering such damages. (Ord. 392, 12-18-
1995; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SEWER LINE CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Compliance With Regulations
9-4-2: Plan And Construction Requirements; State Approval
9-4-3: Materials Required
9-4-4: Method Of Construction
9-4-5: Special Conditions, Water Line Near Sewer Line
9-4-6: Application To Public Sewer Lines Only
9-4-7: Violations; Penalties
9-4-1: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
Any person desiring to construct a sanitary sewer within the corporate limits
of the city, which sewer will be turned over to the city for operation and
maintenance upon completion, shall be required to construct said sewer in
accordance with the specifications set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 14.08)
9-4-2: PLAN AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS; STATE APPROVAL:
   A.   Plan Required; Specifications:
      1.   Before any sewer line is installed in the city, a plan and profile
of the proposed installation shall be submitted to the city council for their
consideration.
      2.   The plan and profile shall show location of the sewer and area being
served, location of all wyes, location and distances between manholes,
elevation of the invert of the sewer at all points where grade changes,
elevation of tops of all manholes, slopes of the sewer, and all tiles into the
present system.
   B.   Plan Submitted To State; Approval Required: The plan and profile shall
be complete enough so that it can be submitted to the state public health and
human services department for their approval prior to construction. In no case
will construction be started until written approval of the installation is
received from the city council. (Ord. 14.08; amd. 2006 Code)
   C.   Supervision; Inspection:
      1.   Any sewer installation made in the city shall be under the
supervision of the engineer representing the city or the city superintendent.
The engineer representing the city or the city superintendent shall approve the
layout of the work and be responsible to see that the sewer is being laid to
grades specified on the plans.
      2.   It shall be required to have an inspector or the city superintendent
during the actual construction of the work. The inspector or the city
superintendent shall be an employee of the engineer representing the city or an
employee of the city. The inspector or the city superintendent shall be
authorized to inspect all work done and all materials furnished. Such
inspection may extend to all or any part of the work and to the preparation,
fabrication or manufacturer of the materials to be used. The inspector or the
city superintendent will not be authorized to revoke, alter or waive any
requirements of the specifications, however, he is authorized to call attention
to any failure of the work or materials to conform to these specifications. He
shall have the authority to reject materials or suspend the work until any
question at issue can be referred to and decided by the engineer or city
superintendent. The costs of employing the inspector and engineer or city
superintendent shall be borne by the person making said improvement. (Ord.
14.08; amd. Ord. 2.32)
   D.   As Constructed Drawings: After the sewer has been completed and before
acceptance by the city council, there shall be "as constructed drawings"
submitted to the city council. These drawings shall be prepared on regular
plate A 4 x 20 plan and profile paper and shall be prepared in India ink to
serve as a permanent record for the city. These final drawings shall show the
final grade and alignment of the sewer as constructed, the final location of
all manholes in relation to property lines or street intersections and the
actual location of all wyes shall be wyes shown by a dimension from the closest
manhole up grade from the Y.
   E.   Minimum Requirements: Any sewer installed in the city shall meet the
following minimum requirements: (Ord. 14.08)
      1.   The size of the sewer to be installed shall be determined by the
engineer representing the city or the city superintendent. In no case will a
sewer having a diameter less than eight inches (8") be allowed to be installed.
(Ord. 14.08; amd. Ord. 2.32)
      2.   The minimum slope shall be controlled by the flow of the sewer in
feet per second. In no case will a flow of less than two feet (2') per second
be approved.
      3.   Manholes shall be provided at all changes in grade and changes in
direction. (Ord. 14.08)
9-4-3: MATERIALS REQUIRED:
   A.   Pipe: Any sewer pipe, junctions, bends, etc., installed in the city
shall conform to "Specifications For Standard Strength Clay Sewer Pipe" ASTM
designation C13-54 and revisions thereto. When, in the opinion of the engineer
representing the city or the city superintendent, it is necessary to install
extra strength clay sewer pipe, all pipe, junctions, bends, etc., shall conform
to "Tentative Specifications For Extra Strength Clay Sewer Pipe" ASTM
designation C200-55T and revisions thereto. (Ord. 14.08; amd. Ord. 2.32)
   B.   Jointing Compound: The jointing material shall be a hot poured mineral
filled asphaltic base compound meeting federal specifications SS-S169, type I.
In no case will cement mortar or cold application bituminous jointing compound
be allowed.
   C.   Joint Primer: When primer is required, the primer furnished shall be of
the type recommended by the manufacturer of the sewer joint compound being used
on the particular job.
   D.   Jute: Jute furnished shall be dry, twisted, unoiled and of sufficient
diameter and thickness so that the spigot can be properly centered in the bell
of the proceeding pipe.
   E.   Manholes:
      1.   The manholes installed on any sewer project in the city shall be
precast concrete manholes. All manholes shall have a minimum bottom interior
diameter of four feet (4'). When a manhole is four feet (4') or more in depth,
the conventional cone type manhole may be furnished. When a manhole is four
feet (4') or less in depth, a vertical walled manhole having an interior
diameter of four feet (4') shall be furnished. The wall thickness on all
manholes furnished shall be at least eight inches (8") in width and made of
three-fourths inch (3/4") diameter bar stock. The rungs shall be securely
fastened to the concrete sidewalls and spaced sixteen inches (16") apart.
      2.   Every manhole shall be provided with a cast iron ring and solid
cover of a standard type, weighing approximately three hundred twenty five
(325) pounds each.
   F.   Cement Mortar: All cement mortar used in setting the manholes shall be
composed of equal parts of cement and clean, sharp sand free from admixture
with other foreign substances. Enough pure water shall be added to make a stiff
paste.
   G.   Concrete:
      1.   Cement used in the concrete shall conform to the requirements of
ASHO designation M85, type II. Coarse aggregate shall consist of crushed stone,
or gravel ranging in size from coarse to fine from one hundred percent (100%)
passing the one inch (1") sieve to a maximum of five percent (5%) passing the
no. 4 sieve. Fine aggregate shall consist of sand having clean, hard, durable,
uncoated grains ranging in size from coarse to fine from one hundred percent
(100%) passing the no. 4 to a maximum of eight percent (8%) passing the no. 100
sieve. Water used in concrete shall be clear and free from oil, acid or alkali
and shall not be salty or brackish. Cement, fine aggregate, coarse aggregate
and water shall be mixed in a batch mixer in the proportion shown on the table
below.
 
                                           Weight Of       Total     
Min. Cement                                 Fine         Weight Of            Slump
    Content Per    Max. Water      Aggregate             Aggregate   Range
    Cubic Yard     Gal. Per Bag Of     Per Bag Of    Per Bag Of     In
Concrete            Cement                Cement             Cement               Inches
   5.7              6                  190-230         595            3-4
 
   (Ord. 14.08)
      2.   The weights of fine and coarse aggregate shall be adjusted by the
engineer or city superintendent to ensure concrete of a satisfactory plasticity
and workability, using not more than the maximum permissible net water content
shown. During the progress of the work, the total weight of aggregate per bag
of cement shall not be changed except when ordered by the engineer or city
superintendent. (Ord. 14.08; amd. Ord. 2.32)
9-4-4: METHOD OF CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Trenches:
      1.   Trenches shall be excavated sufficiently wide to allow for placing
and working around the pipe. The minimum width of the trench for eight inch
(8") and ten inch (10") pipe shall be twenty four inches (24"). On larger
diameter pipe, the trench width shall be sufficient to allow at least six
inches (6") between the bell and the trench wall. Care shall be taken to keep
the trench as narrow as possible so that the load created by the backfill can
be kept to a minimum. (Ord. 14.08)
      2.   Trenches shall be excavated to the lines and grades approved by the
city council. The last two inches (2") of the trench bottom will be excavated
by hand and shaped accurately, so that the bottom quadrant of the pipe will be
supported on undisturbed earth. When rock is encountered at the trench bottom,
it shall be excavated to sufficient depth to admit refilling under the body and
the bell of the pipe with three inches (3") of fine dry earth or sand, which
shall be carefully tamped, so as to firmly fit the under half of the pipe. When
quicksand or other unstable material is encountered in the trench bottom, it
shall be excavated to a depth of at least six inches (6") below the grade and a
solid foundation built with gravel, broken stone, or concrete, all in such a
manner as the engineer or city superintendent shall direct.
   B.   Excavation For Manholes: Excavation for manholes shall be carried six
inches (6") below the invert grade of the sewer to allow for a six inch (6")
base under the manhole.
   C.   Pipe; Jointing:
      1.   Pipe shall not be laid until the trench is prepared to proper grade
at least fifty feet (50') in advance of the finished work. In all cases, the
bottom quadrant of the pipe shall be fully and uniformly supported. Bell holes
shall be carefully excavated at proper intervals so that no part of the load is
supported by the bells. The full load shall rest on the barrel of the pipe.
Pipe shall not be laid in water or mud. All water that would in any way hinder
the progress of the work or impair the quality of the work shall be removed
from the trench by pumping or bailing (or by some method equally effective and
approved by the inspector or city superintendent). The pipe shall be laid with
the use of grade stakes, grade bars, grade string, and grade rod. Grade stakes
shall be set at twenty five foot (25') intervals on an offset line along the
centerline of the trench. Trenches shall be dug with mechanical digging
equipment from grade and line established from the grade stakes. Care shall be
taken to keep the bottom of the trench two inches (2") higher than the final
grade. When digging is completed, grade bars shall be set across the trench at
each grade stake. The grade bar shall be set at some even foot above the cut
shown for the grade stake, hereby establishing at twenty five foot (25')
intervals, the grade on which the sewer pipe is to be laid. The grade string
shall then be stretched across the top of the grade bars on the exact
centerline of the ditch as established from the grade stakes. The pipe shall
then be laid by means of a grade rod, grading each pipe as it is laid from the
invert of the pipe to the grade string. All pipe shall be laid with the bells
upgrade. Pipe shall be laid continuous from beginning to end. No break in the
line shall occur at points where manholes are to be installed. The grades on
which the sewer is laid shall conform exactly to the grades shown on the plan
and profile submitted to and approved by the city council. If it is found
desirable during construction to revise the grade, such revision shall be first
submitted to the engineer or city superintendent for approval. Any such changes
shall be noted on the "as constructed drawings".
      2.   As soon as the pipe has been laid and properly graded, a length of
dry unoiled jute shall be caulked into the annular space of the bell of the
pipe. The jute shall be of sufficient diameter and thickness to hold the spigot
end of the pipe concentric with the bell of the proceeding pipe and shall be of
sufficient length to encircle the barrel of the pipe.
      3.   When finally caulked, the jute shall take up approximately twenty
five percent (25%) of the depth of the socket or bell and shall be filled with
jointing compound.
      4.   The jointing compound shall be poured into the socket or bell with
the use of asbestos or rubber joint runners of suitable diameter and length to
seal the outer joint face while pouring the joint. The jointing compound shall
be heated to the temperature recommended by the manufacturer before pouring.
The compound shall be poured into the joint using a container of sufficient
size so that the joint can be filled in one pouring. The joint runner shall be
left in place until the joint has cooled to the extent that the jointing
compound will not sag or creep when the runner is removed. In cases where
adhesion cannot be obtained between the compound and the pipe, the interior of
the bells and the spigot ends of the pipe shall be painted with a joint primer.
This primer shall be applied twenty four (24) hours prior to the time the pipe
is to be laid so that the primer is dry and hard. Wherever it is necessary to
pour joints in the presence of water, the trenches shall be kept water free
during jointing and for a sufficient period thereafter to allow the jointing
material to become fully set and completely resistant to water penetration.
      5.   Eight inch by six inch (8" x 6") or eight inch by four inch (8" x
4") wye junctions shall be provided for each lot that the sewer is to serve.
The six inch (6") or four inch (4") outlet shall be provided with a clay
stopper of proper diameter which shall be firmly held in position and sealed
with jointing compound.
   D.   Sewer Line Inspection: After each lateral or section of the line
between manholes has been laid and jointed, and prior to backfilling over the
pipe, the sewer line will be inspected by the inspector or engineer, or the
city superintendent. This inspection shall consist of careful examination of
the joints to see that a good seal is made between the jointing compound and
the pipe, the examination of the method in which pipe is bedded, and the
alignment of the pipe. To be approved for alignment, it will be necessary for
the inspector or city superintendent to clearly see a light held in the pipe at
the high point of the line, from the low point of the line. Should any lateral
or section of line between manholes not pass any of the above requirements,
same shall be removed and replaced to the satisfaction of the engineer or city
superintendent. (Ord. 14.08; amd. Ord. 2.32)
   E.   Manhole Requirements:
      1.   Sewer manholes, as specified above, shall be provided at all changes
in grade and at all changes in direction. The base under the manholes shall be
made of cast in place concrete having a diameter one foot (1') greater than the
outside diameter of the manhole and a thickness of at least six inches (6").
The top of the manhole base shall be set in cement grout on the base and a
finished floor shall be poured in the bottom of the manhole bringing the floor
level at the center of the manhole halfway up on the sewer pipe. When the floor
has firmly set, the upper one- half (1/2) of the sewer pipe shall be carefully
broken off so that the lower one-half (1/2) of the sewer pipe forms a trough
through the manhole. The finished floor of the manhole shall slope from the
side of the manhole to the trough on a slope of approximately two inches (2")
per foot. In no case will it be permissible to set the manhole to grade on
temporary supports prior to pouring the base.
      2.   In cases where there is an abrupt change in elevation in the invert
grade of the sewer, it shall be provided with a drop manhole. The drop manhole
shall be constructed so that the sewage from the high sewer drops to the invert
elevation of the low sewer outside of the manhole proper and discharges into
the manhole at the elevation of the low sewer. The high sewer shall also be run
straight into the manhole and plugged to provide for the proper cleaning of the
high sewer line. In no case and under no conditions will the high sewer line be
allowed to dump directly into the manhole. (Ord. 14.08)
      3.   After manholes have been set and rings and covers are in place, the
top of the ring and cover shall meet the finished grade of the street or alley.
All manholes shall be checked by the inspector or city superintendent prior to
setting, and should any manhole be too short or too long to meet the required
street or alley grade, same will be rejected by the inspector or city
superintendent. (Ord. 14.08; amd. Ord. 2.32)
      4.   Cement mortar shall be placed between each manhole section before
the next section is set in place. After the manhole has been set, the excess
mortar shall be removed from the inside wall surface by means of a trowel or
other approved tools.
      5.   Ladder rungs and rings and covers shall be well coated with hot
asphalt or other approved coating to protect them against rust. (Ord. 14.08)
   F.   Backfilling Trenches: Trenches shall be backfilled as soon as the pipe
has been laid, approved and ordered by the inspector or the city
superintendent. Backfill around and under, and for two feet (2') over the top
of, the pipe shall be in uniform layers not exceeding six inches (6") in depth.
Each layer shall be thoroughly tamped with a tamper weighing not less than
twenty (20) pounds, and having a surface of not more than eight inches (8") in
diameter. Rocks larger in volume than six inches (6") cubed shall be excluded
from the backfill and with other surplus material and debris removed by the
contractor as directed by the engineer or city superintendent.
   G.   Surfacing Improved Or Graveled Streets: On improved streets or alleys,
such as streets and alleys having concrete, cement asphalt or road mix oil
surfaces or on graveled streets where the amount of traffic requires that the
street be repaired and left in as good a condition as before the work
commenced, the backfill shall be tamped for the entire depth of the trench and
until at least ninety percent (90%) of the original density has been acquired.
After the trench has been thoroughly compacted and approved by the engineer or
city superintendent, a surface, conforming to the type of surface in place on
the undisturbed part of the streets or alleys, shall be replaced over the
trench excavation and the streets or alleys shall be left in as good a
condition as before the work commenced.
   H.   Settling Unimproved Streets: On unimproved streets or alleys, when a
covering of two feet (2') has been placed on top of the pipe, as above
described, tamping may be dispensed with and water used for settling the
backfill as directed by the engineer or inspector, or the city superintendent,
and the streets or alleys left in as good a condition as before the work
commenced.
   I.   Walking Or Working On Surface: Walking or working on the top of the
completed sewer, except as may be necessary in tamping or backfilling, shall
not be permitted until the trench has been backfilled to a depth of at least
two feet (2') above the top of the pipe.
   J.   Replacing Sidewalk Or Alley Crossings: In cases where it is necessary
to remove sidewalk or alley crossings during excavation, it will be the
responsibility of the contractor to replace these portions of sidewalk or alley
crossings to the satisfaction of the engineer or city superintendent. (Ord.
14.08; amd. Ord. 2.32)
9-4-5: SPECIAL CONDITIONS, WATER LINE NEAR SEWER LINE:
In cases where a sanitary sewer crosses a water line within two feet (2') of
the water line, the section of the sewer line ten feet (10') on either side of
the water line shall be cast iron pipe. In cases where it is necessary to run a
sanitary sewer parallel to and less than ten feet (10') from a water line, that
portion of the sewer running closer than ten feet (10') from the water line
shall be cast iron pipe. (Ord. 14.08)
9-4-6: APPLICATION TO PUBLIC SEWER LINES ONLY:
The specifications of this chapter for the construction of sewer lines are
intended to and shall apply only to such public lines in the streets, avenues
and alleys in the city, and such specifications are not intended to and shall
not apply to the construction of private sewer lines built to connect private
or publicly owned buildings not in the streets and alleys with the public sewer
lines. (Ord. 14.08)
9-4-7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Illegal Connections: It shall be unlawful for any person to connect any
new public sewer lines to the existing public sewer lines without complying
with this chapter and without first obtaining the approval of the city engineer
or city superintendent. If any public sewer lines shall be connected to
existing public sewer lines without having complied with this chapter, the city
may cause the connection between the new line and the older existing lines to
be broken and may forbid further use of the offending sewer line until this
chapter be complied with. (Ord. 14.08; amd. Ord. 2.32)
   B.   Penalty Imposed: Every contractor, corporation or person who shall
construct or participate in the construction of any sewer line in the streets,
avenues and alleys within the city limits in such a manner as to violate any or
all of the specifications of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 14.08; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 5
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
9-5-1: Definitions
9-5-2: Direction And Control
9-5-3: Collection Of Residential Garbage And Other Refuse
9-5-4: Removal Of Commercial Garbage, Market Refuse, Other Waste
9-5-5: Preparation Of Refuse For Collection
9-5-6: Dirt And Rocks; Building Rubbish
9-5-7: Removal Of Carcasses
9-5-8: Deleterious Clothing, Bedding, Other Materials
9-5-9: Garbage Receptacles And Racks; Canisters And Pads
9-5-10: Disturbing Refuse Receptacles Or Contents
9-5-11: Burning Of Waste Prohibited
9-5-12: Imposition And Collection Of Fees And Charges
9-5-13: Penalty
9-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, in this chapter, the following
definitions apply:
BUILDING RUBBISH: The waste material from the construction, remodeling and
repair operation on houses, commercial buildings and other structures. It
comprises, among a great variety of rejected matter, excavated earth, stones,
bricks, plaster, wallpaper, lumber, shingles, concrete, and waste occasioned by
the installation or replacement of plumbing, heating systems, electrical work
and roofing.
COMMERCIAL WASTE: The waste which originates from places engaged primarily in
the sale or furnishing of goods or services.
GARBAGE: The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling, cooking
and consumption of foods. It is composed largely of organic matter and its
natural moisture content. "Garbage" originates primarily in kitchens, homes,
restaurants, hotels and other places where food is cooked or consumed.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: A. A waste or combination of wastes that, because of its
quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics,
may:
      1.   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
      2.   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, or disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   B.   Hazardous wastes do not include those substances governed by Montana
Code Annotated title 81, chapter 4, part 2.
MARKET REFUSE: The refuse from wholesale and retail stores and markets
resulting from the handling, storage and selling of food products. It
originates principally in poultry, fish, vegetable and fruit markets and from
the ordinary operation of preparing food products for sale.
REFUSE: This term is used to refer to solid waste.
RESIDENTIAL WASTE: All waste which is not included in the definition of
Commercial Waste above.
SOLID WASTE: All putrescible and nonputrescible wastes, including, but not
limited to, garbage, rubbish, refuse, ashes, sludge from sewage treatment
plants, water supply treatment plants, or air pollution control facilities;
construction and demolition wastes; dead animals, including offal; discarded
home and industrial appliances; and wood products or wood byproducts and inert
materials. "Solid waste" does not mean municipal sewage, industrial wastewater
effluents, mining wastes regulated under the mining and reclamation laws
administered by the department of environmental quality, slash and forest
debris regulated under laws administered by the department of natural resources
and conservation, or marketable byproducts. (Ord. 388, 10-18-1993; amd. 2006
Code)
9-5-2: DIRECTION AND CONTROL:
All matters relating to collection, removal and disposal of waste shall be done
and performed under the supervision, direction, and control of the person
designated to be in charge thereof by the city council, in strict conformity
with the provisions of this chapter and with any additional rules and
regulations that may be made from time to time by the city council. (Ord. 388,
10-18-1993)
9-5-3: COLLECTION OF RESIDENTIAL GARBAGE AND OTHER REFUSE:
   A.   Placement Of Receptacle In Alley: All residential garbage and refuse,
except as herein otherwise provided, shall be deposited in the alley nearest
the premises, or at a place designated by the city superintendent, in a
receptacle having a lid, so that the city garbage collector may remove such
garbage.
   B.   Exception To Alley Placement; List Of Properties: Where there is no
alley adjacent to the premises, said garbage and refuse may be handled, kept
and deposited at the place and in the manner it is being handled, kept and
deposited at the effective date hereof. The city superintendent, or some person
under his direction, shall prepare a list of all properties where garbage is
not presently being deposited in the alley nearest the premises and a brief
description of the manner in which said garbage is being handled, kept and
deposited. This list, when completed, shall be delivered to the city clerk-
treasurer for a permanent file. (Ord. 388, 10-18-1993)
9-5-4: REMOVAL OF COMMERCIAL GARBAGE, MARKET REFUSE, OTHER WASTE:
   A.   Removal Of Garbage: Commercial garbage, refuse and market refuse, when
placed out of doors, shall be deposited in containers, with lids, and shall be
removed from the premises where such garbage originated, or such commercial
garbage, refuse and market refuse will be removed by the city garbage
collectors after proper arrangements are made at the office of the city clerk-
treasurer, and charges paid.
   B.   Removal When Necessary: Commercial garbage, refuse and market refuse
shall be removed to the northern Montana joint refuse disposal district roll-
off site from the premises where it originates when the quantity of such
material makes daily removal necessary; but in any event, such material shall
be removed as often as is reasonably necessary. (Ord. 388, 10-18-1993)
9-5-5: PREPARATION OF REFUSE FOR COLLECTION:
   A.   Garbage: All garbage shall be drained of all surplus liquids, except
grease, and thereupon shall be packaged or contained in a manner which will
prevent seepage or spillage before depositing said garbage in the garbage
receptacle.
   B.   Paper And Combustible Rubbish: Paper and combustible rubbish of every
kind whatsoever shall be packaged or contained in a manner that will prevent
blowing by the wind and shall then be deposited in a proper receptacle.
   C.   Lawn Trimmings, Weeds:
      1.   Grass cut from lawns, weeds removed from yards and gardens, and
similar waste will be placed either in a box with a secure cover or lid or in a
plastic bag which is securely fastened at the top and the box or plastic bag
shall then be placed in or beside the garbage receptacles.
      2.   Trimmings resulting from trimming or removing hedges and trees shall
be cut up into short lengths, not to exceed three feet (3'), and securely tied
or bound together, and placed in or beside the garbage receptacles, or removed
to the northern Montana joint refuse disposal district roll-off site by the
occupant or owner of the premises. (Ord. 388, 10-18-1993)
      3.   Tree trunks more than six inches (6") in diameter at the large end
shall be removed to the northern Montana joint refuse disposal district roll-
off site by the owner or occupant of the premises, and will not be removed by
the city garbage collectors. (Ord. 388, 10-18-1993; amd. 2006 Code)
   D.   Plastic Bags: All plastic bags used to contain any of the materials
required by this chapter to be placed in plastic bags shall be of a strength
and size sufficient to handle such material without spilling or breaking. (Ord.
388, 10-18-1993)
9-5-6: DIRT AND ROCKS; BUILDING RUBBISH:
   A.   Hauling Away Dirt And Rocks: Dirt and rocks accumulated as a result of
improving or grading lawns and gardens, accumulated as a result of excavation
of building sites, shall not be deposited in streets or alleys, but shall be
removed from the premises where such material originates, by the occupant,
owner, contractor, or whoever was responsible for doing the work. Such dirt and
rocks may be used to fill in low lots, with the consent of the owner of the low
lots, or may be used to fill in low streets, with the consent of the city
council or city superintendent, or may be removed to the northern Montana joint
refuse disposal district roll-off site.
   B.   Other Building Rubbish: Other building rubbish shall be removed to the
northern Montana joint refuse disposal district roll-off site from the premises
where such rubbish originates, by the occupant, owner, contractor or whoever
was responsible for doing the work. (Ord. 388, 10-18-1993)
9-5-7: REMOVAL OF CARCASSES:
No dead animals shall be placed with, or in, any garbage or other refuse. All
dead animals shall be removed by their owner, or other person on whose premises
they may be found, to the northern Montana joint refuse disposal district roll-
off site within a reasonable time as determined by the animal control officer,
no more than twenty four (24) hours after death or notice of death. Each person
removing a dead animal to the roll-off site shall comply with the applicable
rules or requirements of the northern Montana joint refuse disposal district.
(Ord. 388, 10-18-1993; amd. 2006 Code)
9-5-8: DELETERIOUS CLOTHING, BEDDING, OTHER MATERIALS:
All rubbish, such as rags, used clothing, bedding, mattresses, shoes and other
materials which may carry infectious or contagious substances or communicable
diseases shall not be placed in or with any garbage or other refuse, but taken
as directly as possible, to the northern Montana joint refuse disposal district
roll-off site. The collectors shall not retain any material of this character
nor carry the same to any premises for storage, segregation or use. (Ord. 388,
10-18-1993)
9-5-9: GARBAGE RECEPTACLES AND RACKS; CANISTERS AND PADS:
   A.   Receptacle And Rack Specifications: The owner and occupant, or either
of them, of all property where garbage is placed out of doors preparatory to
collection shall provide containers with a cover for the garbage, and shall
provide a rack for each container, so constructed that wind or animals cannot
upset the container. The rack shall consist of a platform raised not less than
one foot (1') nor more than two feet (2') above the surrounding ground level.
The garbage receptacles shall have tight fitting covers and shall be
rodentproof. Such garbage receptacles shall be of a size and material as
specified from time to time by the city council.
   B.   Pads For Canisters: All canisters shall be located on a hard, smooth
surface which will allow unrestricted rolling. The surface shall consist of a
four foot by eight foot (4' x 8') pad for one and one-half (11/2) yard
canisters and a six foot by eight foot (6' x 8') pad for three (3) yard
canisters. (Ord. 388, 10-18-1993)
9-5-10: DISTURBING REFUSE RECEPTACLES OR CONTENTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to molest, remove, handle, go through the
contents or otherwise disturb the refuse receptacles or the contents thereof,
which have been properly placed for service; provided, that this section shall
not apply to the owner or occupant of the residence dwelling or other building,
so placing the refuse and receptacle, or to others whose legal duty it is to
handle said receptacles and/or their contents. (Ord. 388, 10-18-1993)
9-5-11: BURNING OF WASTE PROHIBITED 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any waste within the city limits in
the open air or in any garbage receptacle or container of any sort. (Ord. 388,
10-18-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 5-1-1C of this code.
9-5-12: IMPOSITION AND COLLECTION OF FEES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Collection Fees; Billing With Water Bill: The city sanitation
department will weekly, semiweekly, or daily, as required, remove all waste
from the waste receptacles and transport it to the northern Montana joint
refuse disposal district roll-off site. For this service, a fee is hereby
imposed by the city to be paid by each water user, owner or occupant from whose
premises the waste is removed. This fee will be billed with the monthly water
bill, and collected and paid as a part of said bill and subject to the same
penalties for nonpayment as those applicable to nonpayment of water bills where
the waste is removed from the premises of a water customer of the city 1 .
   B.   Nonwater Customer: Where the waste is removed from the premises of a
nonwater customer, the fee will be billed monthly to the owner or occupant of
the premises.
   C.   Rates Determined By Council: The rates to be charged for waste removal
and the rental charges for canisters furnished by the city shall be established
by resolution of the city council from time to time. (Ord. 388, 10-18-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-1-4 of this title.
9-5-13: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 388, 10-18-1993; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 6
WATER CONSERVATION PLAN
SECTION:
9-6-1: Purpose
9-6-2: Goals
9-6-3: Scope
9-6-4: Responsibility
9-6-5: Supply Management
9-6-6: Demand Management
9-6-7: Water Supply Emergencies; Penalty
9-6-8: Drought Emergency Conservation Plan
9-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this plan is to formally define and adopt an ongoing water
conservation plan for the municipal water utility of the city of Cut Bank,
Montana. (Ord. 2007-03, 9-17-2007)
9-6-2: GOALS:
The goals to be achieved as a result of adopting an ongoing water conservation
plan are as follows:
   A.   Improve the efficiency and life of the municipal water utility
facilities;
   B.   Reduce both operating and capital costs associated with the operations
of the municipal water utility;
   C.   Conserve a valuable and limited natural resource; and
   D.   Assist the community in coping with water supply emergencies. (Ord.
2007-03, 9-17-2007)
9-6-3: SCOPE:
This plan shall apply to all customers of the municipal water utility whether
same are located within or outside the corporate city limits and whether such
customers are directly or indirectly provided with city water. (Ord. 2007-03,
9-17-2007)
9-6-4: RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be the responsibility of the city superintendent to administer this
water conservation plan. (Ord. 2007-03, 9-17-2007)
9-6-5: SUPPLY MANAGEMENT:
To conserve water within the system, the municipal water utility shall:
   A.   Meter all customer service accounts (does not include fire lines);
   B.   Meter all withdrawals from the source of water supply (Cut Bank Creek);
   C.   Meter all treated water pumped into the municipal water distribution
system from the municipal water treatment plant;
   D.   Maintain "unaccounted for water" at eighteen percent (18%) or less; and
   E.   The water commission meets at least semiannually in June and December
and may determine any necessity for additional meetings, if needed. At all
times the city superintendent shall monitor the upstream conditions of Cut Bank
Creek and continuously monitor and update a listing of all upstream users to be
contacted, if necessary. (Ord. 2007-03, 9-17-2007)
9-6-6: DEMAND MANAGEMENT:
To encourage water conservation by customers, the municipal water utility
shall:
   A.   Maintain water rate schedules that are based upon cost of service;
   B.   Promote water conservation by means of bill inserts, newspaper
articles, newsletters, pamphlets, facilities tours and annual consumer
confidence reports;
   C.   Promote the installation and use of water saving fixtures; and
   D.   Promote the reuse and recycling of water whenever possible especially
as such pertains to commercial and industrial customers. (Ord. 2007-03, 9-17-
2007)
9-6-7: WATER SUPPLY EMERGENCIES; PENALTY:
In an emergency situation the city superintendent and/or mayor is authorized
under ordinance 305 and this chapter to ration or limit the use of water for
lawn and garden sprinkling. The water commission may review this or any action
taken by the city superintendent and/or mayor and approve the action taken or
modify the action as they deem necessary to maintain an adequate supply of
water in the reservoirs for fire protection of the city. Furthermore, this
chapter provides that any person using water for the purpose of watering or
sprinkling any lawn or garden at a time prohibited by the regulations or rules
established by the water commission and approved by the city council shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 2007-03, 9-17-2007)
9-6-8: DROUGHT EMERGENCY CONSERVATION PLAN:
The city of Cut Bank operates a municipal utility. This utility is a public
utility as provided in Montana Code Annotated 69-3-101. As a public utility,
the city of Cut Bank is obligated by law 1  to provide "reasonably adequate
service and facilities". The city of Cut Bank has potential legal liability on
any failure to provide reasonably adequate service to its customers.
Any restrictions beyond lawn sprinkling and recreational use entail serious
problems. The remaining uses of water are for domestic consumption, sanitary
use, governmental use, agricultural use, commercial use, and industrial use.
Reduction of domestic consumption, sanitary use, and governmental use can
impact the health, safety and welfare of the customers of the municipal water
utility. Restrictions on commercial use, industrial use, and agricultural use
can involve economic hardship for those users. Thus, the city superintendent
and/or mayor shall only impose such additional restrictions over and above lawn
sprinkling and recreational use restrictions after approval by the city water
commission and the city council.
Depending on the severity of the drought, possible actions that the city
council could take are set forth in the drought emergency conservation plan
(stages I, II, III, IV, V, VI) as follows:
   DROUGHT EMERGENCY CONSERVATION PLAN
   STAGE I
Drought condition  Minor
Drought condition          Minor
Water use reduction goal   5 to 10 percent
Public information action  Explain drought/emergency conditions
                          Disseminate technical information
                          Request voluntary reduction
Public sector action       Comply with adopted use restrictions hereunder
                            Restrict lawn watering including city parks and the
Use restrictions           sports complex, limit use of water for street
                            cleaning purposes
Penalties                  As established by the city
 
   STAGE II
Drought condition  Moderate
Drought condition          Moderate
Water use reduction goal   15 to 20 percent
Public information action  Use news media intensively to explain emergency
                          Explain restrictions and penalties
                          Explain actions in potential succeeding stages
Public sector action       Comply with adopted use restrictions hereunder
Use restrictions           Restrict all outdoor water use
Penalties                  As established by the city
 
   STAGE III
 
Drought condition          Severe
Water use reduction goal   20 to 30 percent
Public information action  Same as stage II
Public sector action       Prohibit all public water use not required for
                            health or safety
Use restrictions           Prohibit all outdoor water use
Penalties                  As established by the city
 
   STAGE IV
 
Drought condition          Critical
Water use reduction goal   50 percent or more
Public information action  Same as stage II
Public sector action       Reduce water system allotments to residential
                            customers
                            Mandate percentage water reductions or shut down
                          commercial and/or industrial customers as
                            determined by the water commission
                            Severely curtail or shut down water use by North
                            Glacier County water district, Seville Housing. All
                          other users whether metered or not which are
                            located outside the city of Cut Bank corporate
                            limits
Penalties                  As established by the city
 
   STAGE V
   DECLARATION OF A STATE OF EMERGENCY
The mayor, as the chief executive officer for the city of Cut Bank, may,
pursuant to Montana Code Annotated section 10-3-402, declare a local emergency
and issue an order declaring the nature of the emergency, the area threatened
and the conditions causing the emergency and how the emergency may be
terminated.
   STAGE VI
   DECLARATION OF A STATE OF DISASTER
The mayor, as the chief executive officer of the city of Cut Bank, may,
pursuant to Montana Code Annotated section 10-3-403, declare a local disaster
if the mayor feels a disaster is occurring or has occurred. The mayor shall
follow all requirements of Montana Code Annotated title 10, part 4, when
declaring either an emergency or disaster and consult with appropriate county
and state officers and personnel to mitigate the effects of the emergency or
disaster.
(Ord. 2007-03, 9-17-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA 69-3-201.
TITLE 10
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
STATE BUILDING CODE; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Adoption Of Codes
10-1-2: Effect Of Future Amendments To State Building Code
10-1-3: Board Of Appeals
10-1-4: Territorial Application
10-1-5: Building Plan Review
10-1-6: Inspections
10-1-7: Inspector Qualifications And Duties
10-1-8: Factory Built Buildings
10-1-9: School Plans
10-1-10: Permit Fees
10-1-11: Surveys Of Certain Installations; Fees
10-1-12: Foundation Footings
10-1-13: Buildings And Flues Within And Outside Fire Limits
10-1-14: Violations; Penalties
10-1-1: ADOPTION OF CODES:
   A.   Adoption Of State Building Code: There is hereby adopted by the city
council for the purpose of regulating buildings in the city and of protecting
the health and safety of the city's citizens, a certain code known as "the
state building code" 1 .
   B.   Adoption Of Technical Codes And Administrative Regulations: The current
editions of the building codes and all accompanying appendices, amendments and
modifications adopted by the building codes bureau, Montana department of labor
and industry (or its successors), as set out in the administrative rules of
Montana, as amended from time to time by the building codes bureau, shall be
adopted by a city of Cut Bank administrative order of the mayor, as authorized
by Montana Code Annotated section 50-60-301(1)(b), except for any exceptions
noted in this chapter or any regulations not applicable to local government
jurisdictions. (Ord. 2007-01, 6-18-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA 50-60-203.
10-1-2: EFFECT OF FUTURE AMENDMENTS TO STATE BUILDING CODE:
Any codes or amendments adopted by the building codes bureau which apply to
local government jurisdictions, including the adoption of the latest editions
of the model technical codes (i.e., model energy codes, international building
code (IBC), etc.) and/or applicable administrative rules of Montana shall
become effective in the city of Cut Bank upon order of the mayor within ninety
(90) days after the date that the bureau notifies the city of Cut Bank of said
amendments.
   A.   Copies On File: Two (2) copies of each of the codes referred to
hereinabove shall be kept on file at city hall and available from the city
clerk-treasurer for inspection by the public. (Ord. 2007-01, 6-18-2007)
10-1-3: BOARD OF APPEALS:
In order to determine the suitability of alternate materials and methods of
construction and to provide for reasonable interpretation of the provisions of
the codes adopted in section
10-1-1 of this chapter, there shall be, and is hereby, created a board of
appeals, consisting of five (5) members who are qualified by experience and
training to pass upon matters pertaining to building construction. The building
inspector shall be an ex officio member and shall act as secretary of the
board. The board of appeals shall be appointed by the city council and shall
hold office at its pleasure. The board shall adopt reasonable rules and
regulations for conducting its investigations and shall render all decisions
and findings in writing to the building inspector, with a duplicate copy to the
applicant, and may recommend to the city council such new legislation as is
consistent herewith. (Ord. 15.03 Amended, 10-3-2005)
10-1-4: TERRITORIAL APPLICATION:
The jurisdictional area of the building department of the city of Cut Bank
shall be the corporate limits of the city of Cut Bank. (Ord. 15.03 Amended, 10-
3-2005)
10-1-5: BUILDING PLAN REVIEW:
   A.   The building inspector shall be responsible for the plan review
coordination and for issuance of building permits.
   B.   Upon application by any person for a building permit, the building
inspector shall review the plans for compliance with the codes adopted in
section
10-1-1 of this chapter. The building inspector shall submit the plans to any
other affected city department for review and approval by the department before
issuance of a permit.
   C.   Building plan review shall be completed by the building inspector
within thirty (30) working days of submittal by applicant.
   D.   The building inspector may, in proper cases, request the aid of the
building codes division, other state agencies, or professional consultants to
aid in coordination of review. In such cases, the building inspector may
lengthen the completion time for review by ten (10) working days when
necessary. (Ord. 15.03 Amended, 10-3-2005)
10-1-6: INSPECTIONS:
Inspections shall be conducted by the building inspector. Where other
departments require inspection, the building inspector shall ensure that they
are conducted within the time frame allowed in section
10-1-2 of this chapter. Final inspections and issuance of certificates of
occupancy shall be conducted in accordance with the international building
code. (Ord. 15.03 Amended, 10-3-2005)
10-1-7: INSPECTOR QUALIFICATIONS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The building inspector shall be the person with adequate knowledge of
the building trade and such other qualifications as may be prescribed by the
city council from time to time. As building inspector, his duties shall include
those set forth in the international building code and in Montana Code
Annotated title 50, chapter 60, as now or hereinafter amended.
   B.   The building department staff shall consist of the building inspector
and such deputies or representatives as may, from time to time, be appointed by
the city council. (Ord. 15.03 Amended, 10-3-2005)
10-1-8: FACTORY BUILT BUILDINGS:
Factory built buildings which are approved by the Montana building codes
division, department of labor and industry shall be subject to local government
inspection and fees for only foundations and/or any additions to be added to
the factory built building. Zoning and utility connections should be applied
for through the appropriate departments and not through the building codes
department and/or the building inspector. (Ord. 15.03 Amended, 10-3-2005)
10-1-9: SCHOOL PLANS:
Inspection and approval of plans for school buildings shall be in accordance
with administrative rules of Montana section 2.2.1(1) - S11050 (I). The
building inspector shall notify the building codes division of local approval
of site, sewer, water, and other local requirements within five (5) days of
such approval before further action is taken. (Ord. 15.03 Amended, 10-3-2005)
10-1-10: PERMIT FEES:
Building permit fees shall be set and established by the city council from time
to time by appropriate resolution. (Ord. 15.03 Amended, 10-3-2005)
10-1-11: SURVEYS OF CERTAIN INSTALLATIONS; FEES:
   A.   Surveys And Recommendations: When requested to do so by the owner,
tenant, or any person authorized to make such a request by the owner or tenant
of any building within the city limits, it shall be the duty of the city
building inspector to make a complete survey of all electrical wiring or all
plumbing or all gas heating installations and pipes or any other heating
installations and pipes in any building within the city limits and to make such
recommendations for the alteration, repair or replacement of any such
installations or systems, as the circumstances require; and if so requested,
the building inspector shall make his recommendation in writing, and furnish
copies to the owner of the building and the person making the request, if not
the owner, and file one copy in his office.
   B.   Survey Fees: Such requests shall be made in writing and the application
shall be accompanied by the following prescribed fees, which shall be deposited
with the city clerk and by him paid to the city treasurer:
For a complete survey of a building used for residential purposes and having
accommodations for not more than three (3) families, the sum of five dollars
($5.00) per story; and for a complete survey of buildings used for other
purposes including buildings used for residential purposes and having
accommodations for four (4) or more families and for building used for both
residential and other purposes, the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) per story.
(Ord. 15.24)
10-1-12: FOUNDATION FOOTINGS:
   A.   Construction Specifications: Foundation footings of all buildings
hereafter constructed, altered or repaired within the city shall be made of
concrete of at least one part of Portland cement, three (3) parts of clean sand
and five (5) parts of gravel passing a two and one-half inch (21/2") screen,
and of sufficient thickness and area to safely sustain the weight to be imposed
thereon, and shall be not less than that provided in the following table:
 
                                                       Thickness
                  Height    Width     Width Of Of
                Of Wall      Of Wall      Footing        Footing
Garage footings    6 inche   6 inche   12 inches   6 inches
Residence          12 inch   8 inche   20 inches   6 inches
Business           12 inch   12 inch   24 inches   8 inches
Business           24 inch   16 inch   28 inches   10 inches
Business           24 inch   20 inch   32 inches   12 inches
Business           24 inch   24 inch   48 inches   16 inches
 
   B.   Additional Width Requirement:
      1.   The footing shall in all cases be a least twelve inches (12") wider
on all sides than the piers and columns supported by such footings.
      2.   Provided, however, that if the superimposed load is such as to cause
undue transverse strain on any footings projecting twelve inches (12"), the
thickness of such footings shall be so increased as to safely support the load
to be imposed thereon.
   C.   Reduction In Thickness And Projections: For light buildings or
structures, and for small piers to sustain light loads and where soil
conditions permit, the building inspector may, at his discretion, allow a
reduction in the thickness and projections for footings as above provided.
(Ord. 15.04)
10-1-13: BUILDINGS AND FLUES WITHIN AND OUTSIDE FIRE LIMITS:
   A.   Fire Limits And Outer Fire Limits:
      1.   All that portion of the city as described in ordinance 71 of said
city shall constitute the fire limits of the city.
      2.   All that portion of the city, excepting that portion specified in
ordinance 71 as appearing within the city fire limits of the city, shall be
known as the outer fire limits of the city.
   B.   Constructing Or Moving Buildings; Permit Required:
      1.   No person shall, within said outer fire limits, erect or construct
any building, or remove any building from one place to another without first
obtaining a permit from the city council to do so.
      2.   Said permit may be granted by the city council by an application in
writing containing the specification of the dimensions, number of stores,
location, number, size and capacity of chimneys, a description of the supports
and material to be used in the construction thereof.
      3.   The foregoing provisions of this subsection shall not apply to small
outbuildings not closer than twenty feet (20') to any other buildings and in
which at no time fire is kept. (Ord. 15.08)
      4.   Any person, whether owner, lessee, contractor or laborer who shall
hereafter violate any of the provisions of this subsection shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 15.08; amd. 2006 Code)
   C.   Chimneys And Stove Pipes:
      1.   Every building erected within the limits of said city wherein fires
shall be intended to be used shall be furnished with at least one substantial
brick chimney, or one of stone or other material equally as safe, and fire
proof, securely plastered throughout and on the inside and also on the outside
where passing through inaccessible places near wood work; and no person shall
be allowed in any building hereafter erected within the city limits to run a
stove pipe through the roof or side of the same nor in any place where said
arrangements now exist within said limits, nor shall the same be allowed to
continue after due notice to remove the same. Any violation of any of the
provisions of this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and every day of continued violation after due notice shall
be deemed a separate offense punishable with a like fine.
      2.   In all buildings erected, repaired or altered within the city
limits, when it shall be desired that a stove pipe shall pass through any
partitioned wall of wood, or partly of wood, the same shall be secured by an
iron or tin thimble with at least a two inch (2") air chamber; and where any
pipe shall enter a chimney the same shall be provided with zinc, iron, tin or
other similar material, an iron thimble securely fitted. Every stove, before
use, shall be provided with equivalent to protect the wood underneath and
around the said stove from taking fire therefrom. (Ord. 15.08)
10-1-14: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, raze, convert,
demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or structure in the city,
or cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to, or in violation of, any of
the provisions of this chapter or the codes adopted in section
10-1-1 of this chapter.
   B.   Penalty Imposed: Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the
provisions of the codes adopted in section
10-1-1 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and each such
person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day
during which any violation of any of the provisions of the codes adopted in
section
10-1-1 of this chapter is committed, continued or permitted and, upon
conviction of any such violation, such person shall be punishable by fine of
not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment for not more
than ninety (90) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 15.03
Amended, 10-3-2005)
CHAPTER 2
STATE PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
10-2-1: State Plumbing Code Adopted
10-2-2: Plumbers, State License Required
10-2-3: Penalty
10-2-1: STATE PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption Of Code: The Montana state plumbing code, with all its
amendments and supplements made a part thereof, is hereby adopted by the city,
to be, from this date forward, the law of the city.
   B.   Copies On Files: Two (2) copies of said adopted code shall be filed in
the office of the city clerk-treasurer for inspection by the public, as set out
in subsection 10-1-1B of this title. (Ord. 15.20; amd. 2006 Code)
10-2-2: PLUMBERS, STATE LICENSE REQUIRED:
The city is hereby authorized, upon giving reasonable notice thereof to the
public and interested parties, to require any person, firm, business,
corporation or other entity doing business, as defined in Montana law, within
the corporate limits of the city, to be duly licensed with the state of Montana
board of plumbers in accordance with the practice and procedure set out in the
Montana Code Annotated title 37, chapter 69, part 3. (Ord. 15.20; amd. 2006
Code)
10-2-3: PENALTY:
Violation of this chapter is deemed a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
is punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 15.20; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 3
NATURAL GAS INSTALLATIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Scope Of Regulations; Compliance Required
10-3-2: Installation Permit Required; Exception
10-3-3: Gas Fitting Permit; Bond Required
10-3-4: Application; Permit Conditions; General Requirements
10-3-5: Authority To Prohibit Use
10-3-6: Installation, Repair And Disconnection Restrictions
10-3-7: Quality And Inspection Of Materials
10-3-8: Piping Installation Standards
10-3-9: Cutting, Threading And Joining
10-3-10: Branching And Bending
10-3-11: Supporting Pipe
10-3-12: Cutting Timbers
10-3-13: Vertical Supply Line, Plugged Opening
10-3-14: Accessibility Of Piping
10-3-15: Piping In Concrete Or Masonry
10-3-16: Protection Against Strains
10-3-17: Relation To Electric Wiring
10-3-18: Prohibited Fittings
10-3-19: Meter End Of Main Supply Line And Location Of Meter
10-3-20: Interconnection Of Piping System
10-3-21: Shutoff Valves And Valve Boxes
10-3-22: Outlets
10-3-23: Installation For Stores And Places Of Assembly
10-3-24: Painting Or Covering
10-3-25: Leaks, Repairs And Alterations
10-3-26: Turning On Gas, Responsibility And Procedure
10-3-27: Turning Gas Off, Procedure
10-3-28: Searching For Leaks
10-3-29: General Requirements
10-3-30: General Precautions
10-3-31: Violations; Penalties
10-3-1: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Application Of Provisions; Exception:
      1.   The following provisions of this chapter are intended to apply to
the installation of gas piping in and about all buildings.
      2.   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to the underground
distribution leading into the buildings, but only to such parts of the piping
on the outlet side of the meter.
      3.   All mains in streets and alleys, together with the service pipes up
to and including the meter, shall be installed and maintained by the gas
company.
   B.   Compliance Required: This chapter shall apply to all installations
within the city and shall be complied with before gas service can be obtained.
(Ord. 15.28)
10-3-2: INSTALLATION PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTION:
It shall be deemed an unlawful act to install, alter or extend any system of
piping for the conveyance or distribution of illuminating or fuel gas in any
building or structure in the city, except by meter installation by employees of
the gas company, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, unless a
written permit be first obtained from the official or officer having
jurisdiction. (Ord. 15.28)
10-3-3: GAS FITTING PERMIT; BOND REQUIRED:
   A.   Permit Required: Any person may do gas fitting, provided such person
has first obtained a permit from the city council, and complies strictly with
the rules and terms of this chapter.
   B.   Bond Requirements:
      1.   The applicant for such permit shall file a bond for one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) with the city clerk-treasurer, which bond shall be approved
by the council.
      2.   The bond shall be conditioned to the effect that such person shall
perform all work in connection with the installation, extension or alteration
of gas piping done by him in the city in a skillful and workmanlike manner and
to pay all damages resulting to any person from the negligence or unskillful
doing of such work, and further:
         a.   To indemnify and save the city harmless from all damages
resulting from defective and unskillful work done by such person, or by reason
of any person or property falling into or otherwise being injured by
excavations made or caused to be made in any place in the city by such person;
and
         b.   To save the city harmless from all damages that it may be subject
to resulting from the operations of such person as a master gas fitter. (Ord.
15.28)
10-3-4: APPLICATION; PERMIT CONDITIONS; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Applications To Administrative Authority: All applications for permits
to install gas piping, or the making of extension, or altering to present
system, shall be made in writing to the proper administrative authority on
special forms.
   B.   Notify City For Inspection: Before any installation is covered from the
sight, a notification in writing shall be given the proper administrative
authority, who shall, within forty eight (48) hours, inspect and test the
installation, alteration or extension and give his written approval or
disapproval.
   C.   Examination To Ensure Compliance: All portions of the piping
installation or appliances shall be closely examined by the proper authority to
ensure that there is a full compliance with this chapter in regard to pipe
size, grading, materials and appliances used, and all other points which can be
determined by examination. (Ord. 15.28)
   D.   Permit And Inspection Fee: In order to procure a permit for the
installation of any gas piping or the making of an extension to present
equipment or existing installation, the person, firm or corporation applying
for and receiving such permit shall pay to the city for said permit and for the
inspection herein provided for a fee as set by council resolution, which fee
shall accompany the application herein mentioned.
   E.   Bond; Saving City Harmless: It shall be left to the discretion of the
proper administrative officer or officers, whether the permittee be required to
furnish a bond to indemnify the city for all damages resulting from permittee's
actions, and to save the city harmless from all damages that it may be
subjected to resulting from the operations of such person, firm or corporation
that may engage in gas installations of any kind or nature.
   F.   Appointment Of Inspector Or City Superintendent: The mayor and city
council shall appoint the inspector, who may be the city superintendent, to
work with and in conjunction with the gas company; and his approval or
disapproval shall be binding on all parties concerned. (Ord. 15.28; amd. 2006
Code)
   G.   Permit Revocation; Hearing: The permit granted in this chapter may be
revoked at any time for incompetency, dereliction of duty, or other sufficient
cause after a full and fair hearing by the mayor and city council.
   H.   Testing System: The test for tightness shall be made in the presence of
the proper authority with an air pump and either a spring gauge or mercury
column, furnished by the permittee. The pump and gauge shall be so attached to
the piping that it may be watched during the rise of pressure. All line cocks
and valves in the system tested shall be opened so that the pressure will be
applied during the test to all outlets. The test of the system shall be made
with a pressure of at least ten (10) pounds per square inch, and to prove the
system satisfactory, shall be continued for a period of twenty (20) minutes
without showing any decrease in pressure. (Ord. 15.28)
10-3-5: AUTHORITY TO PROHIBIT USE:
The proper administrative authority may prohibit the use of any installation,
equipment or appliance which, after inspection or test, is considered as
introducing a distinct hazard to life or property. (Ord. 15.28)
10-3-6: INSTALLATION, REPAIR AND DISCONNECTION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Repairing Gas Supply System By Gas Company Personnel: No person, unless
in the employ of the gas company or having a permit from the gas company, shall
repair, alter, or open any service pipe, or set or remove the service meter or
do any other work on any part of the gas supply system up to and including the
meter. However, if gas is leaking in any part of the supply system, it shall be
the duty of the person to notify the gas company to make repairs.
   B.   Installation By Others; Inspection By Gas Company: Any concealed part
of the gas supply system up to and including the service meter, when installed
by persons not in the employ of the gas company, when on the premises of a
prospective consumer, shall be reported to, and shall be inspected by, the gas
company before it is concealed either within the building or underground and
before it is connected to the main or service pipe which contains gas.
   C.   Disconnection Of Service: No person, unless in the employ or having a
written permit from the gas company, shall disconnect the outlet of the service
meter from the building piping.
   D.   Installing Service Pipes Under Structures: In no case will it be
allowed to run a service pipe under a building or porch, unless the same first
passes through a foundation wall and the hole thus made can be sealed with
cement so that it will be impossible for the gas to creep along the service
line ditch and so on into or under a building. In case the building has no
foundation, the service pipe shall be brought up out of the ground on the
outside of the building and then into the building. (Ord. 15.28)
10-3-7: QUALITY AND INSPECTION OF MATERIALS:
   A.   Quality Of Materials: Pipe used shall be standard full weight of the
best quality wrought iron or steel and free from defects. All fittings (except
stopcocks or valves) shall be of the best quality of malleable iron.
   B.   Inspection: Materials delivered on any job shall be carefully inspected
by the gas fitter in charge of the work, and any part of such materials which
is defective or which has been repaired with cement, lead or other material or
by caulking or other methods, except welding, shall not be used.
   C.   Used Materials: Pipe, fittings, cocks, valves, or accessories removed
from any installation shall not be used again unless they have been thoroughly
cleaned, inspected and ascertained to be equivalent to new material. (Ord.
15.28)
10-3-8: PIPING INSTALLATION STANDARDS:
   A.   General Requirements And Restrictions: No pipe smaller than standard
three-eighths inch (3/8") size shall be used in any concealed gas piping
installation; and no pipe smaller than standard one-half inch (1/2") size shall
be used for concealed horizontal piping. All gas heating appliances shall be
vented to the atmosphere with the size vent connection supplied by the
manufacturer. When no chimney is available, it is permissible to vent with
metal pipe; provided, however, that at least one-half inch (1/2") air space may
be provided between the shield and the woodwork through which the pipe passes.
In no case will a rubber hose connection be permitted in the connection of any
appliance, either for heating, lighting or cooking.
   B.   Pipe Size:
      1.   All supply lines, branches, drops and other parts of any piping
installations shall be made of pipe of a size suited to the length required and
the number and character of the outlets to be supplied. It is important that
the minimum size for any pipe shall be as indicated in the following
tabulation.
      2.   If any outlet is larger than three-eighths inch (3/8"), it shall be
counted as more than one outlet, according to the following table:
Size In    2   1   3      1111/2       2   21   3   4
Inches
Value
In         1   2   6      20   32   6   11   1   327
Outlets
   TABLE OF SIZES
   Size Of Pipe In Inches
No. of
3/8        3   1   3      11   11   2              
Inch
Outlets
   LENGTH OF PIPE IN FEET
1          2                                                 
2                                                              
3                                                              
4                                                              
5                                                              
6                                                              
7                                    70                    
8                                      50                    
9                                                              
10                                     10                    
11                                     90                    
12                                     75                    
13                                     60   1              
14                                     53   1              
15                                     45   1              
16                                     41   1              
17                                     36   9              
18                                       32   8              
19                                       29   7              
20                                       27   6              
21                                       24   5              
22                                       22   5              
23                                       2049        20       
24                                       18   4   19       
25                                       17   4   17       
30                                       12   3   12   3 
 
(Ord. 15.28)
10-3-9: CUTTING, THREADING AND JOINING:
   A.   General Requirements: All pipe shall be cut square with its length.
Pipe shall be threaded with clean cut thread. The threads on both pipe and
fitting shall be so cut that the joint can be made gastight without lead or
compound; they may be leaded, however, as a lubricant or aid in making the
joint cut. All burs or other obstructions shall be removed from the pipe. Where
ceiling fixtures are hung from drops, the outlet fitting shall be securely and
rigidly fastened. Piping shall not be laid to support any weight (except
fixtures) or be subjected to any extra strain. Pipe with stripped, chipped,
crooked or damaged threads shall not be used.
   B.   Jointing Compound: When an approved jointing compound is used, such
compound should be applied sparingly and only to the male thread of the joint.
Sealing wax or any material or compound known as "gas fitters cement" shall not
be used. (Ord. 15.28; amd. 2006 Code)
10-3-10: BRANCHING AND BENDING:
   A.   Branching: All branches shall be taken from the top or side of
horizontal piping and not from the bottom. When calling outlets are taken from
horizontal piping, branch should be taken from the sides and carried in a
horizontal direction, preferably not less than six inches (6").
   B.   Bending:
      1.   Bending pipes to form outlets or for other purposes, when approved
by the gas company, will be permitted. In bending pipe care shall be taken so
that it does not kink or split at the weld. Pipe excessively bent or flattened
to less than the radii given below will not be permitted.
      Minimum
   Size Of Pipe   Radius Of Bend
   Inches   Inches
   3/8   3
   1/2   4
   3/4   6
   1   8
   1   12
   1   15
   2   18
      2.   After a pipe has been bent, it shall be examined to make sure that
the weld has not opened and that it has not kinked or become otherwise damaged.
(Ord. 15.28)
10-3-11: SUPPORTING PIPE:
   A.   Strain: Piping shall be installed so that it is subject to no
unnecessary strain.
   B.   Spacing: The following is the minimum spacing of supports which should
be used in continuous piping installations.
   3/8 inch or 1/2 inch pipe   6 feet
   3/4 inch or 1 inch pipe   8 feet
   11/4 inch or larger (horizontal)   10 feet
   11/4 inch or larger (vertical)   every floor level
   C.   Short Pipes: When the length of pipe is shorter than that given in the
above table, it shall be adequately supported.
   D.   Change Of Direction: Whenever there is a change of direction of forty
five degrees (45°) or more or branched fitting is used, support should be
provided on at least one side of the bend or fitting, preferably within six
inches (6") of this point, unless other supports render this unnecessary.
   E.   Strength And Quality: Only such metal pipe straps, iron hooks, hook
plates, or hangers suitable for the size of the pipe to be secured, and of
standard strength and quality, shall be used for supporting piping.
   F.   Larger Pipe: Pipe straps and iron hooks shall not be used for
supporting pipe of a size over two inches (2"). Pipe larger than this size,
when run horizontal and to be fastened to floor joists or beams, shall be
supported with pipe hangers; or when run horizontal and to be fastened to side
walls, hook plates shall be used. Vertical pipe over two inches (2") in size
shall be securely fastened to the wall with the band straps.
   G.   Pipes Run On Wood: When piping is run on wood walls, partitions or
ceilings, the supports shall be securely screwed (not nailed) to the wood work
at intervals specified in subsection B of this section.
   H.   Masonry, Concrete, Brick Or Tile Walls: When piping is run on masonry,
concrete, brick or tile walls, it shall be rigidly fastened by hooks, metal
straps, or pipe hangers which are securely held to the wall, partition or
ceiling by the use of suitable expansion bolts or other approved devices,
spaced at the distances given in subsection B of this section. If this method
is not practicable, the hooks, metal straps, or pipe hangers should be fastened
by screws to plugs or blocks, which should be firmly embedded in the masonry,
or to wood strips securely fastened to the masonry. Pipes shall not be fastened
to walls or chimneys or flues. (Ord. 15.28)
10-3-12: CUTTING TIMBERS:
When in running pipe it is necessary to cross wood joists or beams, they should
be notched as little as possible and shall not be notched to a depth of more
than one-fifth (1/5) of the depth of the timber. The notching shall be as close
as possible to the point of support of the timber and shall not be further than
three feet (3') from a support. When feasible, the piping should be run so that
only timbers having the shortest spans shall be cut. (Ord. 15.28)
10-3-13: VERTICAL SUPPLY LINE, PLUGGED OPENING:
The lower end of a vertical supply line, if accessible, should be equipped with
a tee (or cross) having a full sized plugged opening looking down to permit
access for removing stoppages. (Ord. 15.28)
10-3-14: ACCESSIBILITY OF PIPING:
   A.   Partitions: Vertical pipe, when concealed in partitions, should be
located in hollow rather than in solid partitions. Such pipe should be so
located as not to be in contact with plaster more than is necessary.
   B.   Floors: Piping should not be laid in or under tile, mosaic, or
composition floors if it can be avoided, but should be so placed as to be
accessible with a minimum of damage to walls, ceilings or floors.
   C.   Exposed Piping: When piping is exposed through areaways or other
similar locations, the pipe shall be increased in size sufficiently to prevent
stoppages due to freezing by the use of irregular fittings which shall be set
to permit drainage of the enlarged section. The enlarged section shall extend
through the wall at each side of the areaway. (Ord. 15.28)
10-3-15: PIPING IN CONCRETE OR MASONRY:
   A.   Use Of Conduit, Chase Or Channel: When piping is to be placed in
concrete, cement, masonry, etc., it should, if possible, be laid in a conduit
pipe or in a chase or channel left in the solid work. All conduit pipes, pipe
channels, and chases shall be carefully graded and drained to prevent the
accumulations of water about the pipe; and the walls of such pipe chases or
channels should be coated with asphalt, pitch, or moisture resisting paint
before the pipe is placed, and be painted with two (2) coats with a bituminous
paint or equivalent protective coating. All exposed threads or tool marks on
galvanized piping should be painted with protective coating.
   B.   Black Or Painted Pipe:
      1.   When necessary to embed a pipe in direct contact with cement or
concrete, black iron pipe may be used.
      2.   If cinders, salt, sea water, or other substance which has corrosive
action on the piping is to be used in the fabrication of the cement or
concrete, or if the concrete or cement in which the pipe is laid is to be
exposed to brine, acid pickling bath liquor, or to other liquids of corrosive
nature, or if the pipe is to be in contact with composition flooring or
similar, structural material, the piping shall be made up of pipe and fittings
galvanized on the outside, and shall be painted with two (2) coats of a pure
red lead paint, a bituminous paint, or an equivalent protective coating. It is
preferable that such pipe also be wrapped or coated with an approved material
for protection against corrosion.
   C.   Embedding In Structural Member: No pipes shall be embedded in the
required protection of columns or other structural member in buildings of fire
resistive construction. (Ord. 15.28; amd. 2006 Code)
10-3-16: PROTECTION AGAINST STRAINS:
   A.   Settling Or Cracking Of Structure: Where piping is enclosed by or
embedded in cement, concrete, or other restructural material, not reinforced,
it shall be so placed as to avoid the strains which may be induced by settling
or cracking of the structure.
   B.   Encasing Pipe: Where piping (not including the service pipe, which is
always to be made gas and watertight through the foundation wall) passes
through concrete, masonry, brick or tile walls, it should be encased, with the
pipe resting on the bottom of the casing pipe to provide at least one-half inch
(1/2") clearance above it. The space above the pipe should be packed with
mineral wool or other incombustible material to afford a fire stop, but care
should be taken to avoid packing above the pipe in such a way that settling of
the wall will produce excessive strain.
   C.   Pipe In cellars, Coal Bins: Pipe should not be run in coal bins or in
other parts of a basement where wood, lumber, or other material is likely to be
stored against it or to subject it to strain. Pipe which is run in a cellar
should be hung from the ceiling and not supported on the walls. (Ord. 15.28)
10-3-17: RELATION TO ELECTRIC WIRING:
   A.   Distance From Electric Wiring: Piping shall not be installed closer
than five inches (5") to any electric wiring which carries current at more than
twenty five (25) volts unless such wiring is enclosed in metal conduits,
armored cable or metal raceway, or where not so encased is separated from the
pipe by some approved continuous and firmly fixed nonconductor, and no piping
shall be run closer than three feet (3') to any electric cutout box, fuse box,
or meter.
   B.   Tied Electrically With Conduit, Cable Or Metal Raceway: When gas piping
is run near or in contact with conduit, armored cable, or metal raceway
carrying wires of a voltage in excess of twenty five (25) volts, the piping
shall be permanently tied electrically with such conduit, armored cable, or
metal raceway.
   C.   Grounding: Electric wiring from circuits of over twenty five (25) volts
shall not be grounded on gas piping. (Ord. 15.28)
10-3-18: PROHIBITED FITTINGS:
   A.   Unions: Unions shall not be used on concealed piping.
   B.   Bushings: The use of bushings should be avoided. When necessary to
connect two (2) sizes of pipe, a reducing fitting is preferable, but a
hexagonal head bushing may be employed if necessary.
   C.   Swing Joints: Swing joints on concealed piping which are made by the
use of combination of fittings shall not be used. This is intended to forbid
the use of combination of fittings where useful only to produce flexibility and
therefore for convenience in connecting piping. This necessity can be avoided
by cutting accurately the length and careful threading, which is essential to
good workmanship. The use of fittings for necessary offsets is not forbidden.
(Ord. 15.28)
10-3-19: METER END OF MAIN SUPPLY LINE AND LOCATION OF METER:
   A.   Standard Method Of Installation: The meter end of the main supply line
shall be so located that the meter can be installed in the standard manner.
   B.   Meter Placement: The meter should be placed where it will not be
subjected to extreme heat or cold and, when possible, where it will not be
necessary to use artificial light in indexing or doing any other work about the
meter. Meters shall not be placed in coal or wood bins, and should not be
placed in closets or small confined places, nor in spaces not at all times
readily accessible nor where there is a likelihood of their being damaged
through corrosion or accidents. Meters should not be placed near coal chutes.
(Ord. 15.28)
10-3-20: INTERCONNECTION OF PIPING SYSTEM:
Any interconnection of piping systems which are supplied through separate
service meters should be avoided. If necessary, as when an appliance such as a
laundry stove or drier is installed for the joint use of tenants of a building,
a special pipe from each tenant's meter should be installed to the room where
such appliances are located and a header provided adjacent to the appliance.
Each pipe shall be provided with a lock cock at a point near the header, and
each such cock shall be labeled with a metal tag wired in place or with a
suitable device indicating the number of the tenant's apartment or other
designation for identification. Not more than one illuminating fixture should
be supplied from such header in addition to the fuel appliance. The owner of
the building shall supply the locks for each cock, thus preventing the removal
of the lock when the tenant leaves the premises. (Ord. 15.28)
10-3-21: SHUTOFF VALVES AND VALVE BOXES:
   A.   Shutoff Valve Required: All service pipes shall be provided with a
shutoff valve on the outside located near the curb line or property line. A
suitable valve box shall be installed extending to the surface of the ground,
which shall be of easy access and have the top thereof plainly marked "Gas";
provided, however, that the foregoing provisions regarding valves and valve
boxes shall not apply to existing services to dwelling houses, but all other
services heretofore installed shall be so provided.
   B.   Separate Valves On Each Supply Line: Separate valves or cocks are
required on every supply line or branch if the operation or maintenance of the
appliance supplied requires that gas be shut off from the line or branch from
time to time, unless gas can be otherwise shut off when necessary with equal
safety and convenience. Such separate valves or cocks shall be provided on any
branch or supply line which is two inches (2") or more in diameter, or which is
rated to supply more than two hundred (200) cubic feet of gas per hour, or
which supplies an appliance used for heating inflammable materials or materials
which give off combustible vapors or gases.
   C.   Accessibility: Cocks or valves required under subsection B of this
section shall be placed near enough to the appliance controlled and in such
location as to be readily accessible at all times, and the handle of the cock
or valve shall be easy to reach; but it should not be so close to the appliance
that, should an accident occur, it will be impossible to operate it.
   D.   Circulating Systems: On circulating systems of piping, care should be
taken to provide cocks to cut off the supply from both directions wherever this
may be necessary.
   E.   Open And Closed Indications: All cocks should indicate by markings on
stops the open and closed positions. (Ord. 15.28)
10-3-22: OUTLETS:
   A.   Objectionable Locations: Outlets shall not be placed back of swing
doors or close to windows or door frames or any other location where curtains
or draperies may be moved or blown by air currents so as to become ignited.
   B.   Size Of Outlets:
      1.   When an outlet is placed on a supply line before it is known what
size pipe will be connected to it, the outlet should be of the same size as the
line which supplies it.
      2.   Ceiling outlets in churches, stores, theaters, or other places of
assembly, or in rooms where ceilings are twenty feet (20') in height or over,
or in display or show windows, should not be less than one-half inch (1/2") so
as to provide adequate support for large fixtures which may be used at such
outlets.
      3.   In determining the size of outlets, allowance should be made for any
anticipated increase in gas consumption. The following should be the minimum
sized outlets for the various appliances:
   No. 1   For kitchen range - 3/4 inch
   No. 2   For circulating hot water heater - 1/2 inch, unless the heater can
be satisfactorily supplied from the 3/4 inch range outlet
   No. 3   For a room or space heater - 1/2 inch
   No. 4   For an instantaneous water heater - at least 1 inch
   C.   Projection Of Outlets:
      1.   Outlets on concealed piping shall project beyond the furnished wall
or ceiling (or in a suitable recess in the case of recessed fittings), so that
all of the threads required are clear and available for use and there is
sufficient wrench space on the unthreaded portion of the pipe; and the pipe
shall be run far enough from floor and walls to permit the use of a suitable
size wrench without straining or bending the pipe. When the type of appliance
to be secured to the outlet requires a longer projection than stated above,
allowances should be made for such equipment at the time of the installation of
the piping. When combination fixtures or recessed baseboard fittings are used,
the threads on the piping should be clear of the back plate of the outlet box.
      2.   Outlets on concealed piping for drops and brackets, and such short
outlets as cannot give the wrench space described in subsection C1 of this
section, shall be made by the use of drop ells or by fittings which provide the
means for rigidly securing them in place; or the pipe may be bent if the
conditions of subsection 10-3-10B of this chapter are complied with.
      3.   In every case, outlets shall be so installed that they cannot become
displaced in the wall or ceiling. When an outlet is to be placed between
joists, beams or studs, the outlet fitting shall be secured to a strut fastened
between the joists or studs, in order to prevent the fixture from swinging and
straining the joists.
   D.   Closing Outlets:
      1.   Each outlet shall be securely closed gastight with a thread iron
plug or cap immediately after installation and shall be left so closed until an
appliance is installed thereon. In no case shall the outlet be closed with lead
caps or plugs.
      2.   When an appliance is removed from an outlet, and the outlet is not
to be used again immediately, it should be securely closed gastight with a
threaded iron plug or cap. (Ord. 15.28)
10-3-23: INSTALLATION FOR STORES AND PLACES OF ASSEMBLY:
The gas company and proper administrative authority shall be consulted in
advance and should pass on all details of such installations which differ from
the ordinary house lighting practice in volume of gas required or any special
features. Special attention shall be paid in exit and stair lights, remote
controls, fire and accident conditions, and frequent inspection. (Ord. 15.28)
10-3-24: PAINTING OR COVERING:
Piping exposed on the outside of buildings or in damp places shall be carefully
cleaned after installation and painted with two (2) coats of pure red lead
paint or covered with other material. Additional coats of paint should be
applied as often as necessary. Piping shall not be coated or painted until
after the first inspection. (Ord. 15.28)
10-3-25: LEAKS, REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS:
   A.   If leaks develop, all sources of ignition shall be kept away and the
gas company and proper administrative authorities notified as quickly as
possible.
   B.   All repairs, alterations or additions are to be in conformity with such
provisions of this chapter as apply. (Ord. 15.28)
10-3-26: TURNING ON GAS, RESPONSIBILITY AND PROCEDURE:
   A.   Responsibility:
      1.   Any gas fitter not in the employ of the gas company shall not turn
the gas on at the meter cock except with the specific permission of the gas
company.
      2.   A gas fitter, whether employed by the gas company or not, shall not
turn the gas on if the following conditions prevail:
         a.   If the piping, appliances or meter supplied are known to leak or
to be defective.
         b.   If the piping or appliances are to be, but have not been,
inspected and approved by the administrative authority.
         c.   If the proper administrative authority or the gas company has
ordered the gas to be left turned on.
         d.   If the meter cock is found shut off, unless the gas fitter has,
himself, shut it off or knows that it was shut off by the customer to prevent
leakage and the cause of the leakage has been repaired. If the gas is found
turned off for other causes or for some reason not known to the gas fitter, he
shall then secure permission from the gas company before turning on the gas.
   B.   Procedure:
      1.   When turning gas into any piping system, a gas fitter shall exercise
the greatest care and shall do the work himself. The gas fitter shall not
direct a helper or other person to turn the gas on unless the work is closely
supervised by the gas fitter who shall be personally on the job at the time.
      2.   The same care shall be taken each and every time the gas is turned
on even though the gas has been shut off only for a short time and the same
precautions have been taken only a short time before. These precautions are to
avoid leaks and are checks on each other and shall not be omitted.
      3.   When gas is turned on at any meter cock, the gas fitter shall
observe the following precautions:
         a.   Determine by actual inspection in every part of the building
supplied through the cock that all appliances, including pilot flames, have
been turned off and that no outlets on the piping are open. If impossible to
get to all burners or appliances because of persons asleep in some of the rooms
of the building, the gas shall not be turned on until it is possible to
determine with certainty that there are no burners open in the rooms.
         b.   When all precautions have been taken by the gas fitters, the gas
may be turned on and the gas fitter shall note whether the meter dial test
indicates that gas is passing through the meter. The minimum time which the gas
fitter shall wait to determine this will be as follows:
   Size Of Proving Test   Minimum Time
   Dial On Meter   Required
   2 cubic feet   5 minutes
   5 cubic feet   10 minutes
   10 cubic feet   20 minutes
         c.   If the meter shows a passage of gas, the cock shall be closed and
an inspection made to determine the point of leakage. See rule "searching for
leaks", section
10-3-28 of this chapter.
         d.   Light all pilot lights on water heaters or other appliances
except domestic lighting fixtures, carefully observing the precautions
indicated on the appliances. The pilot light on lighting fixtures may also be
lighted by the gas fitter, but this is not required if the fixture cock has
been closed.
   C.   Removing Air From Piping:
      1.   After gas has been turned into piping for the first time or after
any interruption of supply, the air in the piping shall be removed. This should
be done by opening as many burners as necessary, one at a time, lighting the
gas as soon as it comes to each until it is certain that no air remains in the
piping. Each line shall be tested separately even though it is thought that no
air has entered.
      2.   Open outlets shall not be used for gassing up. If enough gas to
smell has escaped into the room during gassing up, this should be removed at
once by proper ventilation. (Ord. 15.28)
10-3-27: TURNING GAS OFF, PROCEDURE:
   A.   Gas Fitter Authorization: When necessary to turn the gas off, the gas
fitter shall use the meter cock or line cock which affects only part of the
piping of a single customer; he shall not turn the gas off at the service cock
or curb cocks unless authorized to do so by the gas company.
   B.   Notify Customers To Shut Off Appliances: Before gas is shut off from
any line or piping, the gas fitter shall notify all customers whose service is
affected to shut off all appliances and cocks and warn them to keep them shut
off until advised that service has been restored. (Ord. 15.28)
10-3-28: SEARCHING FOR LEAKS:
In no case shall a flame be used in searching for leaks. (Ord. 15.28)
10-3-29: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Flexible Tubing: No flexible tubing of any kind shall be used in
connection with the use of gas, except on the written permission of the gas
inspector.
   B.   Safety Device Required: When a shutoff shall be placed close to the
floor, or in other positions where it may be turned on by accident, a shutoff
with self-locking or safety device shall be used.
   C.   Location Of Appliances: Gas consuming appliances shall be arranged so
that continued operation will not raise the temperature of surrounding
combustible material, including woodwork, to a maximum of one hundred sixty
degrees Fahrenheit (160°F). (Ord. 15.28)
10-3-30: GENERAL PRECAUTIONS:
   A.   Precautions Listed: Gas fitting, appliance installation, or unscrewing
of a cap, plug, or pipe which will open an outlet and permit the escape of gas
should never be done without shutting the gas off, except in emergency cases
where interruption of the service is impracticable, and unless the work can be
done without danger to life and property with the gas on. Where pipes are
filled with gas, work on outlets larger than three-eighths inch (3/8") size
pressures in excess of thirty inches (30") of water shall not be handled except
by a specialist. In any event, the following precautions shall be observed:
      1.   Determine the location of the meter cock or line cock by which the
gas supply to the proposed opening is controlled and see that it is in working
order.
      2.   Make sure that no fire, flame or spark emitting device of any kind
is near enough to set fire to the gas which may escape.
      3.   Determine that even the slightest escape of gas expected will not be
injurious to persons, especially invalids and small children.
      4.   Examine the threads to be used, to make sure the opening can be
quickly and tightly closed.
      5.   Have at hand a plug, rubber or other suitable material to fit snugly
into the opening.
      6.   Make sure that no lighted burners or pilot lights supplied from the
line to be opened are turned so low that they may go out or flash back because
of the sudden drop in pressure in the pipe when it is opened. After the work
has been completed, all appliances shall be examined and any pilot lights and
burners which may have been extinguished, shall be relighted or turned off.
   B.   Conditions Requiring Use Of Helper: In any one of the following
conditions, there shall be more than one person present, one of whom should be
in such location that he is not exposed to any possible asphyxiating influence
from the escaping gas:
      1.   When necessary to make installations, repairs, or to do other work
on piping filled with live gas.
      2.   When work is done in a gassy atmosphere.
      3.   When work is done in any confined space where gas may accumulate or
in any space not readily accessible, e.g., when the gas fitter shall lie down
or assume a cramped position.
   C.   Use Of Flame Restricted: No matches, candles or flames or other sources
of ignition shall be used by a gas fitter or his helper when working on a
meter, piping or appliances filled with gas, except for such work as
necessarily involves the use of such flame. A flame shall never be used in
searching for leaks; in no case should a flame be allowed to touch a meter,
meter connection, or other piping. When an open flame light, as a match or
candle, is used in a basement, it should, when practicable, be carried or set
not more than three feet (3') above the floor level.
   D.   Smoking Prohibited: A gas fitter shall not smoke while working on
piping which is filled with gas, or has been filled with gas, nor permit others
to smoke while near such work.
   E.   Safety Lamp: Every gas fitter shall be provided with an approved
electric flash lamp or safety lamp which is adequately protected to prevent
explosion or fire if used in a gassy atmosphere. No other type of lamp shall be
used in such atmosphere when searching for a leak or when working on piping
filled with live gas.
   F.   Combustible Liquids; Torch Or Furnace:
      1.   Alcohol, gasoline, and other combustible liquids, including the
liquid which is removed from meters or from drips in gas piping shall be
handled with proper precautions, and shall not be left by the gas fitter on the
premises of the customer.
      2.   The ordinary fitter's torch or furnace shall not be left within the
premises from the end of one working day to the beginning of the next unless
the torch or furnace is of an approved type or is placed in a fire resistive
receptacle. (Ord. 15.28)
10-3-31: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Any and all persons who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter or
fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order
or regulation made thereunder within ten (10) days, shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, each day constituting a separate offense. The imposition of
one penalty for any violation of this chapter shall not excuse the violation or
permit it to continue, and all such persons shall be required to correct or
remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time. (Ord. 15.28; amd.
2006 Code)
CHAPTER 4
NUMBERING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Numbering Required; Penalty For Noncompliance
10-4-2: Numbering System
10-4-1: NUMBERING REQUIRED; PENALTY FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
   A.   Requirement; Number Specifications: All dwelling houses and business
houses in the city shall be numbered by large numbers not less than three
inches (3") in height displayed in a prominent place upon the front of said
buildings facing the street upon which said buildings are located, in
accordance with the system of numbering set forth in section
10-4-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Time Limit; Penalty For Noncompliance: All owners and tenants of houses
within the city shall, within sixty (60) days from and after the effective date
hereof, number their houses in accordance with the rules set forth in this
chapter. In the event any owner or tenant shall fail or neglect to number
houses owned or occupied by them, whether sixty (60) days after the effective
date hereof or within sixty (60) days after erection of any house or houses,
the city shall notify said owner or agent. Any such owner or agent so notified
who, within ten (10) days after such notification, fails or refuses to number
such house or houses, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 15.32; amd. 2006 Code)
10-4-2: NUMBERING SYSTEM:
   A.   Starting Points: North Central Avenue and South Central Avenue shall be
the starting points for numbering houses fronting on streets within the city.
East Main Street and West Main Street shall be used at the starting points for
numbering houses fronting on avenues within the city.
   B.   Determination Of Numbers: Numbering shall commence with the number one
and shall increase one hundred (100) numbers each block; each twenty five feet
(25') of frontage on the streets and avenues shall be allowed one number; odd
numbers shall be used to number houses upon the east and north sides of said
streets and alleys and even numbers shall be used to number houses upon the
west and south sides of the same. (Ord. 15.32)
CHAPTER 5
SIGNS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Title
10-5-2: Scope
10-5-3: Enforcement
10-5-4: Appeals
10-5-5: Insurance
10-5-6: Definitions
10-5-7: Permits Required
10-5-8: Application
10-5-9: Exemptions
10-5-10: Fees And Payment
10-5-11: Maintenance
10-5-12: Inspection
10-5-13: Design
10-5-14: Material Requirements
10-5-15: Horizontal And Vertical Clearance
10-5-16: Pole Signs
10-5-17: Ground Signs
10-5-18: Roof Signs
10-5-19: Wall Signs
10-5-20: Projecting Signs
10-5-21: Combination Signs
10-5-22: Marquees
10-5-23: Illumination
10-5-24: Temporary Signs
10-5-25: Mobile Or Portable Signs
10-5-26: Existing Signs
10-5-27: Nonconforming Signs
10-5-28: Violation And Penalties
10-5-29: Public Nuisance
10-5-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the CUT BANK SIGN ORDINANCE and may be cited as
such and will be referred to herein as "chapter". (Ord. 2009-03, 12-7-2009)
10-5-2: SCOPE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide standards to safeguard life, health,
property and public welfare by regulating and controlling the design, quality
of materials, construction, location, electrification and maintenance of all
signs and sign structures.
   A.   Restrictions:
      1.   No sign shall be erected or placed in such a manner as to confuse or
obstruct the view or interpretation of any official traffic sign, signal or
device;
      2.   No sign shall exceed in area the requirements of this chapter as
herein provided.
   B.   Intention: The provisions of this chapter are not intended to permit
any violation of any other ordinance or code of the city of Cut Bank. (Ord.
2009-03, 12-7-2009)
10-5-3: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Authority: The building inspector, or in his absence or inability to
act, the city superintendent, is hereby authorized and directed to enforce all
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Right Of Entry: Upon presentation of proper credentials, the building
inspector or his duly authorized representative may enter, at a reasonable
time, into or upon any building, structure, or premises in the city to perform
any duty imposed upon him by this chapter.
   C.   Inspection Warrant: Upon application to the city court, the city judge
may, for probable cause and in the same manner and form as a criminal search
warrant, issue an inspection warrant which shall have the same force and effect
as a search warrant. (Ord. 2009-03, 12-7-2009)
10-5-4: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by any decision, order or action of the building inspector
or city superintendent arising out of his enforcement of this chapter and the
uniform sign code of the city, as contained herein, may appeal said decision,
order or action to the board of adjustment (which is the city council). The
board of adjustment may for good cause shown grant variances to the
requirements of this chapter. The board shall follow subsection 11-2-5B of this
code in granting any variances. (Ord. 2009-03, 12-7-2009)
10-5-5: INSURANCE:
The applicant for a permit shall, prior to issuance of said permit, file with
the city a current general liability insurance policy with bodily injury limits
in the amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per person; two
hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00) aggregate, and property damage limits of
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) per accident aggregate issued by an
insurance carrier authorized to do business in the state of Montana; such
insurance shall be kept in full force as a condition of the issuance of such
permit. (Ord. 2009-03, 12-7-2009)
10-5-6: DEFINITIONS:
APPROVED PLASTICS: Only those slow burning plastics of no greater
combustibility as now approved by the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., for sign
use (UL 48).
COMBINATION SIGN: Any sign incorporating any combination of the features of
ground, projecting and roof signs.
CURB LINE: The line at the face of the curb nearest to the street or roadway.
In the absence of a curb, the curb line shall be established by the director of
public works.
DISPLAY SURFACES: The area made available by the sign structure for the purpose
of displaying the advertising message.
ELECTRIC SIGN: Any sign containing electrical wiring, but not including signs
illuminated by an exterior light source.
FREESTANDING SIGN: A sign not designed to withstand a twenty (20) pound wind
load, which approximates a wind force of eighty (80) miles per hour.
GROUND SIGN: Any sign which is supported by more than one pole and/or braces
upon the ground other than a "combination sign" or "pole sign", as defined
herein.
MARQUEE: A permanent roofed structure attached to and supported by the building
and projecting over public property.
MOBILE OR PORTABLE SIGNS: Signs designed and constructed so as to be readily
and easily moved or transported from one location to another, such as:
   A.   Signs constructed on a trailer chassis, with a display area on two (2)
sides thereof, which may be towed from location to location where they can then
be situated and stabilized by the use of outriggers, blocking or other rigid
supports; and
   B.   Signs which are: otherwise readily portable; placed on the surface of
the ground; and, not supported by walls, buildings, poles or other permanent
structures.
NONCOMBUSTIBLE OR INCOMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS: Any material which will not ignite
at or below a temperature of one thousand two hundred degrees Fahrenheit
(1,200°F) during an exposure of five (5) minutes and which will not continue to
burn or glow at that temperature, as specified in the 1988 edition of the
uniform building code.
NONSTRUCTURAL TRIM: The molding, battens, caps, nailing strip, latticing,
cutouts or letters and walkways which are attached to the sign structure.
POLE SIGN: Any sign supported wholly by a pole in the ground which is not a
part of the building.
PROJECTING SIGN: Any sign other than a wall sign, which projects from and is
supported by a wall of the building or structure.
PROJECTION: The distance by which a sign extends over public property or beyond
the building line.
ROOF SIGN: Any sign attached to roof framing, walls, and/or columns of the
building on which the entire advertising display is above roof level.
SIGN: Any medium, including its structure and component parts, which is used or
intended to be used to attract attention to the subject matter for advertising
purposes.
SIGN STRUCTURE: The supports, uprights, braces and framework of the sign.
STATE BUILDING CODE: That edition of the international building code, as
adopted by the state of Montana and subsequently adopted or amended by the city
of Cut Bank and published by the International Conference of Building
Officials.
TEMPORARY SIGNS: Any sign, banner, pennant, valance or advertising display
constructed of cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard, wall board or other
light materials, with or without frames, intended to be displayed for a limited
period of time only.
UNIFORM SIGN CODE: That edition of the uniform sign code, published by the
International Conference of Building Officials and which has been adopted by
the state of Montana certified building inspection program.
WALL SIGN: Any sign attached to the wall of a building or structure when the
exposed face of the sign is a plane parallel to the plane of said wall. (Ord.
2009-03, 12-7-2009)
10-5-7: PERMITS REQUIRED:
No sign shall hereafter be erected, reerected, constructed or altered, except
as provided by this chapter and a permit for the same has been issued by the
building inspector. It is expressly understood that all sign permits are to be
issued to the person applying for the permit and that permits are
nontransferable. Any person, partnership, corporation or other form of business
enterprise shall be required to apply for a new permit if the permittee
transfers, sells or otherwise changes ownership of any sign previously granted
herein or which is grandfathered under this chapter due to being in existence
at the time of adoption of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-03, 12-7-2009)
10-5-8: APPLICATION:
Application for a sign permit shall be made in writing upon forms furnished by
the building inspector. Such application shall contain the location by street
and telephone number of the owner and the sign contractor or erector. The
building inspector may require the filing of plans or other pertinent
information where, in his opinion, such information is necessary to ensure
compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 2009-03, 12-7-2009)
10-5-9: EXEMPTIONS:
The following signs shall not require a sign permit. These exemptions shall not
be construed as relieving the owner of the sign of responsibility for its
erection, maintenance and compliance with the provisions of this chapter or any
other law or ordinance regulating the same.
   A.   Servicing: Painting, repainting or cleaning of an advertising structure
or the changing of the advertising copy or message thereon shall not be
considered an erection or alteration which requires a sign permit unless a
major structural change is made;
   B.   Flags Or Emblems: Flags or emblems of political, civic, philanthropic,
educational or religious organizations;
   C.   Governmental Bodies: Signs of duly constituted governmental bodies,
including traffic or similar regulator devices, legal notice or warnings at
railroad crossings;
   D.   Temporary Signs: Temporary signs, not exceeding nine (9) square feet of
surface area or not more than two (2) signs totaling not over eighteen (18)
square feet of surface area on any lot appertaining to campaigns, drives or
events of political, civic, philanthropic, educational or religious
organizations;
   E.   Plaques, Cornerstones: Memorial plaques, cornerstones, historical
tablets and the like;
   F.   Doorbells, Mailboxes: Signs posted in conjunction with doorbells or
mailboxes, not exceeding one hundred forty four (144) square inches in surface
area;
   G.   Signs Posted By Law: Signs required to be maintained or posted by law
or governmental order, rule or regulation, unless specifically prohibited,
limited or restricted;
   H.   Small Signs: Small nonilluminated or projecting signs, not exceeding
four (4) square feet in surface area, not otherwise prohibited;
   I.   Construction Signs: Construction signs giving names of general
contractors, mechanical contractors, electrical contractors, or architect-
engineers located on the construction site;
   J.   Interiors: All signs that are entirely constructed, erected and/or
placed within interior of the building served;
   K.   Advertising: A sign placed upon the premises of a lot or building for
the purpose of advertising said premises for sale or rent, provided the sign
does not exceed nine (9) square feet of display surface and is of a temporary
nature. (Ord. 2009-03, 12-7-2009)
10-5-10: FEES AND PAYMENT:
No additional fee or fees shall be required for any signs as outlined in this
chapter. Title 11, "Zoning Regulations", of this code already requires fees for
signs. (Ord. 2009-03, 12-7-2009)
10-5-11: MAINTENANCE:
All signs, together with all of their supports, braces, guys and anchors shall
be kept in repair and in proper state of preservation and working order. The
display surfaces of all signs shall be kept neatly painted or posted at all
times. The building inspector or city superintendent may order the removal of
any sign that is not maintained in accordance with these provisions. (Ord.
2009-03, 12-7-2009)
10-5-12: INSPECTION:
All signs for which a permit is required shall be subject to inspection by the
building inspector or city superintendent.
   A.   Electrical Inspection: All signs containing electrical wiring shall be
subject to the provisions of the governing electrical code.
   B.   Reinspection: All signs may be reinspected at the discretion of the
building inspector or city superintendent at any time during the life of the
sign, and the permit shall be a consent for such inspection. (Ord. 2009-03, 12-
7-2009)
10-5-13: DESIGN:
Signs and sign structures shall be designed and constructed to resist wind and
seismic forces as specified in the state building code as from time to time
adopted by the city. (Ord. 2009-03, 12-7-2009)
10-5-14: MATERIAL REQUIREMENTS:
Materials of construction for signs and sign structures shall be of the quality
and grade as specified for building in the state sign code, as from time to
time adopted.
   A.   Restrictions And Combustible Materials: All signs and sign structures
erected in the business district shall have structural members of heavy timber
construction, as defined in the state building code, as from time to time
amended, or of incombustible materials. Ground signs may be constructed of any
material meeting the requirements of this chapter, except as provided above.
Combination signs, roof signs, wall signs, projecting signs and signs on
marquees shall be constructed of incombustible materials, except as provided in
subsection B of this section. No combustible materials, other than approved
plastics, shall be used in the construction of electric signs;
   B.   Nonstructural Trim: Nonstructural trim may be made of wood, metal,
approved plastics or any combination thereof; the nonstructural trim may not
exceed ten percent (10%) of the total area of the sign;
   C.   Fastenings: Signs attached to masonry, concrete or steel shall be
safely and securely fastened thereto by means of metal anchors, bolts or
approved expansion screws of sufficient size and anchorage to support safely
the loads applied, all building fastenings must be of galvanized or
noncorrosive materials. (Ord. 2009-03, 12-7-2009)
10-5-15: HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL CLEARANCE:
Signs shall not be located with less than six feet (6') horizontal or twelve
feet (12') vertical clearance from overhead electric conductors which are
energized in excess of six hundred (600) volts. (Ord. 2009-03, 12-7-2009)
10-5-16: POLE SIGNS:
   A.   Location: All supports of pole signs shall be placed upon private
property;
   B.   Projection: Pole signs may not project over public property;
   C.   Heights: No pole sign shall be more than thirty five feet (35') in
height above the mean average of the lot on which it is constructed; (Ord.
2009-03, 12-7-2009)
   D.   Area Limitation:
      1.   A total area of one and one-half (11/2) square feet for each linear
foot of building frontage or one-half (1/2) square foot for each linear foot of
lot frontage, whichever results in the larger sign area, but the maximum total
area of all signs permitted for any establishment shall not exceed a total of
three hundred (300) square feet for all pole signs on the premises facing the
street frontage upon which the sign or signs are to be constructed. There may
not be more than two (2) pole signs on any street frontage.
      2.   Where the frontage is on more than one street, only the signs
computed with the frontage of that street shall face that street. (Ord. 2009-
03A, 4-19-2010)
      3.   A double face sign shall be considered as two (2) signs for the
purpose of establishing the allowable size of the sign. (Ord. 2009-03, 12-7-
2009)
10-5-17: GROUND SIGNS:
   A.   Projection: Ground signs shall not project over public property or
beyond the required building line setback for buildings in the zoning
classification for the tract upon which the sign is erected;
   B.   Maintenance: Every ground sign and the immediate surrounding premises
shall be maintained by the owner of such sign in a clean, sanitary and
inoffensive condition and kept free and clear of all obnoxious substances,
rubbish and weeds;
   C.   Area Limitation: The total area of one or more ground signs may not
exceed five percent (5%) of the area of the plot of ground upon which such
ground signs are located; however, the total area of all ground signs may not
exceed six hundred seventy two (672) square feet of display area on any one
plot of ground. A back to back sign shall be considered two (2) signs for the
purpose of establishing the size allowed. (Ord. 2009-03, 12-7-2009)
10-5-18: ROOF SIGNS:
   A.   Securing: Roof signs shall be thoroughly secured and anchored to the
frame of the building over which they are constructed and erected;
   B.   Clearance And Access: Passage clear of all obstructions shall be left
under or around and immediately adjacent to all signs exceeding a height of
four feet (4') above the roof thereunder. Such passage shall not be less than
three feet (3') wide and four feet (4') high and shall be at parapet or roof
level.
There shall be one passage or access opening as follows:
      1.   Each Roof Sign: For each roof sign upon a building;
      2.   Roof Sign Extension: One access opening for every fifty (50) linear
feet of horizontal roof sign extension;
      3.   Proximity To Walls: Within twenty feet (20') of walls and parapets
when roof signs are at right angles to a face of the building. (Ord. 2009-03,
12-7-2009)
10-5-19: WALL SIGNS:
   A.   Projection: Wall signs shall project not more than twenty four inches
(24"), except they may not project into any alley more than one foot (1');
   B.   Maximum Height: Wall signs shall not extend more than twelve inches
(12") above the highest point of parapet or roof supporting building;
   C.   Vertical Clearance: Wall signs shall maintain the following minimum
vertical clearance where they project over:
      1.   Alley: Minimum of fourteen feet (14');
      2.   Other public property: Minimum of ten feet (10');
   D.   Area: No wall sign may cover any required window or required exit.
(Ord. 2009-03, 12-7-2009)
10-5-20: PROJECTING SIGNS:
   A.   Projection: Projecting signs may not project over public property
beyond six feet (6') or more than two-thirds (2/3) the distance to the curb
line, whichever is less. They may not project into an alley more than one foot
(1');
   B.   Size: Projecting signs must be no larger in size than two (2) square
feet for each linear foot of the property;
   C.   Vertical Clearance: Projecting signs shall maintain the following
minimum vertical clearance where they project over:
      1.   Alleys: Minimum of fourteen feet (14');
      2.   Other public property: Minimum of ten feet (10'). (Ord. 2009-03, 12-
7-2009)
10-5-21: COMBINATION SIGNS:
The individual requirement of roof, projecting pole and ground signs shall be
applied for combination signs incorporating any or all of the requirements
specified in the respective sections. (Ord. 2009-03, 12-7-2009)
10-5-22: MARQUEES:
Signs may be placed on, attached to, or constructed in a marquee. Such signs
shall, for the purpose of determining projection, clearance, height and
material, be considered a part of and shall meet the requirements for a marquee
as specified in chapter 45 of the uniform building code, as from time to time
adopted. (Ord. 2009-03, 12-7-2009)
10-5-23: ILLUMINATION:
   A.   No excessively bright signs will be permitted. A determination shall be
made by the building inspector as to whether a sign is "excessively bright" on
a case by case basis, considering the nature of the neighborhood, the type of
sign and any other factors they consider relevant. The building inspector's
decision is to be given great preference by the board of adjustment;
   B.   No blinking, strobe or other pulsating lights may be used. (Ord. 2009-
03, 12-7-2009)
10-5-24: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
   A.   Sizes: No temporary sign shall exceed one hundred (100) square feet in
area. Temporary signs of rigid material shall not exceed thirty two (32) square
feet in area in commercial or industrial areas and shall not exceed nine (9)
square feet in area in residential areas.
   B.   Cloth Signs: Cloth signs shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   Support: Every temporary cloth sign shall be supported and attached
with wire rope of three-sixteenths inch (3/16") minimum diameter. No strings,
fiber ropes or wood slats shall be permitted for support or anchorage purposes
other than nonloading tie down purposes. Cloth signs and panels shall be
perforated over at least ten percent (10%) of their area to reduce wind
resistance. When placed over a public street or highway, the cloth sign shall
maintain a minimum clearance of twenty feet (20') from the public street or
highway;
      2.   Permits: All permits for temporary signs shall be made by written
application to the building inspector and shall be subject to approval by the
building inspector prior to any installations.
   C.   Other Temporary Signs: Temporary signs (other than cloth) when eight
feet (8') or more above the ground may not project more than six inches (6")
over public property or beyond the building line.
   D.   Time Allowance: Temporary signs may remain in place for a period not
exceeding sixty (60) days, except that political signs shall not be erected
more than forty five (45) days in advance of a primary or general election and
shall be removed within ten (10) days after the election. (Ord. 2009-03, 12-7-
2009)
10-5-25: MOBILE OR PORTABLE SIGNS:
The physical characteristics, placement and operation of such signs shall be
governed as follows:
   A.   The display area shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet per side of
such signs;
   B.   No blinking, strobe or other pulsating lights may be used;
   C.   The placement shall be on privately owned property, provided that on
any corner lot, there shall be no such sign within a forty foot (40') radius
from the intersection of the property lines of any street or avenue;
   D.   The sign shall be properly and adequately secured to avoid any
inadvertent movement thereof by the elements or otherwise, which would result
in an encroachment on public ways or which may cause any injury or
inconvenience to those using public ways;
   E.   The owner or permit holder shall provide public liability and property
damage insurance in the amount set forth in section
10-5-5 of this chapter and shall provide evidence thereof upon request of the
city of Cut Bank through its building inspector or such building inspector's
representative;
   F.   The owner or permit holder shall inform the building inspector of the
placement and movement of such signs. (Ord. 2009-03, 12-7-2009)
10-5-26: EXISTING SIGNS:
   A.   Signs Not In Use: Any sign which no longer advertises a bona fide
business, product or service shall be removed by the owner, agent, or person
having the beneficial use of the premises upon which such sign may be found
within thirty (30) days after written notice from the building inspector or
city superintendent. Upon failure to comply with the notice within the
specified time, the building inspector or city superintendent is hereby
authorized to cause removal of the sign, as provided in section
10-5-27 of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-03, 12-7-2009)
10-5-27: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
   A.   Continuance Of Nonconforming Signs: Subject to the termination
hereinafter provided or provided in subsection B of this section, any
nonconforming sign may be continued in operation and maintained after the
effective date hereof or annexation of that property into the city of Cut Bank;
provided, however, that no sign shall be changed in any manner that will
increase the noncompliance of such sign; and further, that the burden of
establishing a sign to be nonconforming under this section rests entirely upon
the person or persons, firm or corporation claiming a nonconforming status for
a sign.
   B.   Termination Of Nonconforming Signs:
      1.   Abandonment of a nonconforming sign shall terminate immediately the
right to maintain such sign;
      2.   Any violation of this chapter shall terminate immediately the right
to maintain such sign;
      3.   The right to maintain any nonconforming sign shall terminate and
shall cease to exist whenever the sign is damaged or destroyed to the extent
that repair will exceed fifty percent (50%) of the appraised value of the sign,
from any cause whatsoever; or becomes obsolete or substandard under any
applicable ordinance of the city of Cut Bank to the extent that the sign
becomes a hazard or a danger.
   C.   Removal Of Signs: The building inspector or city superintendent shall
order the removal of any sign erected or maintained in violation of this
chapter. Ten (10) days' notice in writing shall be given to the owners of such
signs or of the building, structure or premises on which the sign is located,
to remove the sign or to bring it into compliance with this chapter. Upon
failure to remove the sign or to comply with the notice, the building inspector
or city superintendent shall remove the sign. The building inspector or city
superintendent shall remove the sign immediately and without notice if it
reasonably appears that the condition of the sign is such as to present an
immediate threat to the safety of the public. Any cost of the removal incurred
by the building inspector or city superintendent shall be assessed to the owner
of the property on which the sign is located and may be collected in the manner
of ordinary debt or in a manner of taxes, and such charge shall be a lien on
such property. (Ord. 2009-03, 12-7-2009)
10-5-28: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, enlarge, alter, move or
convert any sign or structure in the city or cause or permit the same to be
done, contrary to or in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter. Any
person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction of any such violation, such person shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
day of violation. (Ord. 2009-03, 12-7-2009)
10-5-29: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Any sign or structure constructed or maintained in violation of this chapter is
declared to be a public nuisance and may be prosecuted for such as is provided
for in this code. (Ord. 2009-03, 12-7-2009)
TITLE 11
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; PURPOSE; DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Authority
11-1-3: General Purpose
11-1-4: Jurisdictional Area
11-1-5: Interpretations
11-1-6: Definitions
11-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and cited as the CUT BANK ZONING ORDINANCE
hereinafter referred to as “this title”. (Ord. 16.00; amd. Ord. 16.00, 10-15-
2018)
11-1-2: AUTHORITY:
Authorization for this title is contained in Montana Code Annotated sections
76-2-301 through 76-2-328, inclusive. (Ord. 16.00; amd. Ord. 16.00, 10-15-2018)
11-1-3: GENERAL PURPOSE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this title is to:
      1.   Lessen congestion in the streets.
      2.   Secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers.
      3.   Promote health, safety, morals, and the general welfare.
      4.   Provide adequate light and air.
      5.   Prevent overcrowding of land.
      6.   Avoid undue concentration of population.
      7.   Facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewerage, schools, parks, and other public requirements in accordance with a
comprehensive plan.
      8.   Regulate and restrict the erection, construction, reconstruction,
deconstruction, demolition, alteration, repair and use of buildings, structures
and land.
      9.   Regulate and restrict the height, number of stories, and size of
buildings and other structures, the percentage of lots that may be occupied,
the size of yards, courts and other open spaces, the density of population, and
the location and use of buildings, structures, and land for trade, industry,
residence, or other purpose.
   B.   Consideration: The regulations are made with reasonable consideration,
among other things, to the character of the zoning districts and their peculiar
suitability for particular uses, and with a view to conserving the value of
buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the city.
(Ord. 16.00; amd. Ord. 16.00, 10-15-2018)
11-1-4: JURISDICTIONAL AREA:
The jurisdictional area of this title shall include all of the land lying
within the corporate limits the city, and such additional areas as may from
time to time be brought into the city. The City of Cut Bank does pursuant to
the authority granted it in Montana Code Annotated § 76-2-310 (2015) extend its
municipal zoning and subdivision regulations for one (1) mile beyond the City
limits but not beyond the Cut Bank Creek midpoint on the Southern and Western
boundaries of the City of Cut Bank. (Ord. 16.00; amd. Ord. 16.00, 10-15-2018)
11-1-5: INTERPRETATIONS:
Any interpretations, clarifications, or judgments by the board of adjustment,
city-county planning board, city council or court not affecting the intent or
purpose of this title, but affecting the daily administration of this title,
shall be included in the appendix of this title. (Ord. 16.00; amd. 2006 Code;
Ord. 16.00, 10-15-2018)
11-1-6: DEFINITIONS:
Except where specifically defined in this section, all words and phrases used
in this title shall carry the customary meanings. Words used in the present
tense include the future, and plural includes the singular. The word “shall” is
intended to be mandatory and not directory. The words “used” or “occupied”
shall include within their meaning “intended, arranged, or designed to be used
or occupied”. The word “person” shall include a corporation, partnership, or
other legal entity. For the purpose of this title, certain terms and words are
defined, and wherever used in this title, the following definitions shall
govern:
              A subordinate building or portion of the main building, the use of which is
ACCESSORY     incidental to that of the main building or to the main use of the premises. An
BUILDING AND  “accessory use” is one which is incidental to the main use of the premises.
USE:          Shipping containers, conexs, crates or other items used for shipping goods and
              semi truck trailers with their wheels and axles removed are not allowed to be
              used as storage sheds or accessory buildings or dwellings in any district.
              A room or suite of rooms located in a one-, two-, or multiple-family structure,
APARTMENT:    which shall include bath and kitchen accommodations, intended or designed for
              use as an independent residence by an individual or single family.
BOARDING      A building other than a hotel where, for compensation and by prearrangement for
HOUSE:        definite periods, meals, or lodging and meals, are provided for three (3) or
              more persons, but not exceeding ten (10) persons.
              A structure designed or intended for support, enclosure, and/or shelter of
              persons, animals, or property, having a roof supported by a wall or walls; when
              separated by a party wall without openings, it shall be deemed a separate
BUILDING:     building. Shipping containers, conexs, crates, railroad boxcars or other items
              used for shipping goods and semi truck trailers with their wheels and axles
              removed are not allowed to be used as storage sheds or buildings in any
              district.
              The vertical distance measured from the surface of the ground upon which the
              building is constructed to the highest point of the roof surface in a flat roof,
BUILDING,     to the deck line of a mansard roof and to the mean height level between eaves
HEIGHT OF:    and ridge of gable, hip and gambrel roofs. For buildings set back from the
              street line, the height of the building shall be measured from average elevation
              of the finished grade along the front of the building.
CHILD DAYCARE A lot and appropriate buildings used for the care of children of preschool age,
FACILITY:     the activities of which are conducted between the hours of seven o’clock (7:00)
              A.M. to six o’clock (6:00) P.M.
              A building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively for residential
              occupancy, including one-family, two-family and multiple-family dwelling units,
DWELLING:     but not including hotels, motels, boarding or lodging houses. Shipping
              containers, conexs, crates or other items used for shipping goods and semi truck
              trailers with their wheels and axles removed are not allowed to be used as
              storage sheds or dwellings in any residential district.
              A building or portion thereof designed for or occupied as the home of three (3)
              or more families living independently of each other, including tenement houses,
DWELLING,     apartment houses and apartment hotels. Shipping containers, conexs, crates or
MULTIPLE:     other items used for shipping goods and semi truck trailers with their wheels
              and axles removed are not allowed to be used as storage sheds or multiple
              dwellings in any residential districts.
DWELLING,     A detached building designed for or occupied exclusively by one family.
ONE-FAMILY:
DWELLING,     A detached building designed for, or occupied exclusively by, two (2) families
TWO-FAMILY:   living independently of each other.
DWELLING      A building or portion thereof providing complete housekeeping facilities for one
UNIT:         family, but not including a transient lodging.
              One or more persons occupying a dwelling unit as members of a single
FAMILY:       housekeeping organization. A “family” may include not more than five (5) persons
              not related by blood, marriage or adoption.
FEED LOT:     A tract of land whereon there is contained an operation of feeding or raising
              animals in excess of ten (10) head per acre.
GARAGE,       An accessory building or portion of the main building on the same lot and used
PRIVATE:      for the storage only of private passenger vehicles, not more than two (2) of
              which are owned by other than the occupants of the main building.
              A profession or service activity customarily and historically conducted within a
HOME          dwelling unit by its occupants only, which activity is clearly incidental to the
OCCUPATION:   use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not change the character or
              appearance thereof.
HOTEL:        A building in which lodging is provided with or without meals, and open to
              transient guests.
              Land or buildings where waste, discarded or salvaged materials are brought,
              sold, stored, exchanged, cleaned, packed, disassembled or handled, including,
JUNKYARD:     but not limited to, scrap metal, rags, paper, hides, rubber products, glass
              products, lumber products and products resulting from the wrecking of
              automobiles or other vehicles.
              A building or place where lodging or lodging and boarding is provided (or
LODGING       equipped to provide lodging regularly) by prearrangement for definite periods of
HOUSE:        time, for compensation, for three (3) or more persons in contradistinction to a
              hotel open to transients.
              A single parcel of land intended for use or occupied by one main building and
LOT:          accessory buildings which may or may not be a plotted lot shown on a filed
              subdivision plat, townsite plat or other plat.
LOT, CORNER:  A lot located at the intersection of two (2) streets, two (2) avenues, or one
              street and one avenue.
LOT,          A lot other than a corner lot.
INTERIOR:
LOT LINE,     The boundary of the narrowest end of the lot facing either on a street or
FRONT:        avenue.
LOT LINE,     The lot line which is opposite the front lot line.
REAR:
LOT LINE,     Any lot line other than the front lot line or the rear lot line.
SIDE:
              A single-family dwelling, built off site in a factory on or after January 1,
              1990, that is placed on a permanent foundation, is at least one thousand (1,000)
MANUFACTURED  square feet in size, has a pitched roof and siding and roofing materials that
HOME:         are customarily used on site built homes, and is in compliance with the
              applicable prevailing standards of the United States department of housing and
              urban development at the time of its production. A “manufactured home” does not
              include a “mobile home” as defined in this section.
              A detached residential dwelling unit designed for transportation on streets or
              highways on its own wheels or upon a flatbed or other trailer, and arriving at
MOBILE HOME:  site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling complete and ready for occupancy,
              except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, located on
              jacks or other temporary or permanent foundations, connected to utilities and
              the like. This definition includes a “double-wide” mobile home.
MOBILE HOME   Any plot of ground upon which two (2) or more mobile homes occupied for dwelling
PARK:         or sleeping purposes are located, regardless of whether a charge is made for
              such accommodation.
NEIGHBORHOOD  A shopping facility which will provide convenience goods and secure its
CONVENIENCE   principal trade by supplying the daily needs of the population residing within
BUSINESS:     approximately one- half (V2) mile from the business.
NEIGHBORHOOD  A sendee facility which will provide convenience services and secure its
CONVENIENCE   principal trade by supplying the daily needs of the population residing within
SERVICE:      approximately one- half (‘A) mile from the business.
NONCONFORMING A use which was lawfully established and maintained but which, because of the
USE:          adoption of this title, no longer conforms to the use regulation of the zoning
              district in which it is located.
NURSERY:      A building or part of a building where six (6) or more children, not members of
              the same family, are cared for.
NURSING HOME: A building or part of a building where six (6) or more sick or infirm persons
              are cared for.
PROFESSIONAL  A building or part thereof housing persons whose work requires a degree from an
OFFICE:       institution of higher learning or a license to practice.
SCREENED:     Concealed or cut off from visual access.
              The distance which a building or structure is required to be set back from a
              particular boundary or lot line. The distance will be measured from the nearest
SETBACK:      portion of the structure or building to the particular boundary or lot line from
              which the building or structure is to be set back. For example, where the eaves
              of the building project out beyond the wall of the building, the distance will
              be measured from the eaves of the building.
SIDE WALL,    The vertical distance measured from the floor of the building to the top of said
HEIGHT OF:    side wall where the roof of the building joins it.
              Any outdoor advertising having a permanent location on the ground, or attached
SIGN:         to or painted on a building including bulletin boards, billboards, and poster
              boards, or any device designed to inform or attract attention.
STRUCTURAL    Any change in the supporting members of a building such as bearing walls,
ALTERATION:   columns, beams, or girders, or any substantial changes in the roof and exterior
              walls.
              Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires more or less
STRUCTURE:    permanent location on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent
              location on the ground. When a structure is divided into separate parts by an
              unpierced wall, each part shall be deemed a separate structure.
TRANSIENT     A building containing rooms designed for and rented out for sleeping purposes
LODGINGS:     for transients, and where only general kitchen and living room may be provided
              within the building or in an accessory building.
              A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis, designed to be used as a
TRAVEL        temporary dwelling for travel and recreational purposes, having a body width not
TRAILER:      exceeding nine feet (9') while in transit. (Ord. 16.00; amd. Ord. 384, 11-5-
              1990; 2006 Code; amd. Ord. 16.00, 10-15-2018)
 
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-2-1: Enforcement
11-2-2: Permits And Fees
11-2-3: Board Of Adjustment
11-2-4: Conditional Uses
11-2-5: Variances
11-2-6: Amendments
11-2-7: Severability
11-2-8: Penalty
11-2-1: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcing Agency: The city council is the enforcement agency that is to
enforce and supervise the provisions of this title in accordance with Montana
law.
   B.   Officials Or Employees Acting For Council: The city council may appoint
a building inspector or other employee to act as its agent, or the city
superintendent may act in such capacity, to administer and enforce this title.
   C.   Duties Of Building Inspector:
      1.   Primarily, the building inspector or city superintendent administers
and enforces this title, and receives applications for building permits, for
conditional use permits and for variances. Applications for permits, together
with fees, plans, and specifications, are filed with the building inspector or
city superintendent for review to determine whether they conform with this
title.
      2.   The building inspector or city superintendent also inspects building
sites for conformance with the zoning regulations, receives and investigates
complaints involving possible zoning violations, and answers questions
concerning this title.
      3.   The building inspector or city superintendent may order building
construction to be stopped whenever such building construction is being
conducted in violation of any provision of this title. (Ord. 16.00; amd. Ord.
2.32)
11-2-2: PERMITS AND FEES:
   A.   Building Permits:
      1.   No future change in land use shall be made and no building or other
structure shall be constructed, altered, added to, torn down, razed or moved
until a building permit has been issued covering the proposed work. (Ord.
16.00)
      2.   Applications for building permits are available from the city clerk-
treasurer's office. If the land use, building, or other structure is clearly in
conformance with this title, the building permit may be approved by the city
council and issued by the building inspector or city superintendent; if not in
conformance, the applicant may apply for a variance. (Ord. 16.00; amd. Ord.
2.32)
      3.   Any building permit issued in violation of the provisions of this
title is null and void.
   B.   Applications For Permits And Variances: Applications for building
permits, variances, and conditional use permits are available from the city
clerk-treasurer's office.
   C.   Fees:
      1.   Before a building permit can be issued, a fee therefor shall be paid
by the applicant.
      2.   An application for a conditional use permit or for a variance shall
be accompanied by the required fee.
      3.   The amount of such fees shall be set by resolution of the city
council. (Ord. 16.00)
11-2-3: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
   A.   Formation Of Board: The city council may act as a board of adjustment
or may provide for the appointment of a board of adjustment, as established in
the Montana Code Annotated, as amended.
   B.   Powers: The board of adjustment shall hear and decide appeals from any
determination made by the city council or by the building inspector or city
superintendent, applications for conditional uses and for variances, as
established in the Montana Code Annotated, as amended. (Ord. 16.00; amd. Ord.
2.32)
11-2-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   Authority To Grant Permits: The board of adjustment shall have the
authority to grant, in particular cases and subject to appropriate conditions
and safeguards, conditional use permits as authorized by this title.
   B.   Application For Permit; Hearing:
      1.   The application for a conditional use permit shall accompany the
application for a zoning permit. (Ord. 16.00)
      2.   The application shall be made to the building inspector or city
superintendent who shall transmit the application to the board of adjustment
for review and recommendations. Thereafter, the board of adjustment shall
conduct public hearings and may grant or deny the conditional use requested.
(Ord. 16.00; amd. Ord. 2.32)
   C.   Issuance Criteria: The standards and criteria governing the issuance of
conditional use permits are as follows:
      1.   That the use will not endanger the public health or safety if
located where proposed and developed, and that the use will not allow
conditions which will tend to generate nuisance conditions such as noise, dust,
glare, or vibration.
      2.   That the use meets all required conditions and specifications set
forth in the zoning district where it proposes to be located.
      3.   That the use will not be injurious or detrimental to adjoining or
abutting property, or that the use is a public necessity.
      4.   That the location and character of the use, if developed according
to the plan as submitted and approved, will be in harmony with the area in
which it is to be located and in general conformity with the comprehensive
plan.
      5.   In addition, the board of adjustment may impose specific conditions
precedent to establishing the use and said conditions may include:
         a.   Increasing requirements in the standards, criteria, or policies
established by this title.
         b.   Stipulate the exact location as a means of minimizing hazards to
life, health, property damage, erosion, landslides or traffic.
         c.   Impose conditions necessary to establish parity with uses
permitted in the same zone in their freedom from nuisance generating features
in matters of noise, odors, air pollution, wastes, vibration, traffic or
physical hazards.
      6.   All conditions required by the board of adjustment shall be entered
in the minutes of the meeting at which the permit is granted and also on the
certificate of the conditional use permit.
      7.   To ensure the establishment of the above conditions, the board of
adjustment shall have the authority to require and approve a specific plan, to
increase the requirements set forth in this title, but in no case shall the
board of adjustment have the authority to decrease the requirements of this
title for any use in the zoning district it proposes to locate. Any such
decrease in the requirements of this title shall only be granted upon the
issuance of a variance.
   D.   Denials: If the board of adjustment shall deny the conditional use
permit, the reasons for denial shall be entered in the minutes of the meeting
at which the permit is denied. In the event of failure to comply with the plans
approved by the board of adjustment, or with any conditions imposed upon the
conditional use permit, the permit shall thereupon immediately become void and
of no effect. (Ord. 16.00)
11-2-5: VARIANCES:
   A.   Authority: The board of adjustment shall have the authority to grant a
variance from the requirements of this title, after considering the matter at a
public hearing duly called, giving notice to adjoining property owners as
provided herein.
   B.   Conditions For Granting Variances:
      1.   Before any variance can be granted, the board of adjustment shall
make findings of fact setting forth and showing that the following
circumstances exist:
         a.   In considering all proposed variances to this title, the board of
adjustment shall, before making any findings in a specified case, first
determine that the proposed variance will not amount to a rezone and constitute
a change in the zoning district boundaries shown on the official zoning map.
         b.   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are
peculiar to the land such as size, shape, topography or location, not
applicable to other lands in the same zoning district and that literal
interpretation of the provisions of this title would deprive the property
owners of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties similarly situated in the
same zoning district under the terms of this title.
         c.   That the special conditions and circumstances do not result from
the actions of the applicant.
         d.   That granting the variance requested will not confer a special
privilege to subject property that is denied other lands in the same zoning
district.
         e.   That the granting of the variance will not be materially
detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to the property or improvements
in the vicinity and zoning district in which subject property is situated.
         f.   The board of adjustment shall further make a finding that the
reasons set forth in the application justify the granting of the variance, and
that the variance is the minimum variance that will make possible the
reasonable use of the land.
         g.   The board of adjustment shall further make a finding that the
granting of the variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent
of this title and will not be injurious to the neighborhood, or otherwise
detrimental to the public welfare.
         h.   The fact that property may be utilized more profitably will not
be an element of consideration before the board of adjustment.
      2.   In granting any variance, the board of adjustment may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards that will ensure that the purpose and
intent of this title shall not be violated. Violation of such conditions and
safeguards, when made part of the terms under which the variance is granted,
shall be deemed a violation of this title.
      3.   Under no circumstances shall the board of adjustment grant a
variance to permit a use not generally or by conditional use permitted in the
zoning district involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited, by
the terms of this title in said zoning district. (Ord. 16.00)
11-2-6: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   City-County Planning Board Hearing; Decisions: Proposed amendments to
the text of this title or the official zoning map shall be heard by the city-
county planning board, and the decision concerning the proposed amendments
shall be made and reported to the city council within thirty five (35) days of
the time the proposed amendment was presented to the city-county planning
board. (Ord. 16.00)
   B.   Amendments Initiated By Council; Application Fee: Proposed amendments
may be initiated by the city council, the city-county planning board, the
building inspector, the city superintendent, or by any interested person making
application, together with a twenty five dollar ($25.00) fee to the city-county
planning board. Application forms for proposed amendments are available from
the city clerk-treasurer's office. (Ord. 16.00; amd. Ord. 2.32)
   C.   Compliance With Statute: The city council shall observe the procedure
for amending this title or official zoning map as prescribed in Montana Code
Annotated section 76-2-305, and any amendments thereof. (Ord. 16.00)
11-2-7: SEVERABILITY:
Where any word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section, or other part
of this title is held invalid by a court of valid jurisdiction, such judgment
shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions of this title. (Ord.
16.00)
11-2-8: PENALTY:
The penalty for violation of this title shall be as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 16.00; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS; MAP
SECTION:
11-3-1: Districts Established; Purposes
11-3-2: Zoning Map; Boundary Interpretations
11-3-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED; PURPOSES:
The city is hereby divided into zoning districts of such number, shape, and
area as has been deemed best suited to carry out the purposes of this title and
the areas of lands included within each of such zoning districts is as set out
in chapter 8 of this title. The zoning districts and a statement of their
intent are as follows:
   A.   Residential I (R I): The intent of this zoning district is to
accommodate and protect the uses of single-family dwelling units and to
preserve and promote the stable residential use and character of the area.
   B.   Residential II (R II): The intent of this zoning district is to
accommodate and protect the uses of single- and multi-family dwelling units and
to preserve and promote the fairly stable, primarily residential use and
character of the area, yet permit compatible public and semipublic uses.
   C.   Residential III (R Ill): The intent of this zoning district is to
accommodate and protect the uses of single- and multi-family dwelling units and
to preserve and promote the primarily residential use and character of the
area, yet permit compatible public and semipublic uses and mobile home parks in
designated areas.
   D.   Residential IV (R IV): The intent of this zoning district is to
accommodate and protect the use of single- and multi-family dwelling units and
to preserve and promote the primarily residential use and character of the
area, yet to permit compatible public and semipublic uses; the construction and
use of both manufactured homes and mobile homes as single-family dwellings;
and, mobile home parks in designated areas.
   E.   Commercial (C): The intent of this zoning district is to establish a
district primarily for conducting retail trade, administrative and professional
offices, and services to the general public.
   F.   Industrial (I): The intent of this zoning district is to establish a
district primarily for the manufacturing, processing, fabrication, and
assembling of products or materials, and for warehousing, storage and
transportation facilities.
   G.   Agricultural/Open Space (AO): The intent of this zoning district is to
protect valuable undeveloped land and prevent unplanned indiscriminate use of
essentially undeveloped land until such time as the character and highest use
of the land in this district has been determined. (Ord. 16.00; amd. 2006 Code;
Ord. 16.00, 10-15-2018)
11-3-2: ZONING MAP; BOUNDARY INTERPRETATIONS:
   A.   Zoning Map: Zoning districts as established in this title are shown on
an official zoning map entitled the “Cut Bank Zoning Map”. An updated and
current copy of this map, together with a certificate with the signature of the
mayor, certification of the city clerk-treasurer and the adoption date of this
title, will be on display in the city hall, and said map by this reference is
incorporated herein as a part of this title. This map and all properly
authorized modifications, certified by the city clerk-treasurer, are hereby
made a part of this title.
   B.   Zoning Map Copies:
      1.   Copies of the zoning map may be obtained from the city clerk-
treasurer at a cost to be determined by the city council from time to time.
      2.   Copies of the zoning map shall not be official for any purpose
unless certified by the city clerk-treasurer and if so certified, shall be
official only as of the date of certification.
   C.   Zoning Map Boundary Interpretations: Where uncertainty exists with
regard to the boundaries of any of the zoning districts, the following rules
shall apply:
      1.   Boundaries shall be interpreted as following the nearest logical
line to that shown; where shown as approximately following platted lot lines,
boundaries shall be construed as following such lot(s); where shown as
following approximately city limits, railroad tracks, street center or right of
way lines, stream or water centerlines or shorelines, boundaries shall be
construed to follow such lines.
      2.   Boundaries indicated as extensions of or parallel with such lines as
stated in subsection Cl of this section shall be so construed, and where
distances are not shown on the map, they shall be determined by the scale of
the map.
      3.   Boundaries shown as following section, quarter, or sixteenth lines
shall be construed to follow lines.
      4.   Where boundaries seem in conflict with physical or cultural features
on the ground, the zoning board of adjustment shall interpret such boundaries.
(Ord. 16.00; amd. Ord. 16.00, 10-15-2018)
CHAPTER 4
DISTRICT USES AND REQUIREMENTS
ARTICLE A. RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-4A-1: Residential I (RI) District
11-4A-2: Residential II (RII) District
11-4A-3: Residential III (RIII) District
11-4A-4: Residential IV (R IV) District
11-4A-1: RESIDENTIAL I (RI) DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
      Parks and playgrounds.
      Single-family dwellings.
      Accessory uses appurtenant to residential use.
   B.   Conditional Uses:
      Churches and church schools.
      Sober Houses and Group Homes with less than 8 occupants.
      Home occupations; provided, that not more than twenty five percent (25%)
of the dwelling is used for such purposes.
   C.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area per dwelling shall be eight
thousand four hundred (8,400) square feet. This limitation shall not apply to
lots or other tracts of land included in plats which were approved by the city
council prior to the effective date hereof.
   D.   Dimensional Requirements:
      1.   Buildings shall have a minimum setback of twenty five feet (25')
from road and street right of way lines, and four feet (4') from interior side
and rear lot lines, except as hereafter provided for garages. The minimum
building setback for exterior side lot lines is twelve feet (12') for all
buildings.
      2.   Dwellings shall have a maximum height of thirty feet (30') and
accessory buildings a maximum height of thirty feet (30').
      3.   Minimum lot width shall be sixty feet (60').
      4.   Minimum main floor area of dwellings shall be one thousand (1,000)
square feet.
      5.   No detached garage or other accessory building shall be located
nearer than twenty five feet (25') to the front property line. Any garage shall
be set back at least four feet (4') from the interior side line and ten feet
(10') from the rear lot line or alley line; except where a garage is
constructed with its side wall parallel to the alley line and the wall
containing the car entry is perpendicular to the rear lot line or alley line,
the garage may be set back not less than four feet (4') from the rear lot line
or alley line. (Ord. 16.00; amd. 2006 Code; Ord. 16.00, 10-15-2018)
11-4A-2: RESIDENTIAL II (RII) DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
      Churches and church schools.
      Clubs not conducted as businesses or operated for profit and where beer
or liquor is not sold within said clubs.
      Hospitals and clinics.
      Manufactured homes used as single-family residences on permanent
foundations. (Mobile homes are prohibited.)
      Multiple-family dwellings.
      Parks and playgrounds.
      Public schools.
      Single-family dwellings.
      Accessory uses appurtenant to residential uses.
   B.   Conditional Uses:
      Child daycare facilities.
      Home occupations; provided, that not more than twenty five percent (25%)
of the dwelling is used for such purposes.
      Neighborhood convenience and service businesses.
      Sober Houses and Group Homes with less than 8 occupants.
      Planned unit housing developments.
   C.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area in this zoning district is seven
thousand (7,000) square feet per single-family dwelling and for other permitted
uses. This limitation shall not apply to lots or other tracts of land which are
included in plats which were approved by the city council prior to the
effective date hereof.
   D.   Dimensional Requirements:
      1.   Buildings shall have a minimum setback of twenty feet (20') from the
front lot line and four feet (4') from interior side and rear lot lines, except
as hereafter provided for garages. The minimum building setback for exterior
side lot lines is twelve feet (12') for all buildings.
      2.   Dwellings shall have a maximum height of thirty five feet (35'), and
accessory buildings a maximum height thirty-five (35) feet.
      3.   Minimum lot width shall be fifty feet (50').
      4.   Minimum main floor area for all dwellings shall be seven hundred
(700) square feet.
      5.   No detached garage or other accessory building shall be located
nearer than twenty feet (20') to the front property line. Any garage shall be
set back at least four feet (4') from the interior side line and ten feet (10')
from the rear lot line or alley line; except where a garage is constructed with
its side wall parallel to the alley line and the wall containing the car entry
is perpendicular to the rear lot line or alley line, the garage may be set back
not less than four feet (4') from the rear lot line or alley line. (Ord. 16.00;
amd. Ord. 393-A, 6-16-1997; 2006 Code; Ord. 16.00, 10-15-2018)
11-4A-3: RESIDENTIAL III (RIII) DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
      Churches and church schools.
      Clubs not conducted as businesses or operated for profit and where beer
or liquor is not sold within said clubs.
      Hospitals and clinics.
      Manufactured homes used as single-family residences on permanent
foundations. (Mobile homes are prohibited.)
      Mobile home parks in designated areas.
      Multiple-family dwellings.
      Parks and playgrounds.
      Public schools.
      Single-family dwellings.
      Accessory uses appurtenant to residential uses.
   B.   Conditional Uses:
      Child daycare facilities.
      Home occupations; provided, that not more than twenty five percent (25%)
of the dwelling is used for such purposes.
      Sober Houses and Group Homes with less than 8 occupants.
      Neighborhood convenience and service businesses.
      Nursing homes and rest homes.
      Planned unit housing developments.
      Professional offices.
   C.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area in this zoning district is seven
thousand (7,000) square feet per single-family dwelling and for other permitted
uses. This limitation shall not apply to lots or other tracts of land included
in plats which were approved by the city council prior to the effective date
hereof.
   D.   Dimensional Requirements:
      1.   Buildings shall have a minimum setback of twenty feet (20') from the
front lot line and four feet (4') from the interior side and rear lot lines,
except as hereinafter provided for garages. The minimum building setback for
exterior side lot lines is twelve feet (12') for all buildings.
      2.   Dwellings shall have a maximum height of thirty five feet (35') and
accessory buildings a maximum height of thirty-five feet (35').
      3.   Minimum lot width shall be fifty feet (50').
      4.   Minimum main floor area for all dwellings shall be seven hundred
(700) square feet.
      5.   No detached garage or other accessory building shall be located
nearer than twenty feet (20') to the front property line. Any garage shall be
set back at least four feet (4') from the interior side line and ten feet (10')
from the rear lot line or alley line; except where a garage is constructed with
its side wall parallel to the alley line and the wall containing the car entry
is perpendicular to the rear lot line or alley line, the garage may be set back
not less than four feet (4') from the rear lot line or alley line. (Ord. 16.00;
amd. Ord. 393-A, 6-16-1997; 2006 Code; Ord. 16.00, 10-15-2018)
11-4A-4: RESIDENTIAL IV (R IV) DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
      Churches and church schools.
      Clubs not operated as businesses or operated for profit and where beer or
liquor is not sold within said clubs.
      Hospitals and clinics.
      Manufactured homes used as single-family dwellings on a permanent
foundation.
      Mobile home parks in designated areas.
      Mobile homes used as single-family dwellings. Foundation blocking
material shall be in sufficient quantity and quality of wood, metal or masonry
to stabilize the home in a level, liveable condition. Skirting shall be of
wood, metal or masonry, or any suitable combination thereof. Skirting shall be
either factory prefinished or shall have the capability of being finished on
the exterior side. Suitable finishes shall be of paint, enamel, plastic,
fiberglass, or as approved by the building inspector or city superintendent.
Galvanized finished materials shall not be acceptable unless enamel coated.
Skirting shall be completed within sixty (60) days of the mobile home
installation.
      Parks and playgrounds.
      Public schools.
      Single-family dwellings.
      Accessory uses appurtenant to residential uses.
   B.   Conditional Uses:
      Child daycare facilities.
      Home occupations; provided, that not more than twenty five percent (25%)
of the dwelling is used for such purposes.
      Neighborhood convenience and service businesses.
      Nursing homes and rest homes.
      Sober Houses and Group Homes with less than 8 occupants.
      Planned unit housing developments.
      Professional offices.
   C.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area in this zoning district is five
thousand (5,000) square feet per single-family dwelling and for other permitted
uses. This limitation shall not apply to lots or other tracts of land included
in plats which were approved by the city council prior to the effective date
hereof.
   D.   Dimensional Requirements:
      1.   Buildings shall have a minimum setback of twenty feet (20') from the
front lot line and four feet (4') from the interior side and rear lot lines,
except as hereinafter provided for garages. The minimum building setback for
exterior side lot lines is twelve feet (12') for all buildings.
      2.   Dwellings shall have a maximum height of thirty five feet (35') and
accessory buildings a maximum height of thirty-five (35').
      3.   Minimum lot width shall be an average of forty feet (40') (front
dimension plus the rear dimension divided by 2).
      4.   Minimum main floor area for all dwellings shall be five hundred
(500) square feet.
      5.   No detached garage or other accessory building shall be located
nearer than twenty feet (20') to the front property line. Any garage shall be
set back at least four feet (4') from the interior side line and ten feet (10')
from the rear lot line or alley line; except where a garage is constructed with
its side wall parallel to the alley line and the wall containing the car entry
is perpendicular to the rear lot line or alley line, the garage may be set back
not less than four feet (4') from the rear lot line or alley line. (Ord. 16.00;
amd. Ord. 393-A, 6-16-1997; Ord. 2.32; 2006 Code)
ARTICLE B. COMMERCIAL (C) DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-4B-1: Permitted Uses
11-4B-2: Conditional Uses
11-4B-3: Minimum Lot Area
11-4B-4: Dimensional Requirements
11-4B-1: PERMITTED USES:
Kennels.
Retail and wholesale trade including building materials, hardware, general
merchandise, food, automobile accessories, apparel and accessories, furniture,
home furnishings, eating establishments, and miscellaneous retail stores (drug,
sporting goods, etc).
Service activities including finance, insurance, real estate, transient
loading, personal services, automobile repair, professional services, etc.
(Ord. 16.00; amd. 2006 Code)
11-4B-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
Bars, taverns, or other businesses that require liquor or beer licenses.
Farm equipment sales, automobile dealers, and mobile home sales.
Multi-family residential dwellings.
Sober Houses and Group Homes with less than 8 occupants.
Uses which, in the opinion of the board of adjustment, are similar to permitted
commercial uses. (Ord. 16.00; amd. Ord. 1600, 10-15-2018)
11-4B-3: MINIMUM LOT AREA:
   A.   No minimum lot area for commercial use is specified other than to
provide adequate space for uses in conformance with the commercial activity and
for adequate parking.
   B.   Buildings used primarily as multi-family dwellings in this zoning
district shall have the same minimum lot requirements as multi-family dwellings
in the residential III (RIII) zoning district. (Ord. 16.00)
11-4B-4: DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Buildings shall have a maximum height of thirty five feet (35').
   B.   Minimum lot width shall be twenty five feet (25').
   C.   Minimum main floor area for all dwellings shall be seven hundred (700)
square feet.
   D.   The dimensional requirements for buildings in the central business
district (CBD) may be varied by the board of adjustment on an individual case
basis depending on the existing conditions and the desires of the city for CBD
development. (Ord. 16.00)
ARTICLE C. INDUSTRIAL (I) DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-4C-1: Compliance With State Law
11-4C-2: Permitted Uses
11-4C-3: Conditional Uses
11-4C-4: Minimum Lot Area
11-4C-5: Dimensional Requirements
11-4C-1: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW:
No use shall be allowed which violates any of the laws of the state of Montana.
(Ord. 16.00)
11-4C-2: PERMITTED USES:
Any manufacturing, storage or transportation use is permitted that conforms to
this title and other applicable regulations.
Accessory uses which are an integral part of the primary use of the property.
(Ord. 16.00; amd. 2006 Code; Ord. 16.00, 10-15-2018)
11-4C-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Dwellings to be used exclusively by the owner, caretaker, or other managerial
personnel required by or incidental to the operation of the industrial
enterprise.
Junkyards or auto wrecking yards.
Sober Houses and Group Homes with less than 8 occupants.
Uses which, in the opinion of the board of adjustment, are similar to permitted
industrial uses. (Ord. 16.00; amd. Ord. 16.00, 10-15-2018)
11-4C-4: MINIMUM LOT AREA:
   A.   It is the intent to provide adequate space for uses in conformance with
the industrial activity, for parking, for truck trailer maneuvering, and for
storage, and to provide an adequate buffer area between industrial and
residential zones.
   B.   No minimum lot area is specified other than to meet the dimensional and
parking and loading requirement. (Ord. 16.00)
11-4C-5: DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Buildings shall have a minimum setback of ten feet (10') from both the
northerly and southerly boundaries of East and West Railway Streets.
   B.   Buildings shall have a maximum height of thirty five feet (35'). (Ord.
16.00)
ARTICLE D. AGRICULTURAL/OPEN SPACE (AO) DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-4D-1: Permitted Uses
11-4D-2: Conditional Uses
11-4D-3: Minimum Lot Area
11-4D-4: Dimensional Requirements
11-4D-1: PERMITTED USES:
Agricultural pursuits except intensive agricultural uses, such as feed lots,
that may be compatible with nearby land uses.
Churches and church schools.
Clubs not operated as businesses or operated for profit and where beer or
liquor is not sold within said clubs.
Hospitals and clinics.
Manufactured homes and mobile homes used as single-family residences when
placed on permanent foundations of masonry, concrete or treated wood in
conformance with uniform building standard no. 29-3. (Travel trailers are
prohibited.)
Mobile home parks in designated areas.
Parks and playgrounds.
Public schools.
Single-family dwellings.
Accessory uses appurtenant to residential uses. (Ord. 393-A, 6-16-1997; amd.
2006 Code; Ord. 16.00, 10-15-2018)
11-4D-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
Airports and landing strips.
Cemeteries, crematories, and mausoleums.
Commercial buildings for raising, breeding and boarding dogs or other animals.
Quarries, sand, and gravel pits.
Recreational facilities such as campground or golf course.
Sanitary landfill disposal sites.
Sober Houses and Group Homes with less than 8 occupants.
Water and sewage treatment facilities. (Ord. 16.00; amd. Ord. 16.00, 10-15-
2018)
11-4D-3: MINIMUM LOT AREA:
The minimum lot area in this zoning district shall be five (5) acres. (Ord.
16.00)
11-4D-4: DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Buildings shall have a minimum setback of thirty feet (30') from road
and street right of way lines and adjacent property lines.
   B.   Buildings shall have a maximum height of thirty five feet (35'). (Ord.
16.00)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL ZONING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Application Of Zoning Regulations
11-5-2: Exceptions Applicable To Mobile Homes
11-5-3: Vacations
11-5-4: Nonconforming Uses
11-5-5: Signs And Lighting
11-5-6: Fences And Screening
11-5-7: Animals
11-5-8: Medical Marijuana
11-5-1: APPLICATION OF ZONING REGULATIONS:
The zoning regulations as set forth in this title shall be minimum regulations
and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or land, and shall
meet the following conditions:
   A.   Buildings, Structures And Land: Subject to the provisions of
subsections 11-5-2A and B of this chapter, no building, structure or land shall
hereafter be used or occupied and no building, structure or part thereof shall
hereafter be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered
unless it is in conformity with all of the regulations herein specified for the
zoning district in which it is located.
   B.   Yards And Lots: No yard or lot existing at the time of the effective
date hereof shall be reduced in dimension or area below the requirements set
forth herein and all yards or lots created after the effective date hereof
shall meet the minimum requirements of this title. (Ord. 16.00)
11-5-2: EXCEPTIONS APPLICABLE TO MOBILE HOMES:
Notwithstanding anything in this title to the contrary, the following
exceptions and provisions shall apply to mobile homes located in zones RI, RII
and RIII, and not in mobile home parks, on the effective date hereof: (Ord.
393-A, 6-16-1997)
   A.   Repairs, Maintenance And Alterations: Any of said mobile homes may be
repaired, maintained or structurally altered (but not enlarged or extended) so
long as said repairs, maintenance and alterations are for the purpose of and do
improve the existing condition of the mobile home. Any such repairs,
maintenance and alterations shall be in conformance with this title and all
applicable building codes and permit requirements, whether local, state or
federal.
   B.   Replacing Mobile Home: Subject to the restrictions contained in
subsections 11-5-4A, B1 and B3 of this chapter, if said mobile home is
subsequently removed from the lot or tract of land on which it was situated on
the effective date hereof, it may be replaced by the person actually owning the
lot at the time of such replacement; provided, however, that said replacement
mobile home is in a better condition than the removed mobile home. (Ord. 16.00)
11-5-3: VACATIONS:
Whenever any street, alley, or other public way is vacated by official action
of the city council, the zoning district adjoining each side of such street,
alley, or public way shall be extended to the center of such vacation, and all
areas included in the vacation shall then and henceforth be subject to all
appropriate regulations of the extended district. (Ord. 16.00)
11-5-4: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Land: A lawful use of land on the effective date hereof which is made
no longer permissible by the terms of this title may be continued if it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
      1.   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged, increased, or extended
to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied by such use at the effective
date hereof.
      2.   No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
other portion of the lot or parcel being occupied by such use at the effective
date hereof.
      3.   If any nonconforming use ceases for a period of more than one
hundred eighty (180) days, any subsequent use of the land shall conform to
district regulations for the district in which it is located.
   B.   Structures: If a lawful use of a structure, or of structures and
premises, exists at the effective date hereof that would not be allowed in the
district under the terms of this title, the lawful use may be continued so long
as it remains otherwise lawful, provided that:
      1.   No existing structure devoted to a nonconforming use shall be
enlarged or extended, unless the use is changed to a permitted use.
      2.   Any nonconforming use may be extended to any other part of a
building designed for such use, but no such use may be extended in any way to
occupy land outside the building.
      3.   Whenever a nonconforming use of a structure or premises ceases for
six (6) consecutive months or for eighteen (18) months during any three (3)
year period, the structure or premises shall not thereafter be used except in
conformance with the regulations of the zoning district in which it is located.
      4.   Except as provided in subsection 11-5-2B of this chapter, where
nonconforming use status applies to both structures and land, the removal or
destruction of the structure shall eliminate the nonconforming status of the
land.
      5.   Should any nonconforming structure be destroyed by any means, in
extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of its assessed value at the time of
destruction, the building shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with
the provisions of this title. (Ord. 16.00)
11-5-5: SIGNS AND LIGHTING:
   A.   Structural Safety; Anchoring: All signs shall be structurally safe and
shall be securely anchored or otherwise fastened, suspended, or supported so
that they will not endanger public health, safety, or welfare.
   B.   Illumination Restriction: No sign, outdoor advertising, or lighting
device constituting a nuisance to nearby land uses because of illumination
shall be erected and maintained.
   C.   Permission Required: No sign or notice shall be erected on any property
without permission of the owner, occupant, lessee of the property, or the
responsible governing body. (Ord. 16.00)
11-5-6: FENCES AND SCREENING:
   A.   Authority: Authorization for this section is contained in Montana Code
Annotated section 76-2-301 et seq. (also known as "Municipal Zoning").
   B.   General Purpose:
      1.   The purpose of this section is to secure a more uniform standard
concerning fences, retaining walls, and any other perimeter structures and to
regulate and restrict the erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration
and repair and use of any such fences, retaining walls, and other perimeter
structures.
      2.   Furthermore, this section shall declare any such fence, retaining
wall or perimeter structure which exceeds the standards set forth herein as a
public nuisance and as a violation of public safety concerning use of the city
streets and sidewalks.
   C.   Jurisdictional Area: The jurisdictional area of this section shall
include all of the land lying within the corporate limits of the city, and such
additional areas as may from time to time be brought into the city.
   D.   Requirements And Restrictions:
      1.   Hedges may be taller than a height of six (6) feet but sight
obstructing fences or retaining walls of a maximum height of six feet (6') may
be placed bordering upon or adjacent to the interior side property line from a
setback distance of twenty feet (20') from the front property line to a point
on the interior side line which intersects with a linear extension of the rear
wall of the dwelling located on said lot. The maximum height of such fences,
hedges, or retaining walls within the setback distance shall be four feet (4').
The street curbline elevation shall be used as the point for determining the
height of any fence, hedge, retaining wall, structure, or any combination
thereof. Any such fences, retaining walls, or hedges may be placed along the
portion of the lot adjacent to a street or avenue upon or adjacent to a line
which is parallel to and set back the minimum distance of thirteen feet (13')
from the curbline or street or three feet (3') off of the street right of way.
      2.   Nonsight obstructing fences, hedges, retaining walls, structures or
any combination thereof shall have a maximum height restriction of six feet
(6') when using the curbline for a reference and set back the minimum distance
of thirteen feet (13') from the curbline or street or three feet (3') off of
the street right of way, excepting only fences which may be placed on the
property line or only ten feet (10') from the curbline. Once constructed,
repaired, altered or modified in any manner to meet the requirements of a
nonsight obstructing fence, hedge, retaining wall, structure or combination
thereof, any addition of sight obstructing wind screen material shall require
the property owner to comply with the requirements and restrictions of a sight
obstructing fence, hedge, retaining wall, structure or combination thereof as
hereinabove set forth in subsection D1 of this section.
      3.   Corner lots shall have a maximum height restriction for sight
obstructing fences, hedges, retaining walls, structures or combination thereof
of four feet (4'), and five feet (5') for any such nonsight obstructing fence,
retaining wall, hedge, structure or combination thereof. All such shall be set
back the minimum distance of thirteen feet (13') from the curbline or street or
three feet (3') off of the street right of way.
      4.   Sight obstructing fences, retaining walls, hedges, structures or any
combination thereof which are a maximum of three feet (3') high, and nonsight
obstructing fences, hedges, retaining walls, structures or any combination
thereof which are a maximum of four feet six inches (4'6") high, where nails
and posts constitute not more than one-third (1/3) of the fence area placed
along the portion of the lot adjacent to a street or avenue, may be placed upon
or adjacent to a line which is parallel to the street or avenue boundary line
bordering upon such lot, or such fences, hedges, retaining walls, structures or
combination thereof may be placed bordering upon or adjacent to a line which is
parallel to and set back a minimum distance of five feet (5') from the curbline
of the street or avenue bordering upon such lot where this placement will not
violate an already established fencing pattern in the block in which such lot
is located.
      5.   Finally, for purposes of enforcing this section prospectively, it
shall be required of the lot owners to apply for and get a building permit from
the city building inspector, the city superintendent or designated person when
installing any new fence, retaining wall, hedge, structure or any combination
thereof. This shall include those instances when the lot owner is removing any
old fence, hedge, retaining wall, structure or combination thereof with the
intent to build new thereafter. Mere repair of any fence, hedge, retaining
wall, structure or combination thereof which does not alter the dimensions as
such presently exist or materially change said fence, retaining wall, hedge,
structure or any combination thereof as to being sight or nonsight obstructing
shall not require a building permit.
   E.   Violations: Any violation of this section shall be a violation of this
title, and may be punished as provided in section 11-2-8 of this title. (Ord.
16.01, 8-11-1998; amd. Ord. 2.32; Ord. 16.00, 10-15-2018)
11-5-7: ANIMALS:
No animals other than domestic house pets shall be kept in any residential or
commercial zoning district 1 , except as otherwise allowed in this code. (Ord.
16.00; amd. 2006 Code)
 
Notes
  1. See subsection 6-3A-14E of this code which allows kennels in all zoning
1 districts; see also title 6, chapter 3, article B of this code for
  restrictions regarding livestock and fowl.
11-5-8: MEDICAL MARIJUANA:
   A.   Definitions: The terms “marijuana”, “paraphernalia”, “qualifying
patient”, and “caregiver”, have the meanings attributed to those terms by the
Medical Marijuana Act.
   B.   Regulations: Ordinance 17-01, adopted by the City of Cut Bank on March
20, 2017, states that no establishment attempting to grow, sell, or distribute
medical marijuana or paraphernalia in the city of Cut Bank shall be allowed.
The growing, selling or distribution of medical marijuana in any zone districts
in the city of Cut Bank is hereby prohibited. This prohibition shall not apply
to a qualifying patient who possesses not more than six (6) marijuana plants
and one ounce of usable marijuana solely for that patient’s own use.
   C.   Additional Provisions: In addition to the provisions of this section,
the growing, selling or distribution of medical marijuana or paraphernalia
shall be subject to all local, state and federal laws, rules and regulations.
This section is not intended as, nor should it be relied upon as, a shield
against prosecution, particularly as to federal drug laws related to the
possession, consumption, growing and/or selling of marijuana.
   D.   Penalty: Any individual, entity or establishment that violates the
terms or the restrictions set forth above shall be deemed to be committing a
criminal act, shall be subject to prosecution in the same manner as one who
violates city ordinances and shall be subject to the general penalty set forth
in this code. Any such individual, entity or establishment shall also be
subject to a civil action to enjoin or abate the public nuisance, as the city
deems appropriate.
   E.   Effective Date: This section shall be effective as of the date of
effectiveness of Ordinance 17-01, and it shall apply to all applications
including, but not limited to, those for building permits, zoning variances,
conditional use permits, business licenses, safety inspection certificates,
development activity, land use activity, land use changes, and any other
applications for approval of any type or nature, which have been received by
the city of Cut Bank and not yet granted or approved as of the effective date
hereof. (Ord. 2010-02, 7-6-2010; amd. Ord. 17-01, 3-20-2017; Ord. 16.00, 10-15-
2018)
CHAPTER 6
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
11-6-1: Intent
11-6-2: Off Street Parking Design Standards
11-6-3: Number Of Spaces Required
11-6-4: Loading Area Requirements
11-6-1: INTENT:
This chapter is intended to reduce the need for parking on roads and streets
and the traffic congestion and hazards caused thereby, and to provide off
street parking adequate to each type of development, in terms of both amount
and location. (Ord. 16.00)
11-6-2: OFF STREET PARKING DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Parking Area Use Limited: Accessory off street parking required for the
uses specified herein shall be for use only by vehicles of employees, customers
and residents of the activity served.
   B.   Parking On Same Lot As Building Served: Off street parking requirements
shall be met on the same lot as the building served, unless adequate off street
parking is provided elsewhere.
   C.   Parking Space Dimensions: An off street parking space shall be at least
nine feet in width and at least twenty feet in length (9' x 20'), exclusive of
access drives, landscaping, or ramps. Such spaces shall have a vertical
clearance of at least eight feet (8'). (Ord. 16.00)
   D.   Location In Yard: Off street parking spaces may not be located in any
required yard. (Ord. 16.00; amd. 2006 Code)
   E.   Lighting Restriction: No lighting used to illuminate a parking area
shall be constructed so that its light shall shine directly into a window of
any adjoining dwelling.
   F.   Drainage: All off street parking areas shall be designed, constructed
and maintained to provide adequate drainage to ensure a solid, mud free surface
and to prevent any nuisance caused by dust. (Ord. 16.00)
11-6-3: NUMBER OF SPACES REQUIRED:
The following number of off street parking spaces is required in the applicable
districts:
Banks, business or professional   1 parking space for each 400 square feet of
gross floor area
Bowling alleys   4 parking spaces for each alley
Churches   1 parking space for each 60 lineal inches of pew
Community centers or recreation    
buildings   1 parking space for each 3 employees, plus 1 space for each 3 seats
Dwellings   1 parking space for each single-family dwelling unit
Furniture and appliance stores,
motor vehicle sales, wholesale
stores, repair shops for household
equipment, and radio and television,
and machinery sales and repair
establishments   1 parking space for each 400 square feet of gross floor area,
plus 1 parking space for each 5 employees
Gas stations   1 parking space for each 2 employees
Hospitals   1 parking space for each 4 beds, plus 1 space for each staff doctor
Libraries, art galleries or museums   2 parking spaces for each 1,000 square
feet of gross floor area
Motor freight companies   1 parking space for each 4 employees, plus 1
additional space for each of the vehicles used in the conduct of the business
at any time
Multiple dwellings   1 parking space per dwelling unit
Private clubs and lodges   1 parking space for each room for rent, 1 space for
each 100 square feet of gross floor area, plus 1 space for each 4 employees
Production, manufacture, cleaning,
servicing, testing or repair of
materials or commodities, or
warehousing or storage buildings   1 parking space for each 3 employees
Public utility and public service uses   1 parking space for each 3 employees,
plus 5 spaces for public use
Restaurants, bars, cafeterias, or
other eating and drinking places   1 parking space for each 100 square feet of
gross floor area, plus 1 space for each employees
Retail sales stores, personal
service establishments, shoe repair,
barber and beauty shops, etc.   1 parking space for each 150 square feet of
gross floor area
Schools:
High school   1 parking space for each 2 employees, plus 1 space for each 30
students
Nursery, elementary or
boarding (except high school)   1 parking space for each 3 employees, plus 5
additional spaces
Theaters and auditoriums   1 parking space for each 4 seats
Transient lodgings   1 parking space for each room for rent, plus 1 space for
each 5 employees
Other uses   For any other uses not specifically mentioned or provided for, the
board of adjustment shall determine the standards to be applied for parking
(Ord. 16.00; amd. 2006 Code)
11-6-4: LOADING AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Loading Space Dimensions; Drainage: Each off street loading space shall
measure not less than thirty feet by twelve feet (30' x 12') and shall have an
unobstructed height of fourteen feet six inches (14'6"), and shall be made
permanently available for such purposes and shall be designed, constructed, and
maintained to provide adequate drainage to ensure a solid, mud free surface and
to prevent any nuisance caused by dust.
   B.   Requirements: Required loading spaces shall be in conformance with the
following:
      1.   Department stores, freight terminals, hospitals, industrial or
manufacturing establishments, retail or wholesale stores or storage warehouses
or any similar use which has, or intends to have ten thousand (10,000) or more
square feet of floor space, shall provide truck loading or unloading berths:
   Square Feet Of Total   Required Number
   Gross Floor Area   Of Berths
   10,000 to 15,999   1
   16,000 to 39,999   2
   40,000 to 65,000   3
   Each additional 16,000   1 additional
      2.   Auditoriums, convention or exhibit halls, sports arenas, hotels,
office buildings, restaurants or similar uses which have, or intend to have,
forty thousand (40,000) or more square feet of floor space, shall provide truck
loading or unloading berths:
   Square Feet Of Total   Required Number
   Gross Floor Area   Of Berths
   40,000 to 59,999   1
   60,000 to 99,999   2
   100,000 to 160,000   3
   Each additional 60,000   1 additional
(Ord. 16.00)
CHAPTER 7
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
11-7-1: Intent
11-7-2: Application Of Regulations
11-7-3: Amendment Procedure; Hearing
11-7-4: Basis For Approval
11-7-5: Council Determination
11-7-1: INTENT:
The intent of this type of development is to permit design flexibility in order
to create or preserve usable open space for recreation, preserve the natural
characteristics of the land, avoid construction in hazardous areas, gain
efficiency in the layout of public facilities, and encourage creative design.
(Ord. 16.00)
11-7-2: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS:
Individual uses and structures in a planned unit development need not comply
with the specific building location, type, lot size, and yard requirements of
the underlying district; provided, that the proposed development complies with
the overall intent and requirements of this title and the comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 16.00)
11-7-3: AMENDMENT PROCEDURE; HEARING:
   A.   Proposed Amendment; Fee: An applicant shall submit a proposed
amendment, together with a twenty five dollar ($25.00) fee, to the city-county
planning board to amend the existing zoning in order to permit a planned unit
development. In addition, the following information shall be submitted.
      1.   A statement describing the general character of intended development
along with such other pertinent information as may be necessary to a
determination that the contemplated arrangement or use makes it desirable to
apply regulations and requirements differing from those ordinarily applicable.
      2.   A general development plan of the project showing at least the
following information as may be required by the planning board in a specific
situation in sufficient detail to allow the planning board and the city council
to apply the criteria for approval as hereinafter set forth:
         a.   An accurate map of the project area including its relationship to
surrounding properties.
         b.   Statistical data on total size of project area, area of open
space, density computation and proposed number of residential units, population
analysis, market analysis, economic analysis, impact upon municipal services
and any other data pertinent to a comprehensive evaluation of the proposed
development.
         c.   The pattern of public and private roads, driveways and parking
facilities, intended design standards.
         d.   The size, arrangement and location of lots or of proposed
building groups.
         e.   The type, size and location of structures.
         f.   The location of sewer and water facilities.
         g.   Architectural drawings and sketches illustrating the design and
character of proposed structures.
         h.   The location of recreational and open space areas and areas
reserved or dedicated for public uses such as school, park, etc.
         i.   General landscape treatment.
         j.   Existing topography and storm patterns and proposed storm
drainage system showing basic topographic changes.
   B.   Referral To Planning Board: Such proposed amendment shall be referred
to the planning board and processed as any other proposed amendment to a zoning
district. Upon completion of necessary study and investigation, the planning
board shall make its recommendation to the city council as to the
appropriateness and desirability of the proposed zoning district change, the
suitability of the building, site and development plans and additional
conditions which it may feel necessary to appropriate.
   C.   Public Hearing: Upon receipt of the planning board's recommendations,
the city council shall observe the procedure for amending this title or
official zoning map as prescribed in Montana Code Annotated section 76-2-305,
and any amendments thereof. (Ord. 16.00)
11-7-4: BASIS FOR APPROVAL:
The city-county planning board, in making its recommendations and the city
council in making their determination, shall give consideration and satisfy
themselves as to the following:
   A.   General Requirements: That the developers have demonstrated that they
intend to start construction within a reasonable period following the approval
of the project and requested zoning district change, that the project appears
economically sound, that adequate financing is possible and that the
development will be carried out according to a reasonable construction schedule
satisfactory to the city.
   B.   Consistent With Intent Of Zoning Regulations: That the proposed
development is consistent in all respects with the intent of this title, is in
conformity with the general plans for community development, would not be
contrary to the general welfare and economic prosperity of the city, that the
specific development plans have been prepared with competent professional
advice and guidance, and that the benefits and improved design of the resultant
development justifies the variation from the normal requirements of this title
through the application of the planned unit development.
   C.   Residential Developments: In the case of proposed residential
developments:
      1.   That such development will create an attractive residential
environment of sustained desirability and economic stability, compatible with
the character established for the area by the comprehensive plan, and where the
economic impact of the development in terms of income levels, property values,
and service demands, is at least as beneficial to the community as that which
could be anticipated under the basic zoning.
      2.   That the population composition of the development will not alter
adversely the impact upon school or other municipal service requirements as
anticipated under the existing basic zoning and comprehensive plan.
      3.   That the project will not create traffic or parking demand
incompatible with that anticipated under the comprehensive plan.
      4.   That the total average residential density of the project will be
compatible with the comprehensive plan.
      5.   That the aggregate open space of the development will be no less
than would have resulted from the application of open space requirements of the
zoning districts.
      6.   That the adequate guarantee is provided for permanent retention as
"open area" of the residual open land area resulting from the application of
this title, either by private reservation as an enhancement to the development
or by dedication to the public.
      7.   In the case of private reservation, the open area to be reserved
shall be protected against building development by conveying to the city as
part of the conditions for project approval an open space easement over such
open area restricting the area against any future building or use except as is
consistent with that of providing landscaped open space for the aesthetic and
recreational satisfaction of the surrounding residences. Buildings or uses for
noncommercial recreational or cultural purposes compatible with the open space
objective may be permitted only where specifically authorized as part of the
development plan or subsequently with the expressed approval of the city
council following approval of building, site and operational plans by the
planning board.
      8.   The care and maintenance of such open space reservations shall be
assured either by establishment of appropriate management organization for the
project or by agreement with the city for establishment of a special service
district for the projected area on the basis of which the city shall provide
the necessary maintenance service and levy the cost thereof as a special
assessment on the tax bills of properties within the project area. In any case,
the city shall have the right to carry out, and levy an assessment for the cost
of, any maintenance which it feels necessary if it is not otherwise taken care
of to the satisfaction of the city. The manner of assuring maintenance and
assessing such cost to individual properties of the final project plans shall
be included in the title to each property.
   D.   Commercial Developments: In the case of proposed commercial
developments:
      1.   That the economic practicality of the proposed development can be
justified on the basis of purchasing potential, competitive relationship and
demonstrated tenant interest.
      2.   That the proposed development will be adequately served by off
street parking and truck service facilities.
      3.   That the locations for entrances and exits have been designed to
prevent unnecessary interference with the safe and efficient movement of
traffic on surrounding streets, and that the development will not create an
effect upon the general traffic pattern of the area incompatible with that
anticipated under the comprehensive plan.
      4.   That the architectural design, landscaping, control of lighting, and
general site development will result in an attractive and harmonious service
area compatible with, and not creating an effect upon, the property values of
the surrounding neighborhood incompatible with that anticipated under the
comprehensive plan.
   E.   Industrial Developments: In the case of proposed industrial
developments:
      1.   That the operational character, physical plant arrangement and
architectural design of buildings will be compatible with contemporary
performance standards and industrial development design and will not produce an
effect upon the property values of the surrounding neighborhood incompatible
with that anticipated under the comprehensive plan.
      2.   That the proposed development will have adequate provision for off
street parking and truck service areas and will be adequately served by rail or
highway facilities.
      3.   That the proposed development is properly related to the total
transportation system of the community and will not produce an effect on the
safety and efficiency of the public streets incompatible with that anticipated
under the comprehensive plan.
   F.   Mixed Developments: In the case of mixed developments:
      1.   That the proposed mixture of uses produces a unified composite which
is compatible within itself and which, as a total development entity, is
compatible with the surrounding neighborhood and consistent with the general
objectives of the comprehensive plan.
      2.   That the various types of uses conform to the general requirements,
as hereinbefore set forth, applicable to projects of such use and character.
      3.   The residential density shall be compatible with the comprehensive
plan. (Ord. 16.00)
11-7-5: COUNCIL DETERMINATION:
   A.   Options: The city council, after due consideration, may deny the
proposed amendment, approve it as submitted, or approve it subject to
additional conditions.
   B.   Basis For Approval: The approval of a proposed amendment to a zoning
district and consequent amending of the official zoning map shall be based on
and include as conditions thereto the building, site and operational plans for
the development as approved as well as all other commitments offered or
required with regard to project value, character or other factors pertinent to
an assurance that the proposed development will be carried out basically as
presented in the official submittal plans, and shall be mapped and recorded as
provided for under conditional use requirements. Detailed construction and
engineering plans need not necessarily be completed at the time the zoning
district amendment is granted, but the approval of such preliminary plan shall
be conditioned upon the subsequent submittal and approval of more specific and
detailed plans as the development progresses.
   C.   City Contract With Developer: The developer shall enter into an
appropriate contract with the city to guarantee the implementation of the
development according to the terms and conditions established as a part of the
development plan approval.
   D.   Subsequent Changes To Plans: Any subsequent change or addition to the
plans or use shall first be submitted for approval to the planning board and
if, in the opinion of the planning board, such change or addition constitutes a
substantial alteration of the original plan, a public hearing shall be
required. (Ord. 16.00)
CHAPTER 8
ZONING DISTRICT DESCRIPTIONS
SECTION:
11-8-1: Residential I (RI) District
11-8-2: Residential II (RII) District
11-8-3: Residential III (RIII) District
11-8-4: Residential IV (R IV) District
11-8-5: Commercial (C) District
11-8-6: Industrial (I) District
11-8-7: Agricultural/Open Space (AO) District
11-8-1: RESIDENTIAL I (RI) DISTRICT:
Lots 9 through 16 inclusive, Block 57   Country Club Addition
Lots 9 through 23 inclusive, Block 58   Country Club Addition
Lots 8 through 13 inclusive, Block 59   Country Club Addition
Lots 1 through 8 inclusive, Block 60   Country Club Addition
All that area of land within the Country Club Addition, dedicated for park
purposes.
All of   Hilltop Addition
All of   Meade Addition
All of   Rich Acres Addition
Lots 1 through 10 inclusive   Burns Addition
Lots 1 through 59 inclusive       Shuland Sunset Addition
Lots 1 through 18 inclusive, Block 46   Stack Addition
Lots 1 through 16 inclusive, Block 47   Stack Addition
Lots 1 through 26 inclusive, Block 48   Aronson & Dean Addition
Lots 1 through 13 inclusive, Block 49   Aronson & Dean Addition
Lots 1 through 15 inclusive, Block 50   Aronson & Dean Addition
Lots 1 through 2, Block 63   Stack Second Addition
Lots 1 through 16 inclusive, Block 64   Stack Second Addition
Lots 1 through 5 inclusive, Block 65   Stack Second Addition
Lots 8 through 16 inclusive, Block 65   Stack Second Addition
(Ord. 16.00; amd. Ord. 384, 1-15-1990)
11-8-2: RESIDENTIAL II (RII) DISTRICT:
All that part of lot 1, block 1, Third Addition hereinafter described:
Beginning at the Southwest corner of Lot 1, Block 1, Third Addition, thence in
a Northeasterly direction along the East side of Sixth Avenue Southeast, a
distance of three hundred (300) feet, thence in a Southeasterly direction along
a line perpendicular to said East side of Sixth Avenue Southeast, a distance of
one hundred fifty (150) feet, thence in a Northeasterly direction along a line
parallel to the said East side of Sixth Avenue Southeast, a distance of fifty
(50) feet, thence in a Southeasterly direction along a line perpendicular to
said East side of Sixth Avenue Southeast, a distance of one hundred fifty (150)
feet, to the intersection with the West side of Seventh Avenue Southeast,
thence in a Southwesterly direction along the West side of Seventh Avenue
Southeast to the intersection with the North side of First Street Southeast, a
distance of three hundred fifty (350) feet thence in a Northwesterly direction
along the North side of First Street Southeast, a distance of three hundred
(300) feet to the point of beginning.
Lots 3 through 12 inclusive       Larson Subdivision
         Third Addition
Lots 2 through 15 inclusive       Purcell Subdivision
         Third Addition
Lots 4 through 17 inclusive       Jones Subdivision
         Third Addition
Lots 1 through 12 inclusive and       Jones Subdivision
Lots 15 through 19 inclusive       Third Addition
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 2   McNamer Subdivision
         Third Addition
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 3   McNamer Subdivision
         Third Addition
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive   Worden Subdivision
         Third Addition
Lots 1 through 19 inclusive   Fisher Subdivision
         Third Addition
Lots 2 and 3, Block 5, of the Third Addition and a certain tract designated as
Hospital-Tract "B", which adjoins said Lots 2 and 3 of the South side thereof.
Lot 2, Block 3   Third Addition
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive       Aronson Block
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 28   Second Addition
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 29   Second Addition
Lots 6 and 7, Block 65   Stack Second Addition
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 1   Original Townsite
Lots 4 through 17 inclusive, Block 2   Original Townsite
Lots 4 through 17 inclusive, Block 3   Original Townsite
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 4   Original Townsite
Lots 1 through 10 inclusive, Block 5   Original Townsite
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 7   Original Townsite
Lots 11 through 17 inclusive, Block 10   Original Townsite
Lots 4 through 17 inclusive, Block 13   Original Townsite
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 14   Original Townsite
Lots 1 through 18 inclusive, Block 15   Original Townsite
Lots 4 through 17 inclusive, Block 16   Original Townsite
Lots 4 through 17 inclusive, Block 19   Original Townsite
Lots 1 through 5 inclusive, Block 20   Original Townsite
Lots 8 through 9, Block 21   Original Townsite
Lots 1 through 18 inclusive, Block 1   Second Addition
Lots 1 and 2, Block 2   Second Addition
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 3   Second Addition
Lots 1 through 10 inclusive, Block 4   Second Addition
Lots 1 through 3 inclusive, Block 5   Second Addition
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 6   Second Addition
Lots 1 through 11 inclusive, Block 7   Second Addition
Lot 1, Block 8   Second Addition
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 9   Second Addition
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 10   Second Addition
Lots 1 through 19 inclusive, Block 11   Second Addition
Lots 1 through 10 inclusive, Block 12   Second Addition
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 13   Second Addition
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 14   Second Addition
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 15   Second Addition
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 16   Second Addition
Lots 1 through 10 inclusive, Block 18   Second Addition
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 21   Second Addition
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 22   Second Addition
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 23   Second Addition
Lots 1 through 5 inclusive, Block 24   Second Addition
Lots 1 through 19 inclusive, Block 25   Second Addition
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 26   Second Addition
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 27   Second Addition
All of Tract "I"
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 1   Stufft Tract "H"
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 2   Stufft Tract "H"
Lots 1 through 17 inclusive, Block 3   Stufft Tract "H"
Lots 1 through 4 inclusive, Block 4   Stufft Tract "H"
Lots 4 through 7 inclusive, Block 39   Richard & Halverson
         Addition
Lots 4 through 17 inclusive, Block 40   Richard & Halverson
         Addition
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 41   Richard & Halverson
         Addition
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 42   Richard & Halverson
         Addition
Lots 11 through 20 inclusive, Block 51   O'Haire Addition
All of that portion of tract "O", owned by School District 15 and which was
annexed to the city by virtue of ordinance 349 of the city, and described as
follows:
Beginning at a point which is the Northwest corner of Tract "O" or the
Northwest corner of the Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section
One (1), Township Thirty-three (33) North, Range Six (6) West, of the Montana
Principal Meridian; thence South along the Quarter Section line, a distance of
506.4 feet to its intersection with the Northerly boundary of Second Street
Northwest; thence in a Southeasterly direction along the Northerly boundary of
Second Street Northwest, a distance of 606.15 feet to its intersection with the
projection of the Westerly boundary of First Avenue Northwest; thence in a
Northeasterly direction along the projection of the Westerly boundary line of
First Avenue Northwest, a distance of 600 feet; thence at right angles in a
Northwesterly direction, a distance of 692.45 feet to its intersection with
Quarter Section line; thence in a Westerly direction along the Quarter Section
line a distance of 333.1 feet to the point of beginning. This parcel of land
contains 10.65 acres. A plat of the above described premises is on file in the
office of the city clerk-treasurer, and by this reference made a part hereof
for all purposes.
All of that tract of land which is sometimes known as the "Glacier Ridge
Addition" for Forest Investment Corporation, which was annexed to the city by
virtue of ordinance 345 of the city, which is described as follows:
A tract of land in the NE1/4 of the NE1/4 of Section 11, Township 33 North,
Range 6 West, M.P.M. Beginning at the Northeast corner of Section 11, thence
South 0°30'W., along the East Section line 402.8 feet to the true point of
beginning, 1/2" iron pin, at the intersection of the highway right-of-way and
the section line; thence continuing South 0°30'W., along the section line,
285.6 feet, to 1/2" iron pin, the intersection of the section line and the
alley line of Block 18, Second Addition to Cut Bank, Montana; thence South
42°11'W., 450.0 feet along said alley line extended, to 1/2" iron pin; thence
North 47°49'W., 80.7 feet to the highway right-of-way line to 1/2" iron pin;
thence North 32°50'E., 672.2 feet along the highway right-of-way to the true
point of beginning, containing in all 1.71 acres, more or less.
Lots 2 through 18 inclusive       Stallcop Addition
(including unnumbered lot therein)
All of the Hilltop Addition
All of the Freed Subdivision
All of the Shields Addition
All of the Love Tracts
A triangular shaped tract of land located in the Dr. Jones Subdivision as
described in resolution 872.
(Ord. 16.00; amd. Ord. 384, 11-5-1990; Ord. 16.02, 10-12-1999; 2006 Code)
11-8-3: RESIDENTIAL III (RIII) DISTRICT:
Lots 32 through 35 inclusive, Block A   Vogt Subdivision
Lots 1 through 6 inclusive, Block B   Vogt Subdivision
Lots 21 through 24 inclusive, Block B   Vogt Subdivision
All of Blocks C and D          Vogt Subdivision
Lots 1 through 11 inclusive, Block 35   Jacobson Addition
Lots 1 through 4 inclusive, Block 36   Jacobson Addition
Lots 11 through 19 inclusive, Block 4   Second Addition
Lots 11 through 30 inclusive, Block 5   Original Townsite
Lots 1 through 30 inclusive, Block 8   Original Townsite
Lots 1 through 10 inclusive, Block 9   Original Townsite
Clyde Novak Tract Addition
Getter Tract
(Ord. 16.00)
11-8-4: RESIDENTIAL IV (R IV) DISTRICT:
Lots 1 through 19 inclusive, Block 23   Original Townsite
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 24   Original Townsite
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 25   Original Townsite
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 26   Original Townsite
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 27   Original Townsite
Lots 11 through 20 inclusive, Block 28   Original Townsite
Lots 1 through 10 inclusive, Block 29   Original Townsite
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 30   Original Townsite
Lots 1 through 26 inclusive, Block 31   Original Townsite
Lots 1 through 26 inclusive, Block 33   Jacobson Addition
Lots 1 through 10
Lots 14 through 26 inclusive, Block 34   Jacobson Addition
Lots 12 through 25 inclusive, Block 35   Jacobson Addition
Lots 1 through 7 inclusive, Block 37   Jacobson Addition
Lots 1 through 9 inclusive, Block 38   Jacobson Addition
Lots 1 through 10 inclusive, Block 61   Jeffries Addition
Lots 1 through 31 inclusive, Block A   Vogt Subdivision
Lots 7 through 20 inclusive, Black B   Vogt Subdivision
(Ord. 16.00; amd. Ord. 16.02, 10-11-1999; Ord. 16.02, 12-2-2002)
11-8-5: COMMERCIAL (C) DISTRICT:
Lots 1, 2, 3, 18, 19 and 20, Block 2   Original Townsite
Lots 1, 2, 3, 18, 19 and 20, Block 3   Original Townsite
Lots 1 through 31 inclusive, Block 6   Original Townsite
Lots 1 through 31 inclusive, Block 7   Original Townsite
Lots 1 through 10 inclusive, Block 10   Original Townsite
Lots 18, 19 and 20, Block 10   Original Townsite
Lots 1 through 12 inclusive, Block 11   Original Townsite
Lots 1 through 22 inclusive, Block 12   Original Townsite
Lots 1, 2, 3, 18, 19 and 20, Block 13   Original Townsite
Lots 1, 2, 3, 18, 19 and 20, Block 16   Original Townsite
Lots 1 through 12 inclusive, Block 17   Original Townsite
Lots 1 through 12 inclusive, Block 18   Original Townsite
Lots 1, 2, 3, 18, 19 and 20, Block 19   Original Townsite
Lots 1 through 7, inclusive, Block 21   Original Townsite
Lots 10 through 15 inclusive, Block 21   Original Townsite
Lots 1 through 12 inclusive, Block 22   Original Townsite
Lots 1 through 10 inclusive, Block 28   Original Townsite
Lots 11 through 20 inclusive, Block 29   Original Townsite
Lots 1 and 2, Block 32   Original Townsite
Lots 1 through 22 inclusive, Block 1   First Addition
Lots 1 through 12 inclusive, Block 2   First Addition
Lots 11, 12, and 13, Block 34   Jacobson Addition
Lots 1 through 10 inclusive, Block 51   O'Haire Addition
Lots 1, 3 and 4          Carter Tract
Lots 1, 2, 3, 18, 19 and 20, Block 39   Richards and Halverson
         Addition
Lots 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10
18, 19 and 20, Block 40   Richard and Halverson
         Addition
All that part of lot 1, block 1, Third Addition hereinafter described:
Beginning at the Northwesterly corner of Lot 1, Block 1, Third Addition; thence
in a Southwesterly direction along the east side of Sixth Avenue Southeast, a
distance of two hundred (200) feet; thence in a Southeasterly direction along a
line perpendicular to said easterly side of Sixth Avenue Southeast, a distance
of one hundred fifty (150) feet; thence in a Northeasterly direction along a
line parallel to the said East side of Sixth Avenue Southeast, a distance of
one hundred fifty (150) feet to the intersection with the West side of Seventh
Avenue Southeast; thence in a Northeasterly direction along the West side of
Seventh Avenue Southeast, a distance of one hundred fifty (150) feet to the
intersection with the South side of East Main Street; thence in a Northwesterly
direction along the South side of East Main Street to the point of beginning.
Lots 1, 2, 13 and 14          Larson Subdivision
         Third Addition
Lots 1 and 16 through 20 inclusive   Purcell Subdivision
         Third Addition
Lots 1, 2, 3, 18, 19 and 20          Jones Subdivision
         Third Addition
Lots 1, 19, 20 and 21          Stallcop Addition
Lots 11 through 20 inclusive, Block 61   Jeffries Addition
Lots 1 through 20 inclusive, Block 62   Jeffries Addition
All that part of the Burlington Northern Railway right-of-way lying between
south side of West Railway Street and the North boundary line of the First
Addition and the Carter Tract.
All of Point-Getter Addition
All of Tract "K" and all of the portion of the Northeast Quarter of the
Southeast Quarter of Section 12, Township 33 North, Range 6 West adjacent to
said Tract "K" and lying between East Railway Street and East Main Street.
All of those lands presently occupied by the Northern Village Shopping Center
and the Northern Village Motor Inn, which are specifically described in
ordinance 347 of the city and which were annexed to the city by said ordinance
347.
All of Tract "B" Addition, which has been annexed to the city.
All of Tract "J".
All of those lands which were annexed to the city, by virtue of resolutions
812, 784, and 783 of the city, said lands being all of the lands which are not
a part of the Richards and Halverson Addition or the O'Haire Addition, but
which are located between those two (2) additions and U.S. Highway No. 2.
Lots 1 through 5 inclusive, Block E   Vogt Subdivision
The Buttrey Food Tract as described in resolution 926.
A tract of land, sometimes referred to as the Torgerson Tract, as described in
resolution 874.
(Ord. 16.00; amd. Ord. 384, 11-5-1990; Ord. 16.00, 10-15-2018)
11-8-6: INDUSTRIAL (I) DISTRICT:
Lots 1 through 4 inclusive, Block 19   Second Addition
Lots 1 through 18 inclusive, Block 20   Second Addition
Tract "L"
Tract "O", except that property owned by School District No. 15.
Tract "N"
All the Great Northern Railway right-of-way, lying between the north side of
East and West Railway Street and the south side of First Street Northeast and
Northwest.
(Ord. 16.00)
11-8-7: AGRICULTURAL/OPEN SPACE (AO) DISTRICT:
The remaining areas in the city shall be included in this zoning district.
(Ord. 16.00; amd. Ord. 16.00, 10-15-2018)
TITLE 12
FLOODPLAIN HAZARD MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE, AUTHORITY AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Floodplain Hazard Management Regulations
12-1-2: Statutory Authority
12-1-3: Findings Of Fact
12-1-4: Purpose
12-1-5: Methods To Reduce Losses
12-1-6: Regulated Area
12-1-7: Floodplain Administrator
12-1-8: Compliance
12-1-9: Abrogation And Greater Responsibility
12-1-10: Regulation Interpretation
12-1-11: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
12-1-12: Severability
12-1-13: Disclosure Provision
12-1-14: Amendment Of Regulations
12-1-15: Public Records
12-1-16: Subdivision Review
12-1-17: Disaster Recovery
12-1-1: FLOODPLAIN HAZARD MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS:
These regulations are known and may be cited as the “Cut Bank Floodplain Hazard
Management Regulations;” hereinafter referred to as “these regulations.” (Ord.
16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-1-2: STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
   A.   Floodplain and Floodway Management is incorporated in Montana Code
Annotated (MCA) Title 76, Chapter 5 and describes the authority, procedures and
minimum standards for local regulations and is further described in Montana
Administrative Rule (ARM) 36, Chapter 15.
   B.   The authority to regulate development in specifically identified flood
hazard areas has been accepted pursuant to 76-5-301, MCA. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-
2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-1-3: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   Flood hazard areas specifically adopted herein as Regulated Flood
Hazard Areas have been delineated and designated by order or determination of
the Department of Natural Resources and Conservation (DNRC) pursuant to MCA 76-
5-201 et. seq.
   B.   These regulations have been reviewed by Montana Department of Natural
Resources and Conservation and the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The
Montana Department of Natural Resources and Conservation has found the
regulations acceptable in meeting the Department minimum standards. The Federal
Emergency Management Agency finds that these regulations are adequate and
consistent with the comprehensive criteria for land management and use pursuant
to the standards established in 44 CFR 60.3. (76-5-302, MCA, ARM 36.15.202, 44
CFR60.1(b), 42USC 4022) (76-5-302, MCA, ARM 36.15.202, 44 CFR 60.1(b), 42 USC
4022). (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-1-4: PURPOSE:
The purpose of these regulations is to promote public health, safety and
general welfare of the residents and minimize public and private losses due to
flood conditions in Regulated Flood Hazard Areas. These Regulations are
intended to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business and public service interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
disruptions; and to
   G.   Ensure compliance with the minimum standards for the continued
participation in the National Flood Insurance Program for the benefit of the
residents. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-1-5: METHODS TO REDUCE LOSSES:
In accordance with 76-5-102, MCA, these regulations are intended to reduce
flood losses through the following methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flooding or that may cause excessive increases in flood
heights or velocities;
   B.   Require that uses of land vulnerable to floods, including public
facilities, be developed or constructed to at least minimum standards or to
otherwise minimize flood damage;
   C.   Regulate the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are needed to accommodate floodwaters;
   D.   Regulate filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage;
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
impact other land, flood water depth or velocity of floodwaters;
   F.   Distinguish between the land use regulations applied to the floodway
within the Regulated Flood Hazard Area and those applied to that portion of the
Regulated Flood Hazard Area not contained in the floodway;
   G.   Apply more restrictive land use regulations within the floodway of the
Regulated Flood Hazard Area; and
   H.   Ensure that regulations and minimum standards balance the greatest
public good with the least private injury. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-
3, 12-19-2022)
12-1-6: REGULATED AREA:
These regulations apply only to the flood hazard areas specifically adopted
herein as Regulated Flood Hazard Areas which are more fully and specifically
described in chapter 4 of this title. Requirements and approvals for
alterations to the Regulated Flood Hazard Area are specified in chapter 4 of
this title. The Regulated Flood Hazard Area includes areas specifically
identified, labeled and illustrated on maps such as Floodplain, Floodway, or
Flood Fringe that have differing uses allowed and minimum building standards
that apply. The Regulated Flood Hazard Area is the geographic area inundated by
the Flood of 100-year Frequency illustrated and depicted in the referenced
studies and maps.
The Regulated Flood Hazard Area supporting study and maps illustrating the
regulatory area are based on studies and maps that have been specifically
adopted pursuant to 76-5-201et.seq. The maps and accompanying study become the
Regulated Flood Hazard Area only when formally adopted by DNRC and subsequently
by the political subdivision by these regulations. The original source of
studies and data may be from a Flood Insurance Study by FEMA, or other studies
by Corps of Engineers, Soil Conservation, United States Geological Service or
other federal or state agency. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-
2022)
12-1-7: FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
A Floodplain Administrator is hereby officially appointed and is the
responsibility of the office of Cut Bank City Superintendent. The Floodplain
Administrator’s duty is to administer and implement the provisions of these
regulations. The Floodplain Administrator must serve to meet and maintain the
commitments pursuant to 44 CFR 59.22(a) to FEMA to remain eligible for National
Flood Insurance for individuals and business within the political subdivision.
((44 CFR 59.22(b)(1)) (ARM 36.15.204(2)(h)). (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord.
16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-1-8: COMPLIANCE:
Development, New Construction, Alteration or Substantial Improvement may not
commence without full compliance with the provisions of these regulations.
(Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-1-9: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESPONSIBILITY:
It is not intended by these regulations to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions, zoning or other regulations
in effect. However, where these regulations impose greater restrictions, the
provision of these regulations must prevail. (44 CFR 60.1(d)). (Ord. 16-3, 11-
7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-1-10: REGULATION INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of these regulations, all provisions
shall be: (1) considered as minimum requirements; (2) liberally construed in
favor of the governing body; and (3) deemed neither to limit nor repeal any
other powers granted under state statutes. (44 CFR 60.1). (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-
2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-1-11: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
These regulations do not imply that land outside the Regulated Flood Hazard
Areas or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood
damages. These regulations shall not create liability on the part of the
community or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result
from reliance on these regulations or any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-1-12: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, clause, sentence, or phrase of these regulations is held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, then said
holding will in no way affect the validity of the remaining portions of these
regulations. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-1-13: DISCLOSURE PROVISION:
All property owners or their agents in the Regulated Flood Hazard Areas shall
notify potential buyers or their agents that such property, including any
permitted uses transferred, is located within the Regulated Flood Hazard Area
and is subject to regulation and any permitted uses that are transferred.
Information regarding Regulated Flood Hazard Area and the repository for
Floodplain maps is available in the Floodplain Administrator’s office. (Ord.
16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-1-14: AMENDMENT OF REGULATIONS:
These regulations may be amended after notice and public hearing in regard to
the amendments to these regulations. The amendments must be found adequate and
acceptable by DNRC and FEMA to be effective and must be submitted for review at
least 30 days prior to official adoption. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-
3, 12-19-2022)
12-1-15: PUBLIC RECORDS:
Records, including permits and applications, elevation and flood proofing
certificates, certificates of compliance, fee receipts, and other matters
relating to these regulations must be maintained by the Floodplain
Administrator and are public records and must be made available for inspection
and for copies upon reasonable request. A reasonable copying cost for copying
documents for members of the public may be charged and may require payments of
the costs before providing the copies. (44 CFR 60.3(b)(5)(iii) and 44 CFR 59.22
(a)(9)(iii)). (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-1-16: SUBDIVISION REVIEW:
Within the Regulated Flood Hazard Area, subdivisions including new or expansion
of existing manufactured home parks, must be designed to meet the following
criteria:
   A.   The Base Flood Elevations and boundary of the Regulated Flood Hazard
area must be determined and considered during lot layout and building location
design;
   B.   Locations for future structures and development must be reasonably safe
from flooding; (44CFR 60.3(a)(4))
   C.   Adequate surface water drainage must be provided to reduce exposure to
flood hazards; (44 CFR 60.3 (a)(4)(iii))
   D.   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and
water systems must be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage; and (44 CFR 60.3(a)(4)(h))
   E.   Floodplain permits must be obtained according to these regulations
before development occurs that is within the Regulated Flood Hazard Area. (44
CFR 60.3(b)). (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-1-17: DISASTER RECOVERY:
In the event of a natural or man-made disaster, the Floodplain Administrator
should participate in the coordination of assistance and provide information to
structure owners concerning Hazard Mitigation and Recovery measures with the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Montana Disaster Emergency Services,
Montana Department of Natural Resources and Conservation, and other state,
local and private emergency service organizations.
Upon completion of cursory street view structure condition survey within the
Regulated Flood Hazard Area, the Floodplain Administrator shall notify owners
that a permit may be necessary for an alteration or substantial improvement
before repair or reconstruction commences on damaged structures because of
damages caused by natural or man-made disasters such as floods, fires or winds.
Owners should be advised that structures that have suffered substantial damage
and will undergo substantial improvements require a floodplain application and
permit and must be upgraded to meet the minimum building standards herein
during repair or reconstruction.((MCA 76-5-404(3)(b) (ARM 36.15.702) (44 CFR
60.3(c)(2 and 3)). (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
12-2-1: Definitions
12-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in these regulations
shall be interpreted as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and
the most reasonable application. For the purpose of these regulations, the
following definitions are adopted:
100-YEAR FLOOD:                                   One percent (1%) annual chance flood. See Base Flood
ALTERATION:                                       Any change or addition to an artificial obstruction that either increases its
                                                  external dimensions or increases its potential flood hazard. (ARM 36.15.101(2))
APPURTENANT STRUCTURE:                            A structure in which the use is incidental or accessory to the use of a
                                                  principal structure. (44 CFR 59.1)
                                                  Any obstruction which is not natural and includes any development, dam,
                                                  diversion, wall, riprap, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, projection,
                                                  revetment, excavation, channel rectification, road, bridge, conduit, culvert,
                                                  building, refuse, automobile body, fill or other analogous structure or matter
ARTIFICIAL OBSTRUCTION:                           in, along, across, or projecting into any Regulated Flood Hazard Area that may
                                                  impede, retard, or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself
                                                  or by catching or collecting debris carried by the water, or that is placed
                                                  where the natural flow of the water would carry the same downstream to the
                                                  damage or detriment of either life or property. See also Development. (ARM
                                                  36.15.101(3) & MCA 76-5-103(1))
BASE FLOOD (FLOOD OF 100 YEAR FREQUENCY):         A flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
                                                  given year (ARM 36.15.101(4) & (44 CFR 59.1)
                                                  The elevation above sea level of the Base Flood in relation to the National
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE):                       Geodic Vertical Datum of 1929 or the North American Vertical Datum of 1988 or
                                                  unless otherwise specified. (ARM 36.15.101(5))
                                                  Any area of a building, except a crawl space, as having its Lowest floor below
BASEMENT:                                         ground level on all sides. (44 CFR 59.1) (NFIP Insurance Manual, Rev. May 2013)
                                                  “
BUILDING:                                         A walled and roofed structure, including a gas or liquid storage tank that is
                                                  principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home. (44 CFR 59.1)
CHANNEL:                                          The geographical area within either the natural or artificial banks of a
                                                  watercourse or drain way. (MCA 76-5-103(2))
                                                  An enclosure that has its interior floor area no more than 5 feet below the top
CRAWL SPACE:                                      of the next highest floor. See Enclosure and Sub grade Crawlspace. (NFIP
                                                  Insurance Manual, Rev. May 2013)
DNRC:                                             Montana Department of Natural Resources and Conservation
                                                  Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including but not
DEVELOPMENT:                                      limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
                                                  paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of equipment or materials.
                                                  See also Artificial Obstruction. (44 CFR59.1)
                                                  A building that has no Basement and that has it lowest elevated floor raised
ELEVATED BUILDING:                                above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers, pilings or
                                                  columns. A building on a crawlspace is considered an elevated building. (NFIP
                                                  Insurance Manual, Rev. May 2013)
                                                  That portion below the lowest elevated floor of an elevated building that is
ENCLOSURE:                                        either partially or fully shut in by rigid walls including a crawlspace, sub
                                                  grade crawlspace, stairwell, elevator or a garage below or attached.
ENCROACHMENT:                                     Activities or construction within the Regulated Flood Hazard Area including
                                                  fill, new construction, substantial improvements, and other development.
                                                  A hydrologic and hydraulic analysis performed by an engineer to assess the
ENCROACHMENT ANALYSIS:                            effects of the proposed artificial obstruction or nonconforming use on Base
                                                  Flood Elevation, flood flows and flood velocities.
ESTABLISH:                                        To construct, place, insert, or excavate. (MCA 76-5-103(7) (ARM 36.15.101(9))
EXISTING ARTIFICIAL OBSTRUCTION OR NONCONFORMING  An artificial obstruction or nonconforming use that was established before land
USE:                                              use regulations were adopted pursuant to Section 76-5-301(1), MCA. (MCA 76-5-404
                                                  (3))
FEMA:                                             Federal Emergency Management Agency
FLOOD FRINGE:                                     The identified portion of the Floodplain of the Regulated Flood Hazard Area
                                                  outside the limits of the Floodway. (ARM 36.15.101(10))
                                                  A flood magnitude expected to recur on the average of once every 100-years or a
FLOOD OF 100 YEAR FREQUENCY (BASE FLOOD):         flood magnitude that has a 1 % chance of occurring in any given year. (MCA 76-5-
                                                  103(9)) (44 CFR 59.1)
                                                  The area of the Regulated Flood Hazard Area including and adjoining the
FLOODPLAIN:                                       watercourse or drainway that would be covered by the floodwater of a Base Flood.
                                                  The area is partitioned into a Flood Fringe and Floodway where specifically
                                                  designated. See Regulated Flood Hazard Area.
                                                  The identified portion of the Floodplain of the Regulated Flood Hazard Area that
FLOODWAY:                                         is the channel and the area adjoining the channel that is reasonably required to
                                                  carry the discharge of the Base Flood without cumulatively increasing the water
                                                  surface by more than one half foot. (MCA 76-5-103(11)) (MCA 76-5-103(5))
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:                         Community official or representative appointed to administer and implement the
                                                  provisions of this ordinance.
                                                  Any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or
                                                  adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate
FLOOD PROOFING:                                   or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, electrical, plumbing,
                                                  HVAC systems, structures and their contents. The term includes wet flood
                                                  proofing, dry flood proofing and elevation of structures. ((44 CFR 59.1)
                                                  An official response from FEMA that amends or revises the FEMA Special Flood
LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC):                      Hazard Area and FEMA Flood Insurance Study for flood insurance purposes and/or
                                                  flood risk hazard. FEMA Letters of Map Change specific to an amendment or
                                                  revision include:
                                                  A letter of determination from FEMA issued in response to a request that a
                                                  property or structure is not subject to the mandatory flood insurance
                                                  requirement because it was inadvertently located in the effective FEMA Special
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA):             Flood Hazard Area. The material submitted and response from FEMA may be
                                                  considered by the Floodplain Administrator for determining if a property or
                                                  structure is within the Regulated Flood Hazard area and subject to these
                                                  regulations.
                                                  A letter of approval from FEMA removing the mandatory requirement for flood
                                                  insurance on property based on placement of fill or an addition. Placement of
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-Ffill or an addition must be preceded by a permit pursuant to these regulations.
                                                  Placement of fill does not remove the development from the Regulated Flood
                                                  Hazard Area or these regulations.
                                                  An official FEMA amendment to the currently effective FEMA Flood Insurance Rate
                                                  Map or FEMA Flood Boundary Map based on a physical change to the floodplain of
                                                  the Special Flood Hazard Area. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR):              delineations, and elevations on the FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map or FEMA Flood
                                                  Boundary Map and may amend the FEMA Flood Insurance Study. It must be preceded
                                                  by an approved alteration of the designated floodplain from DNRC and
                                                  subsequently an amendment to the Regulated Flood Hazard Area.
                                                  A FEMA letter of approval for a proposed physical change that when completed
                                                  would propose to change the flood zones, delineation or elevations on the FEMA
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): Flood Insurance Rate Map or FEMA Flood Boundary Map and may amend the FEMA Flood
                                                  Insurance Study through a subsequent LOMR,. The CLOMR may be considered in an
                                                  evaluation by DNRC and the Floodplain Administrator during consideration of a
                                                  proposed alteration to the Regulated Flood Hazard Area.
                                                  Any floor of a building including a basement used for living purposes, storage,
LOWEST FLOOR:                                     or recreation. This includes any floor that could be converted to such a use. (
                                                  (ARM 36.15.101(14)) (44 CFR59.1))
                                                  Includes the construction of facilities for servicing the manufactured home lots
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION:            and at a minimum includes the installation of utilities, the construction of
                                                  streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads. (44 CFR
                                                  59.1)
                                                  A building that may be residential or non-residential, is transportable in one
                                                  or more sections, built on a permanent chassis, and designed to be used with or
MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOME:                      without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and
                                                  includes park trailers, travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a
                                                  site for greater than 180 consecutive days. (ARM 36.15.101(15))
                                                  Structures for which the commencement of clearing, grading, filling, or
NEW CONSTRUCTION:                                 excavating to prepare a site for construction occurs on or after the effective
                                                  date of these regulations and includes any subsequent improvements to such
                                                  structures. (ARM 36.15.101(20)) (44 CFR 59.1)
                                                  A manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
                                                  for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION:        includes at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
                                                  streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads and is
                                                  completed on or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations
                                                  adopted by a community. (44 CFR 59.1)
                                                  Buildings including manufactured homes that are not residential including
NON-RESIDENTIAL:                                  commercial, agricultural, industrial buildings and accessory buildings. See
                                                  Residential.
OWNER:                                            Any person who has dominion over, control of, or title to an artificial
                                                  obstruction. (MCA 76-5-103(13))
                                                  Includes any individual, or group of individuals, corporation, partnership,
PERSON:                                           association or any other entity, including State and local governments and
                                                  agencies. (44 CFR 59.1)
                                                  A park trailer, travel trailer, or other similar vehicle which is (a) built on a
                                                  single chassis; (b) 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE:                             horizontal projections; (c) designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable
                                                  by a motorized vehicle; and (d) designed primarily for use as temporary living
                                                  quarters for recreation, camping, travel, or seasonal use, not for use as a
                                                  permanent dwelling. (44 CFR59.1)
                                                  A Floodplain whose limits have been designated pursuant to Part 2, Chapter 5 of
                                                  Title 76, MCA, and is determined to be the area adjoining the watercourse that
REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA:                      would be covered by the floodwater of a Base Flood. The Regulated Flood Hazard
                                                  Area consists of the Floodway and Flood Fringe where specifically designated.
                                                  (MCA 76-5-103(4)), (MCA 76-5-103(10), (ARM 36-15-101 (11))
                                                  A dwelling or building for living purposes or place of assembly or permanent use
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING:                             by human beings and including any mixed use of residential and nonresidential
                                                  use. All other buildings are non-residential.
                                                  Stone, rocks, concrete blocks, or analogous materials that are placed along the
RIPRAP:                                           bed or banks of a watercourse or drainway for the purpose of preventing or
                                                  alleviating erosion. (ARM 36.15.101(18))
SCOUR DEPTH:                                      The maximum depth of streambed scour caused by erosive forces of the Base Flood.
                                                  Land area which has been specifically identified by the Federal Emergency
                                                  Management Agency as the floodplain within a community subject to a 1 percent or
                                                  greater chance of flooding in any given year. It is useful for the purposes of
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA:                        identifying flood hazards by local subdivisions of government for regulatory
                                                  purposes as well as use by the National Flood Insurance Program for establishing
                                                  risk zones and flood insurance premium rates. The FEMA flood hazard area zone
                                                  designation or flood risk potential is as illustrated on FEMA’s Flood Hazard
                                                  Boundary Map or Flood Insurance Rate Map.
STRUCTURE:                                        Any Artificial Obstruction.
                                                  A Crawlspace foundation enclosure that has its interior floor no more than 5
SUB GRADE CRAWLSPACE:                             feet below the top of the next higher floor and no more than 2 feet below the
                                                  lowest adjacent grade on all sides. A foundation exceeding either dimension is a
                                                  Basement. (NFIP Insurance Manual, Rev. May 2013)
                                                  Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE:                               structure to its before-damaged condition would exceed 50 percent of the market
                                                  value of the structure before the damage occurred. (44 CFR 59.1)
                                                  Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure where the cost equals
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT:                          or exceeds fifty percent (50) of the market value of the structure either before
                                                  the improvement or repair is started or if the structure has been damaged, and
                                                  is being restored, before the damage occurred;
                                                 A.   Substantial improvement is considered to occur when the first construction
                                                  of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences;
                                                 B.   The term does not include:
                                                     1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state
                                                 or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
                                                  necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
                                                     2.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
                                                 historic places or state inventory of historic places. (ARM 36.15.101(21)) (44
                                                  CFR 59.1))
                                                  Fill material which is stable, compacted, well graded, and pervious, not
SUITABLE FILL:                                    adversely affected by water and frost, devoid of trash or similar foreign
                                                  matter, tree stumps or other organic material; and is fitting for the purpose of
                                                  supporting the intended use and/or permanent structure. (ARM 36.15.101(22))
                                                  Means a grant or relief from the development requirements of these regulations
VARIANCE:                                         which would permit construction in a manner that would be otherwise prohibited
                                                  by these regulations by an approval pursuant Section 12. (ARM 36.15.101(23))
                                                  A finding and order pursuant to the regulations against the owner or responsible
VIOLATION:                                        party of the failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant
                                                  with these regulations. (44 CFR 59.1) (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-
                                                  19-2022)
 
 
CHAPTER 3
FORMS AND FEES
SECTION:
12-3-1: Forms
12-3-2: Fees
12-3-1: FORMS:
The following forms may be required by the Floodplain Administrator:
   A.   Floodplain Permit Application Form -The “Joint Application for Proposed
Work in Montana’s Steams, Wetlands, Regulated Flood Hazard Areas, and Other
Water Bodies”, or other designated application form. A completed FEMA MT-1 form
may be required to accompany the application when required by the Floodplain
Administrator.
   B.   Floodplain Permit Compliance Report - A report required to be submitted
by the Applicant to the Floodplain Administrator once the permitted project in
the Regulated Flood Hazard Area is completed or within the designated time
stipulated on the Floodplain permit. A compliance report including an elevation
and or flood proofing certificate may be required where specified for the
purpose of documenting compliance with the requirements of the permit.
   C.   Floodplain Variance Application Form - An application submitted by the
Applicant to the Floodplain Administrator to initiate a proposed variance from
the requirements of these regulations as described in Section 12.
   D.   Floodplain Appeal Notice Form- A form submitted by the Applicant or an
aggrieved party to initiate the appeal process described in Section 13.
   E.   Floodplain Emergency Notification Form-A written notification form
required pursuant to Section 11 of these regulations.
   F.   Official Complaint Form - A form that may be used by any person to
notify the Floodplain Administrator of an activity taking place that appears to
be noncompliant with the requirements of these regulations. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-
2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-3-2: FEES:
A reasonable application fee for processing of permit applications may be
imposed. Fees may be adopted for costs of permit applications, notices,
variances, inspections, certifications or other administrative actions required
by these regulations. (ARM 36.15.204(3)(b)). (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord.
16-3, 12-19-2022)
CHAPTER 4
REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA
SECTION:
12-4-1: Regulated Flood Hazard Areas
12-4-2: Interpretation Of Regulated Flood Hazard Area Boundaries
12-4-3: Alteration Of Regulated Flood Hazard Area
12-4-1: REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:
   A.   The Regulated Flood Hazard Areas are the 100-year floodplains
illustrated and referenced in the following specific studies and reports
described as follows:
      Glacier County, Montana Unincorporated Area; December 27, 1977
      Community-Panel Number 3001510010A
      Effective Date: Converted by Letter 1/190
   B.   The Regulated Flood Hazard Areas specifically described or illustrated
in the above referenced studies and maps of the 100-year floodplain have been
delineated, designated and established by order or determination by the DNRC
pursuant to 76-5-201et.seq., MCA.
   C.   Use allowances, design and construction requirements specifically in
Sections 5, 6, 9, and 10 in these regulations vary by the specific Floodplain
areas including areas identified as Floodway and Flood Fringe within the
Regulated Flood Hazard Area. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-4-2: INTERPRETATION OF REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA BOUNDARIES:
   A.   The mapped boundaries of the Floodplain illustrated in the referenced
studies and maps in this Section are a guide for determining whether property
is within the Regulated Flood Hazard Area.
   B.   A determination of the outer limits and boundaries of the Regulated
Flood Hazard Area or the Flood Fringe and Floodway within the Regulated Flood
Hazard Area includes an evaluation of the maps as well as the particular study
data referenced in this Section. Supporting study material for Base Flood
Elevations takes precedence over any map illustrations if it exists.
   C.   The Regulated Flood Hazard Area boundary is delineated by the Base
Flood Elevation. The physical field regulatory boundary of the Regulated Flood
Hazard Area is the actual intersection of the applicable study Base Flood
Elevation with the existing adjacent terrain of the watercourse or drainway.
(ARM 36.15.501(6))
   D.   The Floodway boundary where identified within the Floodplain is as
illustrated on the referenced maps and studies. Since the Floodway boundary is
a study feature, the location of the boundary may be physically located by
referencing the study data to a ground feature. The Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of the boundary and decision may be appealed as set forth in
Section 13.
   E.   The Floodplain Administrator may request additional information
described below to determine whether or not the proposed development is within
the Regulated Flood Hazard Area:
      1.   Where Base Flood Elevations exist, the property owner may provide
additional information which may include elevation information provided by an
engineer or land surveyor in order to determine if the proposed development is
subject to these regulations. (ARM 36.15.501(6)).
      2.   Where Base Flood Elevations do not exist, the property owner may
provide additional information to be considered to determine the location of
the regulatory boundary or alternatively provide a computed Base Flood
Elevation provided by an engineer.
      3.   The Floodplain Administrator’s interpretation of the boundaries and
decision may be appealed as set forth in chapter 13 of this title.
   F.   Any owner or lessee of property who believes his property has been
inadvertently included in the Regulated Flood Hazard Area including the
Floodway or Flood Fringe may submit scientific and/or technical information to
the Floodplain Administrator for a determination if the property is
appropriately located. Scientific or technical information submitted to FEMA by
an owner to affect the insurance rating for insurance purposes may be
considered by the Floodplain Administrator. A determination by the Floodplain
Administrator is independent of any determination by FEMA for insurance
purposes. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-4-3: ALTERATION OF REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA:
   A.   Revisions or updates to the specific maps and data that alter the
established Floodplains or Floodway of the Regulated Flood Hazard Area requires
DNRC approval pursuant to 75-5-203, MCA. An alteration of the Regulated Flood
Hazard Area is a DNRC approved amendment to the DNRC order that originally
delineated and designated the 100-year floodplain and is the basis of the
Regulated Flood Hazard Area referenced in Section 12-4-1B. A DNRC approved
alteration consists of revisions or updates to the specific maps and data of
the referenced studies in this Section and forms the basis for an amendment to
the Regulated Flood Hazard Area in these regulations; (ARM 36.15.505);
   B.   Any change to the Regulated Flood Hazard Area as a result of a DNRC
alteration is effective upon amendment to the Regulated Flood Hazard Area
described in Section 12-4-1A.;
   C.   Substantial natural physical change or new technical or scientific
flood data showing that the Base Flood Elevation has or may be changed or was
erroneously established shall be brought to the attention of DNRC and FEMA;
(ARM 36.15.505(1)(a)) (44 CFR 65.3);
   D.   Any Floodplain permit application for a proposed development or
artificial obstruction must be denied until a DNRC alteration pursuant to 76-5-
203, MCA is approved if it causes an increase of 0.5 feet or more to the Base
Flood Elevation of a Regulated Flood Hazard Area without a Floodway or an
increase of more than 0.00 feet to the Base Flood Elevation of a Floodway;
   E.   To propose an alteration a petition must be submitted to DNRC and must
include the following information:
      1.   Certification that no buildings are located in the areas which would
be impacted by the increased Base Flood Elevation (44 CFR 65.12(a)(5);
      2.   Evidence of notice to all property and land owners of the proposed
impacts to their properties explaining the proposed impact on their property
(44 CFR 65.12(a)(3));
      3.   Information that demonstrates that alternatives are not feasible (44
CFR 65.12(2));
      4.   Information that demonstrates that development is for a public use
or benefit; and
      5.   Any other supporting information and data as needed for approvals. (
(ARM 36.15.505) (44 CFR 60.3(c)(10)) (44 CFR 60.3(d)(3)) (44 CFR 65.7(3)) (44
CFR 65.12)).
   F.   The Floodplain Administrator may represent the permit authority for any
necessary applications, approvals or endorsements such as the FEMA Community
Acknowledgment Form to FEMA where affecting the FEMA Special Flood Hazard Area;
   G.   A determination by the Floodplain Administrator that land areas located
within the Regulated Flood Hazard Area are above the Base Flood Elevation as
proven by a certified elevation survey does not constitute or require an
alteration or an amendment of the Regulated Flood Hazard Area and may be
maintained as a public record that more explicitly defines the Regulated Flood
Hazard Area boundary; and
   H.   Elevating with suitable fill as permitted does not alter the Regulated
Flood Hazard Area or remove the elevated area from the Regulated Flood Hazard
Area. (ARM 36.15.505(2)).
   I.   A floodplain permit implementing the physical change cannot be approved
until a CLOMR has been issued by FEMA. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3,
12-19-2022)
CHAPTER 5
USES ALLOWED WITHOUT A PERMIT WITHIN THE REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA
SECTION:
12-5-1: General
12-5-2: Open Space Uses
12-5-1: GENERAL:
Existing artificial obstructions or nonconforming uses established before land
use regulations pursuant to Section 76-5-301, MCA were effective, are allowed
without a permit. However, alteration or substantial improvement of an existing
artificial obstruction or nonconforming use requires a floodplain permit.
Maintenance of an existing artificial obstruction or nonconforming use does not
require a floodplain permit if it does not cause an alteration or substantial
improvement. (MCA 76-5-404(3). (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-
2022)
12-5-2: OPEN SPACE USES:
The following open space uses shall be allowed without a permit in the
Regulated Flood Hazard Area, provided that such uses are not prohibited by any
other regulation or statute, do not require structures, and do not require
fill, grading, excavation or storage of materials or equipment ((ARM 36.15.601)
(ARM 36.15.701)(1) (MCA 76-5-401) (MCA 76-5-404(3)):
   A.   Agricultural uses, not including related structures, such as tilling,
farming, irrigation, ranching, harvesting, grazing, etc ((ARM 36.15.601(1)(a))
(MCA 76-5401(1)));
   B.   Accessory uses, not including structures, such as loading and parking
areas, or emergency landing strips associated with industrial or commercial
facilities ((ARM 36.15.601 (1)(b)) (MCA 76-5-401(2)));
   C.   Forestry, including processing of forest products with portable
equipment ((ARM 36.15.601 (1 )(d)) (MCA 76-5-401(4)));
   D.   Recreational vehicle use provided that the vehicle is on the site for
fewer than 180 consecutive days and the vehicle is fully licensed and ready for
highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system with wheels intact, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently
attached additions (44 CFR 60.3(c)(14));
   E.   Residential uses such as lawns, gardens, parking areas, and play areas
((ARM 36.15.601(1)(e)) (MCA 76-5-401(5)));
   F.   Maintenance of the existing state of an existing open space uses
including preventive maintenance activities such as bridge deck rehabilitation
and roadway pavement preservation activities. Maintenance cannot increase the
external size or increase the hazard potential of the existing open space use
(MCA 76-5404(3)(b));
   G.   Public or private recreational uses not requiring structures such as
picnic grounds, swimming areas, boat ramps, parks, campgrounds, golf courses,
driving ranges, archery ranges, wildlife management and natural areas,
alternative livestock ranches (game farms), fish hatcheries, shooting
preserves, target ranges, trap and skeet ranges, hunting and fishing areas, and
hiking and horseback riding trails (ARM 36.15.601 (a)(c)) (MCA 76-5-401));
   H.   Fences that have a low impact to the flow of water such as barbed wire
fences and wood rail fences, and not including permanent fences crossing
channels. Fences that have the potential to stop or impede flow or debris such
as a chain link or privacy fence requires a floodplain permit and meet the
requirements of Section 9.11; (ARM 36.15.601 (2)(b)) (MCA 76-5-401));
   I.   Addition of highway guard rail, signing and utility poles that have a
low impact to the flow of water along an existing roadway.
   J.   Irrigation and livestock supply wells, provided that they are located
at least 500 feet from domestic water supply wells and with the top of casing
18" above the Base Flood Elevation ((ARM 36.15.601 (2)(a)) (MCA 76-5-401) (ARM
36.21.647)). (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
CHAPTER 6
PROHIBITED USES, ACTIVITIES AND STRUCTURES WITHIN THE REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD
AREA
SECTION:
12-6-1: Floodway
12-6-2: Flood Fringe Or Regulated Flood Hazard Area Without A Floodway
12-6-1: FLOODWAY:
The following artificial obstructions and nonconforming uses are prohibited in
the Floodway of the Regulated Flood Hazard Area, except for those established
before land use regulations pursuant to Section 76-5-301, MCA have been adopted
(MCA 76-5-404(3)):
   A.   A building for residential or non-residential purposes; (MCA 76-5-403
(1), (ARM 36.15.605)(1a)), (ARM 36.15.605(2b), (ARM 36.15.605(2)(a)).
   B.   A structure, fill, or excavation that would cause water to be diverted
from the Floodway, cause erosion, obstruct the natural flow of waters or reduce
the carrying capacity of the Floodway. Notwithstanding these requirements,
excavation or fill may be allowed when it is a component to a permitted use
allowed in these regulations; (MCA 76-5-403(2)).
   C.   The construction or storage of an object (artificial obstruction)
subject to flotation or movement during flood level periods; (MCA 76-5-403(3)
and ARM 36.15.605(1)(c)).
   D.   Solid and hazardous waste disposal and individual and multiple family
sewage disposal systems unless the systems meet the local health and sanitation
regulations and when permitted pursuant to these regulations and are designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters and avoid impairment or
contamination; ((ARM 36-15-605(2c)) (44 CFR 60.3(a)(3))).
   E.   Storage of toxic, flammable, hazardous or explosive materials; and (ARM
36.15.605(2d)).
   F.   Cemeteries, mausoleums, or any other burial grounds. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-
2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-6-2: FLOOD FRINGE OR REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA WITHOUT A FLOODWAY:
The following artificial obstructions and nonconforming uses are prohibited in
the Flood Fringe or Regulated Flood Hazard Area without a Floodway, except for
those established before land use regulations have been adopted: (MCA 76-5-404
(3))
   A.   Solid and hazardous waste disposal and individual and multiple family
sewage disposal systems unless the systems meet the local health and sanitation
regulations and when permitted pursuant to these regulations and are designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters and avoid impairment or
contamination ((ARM 36-15-703(1)) (44 CFR 60.3(a)(3)));
   B.   Storage of toxic, flammable, hazardous or explosive materials (ARM 36-
15703(2));
   C.   The construction or storage of an artificial obstruction subject to
flotation or movement during flood level periods;
   D.   Cemeteries, mausoleums, or any other burial grounds; and
   E.   Critical facilities, including buildings and associated structures that
provide essential community care and emergency operation functions such as
schools, hospitals, nursing home facilities, fire stations and police stations
(44CFR 60.22(a)(2)). (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
CHAPTER 7
FLOODPLAIN PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
12-7-1: General
12-7-2: Required Floodplain Permit Application Information
12-7-1: GENERAL:
   A.   A Floodplain permit is required for a person to establish, alter or
substantially improve an artificial obstruction, nonconforming use or
development within the Regulated Flood Hazard Area ((44 CFR 60.1) (MCA 76-5-
404) (ARM 36.15.204(2)(a)));
   B.   A Floodplain permit is required for artificial obstructions,
developments and uses not specifically listed in chapters 9 and 10, except as
allowed without a Floodplain permit in chapter 5, or as prohibited as specified
in chapter 6, within the Regulated Flood Hazard Area;
   C.   Artificial obstructions and nonconforming uses in a Regulated Flood
Hazard Area not exempt under chapter 5 are public nuisances unless a Floodplain
permit has been obtained (MCA 76-5-404(1));
   D.   A Floodplain permit is required for an alteration of an existing
artificial obstruction or nonconforming use that increases the external size or
increases its potential flood hazard and not exempt under chapter 5 ((MCA 76-5-
404(3)(b)) (ARM 36.15.204(2)(a)));
   E.   A Floodplain permit is required to reconstruct or repair an existing
artificial obstruction that has experienced substantial damage and will undergo
substantial improvement; and
   F.   Maintenance of an existing artificial obstruction or use that is a
substantial improvement or an alteration requires a Floodplain permit (MCA 76-
5404(3)(b)). (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-7-2: REQUIRED FLOODPLAIN PERMIT APPLICATION INFORMATION:
A Floodplain permit application shall include, but is not limited to the
following:
   A.   A completed and signed Floodplain Permit Application;
   B.   The required review fee;
   C.   Plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and
elevation of the proposed project including landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, and the location of the foregoing in relation to the
Regulated Flood Hazard Areas and if applicable the Floodway boundary ((MCA 76-
5-405) (ARM 36.15.216));
   D.   A copy of other applicable permits or pending applications required by
Federal or State law as submitted which may include but are not limited to a
310 permit, SPA 124 permit, Section 404 Permit, 318 Authorization, 401
Certification or a Navigable Rivers Land Use License or Easement for the
proposed project; and the applicant must show that the Floodplain permit
application is not in conflict with the relevant and applicable permits (44 CFR
60.3(a)(2)); and
   E.   Additional information related to the specific use or activity that
demonstrates the design criteria and construction standards are met or exceeded
as specified in chapters 9 and 10 of this title. ((MCA 76-5-405) (ARM
36.15.216)) (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
CHAPTER 8
FLOODPLAIN PERMIT APPLICATION EVALUATION
SECTION:
12-8-1: Floodplain Permit Application Review
12-8-2: Notice Requirements For Floodplain Permit Applications
12-8-3: Floodplain Permit Criteria
12-8-4: Decision
12-8-5: Floodplain Permit Conditions And Requirements
12-8-1: FLOODPLAIN PERMIT APPLICATION REVIEW:
   A.   The Floodplain Administrator shall review and evaluate the Floodplain
permit application and shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the
application within 30 days of receipt of a correct and complete application
(MCA 76-5405(2)).
   B.   The Floodplain Administrator shall determine whether the Floodplain
permit application contains the applicable elements required in these
regulations and shall notify the applicant of the Floodplain Administrator’s
determination.
   C.   If the Floodplain permit application is found to be missing the
required elements and if the applicant corrects the identified deficiencies and
resubmits the Floodplain application, the Floodplain Administrator shall notify
the applicant whether the resubmitted Floodplain application contains all the
elements required by these regulations, as applicable.
   D.   This process shall be repeated until the applicant submits a completed
Floodplain permit application containing all the elements required by these
regulations, or the application is withdrawn.
   E.   If after a reasonable effort the Floodplain Administrator determines
that the Floodplain application remains incomplete, the Floodplain
Administrator shall deny the Floodplain permit application and notify the
applicant of missing elements. No further action shall be taken on the
Floodplain permit application by the Floodplain Administrator until the
Floodplain permit application is resubmitted.
   F.   A determination that a Floodplain permit application is correct and
complete for review does not ensure that the Floodplain permit application will
be approved or conditionally approved and does not limit the ability of the
Floodplain Administrator to request additional information during the review
process. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-8-2: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS FOR FLOODPLAIN PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Upon receipt of a complete application for a Floodplain permit, the
Floodplain Administrator shall prepare a notice containing the facts pertinent
to the Floodplain permit application and shall:
      1.   Publish the notice at least once in a newspaper of general
circulation in the area (ARM 36.15.204(2)(c));
      2.   Serve notice by first-class mail upon adjacent property owners (ARM
36.15.204(2)(c));
      3.   Serve notice to the State National Flood Insurance Program
Coordinator located in DNRC by the most efficient method. Notice to other
permitting agencies or other impacted property owners may be provided; and
      4.   Prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse in the
Regulated Flood Hazard Area, additionally provide notice to FEMA and adjacent
communities (44 CFR 60.3 (b)(6)).
   B.   The notice shall provide a reasonable period of time, not less than 15
days, for interested parties to submit comments on the proposed activity. (ARM
36.15.204(2)(c)) (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-8-3: FLOODPLAIN PERMIT CRITERIA:
   A.   Floodplain permit applications shall be approved provided the proposed
new construction, substantial improvement, or alteration of an artificial
obstruction meets the requirements of the minimum standards and criteria in
Sections 9 and 10 and other requirements of these regulations ((MCA 76-5-406)
(44 CFR 60.3)).
   B.   A Flood Plain permit application for a development that will cause an
increase of more than 0.00 feet to the Base Flood Elevation of the Floodway or
more than 0.50 feet to the Base Flood Elevation of the Regulated Flood Hazard
Area without a Floodway shall not be approved until approval for an Alteration
pursuant to section
12-4-3 has been approved, the Regulated Flood Hazard Area is amended and a FEMA
CLOMR where required is issued.
   C.   The Floodplain Administrator shall determine that all necessary permits
have been received from those governmental agencies from which approval is
required by Federal or State law, including section 404 of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act Amendment of 1972, 36 U.S.C. 1334 (44 CFR 60.3(a)(2).
(Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-8-4: DECISION:
   A.   The Floodplain Administrator shall approve, conditionally approve, or
deny the proposed Floodplain permit application. The Floodplain Administrator
shall notify the applicant of his action and the reasons thereof within 60 days
of receipt of a correct and complete Floodplain permit application unless
otherwise specified. A copy of the approved Floodplain permit must be provided
to DNRC ((MCA 76-5405(2)) (ARM 36.15.204(2)(e)).
   B.   The approval of a Floodplain permit application does not affect any
other type of approval required by any other statute or ordinance of the state
or any political subdivision or the United States, but is an added requirement
(MCA 76-5-108). (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-8-5: FLOODPLAIN PERMIT CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
Upon approval or conditional approval of the Floodplain permit application, the
Floodplain Administrator shall provide the applicant with a Floodplain permit
with applicable specific requirements and conditions including but not limited
to the following:
   A.   The Floodplain permit will become valid when all other necessary
permits required by Federal or State law are in place (44 CFR 60.3(a)(2);
   B.   Completion of the development pursuant to the Floodplain permit shall
be completed within one year from the date of Floodplain permit issuance or a
time limit commensurate with the project construction time line for completion
of the project or development. The applicant may request an extension for up to
an additional year. The request must be made at least 30 days prior to the
permitted completion deadline;
   C.   The applicant shall notify subsequent property owners and their agents
and potential buyers of the Floodplain development permit issued on the
property and that such property is located within a Regulated Flood Hazard Area
and shall record the notice with the Floodplain Administrator (ARM 36.15.204(2)
(g));
   D.   The applicant shall maintain the artificial obstruction or use to
comply with the conditions and specifications of the permit;
   E.   The applicant shall allow the Floodplain Administrator to perform on
site inspections at select intervals during construction or completion;
   F.   The applicant shall provide periodic engineering oversight and/or
interim reports during the construction period to be submitted to the
Floodplain Administrator to confirm constructed elevations and other project
elements;
   G.   The applicant shall submit a compliance report including certifications
where required and applicable including flood proofing, elevation, surface
drainage, proper enclosure openings and materials to the Floodplain
Administrator within 30 days of completion or other time as specified;
   H.   The applicant shall submit an annual performance and maintenance report
on bank stabilization or other projects utilizing maturing vegetative
components to the Floodplain Administrator for a period of 5 years or a time
specified in the permit; or
   I.   The applicant shall submit evidence of a submittal of a FEMA Letter of
Map Revision (LOMR) to FEMA and applicable fees within 6 months of project
completion and proceed with due diligence for acceptance of the document and
necessary supporting materials by FEMA. (44 CFR 65.3) (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016;
amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
CHAPTER 9
DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS IN THE FLOODWAY
SECTION:
12-9-1: Uses Requiring Permits
12-9-2: General Requirements
12-9-3: Mining Of Material Requiring Excavation From Pits Or Pools
12-9-4: Railroad, Highway And Street Stream Crossings
12-9-5: Limited Filling For Road And Railroad Embankments
12-9-6: Buried Or Suspended Utility Transmission Lines
12-9-7: Storage Of Materials And Equipment
12-9-8: Domestic Water Supply Wells
12-9-9: Buried And Sealed Vaults For Sewage Disposal In Campgrounds And
Recreational Areas
12-9-10: Public And Private Campgrounds
12-9-11: Structures Accessory Or Appurtenant
12-9-12: Construction Of Or Modifications To Surface Water Diversions
12-9-13: Flood Control And Stream Bank Stabilization Measures
12-9-14: Stream And Bank Restoration
12-9-15: Existing Residential And Non-Residential Buildings In The Floodway
12-9-1: USES REQUIRING PERMITS:
Artificial obstructions including alterations and substantial improvements
specifically listed in sections
12-9-3 to
12-9-15 may be allowed by permit within the floodway, provided the general
requirements in section
12-9-2 and the applicable requirements in sections
12-9-3 to
12-9-15 are met (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-9-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
An application for a permit shall meet the following requirements:
   A.   All projects shall be designed and constructed to ensure that they do
not adversely affect the flood hazard on other properties and are reasonably
safe from flooding;
   B.   All projects shall assure that the carrying capacity of the Floodway is
not reduced. All projects in the Floodway shall meet the following:
      1.   Demonstrate that the project does not increase the Base Flood
Elevation by conducting an encroachment analysis certified by an engineer. A
minimal or qualitative encroachment analysis may be accepted when the project
or development does not require a structure, alteration of the Floodway,
involve fill, grading, excavation or storage of materials or equipment but is
also certified by an engineer to not exceed the allowable encroachment to the
Base Flood Elevation; and
      2.   The allowable encroachment to the Base Flood Elevation is 0.00 feet,
and no significant increase to the velocity or flow of the stream or water
course unless approval of an alteration of the Regulated Flood Hazard Area
pursuant to section
12-4-3 and an approved FEMA Conditional Letter of Map Revision occurs before
permit issuance ((ARM 36.15.604) (ARM 36.15.505) (ARM 36.15.605(b)) (44 CFR
60.3(a)(3 and 4)) (44CFR 65.12(a)); and
   C.   An application for a Floodplain permit must also demonstrate the
following factors are considered and incorporated into the design of the use or
artificial obstruction in the Floodway:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to backwater or diverted flow
caused by the obstruction or use ((MCA 76-5-406(1)) (ARM 36.15.216(2)(a)));
      2.   The danger that the obstruction or use may be swept downstream to
the injury of others ((MCA 76-5-406(2)) (ARM 36.15.216(2)(b)));
      3.   The availability of alternative locations ((MCA 76-5-406(3)) (ARM
36.15.216(2)(c));
      4.   Construct or alter the obstruction or use in such manner as to
lessen the flooding danger ((MCA 76-5-406(4)) (ARM 36.15.216(2)(d)));
      5.   The permanence of the obstruction or use and is reasonably safe from
flooding ((MCA 76-5-406(5) (ARM 36.15.216(2e)));
      6.   The anticipated development in the foreseeable future of the area
which may be affected by the obstruction or use ((MCA 76-5-406(6)) (ARM
36.15.216(2f)));
      7.   Relevant and related permits for the project have been obtained (44
CFR 60.3(a)(2));
      8.   Such other factors as are in harmony with the purposes of these
regulations, the Montana Floodplain and Floodway Management Act, and the
accompanying Administrative Rules of Montana ((MCA 76-5-406(7)) (ARM 36.15.216
(2)(g))); and
      9.   The safety of access to property in times of flooding for ordinary
and emergency services (44CFR 60.22 (c)(7)). (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord.
16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-9-3: MINING OF MATERIAL REQUIRING EXCAVATION FROM PITS OR POOLS:
Provided, in addition to the requirements of section
12-9-2, that:
   A.   A buffer strip of undisturbed land of sufficient width as determined by
an engineer to prevent flood flows from channeling into the excavation is left
between the edge of the channel and the edge of the excavation (ARM 36.15.602
(1)(a));
   B.   The excavation meets all applicable laws and regulations of other local
and state agencies (ARM 36.15.602(1)(b)); and
   C.   Excavated material may be processed on site but is stockpiled outside
the Floodway (ARM 36.15.602(1)(c)). (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-
19-2022)
12-9-4: RAILROAD, HIGHWAY AND STREET STREAM CROSSINGS:
Including other transportation related crossings provided, in addition to the
requirements of section
12-9-2, that:
   A.   Crossings are designed to offer minimal obstructions to the flood flow
(ARM 36.15.602(2));
   B.   Where failure or interruption of public transportation facilities would
result in danger to public health or safety and where practicable and in
consideration of FHWA Federal-Aid Policy Guide 23CFR650A:
      1.   Bridge lower chords shall have freeboard to at least two (2) feet
above the Base Flood Elevation to help pass ice flows, the base flood discharge
and any debris associated with the discharge; and
      2.   Culverts shall be designed to pass the Base Flood discharge and
maintain at least two (2) feet freeboard on the crossing surface;
   C.   Normal overflow channels, if possible are preserved to allow passage of
sediments to prevent aggradations; and
   D.   Mid stream supports for bridges, if necessary, have footings buried
below the maximum scour depth. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-
2022)
12-9-5: LIMITED FILLING FOR ROAD AND RAILROAD EMBANKMENTS:
Including other transportation related embankments not associated with stream
crossings and bridges provided, in addition to the requirements of section 12-
9-2, that:
   A..   The fill is suitable fill;
   B.   Reasonable alternate transportation routes outside the floodway are not
available (ARM 36.15.602(3)); and
   C.   The encroachment is located as far from the stream channel as possible
(ARM 36.15.602(3)). (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-9-6: BURIED OR SUSPENDED UTILITY TRANSMISSION LINES:
Provided, in addition to the requirements of section
12-9-2, that:
   A.   Suspended utility transmission lines are designed such that the lowest
point of the suspended line is at least six (6) feet higher than the Base Flood
Elevation (ARM 36.15.602(4));
   B.   Towers and other appurtenant structures are designed and placed to
withstand and offer minimal obstruction to flood flows (ARM 36.15.602(4));
   C.   Alternatives such as alternative routes, directional drilling, and
aerial crossings are considered when technically feasible; and
   D.   Utility transmission lines carrying toxic or flammable materials are
buried to a depth of at least twice the calculated maximum scour depth
determined by an engineer for the Base Flood (ARM 36.15.602(4)). (Ord. 16-3,
11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-9-7: STORAGE OF MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT:
Provided, in addition to the requirements of section
12-9-2, that:
   A.   The material or equipment is not subject to major damage by flooding
and is properly anchored to prevent flotation or downstream movement (ARM
36.15.602(5)(a)); or
   B.   The material or equipment is readily removable within the limited time
available after flood warning. Storage of flammable, toxic or explosive
materials shall not be permitted (ARM 36.15.602(5)(b)). (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016;
amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-9-8: DOMESTIC WATER SUPPLY WELLS:
Provided, in addition to the requirements of section
12-9-2, that:
   A.   They are driven or drilled wells located on ground higher than
surrounding ground to assure positive drainage from the well (ARM 36.15.602
(6));
   B.   They require no other structures (e.g. a well house) (ARM 36.15.602
(6));
   C.   Well casings are water tight to a distance of at least twenty five (25)
feet below the ground surface and the well casing height is a minimum of two
(2) feet above the base flood elevation or capped with a watertight seal and
vented two (2) feet above the base flood elevation ((ARM 36.15.602(6)));
   D.   Water supply lines have a watertight seal where the lines enter the
casing (ARM 36.15.602(6));
   E.   All pumps and electrical lines and equipment are either of the
submersible type or are adequately flood proofed (ARM 36.15.602(6)); and.
   F.   Check valves are installed on main water lines at wells and at all
building entry locations ((44 CFR 60.3 (a)(5)) (ARM 36.15.602(6))). (Ord. 16-3,
11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-9-9: BURIED AND SEALED VAULTS FOR SEWAGE DISPOSAL IN CAMPGROUNDS AND
RECREATIONAL AREAS:
Provided, in addition to the requirements of section
12-9-2, demonstrate approval by Montana Department of Environmental Quality and
local health and sanitation permits or approvals ((44 CFR 60.3(a)(6)) (ARM
36.15.602(7))). (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-9-10: PUBLIC AND PRIVATE CAMPGROUNDS:
Provided, in addition to the requirements of section
12-9-2, that:
   A.   Access roads require only limited fill and do not obstruct or divert
flood waters (ARM 36.15.602(8));
   B.   The project meets the accessory structures requirements in this
chapter;
   C.   No dwellings or permanent mobile homes are allowed (ARM 36.15.602(8));
   D.   Recreational vehicles and travel trailers are ready for highway use
with wheels intact, with only quick disconnect type utilities and securing
devices, and have no permanently attached additions (44 CFR 60.3(c)(14)); and
   E.   There is no large-scale clearing of riparian vegetation within 50 feet
of the mean annual high water mark. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-
19-2022)
12-9-11: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
Structures accessory or appurtenant to permitted uses such as boat docks,
loading and parking areas, marinas, sheds, emergency airstrips, permanent
fences crossing channels that may impede or stop flows or debris, picnic
shelters and tables and lavatories, that are incidental to a principal
structure or use, provided in addition to the requirements of section
12-9-2, that:
   The structures are not intended for human habitation or supportive of human
habitation (ARM 36.15.602(9));
   The structures will have low flood damage potential (ARM 36.15.602(9));
   The structures will, insofar as possible, be located on ground higher than
the surrounding ground and as far from the channel as possible (ARM 36.15.602
(9));
   The structures will be constructed and placed so as to offer a minimal
obstruction to flood flows (ARM 36.15.602(9));
   Only those wastewater disposal systems that are approved under health and
sanitation regulations are allowed;
   Service facilities within these structures such as electrical, heating and
plumbing are flood proofed according to the requirements in chapter 12-10 of
this title (ARM 36.15.602(9));
   The structures are firmly anchored to prevent flotation (ARM 36.15.602(9));
   The structures do not require fill and/or substantial excavation;
   The structures or use cannot be changed or altered without permit approval;
and
   There is no clearing of riparian vegetation within 50 feet of the mean
annual high water mark. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-9-12: CONSTRUCTION OF OR MODIFICATIONS TO SURFACE WATER DIVERSIONS:
Provided, in addition to the requirements of section
12-9-2, that the design is reviewed and approved by an engineer and includes:
   A.   Measures to minimize potential erosion from a Base Flood (ARM 36.15.603
(3)(b)); and
   B.   Designs and plans that demonstrate any permanent structure in the
stream is designed to safely withstand up to the Base Flood considering the
forces associated with hydrodynamic and hydrostatic pressures including flood
depths, velocities, impact, ice buoyancy, and uplift forces associated with the
Base Flood ((ARM 36.15.603(3)(c) ((CFR 60.3(a)(3) (CFR 60.3(d)(3))). (Ord. 16-
3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-9-13: FLOOD CONTROL AND STREAM BANK STABILIZATION MEASURES:
Provided, in addition to the requirements of section
12-9-2, that the design is reviewed and approved by an engineer and constructed
to substantially resist or withstand the forces associated with hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic pressures, including flood depths, velocities, impact, ice,
buoyancy, and uplift associated with the Base Flood. The design must also show
compliance with the following applicable criteria ((CFR 60.3(a)(3) (CFR 60.3(d)
(3)) (ARM 36.15.606)):
   A.   Levee And Floodwall Construction Or Alteration:
      1.   Must be designed and constructed with suitable fill and be designed
to safely convey a Base Flood (ARM 36.15.606(1)(a));
      2.   Must be constructed at least 3 feet higher than the elevation of the
Base Flood unless the levee or floodwall protects agricultural land only (ARM
36.15.606(2)(a));
      3.   Must meet state and federal levee engineering and construction
standards and be publically owned and maintained if it protects structures of
more than one landowner (ARM 36.15.505(1)(c)(ii)and (iii)); and
      4.   For any increase in the elevation of the Base Flood, an alteration
of the Regulated Flood Hazard Area requires approvals pursuant to section
12-4-3.
   B.   Stream Bank Stabilization, Pier And Abutment Protection Projects:
      1.   Must be designed and constructed using methods and materials that
are the least environmentally damaging yet practicable, and should be designed
to withstand a Base Flood once the project’s vegetative components are mature
within a period of up to 5 years or other time as required by the Floodplain
Administrator. Once vegetation is mature and established it should not require
substantial yearly maintenance after the initial period;
      2.   Materials for the project may be designed to erode over time but not
fail catastrophically and impact others. Erosion, sedimentation, and transport
of the materials may be designed to be at least similar in amount and rate of
existing stable natural stream banks during the Base Flood;
      3.   Must not increase erosion upstream, downstream, across from or
adjacent to the site in excess of the existing stable natural stream bank
during the Base Flood (ARM 36.15.606(1)(b)); and
      4.   Materials for the project may include but are not limited to riprap,
root wads, brush mattresses, willow wattles, natural woody debris or
combinations of analogous materials.
   C.   Channelization Projects where the excavation and/or construction of an
channel is for the purpose of diverting the entire or a portion of the flow of
a stream from its established course, the project must:
      1.   Not increase the magnitude, velocity, or elevation of the Base
Flood; and
      2.   Meet the requirements of section
12-9-13B (ARM 36.15.101(7)) (ARM 6.15.606(1)(c)).
   D.   Dams:
      1.   The design and construction shall be in accordance with the Montana
Dam Safety Act and applicable safety standards; and
      2.   The project shall not increase flood hazards downstream either
through operational procedures or improper hydrologic/hydraulic design (ARM
36.15.606(1)(d). (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-9-14: STREAM AND BANK RESTORATION:
Projects intended to reestablish the terrestrial and aquatic attributes of a
natural stream and not for protection of a structure or development provided,
in addition to the requirements of section 12-9-2, that:
   A.   The project will not increase velocity or erosion upstream, downstream,
across from or adjacent to the site (ARM 36.15.606(1)(b));
   B.   Materials may include but are not limited to boulders, rock cobble,
gravel, native stream bed materials, root wads, brush mattresses, willow
wattles, natural woody debris or combinations of analogous materials and that
reasonably replicates the bed and bank of the natural stream;
   C.   Erosion, sedimentation, and transport of the materials are not more
than the amount and rate of existing natural stream banks during the Base
Flood; and
   D.   The project may be designed to allow vegetative materials to mature
within a period up to 5 years or other time as required by the Floodplain
Administrator. Once vegetation is mature and established it should not require
substantial yearly maintenance after the initial period. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016;
amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-9-15: EXISTING RESIDENTIAL AND NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS IN THE FLOODWAY:
Any alteration or substantial improvement to an existing building must meet the
requirements of section
12-9-2 and the applicable requirements in chapter 12-10 of this title for
residential or non-residential buildings (MCA 76-5-404(3)(b)). (Ord. 16-3, 11-
7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
CHAPTER 10
DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS IN THE FLOOD FRINGE OR REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA
WITH NO FLOODWAY
SECTION:
12-10-1: Uses Requiring Permits
12-10-2: General Requirements
12-10-3: Residential Building, Exceptions Or Additional Requirements
12-10-4: Non-Residential Building, Exceptions Or Additional Requirements
12-10-1: USES REQUIRING PERMITS:
All uses allowed by permit in the Floodway shall also be allowed by permit
within the Flood Fringe or Regulated Flood Hazard Area with no Floodway. Such
uses are subject to the requirements in chapter 12-9 of this title, with the
exception of the encroachment limit of section
12-9-2B. Instead, such uses are subject to the encroachment limits of this
section
12-10-2I.
Except for prohibited artificial obstructions in section
12-6-2, all other artificial obstructions including new construction,
substantial improvements, alterations to residential, and nonresidential
structures including manufactured homes, and related suitable fill or
excavation shall be allowed by permit and are subject to the requirements in
this chapter and general requirements of section
12-9-2, with the exception of the encroachment limit of section
12-9-2B (ARM 36.15.701(2)). (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-10-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
An application for a Floodplain permit must demonstrate or meet the following
applicable requirements:
   A.   Base Flood Elevation: Where necessary to meet the appropriate elevation
requirement in these regulations, the Base Flood Elevation(s) must be
determined by an engineer and utilized in the design and layout of the project
demonstrating the design and construction criteria herein are met. For
Regulated Flood Hazard Areas that do not have computed and published Base Flood
Elevations in the adopted flood hazard study referenced in chapter 12-4 of this
title, a Base Flood Elevation must be determined or obtained from a reliable
source, utilizing appropriate engineering methods and analyses;
   B.   Flood Damage: Structures must be constructed by methods and practices
that minimize flood damage and structures must be reasonably safe from flooding
((44 CFR 60.3(a)) (44 CFR 60.3(a)(3)(iii)));
   C.   Surface Drainage: Adequate surface drainage must be provided around
structures;
   D.   Materials: Structures must be constructed with materials resistant to
flood damage ((44 CFR 60.3(a)) (44 CFR 60.3(a)(3)(ii));
   E.   Artificial Obstructions: Structures, excavation or fill must not be
prohibited by any other statute, regulation, ordinance, or resolution; and must
be compatible with subdivision, zoning and any other land use regulations, if
any (ARM 36.15.701 (3)(a)) ((ARM 36.15.701(3)(b));
   F.   Anchoring: All construction and substantial improvements must be
designed and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy (44CFR 60.3(a)(3);
   G.   Certification: Certification by an engineer, architect, land surveyor,
or other qualified person must accompany the application where required
including for an encroachment analysis, adequacy of structural elevations, Base
Flood Elevation determinations, flood-proofing, enclosure flood openings and
design and construction to withstand the hydrodynamic forces and hydrostatic
pressures of flood depths, velocities, impact, buoyancy, uplift forces
associated with the Base Flood and surface drainage. A certification is not
intended to constitute a warranty or guarantee of performance, expressed or
implied ((ARM 36.15.606(1) (ARM 36.15.702(2)(c)) (ARM 36.15.801 (3)(b)) (44 CFR
60.3(c)(3&4)) (44 CFR 60.3 (d)(3)));
   H.   Access: Structures must have safe access during times of flooding up to
the Base Flood for ordinary and emergency services provided there are no
reasonable alternate locations for structures;
   I.   Encroachment Analysis:
      1.   All applications in the Regulated Flood Hazard Area without a
Floodway must be supported by an encroachment analysis of the proposed use, a
thorough hydrologic and hydraulic analysis except as provided in following
division I.4. of this section, prepared by an engineer to demonstrate the
effect of the structure on flood flows, velocities and the Base Flood Elevation
((ARM 36.15.604) (44 CFR 60.3(a)(3));
      2.   The maximum allowable encroachment is certified to be at or less
than 0.5 feet increase to the Base Flood Elevation unless approval of an
alteration of the Regulated Flood Hazard Area pursuant to chapter 12-4 of this
title and an approved FEMA Conditional Letter of Map Revision occurs before
permit issuance ((ARM 36.15.604) (ARM 36.15.505) (44 CFR 60.3(c)(13)));
      3.   An encroachment analysis is not required for any development in the
Flood Fringe where an accompanying Floodway has been designated within the
Regulated Flood Hazard Area; and
      4.   Although all other development standards herein apply, a minimal or
qualitative encroachment analysis may be accepted when the project or
development does not require a structure, alteration of the Floodplain, involve
fill, grading, excavation or storage of materials or equipment and also is
certified by an engineer to not exceed the allowable encroachment.
   J.   Electrical Systems Flood Proofing: All electrical service materials,
equipment and installation for uses in a Regulated Flood Hazard Area must be
certified to meet the following requirements:
      1.   All incoming power service equipment including all metering
equipment, control centers, transformers, distribution and lighting panels and
all other stationary equipment must be located at least two feet above the Base
Flood Elevation (ARM 36.15.901(1)(a));
      2.   Portable and movable electrical equipment may be placed below the
Base Flood Elevation, provided that the equipment can be disconnected by a
single plug and socket assembly of the submersible type (ARM 36.15.901 (1)(b));
      3.   The main power service lines must have automatically operated
electrical disconnect equipment or manually operated electrical disconnect
equipment located at an accessible remote location outside the Regulated Flood
Hazard Area or two feet above the Base Flood Elevation (ARM 36.15.901(1)(c));
and
      4.   All electrical wiring systems installed below the Base Flood
Elevation must be suitable for continuous submergence and may not contain
fibrous components (ARM 36.15.901(1)(d)).
   K.   Heating and Cooling Systems Flood Proofing: Heating and cooling systems
for uses in a Regulated Flood Hazard Area must be certified to meet the
following requirements:
      1.   Float operated automatic control valves must be installed so that
fuel supply is automatically shut off when flood waters reach the floor level
where the heating and cooling systems are located (ARM36.15.902(1)(a));
      2.   Manually operated gate valves must be installed in gas supply lines.
The gate valves must be operable from a location above the Base Flood Elevation
(ARM36.15.902(1)(b));
      3.   Electrical Systems flood proofing must be met (ARM36.15.902(1)(c));
and
      4.   Furnaces and cooling units must be installed at least two (2) feet
above the Base Flood Elevation and the ductwork installed above the Base Flood
Elevation.
   L.   Plumbing Systems Flood Proofing: Plumbing systems for uses in the
Regulated Flood Hazard Area must be certified to meet the following
requirements:
      1.   Sewer lines, except those to a buried and sealed vault, must have
check valves installed to prevent sewage backup into permitted structures (ARM
36.15.903(1)(a)); and
      2.   All toilets, stools, sinks, urinals, vaults, and drains must be
located so the lowest point of possible flood water entry is at least two (2)
feet above the Base Flood Elevation (ARM 36.15.903(1)(b)).
   M.   Structural Fill Flood Proofing: Fill used to elevate structures,
including but not limited to residential and non-residential buildings must be
certified to meet the following requirements:
      1.   The fill must be a minimum of 0.5 feet above the Base Flood
Elevation and extend at least fifteen (15) feet beyond the structure in all
directions
      2.   Fill material must be suitable fill, that is stable, compacted, well
graded, and pervious, not adversely affected by water and frost, devoid of
trash or similar foreign matter, tree stumps or other organic material; and is
fitting for the purpose of supporting the intended use and/or permanent
structure (ARM 36.15.101(22)).
      3.   The fill must be compacted to minimize settlement and compacted to
95 percent of the maximum density. Compaction of earthen fill must be certified
by a engineer;
      4.   No portion of the fill is allowed within the floodway;
      5.   The fill slope must not be steeper than 1 % horizontal to 1 vertical
unless substantiating data justifying a steeper slope is provided and adequate
erosion protection is provided for fill slopes exposed to floodwaters; and
   N.   Wet Flood Proofing: Building designs with an enclosure below the lowest
floor must be certified to meet the following:
      1.   Materials used for walls and floors are resistant to flooding to an
elevation two (2) feet or more above the Base Flood Elevation (ARM 36.15.702(2)
(a));
      2.   The enclosure must be designed to equalize hydrostatic forces on
walls by allowing for entry and exit of floodwaters. Opening designs must
either be certified by an engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following:
         a.   Automatically allow entry and exit of floodwaters through
screens, louvers, valves, and other coverings or devices;
         b.   Have two (2) or more openings with a total net area of not less
than one (1) square inch for every one (1) square foot of enclosed area below
the Lowest Floor, except if the enclosure is partially subgrade, a minimum of 2
openings may be provided on a single wall; and
      3.   Have the bottom of all openings no higher than one (1) foot above
the higher of the exterior or interior adjacent grade or floor immediately
below the openings. (44 CFR 60.3(c)(5)) (NFIP Insurance Manual, Rev. May 2013)
   O.   Dry Flood Proofing: Building designs that do not allow internal
flooding must be certified according to these regulations to meet the
following:
      1.   Building use must be for non-residential use only and does not
include mixed residential and non-residential use;
      2.   Be Flood Proofed to an elevation no lower than two (2) feet above
the Base Flood Elevation;
      3.   Be constructed of impermeable membranes or materials for floors and
walls and have water tight enclosures for all windows, doors and other
openings; and
      4.   Be designed to withstand the hydrostatic pressures and hydrodynamic
forces resulting from the Base Flood and the effects of buoyancy. ((ARM
36.15.702(2)(b)) (44 CFR 60.3(c)(3))
   P.   Elevation of the Lowest Floor: Elevating the lowest floor may be by
either suitable fill, foundation wall enclosure, stem walls, pilings, posts,
piers, columns or other acceptable means ((MCA 76-5-402(2)(b)) (44 CFR 60.3(b)
(8)) (44 CFR 60.3(c)(6)));
   Q.   Crawl Spaces: Crawl space foundation enclosures including sub grade
crawlspace enclosures below the lowest floor must meet the wet flood proofing
requirements and be designed so that the crawl space floor is at or above the
Base Flood Elevation. Crawl space foundations must have an inside dimension of
not more than five (5) feet from the ground to the top of the living floor
level and a sub grade crawlspace must also have the interior ground surface no
more than two (2) feet below the exterior lowest adjacent ground surface on all
sides. A sub grade foundation exceeding either dimension is a basement;
   R.   Manufactured Home Anchors: For new placement, substantial improvement
or replacement of manufactured homes for residential or nonresidential use
including additions, the chassis must be secure and must resist flotation,
collapse or lateral movement by anchoring with anchoring components capable of
carrying a force of 4,800 pounds and as follows:
      1.   For manufactured homes less than fifty (50) feet long, over-the-top
ties to ground anchors are required at each of the four (4) corners of the
home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations; or
      2.   For manufactured homes more than fifty (50) feet long, frame ties to
ground anchors are required at each corner of the home with five (5) additional
ties per side at intermediate points. ((CFR 60.3(b)(8)) CFR 60.3(c)(6)))
   S.   Access: Access for emergency vehicles is provided. For manufactured
homes, access for a manufactured home hauler is also provided. (Ord. 16-3, 11-
7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-10-3: RESIDENTIAL BUILDING, EXCEPTIONS OR ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
New construction, alterations, and substantial improvements of residential
dwellings, manufactured homes, including replacement of manufactured homes,
must be constructed such that:
   A.   Elevation of the Lowest Floor The Lowest Floor of the building
including an attached garage or basement must be two (2) feet or more above the
Base Flood Elevation (ARM 36.15.701(3));
   B.   Enclosure Enclosures of elevated buildings cannot be dry flood proofed.
Use for an enclosure is limited to facilitating building component access. The
enclosure including a crawlspace must be wet flood proofed and the enclosure
floor must be at or above the Base Flood Elevation. An attached garage floor
must be two (2) or more feet above the Base Flood Elevation.
   C.   Recreation Vehicles Recreational vehicles on site for more than 180
days or not ready for highway use must meet the requirements for manufactured
homes for residential use. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
12-10-4: NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING, EXCEPTIONS OR ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
New construction, alterations, and substantial improvements of nonresidential
including agricultural, commercial and industrial buildings and residential and
non-residential accessory buildings must be constructed such that:
   A.   Elevation of the Lowest Floor. The Lowest Floor of the building must be
elevated two (2) feet above the Base Flood Elevation or adequately dry flood
proofed according to this chapter. The Lowest Floor may be wet proofed provided
the use is limited to only parking, loading and storage of equipment or
materials not appreciably affected by floodwater ((ARM 36.15.702(2) (44 CFR
60.3(c)(3)(ii) (44 CFR 60.3(c)(3) and (4)));
   B.   Enclosure. Enclosures below the Lowest Floor on elevated buildings must
be wet flood proofed and the use must be limited to parking, access or storage
or must be adequately dry flood proofed according to this chapter;
   C.   Manufactured Homes. Manufactured homes proposed for use as non-
residential buildings cannot be dry flood proofed; and
   D.   Agricultural Structures. Agricultural structures not intended to be
insurable, used solely for agricultural purposes, having low flood damage
potential, used exclusively in connection with the production, harvesting,
storage, drying, or raising of agricultural commodities including raising of
livestock, and not intended for human habitation are exempt from the elevation
requirement, dry or wet flood proofing, but shall:
      1.   Be located on higher ground and as far from the channel as possible;
      2.   Offer minimal obstruction to flood flows;
      3.   Be adequately anchored to prevent flotation or collapse;
      4.   Where electrical, heating and plumbing systems are installed, meet
the flood proofing requirements in sections
12-10-2J.,
12-10-2K., and
12-10-2L.; and
      5.   Meet the elevation or dry flood proofing requirements if the
structure is an animal confinement facility ((ARM 36.15.602(9) (ARM 36.15.701
(3)(e)) (ARM 36.15.702(2)).
      6.   Such structures may be exempted by the Floodplain Administrator from
the Lowest Flood Elevation requirements established in section
12-10-4A. provided the Lowest floor of the structure is elevated to at least
the Base Flood Elevation or adequately dry floodproofed in conformance with the
requirements of section
12-10-2P.; and
      7.   Such structures shall comply with the requirements of section 12-9-
11 ((ARM 36.15.602(9) (ARM 36.15.701 (3)(e)) (ARM 36.15.702(2)). (Ord. 16-3,
11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2022)
CHAPTER 11
EMERGENCIES
SECTION:
12-11-1: General
12-11-2: Emergency Notification And Application Requirements
12-11-1: GENERAL:
   A.   Emergency repair and replacement of severely damaged artificial
obstructions and development in the Regulated Flood Hazard Area, including
public transportation facilities, public water and sewer facilities, flood
control works, and private projects are subject to the permitting requirements
of these regulations (ARM 36.15.217).
   B.   The provisions of these regulations are not intended to affect other
actions that are necessary to safeguard life or structures during periods of
emergency. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2018)
12-11-2: EMERGENCY NOTIFICATION AND APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The property owner and or the person responsible for taking emergency
action must notify the Floodplain Administrator prior to initiating any
emergency action in a Regulated Flood Hazard Area normally requiring a
Floodplain permit. An Emergency Notification Form must be submitted to the
Floodplain Administrator within five (5) days of the action taken as a result
of an emergency.
   B.   Unless otherwise specified by the Floodplain Administrator, within 30
days of initiating the emergency action, a person who has undertaken an
emergency action must submit a Floodplain Permit Application that describes
what action has taken place during the emergency and describe any additional
work that may be required to bring the project in compliance with these
regulations.
   C.   A person who has undertaken an emergency action may be required to
modify or remove the project in order to meet the permit requirements. (Ord.
16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2018)
CHAPTER 12
VARIANCES
SECTION:
12-12-1: General
12-12-2: Variance Application Requirements
12-12-3: Notice Requirements For Floodplain Variance Application
12-12-4: Evaluation Of Variance Application
12-12-5: Decision
12-12-6: Judicial Review
12-12-1: GENERAL:
A variance from the minimum development standards of these regulations may be
allowed. An approved variance would permit construction in a manner otherwise
as required or prohibited by these regulations ((44 CFR 59.1) (ARM 36.15.218)).
(Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2018)
12-12-2: VARIANCE APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Prior to any consideration of a variance from any development standard
in these regulations, a completed Floodplain Permit application and required
supporting material must be submitted.
   B.   Additionally, supporting materials in a Variance application specific
to the variance request including facts and information addressing the criteria
in this Section must be submitted.
   C.   If the Floodplain permit application and Variance application is deemed
not correct and complete, the Floodplain Administrator shall notify the
applicant of deficiencies within a reasonable time not to exceed 60 days. Under
no circumstances should it be assumed that the variance is automatically
granted. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2018)
12-12-3: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS FOR FLOODPLAIN VARIANCE APPLICATION:
Public Notice of the Floodplain permit application and Variance application
shall be given pursuant to section
12-8-2. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2018)
12-12-4: EVALUATION OF VARIANCE APPLICATION:
   B.   A Floodplain permit and Variance shall only be issued upon a
determination that the variance is the minimum allowance necessary, considering
the flood hazard, to afford relief from these regulations and provided all of
the following criteria are met:
      1.   There is a good and sufficient cause. Financial hardship is not a
good and sufficient cause (44 CFR 60.6(a)(3));
      2.   Failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship
to the applicant (44 CFR 60.3(a)(3)) and ARM 36.15.218(b));
      3.   Residential and nonresidential buildings are not in the Floodway
except for alterations or substantial improvement to existing buildings,
Residential dwellings including basements and attached garages do not have the
lowest floor elevation below the Base Flood Elevation;
      4.   Any enclosure including a crawl space must meet the requirements of
section 12-10-2N., Wet Flood Proofing if the enclosure interior grade is at or
below the Base Flood Elevation;
      5.   Granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights to
existing buildings, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public
expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or
conflict with other existing local laws or ordinances (44 CFR 60.6 (a)(3) and
(ARM 36.15.218(a));
      6.   The proposed use is adequately flood proofed (ARM 36.15.218(c));
      7.   The variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard,
to afford relief (44 CFR 60.6(a)(4));
      8.   Reasonable alternative locations are not available (MCA 76-5-406(3)
and ARM 36.15.218(d));
      9.   An encroachment does not cause an increase to the Base Flood
Elevation that is beyond that allowed in these regulations (44 CFR 60.6(a)(1));
and
      10.   All other criteria for a Floodplain permit besides the specific
development standard requested by variance are met.
   B.   An exception to the variance criteria may be allowed as follows:
      1.   For either new construction of a structure outside of the Floodway
only or for substantial improvements or an alteration of a structure, on a lot
of one-half acres or less that is contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the Base Flood Elevation; or (44 CFR 60.6
(a).
      2.   For Historic Structures - variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum relief
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure. The
historic nature of the building must be designated as a preliminary or historic
structure by U.S. Secretary of Interior or an approved state or local
government historic preservation program (44 CFR 60.6(a)). (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-
2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2018)
12-12-5: DECISION:
The Cut Bank City Council acting as the Board of Adjustment shall:
   A.   Evaluate the Floodplain permit application and Variance application
using the criteria in section
12-12-4, and the application requirements and minimum development standards in
chapters 12-9 and 12-10;
   B.   Make findings, and approve, conditionally approve or deny a Floodplain
permit and variance within 60 days of a complete application.
   C.   If approved, attach conditions to the approval of Floodplain permit and
Variance including a project completion date and inspections during and after
construction.
   D.   Notify the applicant that the issuance of a Floodplain permit and
Variance to construct a structure not meeting the minimum building requirements
in these regulations may result in increased premium rates for flood insurance
and that flood insurance premiums are determined by actuarial risk and will not
be modified by the granting of a variance (44CFR 60.6(a)).
   E.   Submit to the Floodplain Administrator a record of all actions
involving a Floodplain permit and variance, including the findings and decision
and send a copy of each variance granted to DNRC (44 CFR 60.6(a)(6) and MCA 76-
5-405). (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2018)
12-12-6: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any person or persons aggrieved by the Floodplain permit and variance decision
may appeal such decision in a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 16-3, 11-
7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2018)
CHAPTER 13
ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS
SECTION:
12-13-1: General
12-13-2: Appeals Requirements
12-13-3: Notice And Hearing
12-13-4: Decision
12-13-5: Judicial Review
12-13-1: GENERAL:
An administrative appeal may be brought before the Board of Adjustment for
review of the Floodplain Administrator’s order, decision to grant, condition or
deny a floodplain permit or interpretation of the Regulated Flood Hazard Area
boundary. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2018)
12-13-2: APPEALS REQUIREMENTS:
The following provisions apply to administrative appeals:
   A.   An appeal shall include the basis of the appeal and supporting
information including specific findings and conclusions of the Floodplain
Administrator’s decision being appealed;
   B.   An appeal may be submitted by an applicant and/or anyone who may be
aggrieved by the Floodplain Administrator’s decision or order;
   C.   Appeals must be received within 30 days of the date of the decision or
order of the Floodplain Administrator; and
   D.   Additional information specific to the appeal request may be requested
by the review panel. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2018)
12-13-3: NOTICE AND HEARING:
   A.   Notice of the pending appeal and hearing shall be provided pursuant to
section
12-8-2. The Floodplain Administrator may notify DNRC and FEMA of pending
appeals.
   B.   A public hearing on the appeal must be held within 30 days of the
Notice unless set otherwise. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2018)
12-13-4: DECISION:
A judgment on an appeal shall be made within 30 days of the hearing unless set
otherwise. The decision may affirm, modify, or overturn the Floodplain
Administrator’s decision. A decision on an appeal of a permit cannot grant or
issue a variance. A decision may support, reverse or remand an order or
determination of a boundary of the Regulated Flood Hazard Area by the
Floodplain Administrator. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2018)
12-13-5: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision on an administrative appeal may
appeal such decision in a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-
2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2018)
CHAPTER 14
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
12-14-1: Investigation Request
12-14-2: Notice To Enter And Investigate Lands Or Waters
12-14-3: Notice To Respond And Order To Take Corrective Action
12-14-4: Administrative Review
12-14-5: Appeal Of Administrative Decision
12-14-6: Failure To Comply With Order To Take Corrective Action
12-14-7: Other Remedies
12-14-1: INVESTIGATION REQUEST:
An investigation to determine compliance with these regulations for an
artificial obstruction or nonconforming use within the Regulated Flood Hazard
Area may be made either on the initiative of the Floodplain Administrator or on
the written request of three titleholders of land which may be affected by the
activity. The names and addresses of the persons requesting the investigation
shall be released if requested (MCA 76-5-105)(2). (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd.
Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2018)
12-14-2: NOTICE TO ENTER AND INVESTIGATE LANDS OR WATERS:
The Floodplain Administrator may make reasonable entry upon any lands and
waters for the purpose of making an investigation, inspection or survey to
verify compliance with these regulations (MCA 76-5-105(1)).
   A.   The Floodplain Administrator shall provide notice of entry by mail,
electronic mail, phone call, or personal delivery to the owner, owner’s agent,
lessee, or lessee’s agent whose lands will be entered.
   B.   If none of these persons can be found, the Floodplain Administrator
shall affix a copy of the notice to one or more conspicuous places on the
property.
   C.   If the owners do not respond, cannot be located or refuse entry to the
Floodplain Administrator, the Floodplain Administrator may initiate a Search
Warrant. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2018)
12-14-3: NOTICE TO RESPOND AND ORDER TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION:
When the Floodplain Administrator determines that a violation may have
occurred, the Floodplain Administrator may issue written notice to the owner or
an agent of the owner, either personally or by certified mail. Such notice
shall cite the regulatory offense and include an order to take corrective
action within a reasonable time or to respond by requesting an administrative
review by the Floodplain Administrator. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3,
12-19-2018)
12-14-4: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW:
The order to take corrective action is final, unless within five (5) working
days or any granted extension, after the order is received, the owner submits a
written request for an administrative review by the Floodplain Administrator. A
request for an administrative review does not stay the order. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-
2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2018)
12-14-5: APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION:
Within ten (10) working days or any granted extension of receipt of the
Floodplain Administrator’s decision concluding the administrative review, the
property owner or owner’s agent may appeal the decision pursuant to chapter 12-
13. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2018)
12-14-6: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION:
If the owner fails to comply with the order for corrective action, remedies may
include administrative or legal actions, or penalties through court. (Ord. 16-
3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2018)
12-14-7: OTHER REMEDIES:
This section does not prevent efforts to obtain voluntary compliance through
warning, conference, or any other appropriate means. Action under this part
shall not bar enforcement of these regulations by injunction or other
appropriate remedy. (Ord. 16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2018)
CHAPTER 15
PENALTIES
SECTION:
12-15-1: Misdemeanor
12-15-2: Declaration To The Federal Flood Insurance Administrator
12-15-1: MISDEMEANOR:
Violation of the provisions of these regulations or failure to comply with any
of the requirements, including failure to obtain permit approval prior to
development in the Regulated Flood Hazard Area except for an emergency, shall
constitute a misdemeanor and may be treated as a public nuisance.
Any person who violates these regulations or fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $100 or
imprisoned for not more than 10 days or both. Each day’s continuance of a
violation shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense (MCA 76-5-110). (Ord.
16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2018)
12-15-2: DECLARATION TO THE FEDERAL FLOOD INSURANCE ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Upon finding of a violation and failure of the owner to take corrective
action as ordered, the Floodplain Administrator may submit notice and request a
1316 Violation Declaration to the Federal Insurance Administrator. The Federal
Insurance Administrator has the authority to deny new and renewal flood
insurance for a structure upon finding a valid violation declaration (44 CFR
73.3).
   B.   The Floodplain Administrator shall provide the Federal Insurance
Administrator the following:
      1.   The name(s) of the property owner(s) and address or legal
description of the property sufficient to confirm its identity and location;
      2.   A clear and unequivocal declaration that the property is in
violation of a cited State or local law, regulation or ordinance;
      3.   A clear statement that the public body making the declaration has
authority to do so and a citation to that authority;
      4.   Evidence that the property owner has been provided notice of the
violation and the prospective denial of insurance; and
      5.   A clear statement that the declaration is being submitted pursuant
to section 1316 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended. (Ord.
16-3, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 16-3, 12-19-2018)
