CITY CODE
of
EAST HELENA, MONTANA
1980
Code current through:
Ord. 285, passed 5-2-2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of East Helena, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 285, passed May 2, 2023. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO.
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CITY CODE OF EAST HELENA, MONTANA
   BE IT ORDAINED by the mayor and city council of the city of East Helena,
Montana, a Montana Municipal Corporation:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the city
code of the city of East Helena, Montana, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.,
under the direction of the governing body of the city, containing all
ordinances of a general nature in effect at the time of such codification,
shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official code and law
of the city as enacted by the mayor and city council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official city code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies. Each such new provision
shall become effective upon the passage of the ordinance and the insertion of
the proper replacement pages in the copies of the code, three (3) copies of
which shall be maintained in the office of the city clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official city
code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official city code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the city code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official city code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be
misrepresented thereby.
Any person, firm or corporation violating this section shall be punished as
provided in section
1-4-1 of the city code of East Helena, Montana.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage and approval in accordance with
law, as printed and published in book form by order of the mayor and city
council.
         INTRODUCED:    
         PASSED:    
         APPROVED:    
            Mayor
ATTEST:
City Clerk
RECORDED:    
PUBLISHED:    
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alteration
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official city code of the city of East Helena. This
code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the EAST HELENA CITY CODE, and
it is hereby published by authority of the council and shall be kept up to date
as provided in section
1-1-4  of this chapter under the direction of the city attorney, acting for the
said city council. Any reference to the number of any section contained herein
shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause,
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code in any legal documents. (1980 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
 1-2-1 of this title. (1980 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(1980 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATION:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk. Any
person having in his custody an official copy of this code shall make every
effort to maintain said code in an up to date and efficient manner. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the city clerk.
Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other interested
persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be returned to
the office of the clerk when directed so to do by order of the city council.
(1980 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances. (1980 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case this code shall be considered as amending such ordinance
or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1980 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable, if
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party affected, applied to
any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city herein repealed
and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this code shall be
deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code. (1980 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The city council hereby declares that it would
have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1980 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural number is
used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any single
matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although distributive
words may not have been used.
When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this code by words
importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender, several matters,
parties or persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate shall be
deemed to be included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be
applied to any section of this code which contains any express provision
excluding such construction or where the subject matter or context may be
repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been changed
in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1980 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
   AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
   CITY: The city of East Helena, county of Lewis and Clark, state of Montana.
   EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
city of East Helena".
   FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   MISDEMEANOR: Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed.
   NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
   OCCUPANT: Applied to a building or land shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
East Helena".
   OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER: Applied to a building or land shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods,
chattels, effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by
which any pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created,
acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and
every right or interest therein.
   RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small
quantities direct to the consumer.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
   TENANT: Applied to a building or land shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with others.
   WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined,
shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or
things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to an official or public writing or bond required by law, it shall be in
the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his
proper mark. (1980 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1980 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code for which no
penalty is specifically provided shall be fined in a sum not to exceed five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for any one offense and such person may be confined
in the city jail for a period of not more than six (6) months. Either or both
such fine and imprisonment may be imposed. (1980 Code)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code where a duty is
prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a continuing
nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such
duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (1980 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intent of
the council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1980
Code)
CHAPTER 5
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Composition Of Council
1-5-2: Meetings
1-5-3: Order Of Business
1-5-4: Standing Committees
1-5-5: Powers
1-5-1: COMPOSITION OF COUNCIL:
The city council, in which the legislative power of the city is vested, shall
consist of the mayor and four (4) councilmen to be elected as provided by law.
(1980 Code)
1-5-2: MEETINGS:
The council shall hold its stated meetings for the transaction of municipal
business on the first and third Tuesdays of each month at such hours as shall
be fixed by resolution. Special meetings may be called by the mayor, or any two
(2) councilmen at any other time, the clerk on their requisition, giving
reasonable notice thereof, in writing, to all the members of the council
present in the city. All meetings, unless otherwise ordered for good cause,
shall be held at the city hall. (Ord. 4, 9-26-1927; amd. 1980 Code; Ord. 280,
8-16-2022)
1-5-3: ORDER OF BUSINESS:
At the hour appointed for the meeting, the council shall be called to order by
the mayor, or in his absence by the president pro tempore, or in the absence of
both, by the clerk. Upon the appearance of a quorum, the council shall proceed
to business in the following order:
   A.   Reading, amending and approving the minutes of the previous meeting.
   B.   Reports of officers.
   C.   Reports of standing committees.
   D.   Reports of special committees.
   E.   Presentation of petitions and communications.
   F.   New business.
   G.   Unfinished business.
   H.   Bills.
All questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided without
debate. (Ord. 4, 9-26-1927)
1-5-4: STANDING COMMITTEES:
The mayor shall designate and appoint such standing committees as may be from
time to time provided by the rules and orders of the council. (Ord. 4, 9-26-
1927)
1-5-5: POWERS:
The council shall have the power to make and pass all bylaws, ordinances,
orders and resolutions, not repugnant to the constitution of the United States
or of the state of Montana, or any other provisions thereof, necessary for the
government or management of the affairs of the city and for the execution of
the powers vested in the body corporate. (1980 Code)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR
SECTION:
1-6-1: Executive Officer
1-6-2: Powers
1-6-3: Presiding Officer
1-6-1: EXECUTIVE OFFICER:
The mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the city and shall be elected
by the city for a term of four (4) years. (Ord. 129, 4-2-1973)
1-6-2: POWERS:
The mayor shall have the power:
   A.   To nominate and, with the consent of the council, to appoint all
nonelective officers of the city provided for by the council.
   B.   To suspend and, with the consent of the council, to remove any
nonelective officer, stating in the suspension or removal the cause thereof.
   C.   To cause the ordinances of the city to be executed and to supervise the
discharge of official duty by all subordinate officers.
   D.   To communicate to the council at the beginning of every session and
more often if deemed necessary, a statement of the affairs of the city with
such recommendations as he may deem proper.
   E.   To recommend to the council such measures connected with the public
health, cleanliness and ornamentation of the city and the improvement of the
government and finances as he deems expedient.
   F.   To approve all ordinances and resolutions of the council adopted by it
and, in case the same do not meet his approval, to return the same to the next
regular meeting of the council with his objections in writing, and no ordinance
or resolution so vetoed by the mayor must go into effect unless the same be
thereafter passed by a three-fourths (3/4) vote of the entire membership of the
council.
   G.   To veto any objectionable part of a resolution or ordinance, and
approve the other parts. If the mayor fails to return any resolution or
ordinance as aforesaid, the same shall take effect without further action.
   H.   To call special meetings of the council and when so called, he must
state by message the object of the meeting, and the business of the meeting
must be restricted to the object so stated.
   I.   To cause to be presented once in every three (3) months a full and
complete statement of the financial condition of the city.
   J.   To bid for the city on any property sold at a tax or judicial sale
where the city is a party or is interested therein.
   K.   To take and administer oaths.
   L.   To call on every male citizen of the city over the age of eighteen (18)
years to aid in the enforcement of the laws and ordinances in case of riots; to
call out the militia to aid him in suppressing the same or other disorderly
conduct, preventing and extinguishing fires, for securing the peace and safety
of the city or for carrying into effect any law or ordinance; and any person
who does not obey such call shall forfeit to the city a fine not exceeding
twenty five dollars ($25.00).
   M.   To require any of the officers of the city to exhibit his books and
papers.
   N.   To grant pardons and remit fines and forfeitures for offenses against
the provisions of this code when in his judgment public justice requires; but
he must report all pardons granted with the reasons therefor, to the next
meeting of the council.
   O.   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed by law or by
resolution or ordinance of the council.
The mayor shall have such power as may be vested in him by ordinance of the
city in and over all places within five (5) miles of the boundaries of said
city for the purpose of enforcing the health and quarantine ordinances and
regulations thereof 1
. (Ord. 129, 4-2-1973)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA, 7-5-4102.
1-6-3: PRESIDING OFFICER:
The mayor shall be the presiding officer of the council and must sign the
journals thereof and all warrants on the city treasurer, and decide by his vote
all ties, but shall have no other vote 1
. (1980 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. MCA, 7-5-4102.
CHAPTER 7
POLICE JUDGE
SECTION:
1-7-1: Election
1-7-2: Duties
1-7-3: Bond
1-7-4: Salary (Rep. by Ord. 257, 4-21-2015)
1-7-5: Report To Council
1-7-1: ELECTION:
The police judge of the city shall be elected as provided by law 1
. (1980 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA, 7-4-4102.
1-7-2: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the police judge to keep the docket required by the
laws of Montana to be kept by justices of the peace; to hear and determine all
cases that may be instituted in the police court under the provisions of this
code, to pay all fines collected for the violation thereof to the treasurer
monthly, or more often if required. (Ord. 6, 9-26-1927)
1-7-3: BOND:
The police judge shall give a bond to the city with two (2) sufficient sureties
or by a surety company authorized to do business in the state of Montana, in
the penal sum of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00), to be approved
by the council. (Ord. 6, 9-26-1927; amd. 1980 Code)
1-7-4: SALARY:
(Rep. by Ord. 257, 4-21-2015)
1-7-5: REPORT TO COUNCIL:
At the first stated meeting of the council in each month the police judge shall
present to the council a report in writing, giving a statement of cases tried
for offenses against the provisions of this code, and fines and costs collected
during the preceding calendar month, which report shall be accompanied by a
receipt from the treasurer for the amount of such fines and costs. (Ord. 6, 9-
26-1927)
CHAPTER 8
CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-8-1: Election
1-8-2: Duties
1-8-3: Bond
1-8-1: ELECTION:
The treasurer of the city shall be elected as provided by law 1
. (1980 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA, 7-4-4102.
1-8-2: DUTIES:
The duties of the treasurer shall be those prescribed by the political code of
Montana  1
, and in addition thereto, the treasurer shall, at the end of each quarter of
the fiscal year, and more often if required, prepare and deliver to the clerk a
full and complete report for the quarter as to all licenses issued, giving the
name of each person paying the fee for said license and the amount paid
therefor, and the business for which the same is paid, which report shall be
submitted to the council at the next regular meeting of the council after said
report has been filed. (Ord. 10, 9-26-1927)
 
Notes
1 2. MCA, 7-6-4402.
1-8-3: BOND:
The treasurer must execute an official bond to be approved by the council, to
the city in the sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), with one or more
surety companies authorized to do business in the state of Montana. The premium
on such bond shall be a proper charge against the city, and shall be paid as
other expenses of the treasurer's office. (Ord. 10, 9-26-1927; amd. 1980 Code)
CHAPTER 9
OTHER CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-9-1: Officers Appointed
1-9-2: City Attorney
1-9-3: City Clerk
1-9-4: Chief Of Police
1-9-5: City Engineer
1-9-6: Water Commissioner
1-9-7: Wastewater Superintendent
1-9-1: OFFICERS APPOINTED:
The mayor shall nominate and by and with the consent of the council shall
appoint the following officers: city clerk, chief of police, city attorney,
city judge, city engineer, public works director, a.k.a. water commissioner and
wastewater superintendent, to serve at the pleasure of the mayor. (Ord. 224, 9-
17-2002)
1-9-2: CITY ATTORNEY:
   A.   Duties: The duties of the city attorney shall be those specified in the
political code of Montana. (Ord. 130, 4-16-1973, eff. 5-1-1973)
1-9-3: CITY CLERK:
   A.   Duties: The city clerk shall have the following duties:
      1.   He shall do and perform such duties as provided in the political
code of Montana and as may, from time to time, be enjoined upon him by
ordinance or order of the council.
      2.   He shall countersign all warrants drawn upon the treasurer.
      3.   He shall report in writing to the council, giving a statement of all
warrants drawn during the previous calendar month, and the funds upon which
they were drawn, respectively.
   B.   Bond: The clerk shall give bond to the city, with two (2) sufficient
sureties, or by a surety company authorized to do business in the state, to be
approved by the council, in the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 8,
9-26-1927)
1-9-4: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Duties: The duties of the chief of police shall be those prescribed by
the political code of Montana.
   B.   Bond: The chief of police shall give a bond to the city, with two (2)
sufficient sureties or with some company authorized to do business in the
state, to be approved by the council in the sum of five hundred dollars
($500.00). (Ord. 9, 10-19-1927)
1-9-5: CITY ENGINEER:
   A.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the city engineer from time to time:
      1.   To make all necessary surveys of streets, avenues, alleys and public
grounds, and all other surveys required in the city when directed by the proper
authorities thereof, and also, when required by the council;
      2.   To mark the line of any lot, or any public or private premises, or
the grade of any street, alley or avenue and mark the same in some substantial
and permanent manner;
      3.   To make correct levelings of the streets, alleys or avenues, the
grade whereof is not yet established, and report plans and estimates of any
street, alley or avenue, the grade whereof shall be changed or altered, making
such landmarks, either for surveying or leveling, by planting stones or
otherwise, as he shall deem necessary or useful;
      4.   To superintend all surveys authorized by the city;
      5.   To mark out all streets, alleys or avenues authorized to be opened;
      6.   To furnish the council with all plans and specifications for laying
out, grading and regulating streets and public ways, and to superintend the
construction of the same;
      7.   To keep in his office, or in such place as shall be designated by
the committee on streets and alleys, and accessible at all suitable hours,
copies of all records and plats relating to the surveys, sewerage, and other
important data connected with the city, and an accurate record of all surveys
and adjustments of party lines, and also such parts of the city and in such
form and with such details as shall from time to time be required for official
purposes, all of which shall be the property of the city, and to be delivered
by him to his successor in said office;
      8.   To present a report in writing at the first stated meeting of the
council in each month, showing the work done by him during the calendar month
next preceding; and
      9.   To perform such duties as are now imposed upon him by the provisions
of this code, or as may hereafter be imposed upon him by ordinance or
resolution of the council.
   B.   Compensation: The city engineer shall receive as compensation for all
of his services such sum as shall be fixed by the council from time to time.
(Ord. 12, 9-26-1927)
1-9-6: WATER COMMISSIONER:
   A.   Appointment, Salary, Term Of Office: A water commissioner shall be
appointed as provided in section
1-9-1 of this chapter and the council shall fix his salary or compensation and
he shall perform all the duties prescribed and defined as herein provided. He
shall serve for a term of one year or until his successor is appointed and has
qualified.
   B.   Bond: The water commissioner shall execute to the city a surety company
bond in a sum to be determined by the council for the faithful performance of
his duties as herein provided.
   C.   Duties: The water commissioner shall have the following duties:
      1.   He shall be the general executive officer of the waterworks and
shall have the immediate control and management of all things pertaining to the
waterworks system and he shall perform all acts which may be necessary for the
prudent, efficient and economical management and protection of said waterworks,
subject to the approval and confirmation of the council.
      2.   He shall have charge of all employees and all property belonging to,
and pertaining to the system. He shall give written orders for all supplies and
materials and preserve a copy of such orders in his office.
      3.   He shall have charge of all contracts and see that they are
faithfully executed. He shall have charge of the erection, alteration and
repair of all buildings, fixtures, reservoirs, dumps and grounds. He shall
determine the location and size of all water mains, service connections,
valves, hydrants and special fittings, and keep a correct record of all mains,
hydrants, valves and specials and shall keep a complete set of books which
shall at all times show distribution of accounts of the water department.
      4.   He shall submit all bills, payrolls and accounts to the council for
its audit and approval.
      5.   He shall have the care and safe keeping (in a place provided by the
council) of all books and papers belonging to the water department and shall
deliver the same to his successor in office.
      6.   He shall keep a correct account of all receipts and disbursements,
issue all bills for water rent and materials furnished to consumers, collect
the same and deposit the proceeds so collected with the city treasurer to the
credit of the waterworks fund and in accordance with the instructions of the
council.
      7.   He shall issue all permits for tapping mains and shall have a record
of all taps, service pipes, their sizes, locations, materials and all data
pertaining to same.
      8.   He shall render a monthly statement to the council and shall certify
to same. Said statement shall be examined and when approved by the auditing
committee it shall be referred to the council for final action.
      9.   As near as he can, from available sources, he must estimate the
amount of water consumed by the city each day and he shall obtain such other
data as may be necessary.
      10.   He shall see that all gates and hydrants are restored to their
proper condition after use by the fire department and he shall see that all
breaks or defects, should any be discovered, are promptly repaired.
      11.   He shall make all taps for connections and examine all service
pipes and all connections and require that they are properly laid and stopcocks
placed in their proper location and a record kept of same.
      12.   Whenever, in the judgment of the commissioner, he deems it
necessary, he may cause an inspection of the premises of any consumer for the
purpose of examining the condition of all pipes and water fixtures. He shall be
vigilant to detect and eliminate all abuses, whether from waste or improper use
of water.
      13.   He shall keep a true record of all meters in use and examine them
at least once each month and shall test any meters he suspects of inaccurate
measurements and cause the same to be remedied. (Ord. 9, 10-19-1927; amd. 1980
Code)
1-9-7: WASTEWATER SUPERINTENDENT:
   A.   Duties: The wastewater superintendent shall have the following duties:
      1.   Operate, maintain, and repair the city's wastewater treatment
systems, related collection systems, facilities, and lift stations within the
city, subject to the approval and confirmation of the city council.
      2.   Perform any wastewater related obligations incurred by the city
regarding its wastewater service area.
      3.   Ensure compliance with all applicable municipal, state of Montana,
and federal wastewater laws.
      4.   Maintain records in such form and with such details as shall from
time to time be required for municipal purposes, all of which shall be the
property of the city, and deliver such records to any successor.
      5.   Report to the council at its regular meetings, and when otherwise
requested, regarding the work done since the previous report.
      6.   Perform such duties as are required by this code, and as may
hereafter be imposed by direction, resolution, or ordinance of the city
council. (Ord. 224, 9-17-2002)
CHAPTER 10
CORPORATE LIMITS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Corporate Limits Established
1-10-2: Annexations
1-10-1: CORPORATE LIMITS ESTABLISHED:
The corporate limits of the city shall include all the lands described as
follows:
Beginning at the N.E. Corner of Sec. 36, T. 10 N., R. 3 W; thence East 1/4 mile
along the Sec. line between Sections 30 and 31, T. 10 N., Range 2 W. to the
S.E. Corner of the SW1/4 SW1/4, Sec. 30, T. 10 N., R. 2 W; thence North 1/
2 mile to the N.E. Corners of the NW1/4 SW1/4, Sec. 30, T. 10 N., R. 2 W;
thence West 1/2 mile to the N.W. Corner of NE1/4 SE1/4, Sec. 25, T. 10 N., R. 3
W; thence South 1/4 mile to the S.W. Corner of the NE1/4 SE1/4, Sec. 25, T. 10
N., Range 3 W; thence West 1/4 mile to the N.W. Corner of the SW1/4 SE1/4, Sec.
25, T. 10 N., Range 3 W; thence South along the quarter section line of Sec.
25, T. 10 N., R. 3 W. to the N.E. Corner of the Manlove Addition No. 4; thence
West along the North boundary of the Manlove Addition No. 4 and the North
boundary of said addition produced, West to its intersection with the section
line between Sections 25, T. 10 N., R. 3 W. and 26, T. 10 N., R. 3 W; thence
South along said section line to the S.W. Corner of Sec. 25, T. 10 N., R. 3 W;
thence East 1/2 mile along the section line between Sections 25, T. 10 N., R. 3
W. and 36, T. 10 N., R. 3 W to the N.W. Corner of the SW1/4 NE1/4, Sec. 36, T.
10 N., R. 3 W; thence south 1/2 mile along the quarter section line of Sec. 36,
T. 10 N. R. 3 W. to the S.W. Corner of the SW1/4 NE1/4, Sec. 36, T. 10 N., R. 3
W; thence East 1/2 mile along the quarter section line of Sec. 36, T. 10 N., R.
3 W. to the SE1/4 SE1/4 of the NE1/4, Sec. 36, T. 10 N., R. 3 W; thence North
1/2 mile along the sections 36, T. 10 N., R. 3 W., and 31, T. 10 N., R. 2 W, to
the point of beginning.
(Ord. 1, 9-26-1927)
1-10-2: ANNEXATIONS:
The addition of certain real estate and lands hereinafter more particularly
described, pursuant to the application, hearings, plats and records heretofore
made, prepared, executed and submitted in accordance with the law prescribed
therefor, be, and the same are, hereby fully and finally approved, adopted and
included as an addition to and within and as a part of the city and which said
tracts, real estate and properties are more fully and particularly described as
follows:
Beginning at a point marked with an iron pipe, from which the quarter (1/4)
Section corner on the South boundary of Section 25, Township 10 N, R 3 W,
Montana Principal Meridian, bears South zero degrees nineteen minutes East (S
0°19' E), 1332.0 feet; thence South 89 degrees thirty seven minutes West (S
89°37' W), 1305.0 feet to an iron pipe; thence North zero degrees nineteen
minutes West (N 0°19' W, 166.0 feet to an iron pipe; thence North 89 degrees
thirty seven minutes East (N 89°37' E), 2165.0 feet to an iron pipe; thence
South zero degrees nineteen minutes East (S 0°19' E), 161.0 feet to an iron
pipe; thence South 89 degrees thirty seven minutes West (S 89°37' W), 860.0
feet to an iron pipe; thence South zero degrees nineteen minutes East (S 0°19'
E), 5.0 feet to the point of beginning; to be known and designated as the
Gorsich Tract, together with all lands included therein and designated streets,
avenues, alleys and the respective extensions thereof and therein.
(Ord. 82, 4-21-1952)
That certain tract of land in the west half of the northwest quarter of section
31, township 10 north, range 2 west, Montana principal meridian, more
particularly described as follows: Beginning at a point marked with an iron
pipe, which point bears S 0°19' E, 1062.9 feet from the section corner common
to sections 25 and 36, Range 3 West and sections 30 and 31, Range 2 West all in
Township 10 North, Montana Principal Meridian; thence from said point of
beginning S 0°19' E, 730.0 feet to a point marked with an iron pipe; thence N
89°41' E, 225.0 feet to a point marked with an iron pipe; thence N 0°19' W,
730.0 feet to a point marked with an iron pipe; thence S 89°41' W, 223.0 feet
to the point of beginning, containing 3.771 acres more or less, to be known and
designated as the A.S.&R. Addition to the City, and the lands included in all
streets, avenues and alleys shown on said plat are hereby granted and donated
to the use of the public forever.
(Ord. 86, 12-15-1952)
Beginning at a point marked with an iron pipe from which the 1/4 Section corner
of the South Boundary of Section 25, Twp. 10 North, Range 3 West, Montana
Principal Meridian, bears South 0°19' East, 1498.0 feet; thence South 89°37'
West, 1305.0 feet to an iron pipe; thence North 0°19' West, 190.0 feet to an
iron pipe; thence North 89°37' East, 2165.0 feet to an iron pipe; thence South
0°19' East, 190.0 feet to an iron pipe; thence South 89°37' West, 860.0 feet to
the point of beginning.
(Ord. 114, 4-15-1963)
A tract of land in the S1/2NW1/4NW1/4, Section 31, T.10W., R.2W., described as:
Commencing at the corner common to Sections 25, 30, 31 and 36 on the West
boundary of T. 10 N., R. 2 W., M.P.M.; thence S 0°19' E, 862.90 feet along the
said Section line between Sections 31 and 36, to the point of beginning, a
buried cap; thence N 89°40' E, 225.12 feet to a buried cap; thence S 0°19' E,
200.00 feet; thence S 89°40' W, 225.12 feet along North boundary of Sullivan
Street to buried monument; thence N 0°19' W, 200.00 feet along Section line
between sections 31 and 36 to the point of beginning and containing 1.03 acres,
more or less.
(Ord. 136, 9-2-1975)
A tract of land in the Southwest Quarter of Section Thirty (30), Township Ten
(10) North, Range Two (2) West, P.M.M., Lewis and Clark County, Montana, more
particularly described as follows: Beginning at a point on the East-West Mid-
Section Line of said Section Thirty (30) which point bears N 89°27' East, a
distance of 1245.1 feet from the West Quarter Corner of said Section Thirty
(30); thence N 89°27' East along the East-West Mid-Section Line of Section
Thirty (30), a distance of 470.0 feet; thence S 0°23' East, a distance of
1988.0 feet to the Northerly right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 12; thence
Northwesterly along the Northerly right- of-way line of U.S. Highway 12 on a
curve to the left with a radius of 5790.0 feet, for a distance of 470.8 feet to
a point, said point being on the centerline of Washington Avenue of the
Townsite of East Helena; thence N 0°23' West along said centerline of
Washington Avenue, a distance of 1957.6 feet to the point of beginning;
containing 21.28 acres, more or less.
(Ord. 137, 9-2-1975)
A tract of land in the NW1/4 NW1/4 of section 31, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., of Lewis
and Clark County, Montana, more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the Northwest corner of section 31, T. 10 N., R. 2 W., M.P.M.,
thence due East a distance of 180 feet, thence due South a distance of 133
feet, thence N. 83°24' W, a distance of 180.9 feet to a point; thence due North
a distance of 113 feet to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 153, 4-17-1984)
CHAPTER 11
CORPORATE SEAL
SECTION:
1-11-1: Corporate Seal
1-11-1: CORPORATE SEAL:
A seal in a circular form with the words "City of East Helena, Lewis & Clark
County, Montana" on the outer circle, and in the interior and center of said
circle, the words "City Seal", shall be the seal of the city, to be used in all
cases in which, by the laws and customs of nations, it is necessary to use a
seal by a corporation. (Ord. 3, 10-5-1927)
CHAPTER 12
WARDS
SECTION:
1-12-1: Wards Designated
1-12-1: WARDS DESIGNATED:
See section
1-13-3 of this title for ward information. (Ord. 266, 6-5-2018)
CHAPTER 13
ELECTION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
1-13-1: Conduction Of Elections
1-13-2: Qualifications Of Electors
1-13-3: Wards Established
1-13-1: CONDUCTION OF ELECTIONS:
All general or special elections shall be held in accordance with the Statutes
of the State. (Ord. 266, 6-5-2018)
1-13-2: QUALIFICATIONS OF ELECTORS:
Any person shall be qualified to vote in any and all City elections, provided
such person is a resident of the City or an area which has been annexed and
certified as such by the City Finance Officer and County Recorder of Lewis and
Clark County, and is qualified and registered to vote under State law. (Ord.
266, 6-5-2018)
1-13-3: WARDS ESTABLISHED:
The territory embraced within the City limits shall be divided into two (2)
wards for election and other purposes of Municipal government as herein set
forth:
Ward 1: All of that territory within the City lying and being on the south side
of the centerline of Riggs Street in the City shall hereafter be known as Ward
1.
Ward 2: All of that territory within the City limits of the City lying and
being on the north side of the centerline of Riggs Street in the City shall
hereafter be known as Ward 2. (Ord. 266, 6-5-2018)
CHAPTER 14
CITY FINANCES
SECTION:
1-14-1: Monies Collected
1-14-2: Funds Designated
1-14-2-1: General Fund
1-14-2-2: Police Fund
1-14-2-3: Fire Fund
1-14-2-4: Street Fund
1-14-2-5: Garbage Fund
1-14-2-6: Library Fund
1-14-2-7: Water Fund
1-14-2-8: Light Fund
1-14-2-9: Interest Fund
1-14-2-10: Contingent Fund
1-14-2-11: Capital Improvement Program Fund
1-14-3: Duty Of Auditing Committee
1-14-4: Numbering Of Warrants
1-14-5: Transfer Of Monies
1-14-6: City Depositories
1-14-6-1: Depository Requirements
1-14-6-2: Statement Of Account Required
1-14-6-3: Interest
1-14-1: MONIES COLLECTED:
All monies received by the city from taxes levied for municipal and
administrative purposes, from each and every license of every name, description
and kind, granted by the city, and the amount of all fines and penalties
received for the violation of provisions of this code and all monies now on
hand, not otherwise appropriated, and all other monies not designated by law
for any other fund, are hereby set aside for the current expenses of the city,
and for the payment of the interest upon its legal, valid, outstanding bonded
indebtedness and any sinking funds therein provided for, and are hereby set
aside and placed in the respective funds hereinafter created, named and
designated.
It shall be the duty of the treasurer upon the payment of any monies into the
city treasury from any of the sources set out above, to place the same aside in
the fund hereafter designated, which said monies are to be used solely in the
payment of warrants drawn upon the said respective funds. (Ord. 11, 9-26-1927)
1-14-2: FUNDS DESIGNATED:
1-14-2-1: GENERAL FUND:
The general fund of the city shall consist of all monies received from taxes
levied for the current fiscal year to defray the expenses of the executive
department of the city, and of all monies received by the city from each and
every name, description and kind granted by the city, and of all such other
monies as may from time to time be transferred to the said fund by resolution
of the council. (Ord. 11, 9-26-1927)
1-14-2-2: POLICE FUND:
The police fund of the city shall consist of all monies received from taxes
levied for the current fiscal year to defray the expenses of the police
department of the city, and of all monies received by the city as fines and
other monies as from time to time may be transferred to the said fund by
resolution of the council. (Ord. 11, 9-26-1927)
1-14-2-3: FIRE FUND:
The fire fund of the city shall consist of all monies received for taxes levied
for the current fiscal year to defray the expenses of the fire department of
the city, and of all such other monies as may from time to time be transferred
to the said fund by resolution of the council. (Ord. 11, 9-26-1927)
1-14-2-4: STREET FUND:
The street fund of the city shall consist of all monies received from taxes
levied for the current fiscal year to defray the expenses of the street
department of the city, and of all monies received by the city from persons
liable for the road poll taxes, and all such other monies as may from time to
time be transferred to the said fund by resolution of the council. (Ord. 11, 9-
26-1927)
1-14-2-5: GARBAGE FUND:
The garbage fund of the city shall consist of all monies received for taxes
levied for the current fiscal year to provide for the removal of garbage in the
city, and of all other monies as from time to time may be transferred to the
said fund by resolution of the council. (Ord. 11, 9-26-1927)
1-14-2-6: LIBRARY FUND:
The library fund of the city shall consist of all monies received for taxes
levied for the current fiscal year to defray the expenses of the free public
library. (Ord. 11, 9-26-1927)
1-14-2-7: WATER FUND:
The water fund of the city shall consist of all monies received for taxes
levied for the current fiscal year to provide for a water supply for fire and
sewerage of the city. (Ord. 11, 9-26-1927)
1-14-2-8: LIGHT FUND:
The light fund of the city shall consist of all monies received for taxes
levied for the current fiscal year to defray the expenses of lighting the
streets and public buildings of the city. (Ord. 11, 9-26-1927)
1-14-2-9: INTEREST FUND:
The interest fund of the city shall consist of all monies received for taxes
levied for the current fiscal year to pay the interest upon the legal, valid,
outstanding bonded indebtedness of the city, and any sinking fund therein
provided for, and all such other monies as from time to time may be transferred
to the said fund by resolution of the council. (Ord. 11, 9-26-1927)
1-14-2-10: CONTINGENT FUND:
The contingent fund of the city shall consist of all monies received for taxes
levied for the current fiscal year to provide for the contingent and
miscellaneous expenses of the city, and of all other monies now on hand and not
otherwise appropriated. (Ord. 17, 10-5-1927)
1-14-2-11: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM FUND:
   A.   It is the intention of this city to hereby adopt and earmark revenue
for a capital improvement program which shall consist of a plan for
anticipating capital expenditures to be incurred each year over a fixed period
of years to meet capital needs arising from long term work programs.
   B.   A sum not to exceed five percent (5%) of the money received from the
all purpose mill levy may be set aside and placed in a separate fund known as
the capital improvement program fund, earmarked for the replacement and
acquisition of property, plant, and equipment costing in excess of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) and having a life expectancy of five (5) years or
more.
   C.   Prior to final adoption of a budget each year, the mayor shall present
to the commission a proposal for the expenditure of any or all of the monies
held in the capital improvement program fund.
   D.   Money in the capital improvement program fund may be deposited in
savings or time deposits in a state or national bank, savings and loan
association, or credit union insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation, Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation or National Credit
Union Administration or in direct obligations with the United States
government, as seems most appropriate with a view to maintaining the principal
of said fund earning the maximum rate of interest consistent with such
preservation. (Ord. 162, 1-20-1987)
1-14-3: DUTY OF AUDITING COMMITTEE:
It shall be the duty of the auditing committee of the council, when allowing
any account or demand against the city, to designate the respective fund out of
which said account or demand is payable. When claims are audited and allowed
against funds to the credit of which there is no money in the treasury, but for
which taxes have been levied, warrants shall be drawn therefor by the clerk and
registered by the treasurer, and marked, "not paid for want of funds", and the
said warrants shall be paid when the taxes shall have been collected in the
order in which they are registered, but shall not bear interest. (Ord. 11, 9-
26-1927)
1-14-4: NUMBERING OF WARRANTS:
All warrants, whether drawn on any fund shall be numbered from Number 1 on,
consecutively, only with warrants drawn on that fund. No warrants shall be paid
out of any fund except the fund upon which it is drawn. (Ord. 11, 9-26-1927)
1-14-5: TRANSFER OF MONIES:
The council may by resolution from time to time, transfer from one fund to
another, all money in the treasury received from licenses, fines and penalties,
but money collected as taxes levied for specific purposes shall not be diverted
from the purposes for which the same were levied. (Ord. 17, 10-5-1927)
1-14-6: CITY DEPOSITORIES:
1-14-6-1: DEPOSITORY REQUIREMENTS:
The treasurer shall deposit the funds of the city from time to time in such
banks of the city as shall be designated by the council as "city depositories".
No bank shall be designated as a city depository until it shall have filed its
written agreement with the treasurer to pay interest upon the daily balance of
all such deposits at the rate of one and one-half percent (11/2%) per annum,
and shall have executed a bond to the city with sufficient sureties, approved
by the council, in an amount equal at least to the largest amount at any time
to be deposited in such bank as determined by the treasurer. The council shall
have the power to direct the withdrawal of all such monies from any such bank
for any reason. (Ord. 11, 9-26-1927)
1-14-6-2: STATEMENT OF ACCOUNT REQUIRED:
The president and cashier of every bank in which said funds are deposited shall
quarterly, make a full and complete verified statement of account showing the
amount of money which has been on deposit with the bank which they represent
during the quarter, and the amount of interest they have created, allowed or
paid to the treasurer on account of such deposit. Such affidavit shall also
contain a statement that no interest, consideration or emolument, other than
that prescribed by law has been paid by such depository bank, or any of its
officers to the treasurer, or to any other person as an inducement for the
deposit or for continuing the same with such depository. (Ord. 11, 9-26-1927)
1-14-6-3: INTEREST:
All interest paid and collected on deposits shall be by the treasurer credited
to the general fund. (Ord. 11, 9-26-1927)
CHAPTER 15
SALARIES AND BONDS
SECTION:
1-15-1: Salaries
1-15-2: Bonds
1-15-1: SALARIES:
The city council shall determine by ordinance or resolution the salaries and
compensation of elected and appointed city officers and all city employees,
which may be accomplished pursuant to the annual adoption of an ordinance or
resolution establishing the city budget. (Ord. 257, 4-21-2015)
1-15-2: BONDS:
The city council may by ordinance require bonds for elected and appointed city
officers and employees for the faithful performance of all official duties
required by law in such amounts as the council may determine based on the
amount of money or property handled and the opportunity for defalcation, and
may do so either by way of individual bonding, blanket bonding, or combination
thereof. (Ord. 257, 4-21-2015)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
CIVIL DEFENSE
SECTION:
2-1-1: State Regulations Adopted
2-1-2: Oath Required Of Civil Defense Workers
2-1-3: Municipal Or Private Liability
2-1-4: Unauthorized Warning Or All Clear Signals Prohibited
2-1-5: Director Of Civil Defense
2-1-6: Officers; Personnel
2-1-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED 1
:
The present civil defense act of the state of Montana is hereby adopted,
referred to and by this reference made a part hereof. (Ord. 108, 10-2-1961)
 
Notes
1 1. RCM, 77-2301 et seq.
2-1-2: OATH REQUIRED OF CIVIL DEFENSE WORKERS:
Each person serving as a member of the East Helena civil defense program or
organization, or as an officer, employee or volunteer in any capacity therein,
shall, prior to assuming his duty, take an oath which shall be substantially as
follows:
I                      do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and
defend the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State
of Montana, against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will bear true
faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely, without
any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and
faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do
solemnly further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I a member or
an affiliate of any political party, or organization, group, or combination of
persons that advocates the overthrow of the Government of the United States or
of this State by force or violence; and that during such time as I am a member
of the Municipal Defense organization of the City of East Helena, I will not
advocate nor become a member or affiliate of any organization, group, or
combination of persons, or of any political party, that advocates the overthrow
of the Government of the United States or of the State of Montana by force or
violence. And I do hereby proclaim and agree to hold the Federal Government,
the State of Montana, the City of East Helena, Montana, and every branch of the
Civil Defense organization therein, blameless as regards any damage, injury, or
detriment of any kind, which I may suffer or incur in any civil defense work.
(Ord. 108, 10-2-1961)
2-1-3: MUNICIPAL OR PRIVATE LIABILITY:
This chapter is an exercise of the city of its governmental functions for the
protection of the public peace, health and safety, and neither the city, the
agents and representatives of the city, nor any individual, receiver, firm,
partnership, corporation, association or trustee, or any of the agents thereof,
in good faith carrying out, complying with, or attempting to comply with any
order, rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, shall be liable for any damage sustained to persons or property as a
result of said activity. (Ord. 108, 10-2-1961)
2-1-4: UNAUTHORIZED WARNING OR ALL CLEAR SIGNALS PROHIBITED:
No unauthorized person shall operate a siren, or other device so as to simulate
a blackout signal, alert signal, take cover signal or terminate a blackout or
air raid. (Ord. 108, 10-2-1961)
2-1-5: DIRECTOR OF CIVIL DEFENSE:
The office of city director of civil defense is hereby created in and for the
city. The mayor of the city may appoint a city director. The city director, or
if none is appointed, the mayor, shall have the authority to declare the
existence of an emergency and to request such declaration from higher
authority.
The duties and authority of the city director of civil defense shall include
the following:
   A.   The control and direction of training and work of all civil defense
workers for the city;
   B.   The determination of all questions of authority and responsibility that
may arise within the civil defense organization of the city;
   C.   The maintenance of necessary liaison with other municipal, state,
regional, federal or other civil defense organizations;
   D.   The marshaling, after the declaration of an emergency as provided for
herein, of all necessary personnel, equipment or supplies from any department
of the city to aid in the carrying out of the civil defense plan;
   E.   The issuance of any necessary proclamations of an emergency and the
formulation and carrying into effect at any time of any civil defense plan;
   F.   The issuance of reasonable rules and regulations which are necessary
for the protection of life and property in the city including, but not limited
to, rules and regulations applicable to blackouts, air raids and alert signals.
   G.   The supervision of the drafting and execution of mutual aid agreements
entered into by the city;
   H.   The supervision of and final authorization for the procurement of all
necessary supplies and equipment, including acceptance of private
contributions;
   I.   The authorizing of agreements, after approval by the city attorney, for
the use of private property for air raid shelter and other purposes;
   J.   The city director may develop, or cause to be developed, mutual aid
agreements with other public and private agencies within this state, county and
city, for reciprocal civil defense aid and assistance in case of disaster too
great to be dealt with unassisted.
Such arrangements shall be consistent with the state civil defense plan and
program and, in time of emergency, it shall be the duty of the city
organization for civil defense to render assistance in accordance with the
provisions of such mutual aid arrangements. (Ord. 108, 10-2-1961)
2-1-6: OFFICERS; PERSONNEL:
The director shall appoint a deputy director and all other civil defense
personnel who shall serve at his pleasure and under his direction. The deputy
director shall be clothed with all of the director's duties and authorities,
except as limited by the director. He shall further establish whatever citywide
civil defense organization as he shall deem expedient, keeping in mind the
changing needs for the same.
If the said director is for any cause unable to act, his duly appointed deputy,
a copy of whose appointment, duly attested and on file in the office of the
clerk of the council which shall be conclusive presumption thereof, shall act
in his stead. If neither the director nor his deputy is for any reason able to
act, the council shall appoint a temporary director, who shall be clothed with
all of the director's authorities and duties until such disability ceases.
In the event that neither the director nor any person authorized to act in his
stead under any of the foregoing provisions is for any reason able to act, then
the governor of the state of Montana shall automatically and under the
provisions of this chapter, be invited to act as temporary director, if he
consents to act under such conditions. If he does not consent to act under such
conditions, he shall thereby be clothed with all of the authorities of the
deputy director of civil defense in and for the city. (Ord. 108, 10-2-1961)
CHAPTER 2
PLANNING BOARD
SECTION:
2-2-1: Establishment; Powers And Duties
2-2-2: Composition
2-2-3: Certification
2-2-1: ESTABLISHMENT; POWERS AND DUTIES:
There is hereby created a city planning board to be known as the East Helena
planning board, which shall have jurisdiction as provided by state of Montana
law, as well as all of the rights, privileges, powers, duties and
responsibilities appertaining to a city planning board provided by state law.
(Ord. 239, 2-17-2009)
2-2-2: COMPOSITION:
The East Helena planning board shall consist of seven (7) members, appointed by
the mayor with the concurrence of the city council to two (2) year terms, as
follows: One member shall be a member of the city council; one member who may,
in the discretion of the city council, be an employee or hold public office in
the city of East Helena or county of Lewis and Clark; one member to be
designated by the Lewis and Clark commission; and four (4) members, two (2) of
whom shall be resident freeholders within the urban area, if any, outside of
the city limits over which the East Helena planning board has jurisdiction, and
two (2) of whom shall be resident freeholders within the city limits. (Ord.
239, 2-17-2009)
2-2-3: CERTIFICATION:
The East Helena city clerk shall certify members appointed by the city council.
The certificates shall be sent to, and become part of, the records of the East
Helena planning board. The mayor shall make similar certification for the
appointment of citizen members. (Ord. 239, 2-17-2009)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Licenses Required
3-1-2: License Required; Exemptions
3-1-3: Definition Of Business; Separate License Required For Each Business
3-1-4: Form; Display Of License
3-1-5: Licensee Subject To Regulation
3-1-6: License Fee
3-1-7: Annual Fee; When Due; Expiration
3-1-8: City Clerk To Collect Fees
3-1-9: Sale Or Transfer Of Business License
3-1-10: Applications To Be Filed With City
3-1-11: Application Review
3-1-12: Review Committee
3-1-13: Notice Of Denial Or Revocation Of License
3-1-14: Appeal To City Council
3-1-15: Grounds For Revocation
3-1-16: Fee Disposition On Denials Or Revocation
3-1-17: No Issuance Pending Appeal
3-1-18: Penalty Of Late Renewal
3-1-19: Penalty
3-1-20: Property Tax Lien
3-1-1: LICENSES REQUIRED:
Various objects, subjects, persons, trades, vocations, professions and
occupations within the city shall be licensed, taxed and regulated as provided
in this chapter. (Ord. 18, 11-2-1927)
3-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
No person, firm, association or corporation shall conduct, operate, transact,
engage in or carry on any business within the city without first applying for
and obtaining a license from the city, as herein provided. The requirements of
this section shall not apply to:
   A.   Persons or entities with no base of operations in the city of East
Helena who exclusively deal with and contact licensed businesses only by
salespersons, telephone or mail.
   B.   The practice of law, or any other business which Montana law has
declared that cities may not regulate or license.
   C.   Any nonprofit group or organization which is recognized as a nonprofit
group or organization by the United States internal revenue service.
   D.   Events sponsored-organized by nonprofit entities for the benefit of the
city as determined by the city council, e.g., Christmas Stroll. (Ord. 229, 11-
18-2003)
3-1-3: DEFINITION OF BUSINESS; SEPARATE LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EACH BUSINESS:
For purposes of this chapter, a "business" shall mean any occupation, vocation,
pursuit, trade, industry, professional or commercial activity of any kind
carried on for purposes of economic benefit or profit or engaged in for
livelihood or gain, regardless of duration. A separate license must be procured
and fee paid for each and every business subject to licensing under this
chapter. (Ord. 229, 11-18-2003)
3-1-4: FORM; DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
The license issued shall be in the form prescribed by the city council and
shall be signed in blank by the mayor and countersigned by the city clerk when
granted. The city license issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
shall be conspicuously displayed in such a manner that a city official may
observe the same upon entering the licensee's place of business. Itinerant
sales solicitors shall display their business license to persons at the
commencement of their solicitation, as well as notify the city clerk of their
recommencement of solicitation after any lapse of active solicitation lasting
more than thirty (30) days. (Ord. 229, 11-18-2003)
3-1-5: LICENSEE SUBJECT TO REGULATION:
Every business licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to regulation, inspection, control, and supervision under the general police
powers of the city and of all of the provisions of this code and ordinances of
the city now in force, or which may hereafter be adopted in aid of such police
power and regulation. Nothing in this chapter contained creates any vested
right in any person to the assignment, renewal, reissuance, or continuance of
any license. (Ord. 229, 11-18-2003)
3-1-6: LICENSE FEE:
The business license fee is fifteen dollars ($15.00) (or in the alternative,
$6.00 for each day, or any part thereof, of operation) and shall be applied to
all businesses which the city may by law license. (Ord. 229, 11-18-2003)
3-1-7: ANNUAL FEE; WHEN DUE; EXPIRATION:
All fees for licenses, except as otherwise provided, shall be payable yearly,
in advance and on or before the date of expiration of the license. Any license
issued after July 1 of each year shall be issued at one-half (1/2) the yearly
rate. All licenses, except as otherwise herein provided, shall expire on
December 31 in each year. Daily licenses shall be payable in advance and valid
only for the day(s) for which the license is issued. (Ord. 229, 11-18-2003)
3-1-8: CITY CLERK TO COLLECT FEES:
The city clerk shall be charged with the collection of the fees for the
licenses required by this chapter. (Ord. 229, 11-18-2003)
3-1-9: SALE OR TRANSFER OF BUSINESS LICENSE:
Upon sale or transfer of a business licensed hereunder, the seller may transfer
to the buyer the license issued to the business, provided a request for said
transfer has been submitted to the city clerk in advance of the sale or
transfer of the business, upon form(s) provided by the city.
If the buyer is to operate the business in a fashion that would require a
higher fee than was required of the seller, the buyer shall pay to the city of
East Helena the difference between the existing fee and the higher fee. (Ord.
229, 11-18-2003)
3-1-10: APPLICATIONS TO BE FILED WITH CITY:
Application for licenses shall be obtained from and filed with the city clerk.
All applications when filed shall be accompanied with the necessary fees. The
form of the application shall be determined by the city clerk, but shall
contain the following:
The license application is made subject to all of the terms and conditions,
which are hereby agreed to, of the Code and Ordinances of the City of East
Helena, Montana. The application shall be signed by the applicant.
(Ord. 229, 11-18-2003)
3-1-11: APPLICATION REVIEW:
On the next working day following receipt of a license application, a copy of
the application shall be forwarded for review and investigation to the
following city departments:
   A.   Police department.
   B.   Fire department.
   C.   Other, as determined and directed by the city clerk.
The review, as outlined in this chapter, shall be completed within six (6)
working days from receipt of application; provided that for just cause the
return may be delayed an additional five (5) working days. (Ord. 229, 11-18-
2003)
3-1-12: REVIEW COMMITTEE:
There is established a review committee composed of the department heads or
designees of the departments indicated in section
3-1-11 of this chapter and the city attorney or his designee. The review
committee shall review license applications about which a question or questions
have been raised by the reviewing departments, but only if review is requested
by one of the departments. The committee shall meet at the call of the city
clerk or mayor. The review committee may examine the applicant personally.
(Ord. 229, 11-18-2003)
3-1-13: NOTICE OF DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Denials of applications or revocations of city licenses shall be made in
writing and the applicant shall be notified by certified mail, return receipt
requested. The notice shall be mailed within three (3) working days of denial
or revocation. (Ord. 229, 11-18-2003)
3-1-14: APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL:
An applicant who has been denied a license or whose license has been revoked
may appeal said denial or revocation to the city council by notice in writing
filed with the city clerk within ten (10) days of the date of denial or
revocation. The notice shall state any reasons supporting the grant of a
license, the applicant's correct mailing address and shall be signed by the
applicant. The clerk shall cause the matter to be placed on the city council
agenda not less than ten (10) days after the receipt of notice of appeal. The
applicant shall be notified in writing by certified mail, return receipt
requested, of the date and time the matter will be considered on the agenda.
The applicant may appear at the time and place and be heard. (Ord. 229, 11-18-
2003)
3-1-15: GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION:
The mayor or city council, on recommendation, may revoke and cancel any license
issued by the city for fraud or misrepresentation in its procurement, or for a
violation of any of the provisions of this code or any other ordinance of the
city, or any state or federal statute. (Ord. 229, 11-18-2003)
3-1-16: FEE DISPOSITION ON DENIALS OR REVOCATION:
Upon denial of a business license, the license fee submitted with the
application shall be retained by the city as an administrative fee for
processing the application. The same fee shall be retained if the application
is withdrawn prior to final city action. On revocation, the city shall retain
the license fee. (Ord. 229, 11-18-2003)
3-1-17: NO ISSUANCE PENDING APPEAL:
If an appeal is taken, no license shall be issued while the same is pending.
(Ord. 229, 11-18-2003)
3-1-18: PENALTY OF LATE RENEWAL:
On late renewal, a penalty of twenty dollars ($20.00) plus two percent (2%) of
the license fee per month or any portion therefor shall be assessed and added
to the license fee. This penalty shall be paid prior to issuance of a new or
renewed license. (Ord. 229, 11-18-2003)
3-1-19: PENALTY:
Any person operating any business without first obtaining a currently valid
East Helena business license may be fined not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). Each day on which any such violation shall occur or continue shall
be deemed a separate and distinct offense. (Ord. 229, 11-18-2003)
3-1-20: PROPERTY TAX LIEN:
Nonpayment of any license fee assessment(s) may be taken as a lien upon the
property and is enforceable as are nonpayment of property taxes. (Ord. 229, 11-
18-2003)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Purpose
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: License Required
3-2-4: License Fees
3-2-5: Application For License
3-2-6: Issuance Of License
3-2-7: Contents Of License, Restrictions
3-2-8: State License Prerequisite
3-2-9: Sale To Minors, Intoxicated Persons
3-2-10: Hours Of Sale
3-2-11: Purchase From State Liquor Store
3-2-12: Sales Exceptions
3-2-13: Display Of Licenses
3-2-14: Minors On Licensed Premises
3-2-15: Suspension, Revocation Of License
3-2-16: Complaint Against Licensee
3-2-17: Hearing On Complaint
3-2-18: Right Of Entry On Licensed Premises
3-2-19: Renewal Of Suspended Or Revoked License
3-2-20: Compliance With State Law
3-2-21: Other Businesses Prohibited
3-2-22: Number Of Alcoholic Beverage Licenses
3-2-1: PURPOSE:
In order to eliminate certain illegal traffic in liquor now existing in the
city, and to ensure the control of the sale of liquor by the Montana liquor
control board, it is hereby declared necessary to further regulate the sale of
liquor at retail in conformity with the hereinafter mentioned act, and to that
end to issue licenses to qualified persons to sell liquor purchased by them at
state liquor stores in accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 50, 4-23-1937)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall be given the
following interpretations:
   ACT: Chapter 84 of the laws of the twenty fifth legislative assembly of the
state of Montana, in regular session.
   CLUB: A national fraternal organization, except college fraternities, or an
association of individuals organized for social purposes and not for profit,
with a permanent membership and an existence of two (2) years prior to making
application for license with permanent quarters or rooms.
   INTERDICTED PERSON: A person to whom the sale of liquor is prohibited under
the laws of Montana.
   LICENSE: A license issued by this city to a qualified person under which it
shall be lawful for the licensee to sell and dispense liquor at retail as
provided in this chapter.
   LICENSEE: The person to whom a license is issued.
   LIQUOR: All kinds of liquor sold by and/or in a state liquor store.
   MINOR: A person, male or female, under the age of nineteen (19) years.
   PERSON: Every individual, copartnership, corporation, hotel, restaurant,
club and fraternal organization, and all licensed retailers of liquor, whether
conducting the business singularly or collectively.
   PREMISES: A dispensing bar or any arrangement or device from which liquor is
dispensed and/or served.
   STATE LIQUOR STORE: A liquor store established and operated by the Montana
liquor control board under the laws of Montana.
All other words and phrases used in this chapter, the definitions of which are
not herein given, shall be given the ordinary meanings. (Ord. 50, 4-23-1937;
amd. Ord. 59, 11-15-1943; 1980 Code)
3-2-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Licenses may be issued to qualified applicants, as herein provided, whereby the
licensee shall be authorized and permitted to sell liquor at retail in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Qualified applicants shall
include persons, hotels, clubs and fraternal organizations. (Ord. 50, 4-23-
1937)
3-2-4: LICENSE FEES:
Each licensee under the provisions of this chapter shall pay an annual license
fee for each license as follows:
   A.   For persons other than fraternal organizations, forty dollars ($40.00)
per annum, payable July 1 of each year. (Ord. 50, 4-23-1937; amd. Ord. 59, 11-
15-1943)
   B.   For fraternal organizations, thirty five dollars ($35.00) per annum,
payable July 1 of each year. (Ord. 50, 4-23-1937; amd. Ord. 59, 11-15-1943;
1980 Code)
Provided however, that where a license hereunder is issued for a period
commencing subsequent to the first of the current year for which such license
may be issued, a pro rata fee only shall be charged for the balance of such
current year, but nothing herein shall be construed to entitle any licensee
hereunder to any refund of any portion of the license fee in the event of his
discontinuing such business, or the suspension or revocation of his license
prior to the expiration of such year. (Ord. 50, 4-23-1937; amd. 1980 Code)
The license fees herein provided for are exclusive of and in addition to other
license fees chargeable in this city for the sale of liquor, beer and malt
beverage.
All receipts from license fees and fines collected under the provisions of this
chapter shall be paid into the treasury and deposited to the credit of the
general fund. (Ord. 50, 4-23-1937)
3-2-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Prior to the issuance of a license as herein provided, the applicant shall file
with the treasurer an application in writing, signed by the applicant and
directed to the council, which application shall specify the location by street
and number of the premises where the business is to be carried on under the
license applied for, and the names of the persons conducting the business if
the same is a partnership, and if the same is a fraternal order such fact must
be therein set forth. The application must be accompanied by satisfactory
evidence that the applicant has the licenses required by section
3-2-8 of this chapter. Such application must be accompanied by the license fee
in the preceding section specified for the business applied for. (Ord. 50, 4-
23-1937)
3-2-6: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Upon the filing of the application prescribed in the preceding section,
accompanied by the evidence thereby required, and upon the payment of the
required license fee, the treasurer shall immediately deliver such application
and accompanying documents to the clerk who thereupon shall issue and deliver
to the applicant a license to carry on the business for which the applicant
owns and holds subsisting licenses in respect to the same premises for which
license is applied for, as provided in section
3-2-8 of this chapter. Provided however, that the clerk, in his discretion, may
hold the application for license so delivered to him by the treasurer under
this chapter until the next regular meeting of the council following his
receipt of such application and accompanying documents, if any, when he shall
submit such application and accompanying documents to the council, which may,
in its discretion, decline to authorize such license if in the judgment of the
council, it will be for the best interests of this city to refuse such license.
Upon such refusal the license fee paid by the applicant and all documents filed
by him, other than such application, shall be returned to the applicant. (Ord.
50, 4-23-1937)
3-2-7: CONTENT OF LICENSE, RESTRICTIONS:
Every license issued under this chapter shall set forth the name of the person
to whom issued and the location by street and number of the premises where the
business is to be carried on under such license. If it is a partnership, it
shall set forth the names of the persons conducting the business. Such license
shall be signed by the licensee and shall be nontransferable; provided however,
that a transfer of any such license may be made on application to the council,
accompanied by satisfactory evidence of the consent of the Montana liquor
control board to such transfer of the license by it issued under the act. Such
license shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises in respect to
which it is issued and shall be exhibited to any member of the police
department of this city whenever the same is requested. Every license issued
under the provisions of this chapter is separate and distinct and no person,
except the licensee therein named shall exercise any of the privileges granted
thereunder, and all licenses are applicable only to the premises in respect to
which they are issued as the word "premises" is defined herein. It is expressly
made unlawful for any licensee to operate more than one bar or any arrangement
or device from which liquor is dispensed and/or served and it is required that
a separate license be procured for each bar or any arrangement or device from
which liquor is dispensed and/or served. (Ord. 50, 4-23-1937)
3-2-8: STATE LICENSE PREREQUISITE:
No person, club or fraternal organization shall be entitled to a license under
this chapter unless such person, club or fraternal organization shall have in
respect to the same premises for which a license under this chapter is sought:
   A.   A subsisting liquor license issued under the laws of Montana;
   B.   A subsisting beer license issued under the laws of Montana; and
   C.   A subsisting beer license issued under the provisions of this code 1
. (Ord. 50, 4-23-1937)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 3 of this title for beer regulations.
3-2-9: SALE TO MINORS, INTOXICATED PERSONS:
No licensee shall sell, deliver or give away, or cause or permit to be sold,
delivered or given away, any liquor to: (Ord. 50, 4-23-1937)
   A.   Any minor actually under the age of nineteen (19) years, unless such
minor is accompanied by his parent or guardian; (Ord. 50, 4-23-1937; amd. 1980
Code)
   B.   Any intoxicated person or any person actually, apparently or obviously
intoxicated;
   C.   An habitual drunkard;
   D.   An interdicted person. (Ord. 50, 4-23-1937)
3-2-10: HOURS OF SALE:
The hours of sale of liquor within the city shall be the same hours of sale as
prescribed by the laws of the state of Montana as presently in force and effect
and as hereafter amended. (Ord. 135, 8-4-1975)
3-2-11: PURCHASE FROM STATE LIQUOR STORE:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or keep for sale and/or have on
his premises for any purpose whatever, any liquor except that purchased from a
state liquor store, and any licensee found in possession of, or selling and
keeping for sale, any liquor which was not purchased from a state liquor store,
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as hereinafter provided. If the
council shall be satisfied that any such liquor was knowingly sold or kept for
sale within the licensed premises by such licensee or by his agents, servants
or employees, it shall be mandatory that the council immediately revoke the
license of such licensee. (Ord. 50, 4-23-1937)
3-2-12: SALES EXCEPTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person who has not been issued a license under
this chapter to sell or keep for sale any alcoholic liquor; provided however,
that nothing herein contained shall be deemed to apply to those engaged in the
sale of liquor:
   A.   At the various state liquor stores;
   B.   In any dining or buffet car operated by any railroad in connection with
regularly operated train service, when the person serving such liquor is in the
employ of such railroad and is acting within the scope of his employment in so
doing, provided a license has been issued to said railroad under the act by the
Montana liquor control board and the same or a duplicate thereof is displayed
in such car. (Ord. 50, 4-23-1937)
3-2-13: DISPLAY OF LICENSES:
Each license under this chapter shall conspicuously display at the entrance or
any entrances to the premises where liquor is being sold in letters at least
three inches (3") high, the words "Licensed Retail Liquor", said letters
preferably to be illuminated at night, but in any event easily discernible to
anyone entering said premises and placed in such a way as to cause them to be
noticed by anyone entering said premises. (Ord. 50, 4-23-1937)
3-2-14: MINORS ON LICENSED PREMISES:
It is hereby expressly made unlawful for any minor to enter into, for any
purpose whatsoever, the premises covered by a license under this chapter unless
such minor is accompanied by his parent or legally appointed guardian and any
minor violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof,
be punished by a fine of not to exceed twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each
separate offense; provided however, that the provisions of this section shall
not apply to hotels and/or hotel dining rooms nor to lunch counters and/or
booths where liquor is not served by any licensee hereunder. (Ord. 50, 4-23-
1937)
3-2-15: SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The council may upon its own motion, and shall upon a written verified
complaint of any other person, investigate the action and operation of any
licensee hereunder, and shall have the power to temporarily suspend and/or
permanently revoke a license issued under this chapter for violation of any
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 50, 4-23-1937)
3-2-16: COMPLAINT AGAINST LICENSEE:
Upon the filing with the council of a verified complaint charging the licensee
with the commission of any act which would be cause for the suspension or
revocation of a license, within one year prior to the date of filing said
complaint, the council shall forthwith issue a citation directing the licensee
to appear before the council within ten (10) days after the date of the service
of said citation, and by filing his verified answer to the complaint, show
cause if any, why his license should not be suspended or revoked. Service of
the citation may be effected by mailing a true copy thereof with a true copy of
the address of record or by the chief of police of this city. Failure of the
licensee to answer shall be deemed an admission by him of the truthfulness of
the charge made and thereupon the council shall be authorized to forthwith
suspend or revoke the license. (Ord. 50, 4-23-1937)
3-2-17: HEARING ON COMPLAINT:
Upon the filing of the answer, the council shall fix the time and place of the
hearing on the charges made, which hearing shall be in the council chamber of
the city hall in the city, and not less than five (5) days' notice of said
hearing shall be given to the complainant and licensee. The notice of the
hearing shall be served in the same manner as is the citation herein provided
for. With the notice of the hearing to the complainant, there shall be attached
a true copy of the answer of the licensee. If either party has appeared by
counsel, the notice shall be given in like manner to the counsel of said party.
Upon the hearing, the council shall hear the evidence presented which may be in
the form of oral testimony or affidavits, or both. After the hearing has been
concluded, the council shall, within ten (10) days, render its decision in
writing stating the reasons therefor. Notice of the decision with a copy
thereof shall be served upon the parties or their counsel in the manner herein
provided as to other notices. When the council shall have revoked or cancelled
a license previously issued by it, the council shall notify the licensee in
writing by registered mail to the address of such licensee of its action,
giving reasons therefor. Shall the action of the council be arbitrary or
capricious, one aggrieved thereby shall, by mandamus, or other appropriate
proceeding, be entitled to have the action of the council reviewed by the
district court of the state of Montana, in and for the county of Lewis and
Clark. (Ord. 50, 4-23-1937)
3-2-18: RIGHT OF ENTRY ON LICENSED PREMISES:
Any duly authorized representative of the council, the mayor or the chief of
police shall have the right at any time to make an examination of the premises
of such licensee as to whether this chapter is being complied with. (Ord. 50,
4-23-1937)
3-2-19: RENEWAL OF SUSPENDED OR REVOKED LICENSE:
After suspension or revocation of a license, the council shall have the power
to renew the same if in its discretion a proper showing therefor has been made.
(Ord. 50, 4-23-1937)
3-2-20: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW:
The provisions of this chapter as to the issuance of licenses, as herein
provided for, shall be effective concurrently with chapter 84 of the session
laws of Montana, 1937 and subject to the right of repeal except and save during
such time, if any, such state license law, chapter 84, be rendered inoperative
by referendum petitions or otherwise. (Ord. 50, 4-23-1937)
3-2-21: OTHER BUSINESSES PROHIBITED:
No business shall be carried on under any license issued under this chapter
except in the name of the licensee. No license shall be effective until a
permit shall have been first secured under the laws of the United States if
such a permit is necessary or is required under such law. (Ord. 50, 4-23-1937)
3-2-22: NUMBER OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE LICENSES:
The total number of saloons, beer parlors, stores, places of business or
establishments wherein liquor, beer or alcoholic beverages of any kind are sold
at retail within the limits of the city is hereby limited to eight (8),
expressly excepting from the provisions of this section any establishment
operated by the Montana liquor control board such as a state liquor store, and
grocery stores selling beer by the sealed bottle only. It being the intention
of this section that only a total number of eight (8) of such establishments
may be operated, licensed or conducted within the city limits at any time,
inclusive, so that all together in the aggregate, regardless of whether or not
more of one type or another of such establishments make up the total number of
eight (8), they shall not number more than eight (8), and this section shall
not be interpreted as meaning eight (8) or any other number of each type of
such establishments herein named. (Ord. 62, 11-19-1945; amd. 1980 Code)
CHAPTER 3
BEER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Adoption Of Montana Beer Act
3-3-2: License Requirements, Fees
3-3-3: Application For License
3-3-4: Issuance Of License, Endorsement And Filing
3-3-5: Licenses Prohibited In Residence Districts
3-3-6: Display Of License
3-3-7: Hours Of Sale
3-3-8: Report Convictions To Department Of Revenue Of State
3-3-9: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
3-3-10: Limitation Of Number Of Licenses
3-3-11: Duty Of City Treasurer
3-3-12: Inspection And Regulation
3-3-1: ADOPTION OF MONTANA BEER ACT:
The penal provisions of the state liquor control act of Montana (Montana beer
act) are hereby adopted for the purpose of regulating the sale and consumption
of beer within the city, and the police court of the city is hereby vested with
the jurisdiction, and the duty is hereby imposed upon the city attorney, chief
of police and police magistrate to enforce the same. (Ord. 49, 5-3-1933)
3-3-2: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS, FEES:
Under and by virtue of the power and authority granted to the city by said
Montana beer act, it is hereby declared that any person who desires to engage
in the business of selling beer in the city under the provisions of said act in
the character of places hereinafter mentioned, and as defined by said act
shall, notwithstanding the fact that the person conducting said place has
obtained a license from the department of revenue of the state of Montana,
first apply for and obtain a license therefor from the city as herein provided.
If such license is granted, each applicant shall pay therefor an annual license
fee as follows:
 
Retailer                                                                 $30.00
Factory or establishment of a brewer for the making of beer, which sells 30.00
the same
Wholesaler                                                               30.00
Hotel                                                                    30.00
Restaurant                                                               30.00
Club                                                                     30.00
Each person who holds a license to sell wine for consumption on or off
the premises when such license is issued as an amendment to a beer only  10.00
license or issued for a wine only license
 
(Ord. 49, 5-3-1933; amd. Ord. 59, 11-15-1943; Ord. 143, 8-7-1979; 1980 Code)
All licenses issued in any year shall expire at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
June 30 of each year. (Ord. 49, 5-3-1933; amd. Ord. 59, 11-15-1943; 1980 Code)
Provided however, that a transfer of any such license may be made on
application to the city, accompanied by satisfactory evidence of an approval of
the transfer of the license issued by the department of revenue of the state of
Montana for such business; and provided further, that where a license hereunder
is issued for a period commencing subsequent to the first day of the current
year for which such license may be issued, a pro rata fee only shall be charged
for the balance of such current year, but nothing herein shall be construed to
entitle any licensee hereunder to any refund of any portion of the license fee
in the event of his discontinuing such business or the suspension or revocation
of his license prior to the expiration of such year. (Ord. 49, 5-3-1933)
3-3-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Every person desirous of obtaining a license must, before commencing such
business, file with the treasurer an application in writing, directed to the
council. Such application shall be in substantially, the same form as the form
which may be prescribed by the department of revenue of the state of Montana to
carry out the provisions of the Montana beer act for a like business under said
act, and must be accompanied by satisfactory evidence that the applicant is the
owner and holder of a subsisting license or permit issued by said department
under the provisions of said act for the same business and the same location
for which application for city license is being made. Such application must be
accompanied with the license fee in the preceding section specified for the
business applied for, and if such applicant is an agent, such applicant must
accompany such application with the principal's acknowledgement of such agency.
(Ord. 49, 5-3-1933)
3-3-4: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE, ENDORSEMENT AND FILING:
Upon the filing of the application prescribed in section
3-3-3 of this chapter, accompanied by the evidence required in said section,
and upon payment of the required license fee, the treasurer shall immediately
deliver such application and evidence to the clerk, who thereupon shall issue
and deliver to the applicant a license to carry on the business for which the
applicant owns and holds a subsisting license or permit issued by the
department of revenue of the state of Montana for the business and at the place
therein described, if the same does not vary from that mentioned in such
application. Such license shall be in substantially the same form as the
license or permit issued to such applicant for such business at such location
by said department, and the same shall refer to this chapter by its number and
as the "East Helena, Montana, beer ordinance".
The clerk shall endorse each application and accompanying documents, if any, in
his office and shall keep in an appropriate index thereof which shall show the
date filed, the name of the applicant, the character and location of the
business and an appropriate reference to the file number, if any, by which said
application and accompanying documents, if any, may be found. (Ord. 49, 5-3-
1933)
3-3-5: LICENSES PROHIBITED IN RESIDENCE DISTRICTS:
No license shall be issued for any of such businesses if the same is to be
conducted in a residential district. (Ord. 49, 5-3-1933)
3-3-6: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Any and all licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be at
all times prominently displayed in the place of business of such licensee.
(Ord. 49, 5-3-1933)
3-3-7: HOURS OF SALE:
The hours of sale of beer within the city shall be the same hours of sale as
prescribed by the state of Montana as presently in force and effect and as
hereafter amended. (Ord. 135, 8-4-1975)
3-3-8: REPORT CONVICTIONS TO DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE OF STATE:
In the case of the conviction of any licensee hereunder of any violation of
this chapter in the police court of this city, the police magistrate shall,
within ten (10) days thereafter, whether or not an appeal has been taken from
the judgment of conviction, transmit to the department of revenue of the state
of Montana a certified copy of the record of conviction. (Ord. 49, 5-3-1933)
3-3-9: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
If any license issued by the department of revenue of the state of Montana
under the provisions of the Montana beer act, shall be revoked or shall be
suspended under the provisions of said act, the companion license issued under
the provisions of this chapter shall be automatically revoked or suspended for
the same period, and in the event such action by the department of revenue of
the state of Montana shall, on appeal, be modified or set aside, the suspension
or revocation of the license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall
likewise be automatically affected. (Ord. 49, 5-3-1933)
3-3-10: LIMITATION OF NUMBER OF LICENSES:
The number of licenses issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall
be as provided by section
3-2-22 of this code. (Ord. 49, 5-3-1933)
3-3-11: DUTY OF CITY TREASURER:
The city treasurer of the city shall be charged with the collection of the
license fees herein provided for, and the application for license accompanied
by the fee therefor shall be filed with such treasurer. The treasurer shall
prepare all blanks for application and for license and all books of account in
connection therewith and all expense in connection with the administration of
this chapter shall, so far as is possible, be charged against the funds
collected under this chapter. (Ord. 49, 5-3-1933)
3-3-12: INSPECTION AND REGULATION:
Every person licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
the regulation, inspection, control and supervision under the general police
power of the city and all provisions of this code in aid of such police power
and regulation; and each and every such license shall be subject to suspension
and revocation as hereinbefore provided. (Ord. 49, 5-3-1933; amd. 1980 Code)
CHAPTER 4
TRAILER COACHES AND PARKS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: Parking Prohibited
3-4-3: License Required, Fee
3-4-4: Zoning
3-4-5: Site Provisions
3-4-6: Service Buildings
3-4-7: Water Supply
3-4-8: Sewage Disposal
3-4-9: Refuse Disposal
3-4-10: Electricity
3-4-11: Fuel
3-4-12: Fire Protection
3-4-13: Alterations And Additions
3-4-14: Animals And Pets
3-4-15: Registration Of Occupants; Communicable Diseases
3-4-16: Revocation And Suspension Of License
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
set forth below:
   DEPENDENT TRAILER COACH: A trailer coach which does not have a toilet and a
bath or shower.
   INDEPENDENT TRAILER COACH: A trailer coach that has a toilet and bath or
shower.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, which either has its
own mode of power or is mounted on or towed by another vehicle. This definition
includes, but is not limited to, a:
A. Trailer coach;
B. Motor home;
C. Travel trailer;
D. Camping trailer; or
E. Camper.
   SERVICE BUILDING: A building housing separate toilet and bathing facilities
for men and women and also having laundry facilities and slop sink.
   TRAILER: A factory built or manufactured, single section, transportable
residential structure more than thirty two (32) body feet in length and eight
feet (8') or more in width, and built on one or more permanent chassis for
towing to the point of use, and designed to be used without a permanent
foundation as a dwelling unit when connected to sanitary facilities. The phrase
"without permanent foundation" indicates that the support system is constructed
with the intent that the structure placed thereon can be moved from time to
time at the convenience of the owner.
A factory fabricated, multisection structure of new construction, and designed
for human residential occupancy, which is not less than nine hundred sixty
(960) square feet in area and is secured to a permanent foundation which
complies with the Uniform Building Code, does not constitute a trailer;
provided the structure is actually appraised, assessed, and classified by the
State of Montana and County of Lewis and Clark as real property (and not
personal property) for property tax purposes. As a condition for issuing a
Municipal building permit, the applicant must have signed a property review
form, or successor form, requesting the structure be appraised, assessed, and
classified as real property.
   TRAILER COACH: Any vehicle or structure used or so constructed as to permit
its being used as a conveyance upon the public streets or highways and duly
licensable as such, constructed in such a manner as will permit occupancy
thereof as a dwelling or sleeping place for one or more persons.
   TRAILER COACH SPACE: A plot of ground within a trailer court designated for
the accommodation of one trailer coach.
   TRAILER COURT: Any plot of ground upon which six (6) or more trailer
coaches, occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located. (Ord. 202,
11-21-1995; amd. Ord. 211, 5-27-1997)
3-4-2: PARKING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park any recreational vehicle within the
corporate limits of the City except in a licensed trailer court. This
prohibition shall not apply to any recreational vehicle, provided:
   A.   It is being intermittently stored between use; and
   B.   It is unoccupied; and
   C.   It is used intermittently by the owner when traveling,
or upon special authorization by the mayor or city council. (Ord. 211, 5-27-
1997)
3-4-3: LICENSE REQUIRED, FEE:
Any person desiring to operate a trailer park or court shall make application
for a license therefor to the council and at the same time tender to the clerk
the fee therefor, his trailer park or court plan showing lot locations,
location of water and sewage facilities and the total extent of the land to be
used therefor, the fee to be five dollars ($5.00) per annum per trailer lot
within said park or court. The license year shall be January 1 to December 31.
(1980 Code)
3-4-4: ZONING:
The council shall designate the areas of the city which are restricted and
prohibited from the use, maintenance, occupancy or operation of any trailer or
trailer camps. (Ord. 104, 9-8-1959)
3-4-5: SITE PROVISIONS:
   A.   The trailer court must be on a well drained site, so located that its
drainage will not endanger any water supply. All such trailer courts shall be
in areas free from marshes, swamps or other potential breeding places for
insects and rodents.
   B.   Each trailer coach space shall contain a minimum of one thousand
(1,000) square feet, shall be at least twenty five feet (25') wide, and shall
abut on a driveway or other clear area with unobstructed access to a public
street. Such spaces shall be clearly defined, and trailer coaches shall be
parked in such spaces so that there is a minimum of fifteen feet (15') between
trailer coaches and so that no trailer coach is less than ten feet (10') from
the exterior boundary of the trailer court.
   C.   No trailer coach shall be allowed in a trailer court unless there is a
trailer coach space available.
   D.   Sufficient area shall be provided for the parking of at least one motor
vehicle for each trailer coach space. (1980 Code)
3-4-6: SERVICE BUILDINGS:
   A.   Each trailer court shall be provided with one or more service buildings
adequately equipped with flush type fixtures. No service building shall contain
less than two (2) toilets for women, one toilet and one urinal for men, two (2)
lavatories and one shower for each sex, a laundry tray and a slop sink. These
minimum fixtures will be adequate to serve up to twenty (20) dependent trailer
coaches and any number of independent trailer coaches. Additional fixtures
shall be provided in the ratios mentioned below. If a court permits independent
coaches only, then the provisions for service buildings may be waived.
   B.   Toilet facilities for women shall consist of at least one flush type
water closet for every ten (10) dependent trailer coaches and toilet facilities
for men shall consist of one flush type water closet or urinal for every ten
(10) independent trailer coaches. Urinals may be substituted for not more than
one-third (1/3) of the toilet fixtures required by men. A one and one-half foot
(11/2') length of trough type urinal shall be considered as one urinal. Each
water closet shall be in a private compartment which is open at the base at
least one foot (1') from the floor. The walls of the compartment shall not be
built any closer than one foot (1') from the ceiling of the room.
   C.   Toilet facilities for men and women shall be separated if in the same
building by a sound resistant wall.
   D.   A lavatory for each sex shall be provided for every ten (10) dependent
trailer coaches and a bath or shower for each sex shall be provided for every
twenty (20) dependent trailer coaches. Each bath or shower shall be in a
private compartment which is easily cleanable.
   E.   Laundry facilities shall be provided in the ratio of one unit for every
twenty trailer coach spaces (1:20). Drying space in the ratio of fifty (50)
square feet to each coach space or other clothes drying facilities shall be
provided to accommodate the laundry of trailer court occupants.
   F.   A slop sink shall be provided in the service building.
   G.   Service buildings shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   Be located not more than two hundred feet (200') from any dependent
trailer coach, nor less than fifteen feet (15') from any trailer coach;
      2.   Be of permanent construction and be provided with adequate light,
heat and ventilation;
      3.   The interior to be of moisture resistant material to permit frequent
washing and cleaning;
      4.   All rooms shall be well ventilated with all openings screened. (1980
Code)
3-4-7: WATER SUPPLY:
   A.   An adequate and safe supply of water under pressure shall be supplied
to each trailer court. The source and distribution system shall be approved by
the council. Each trailer coach space shall have a water supply outlet. An
adequate supply of hot and cold water shall be provided at all times in the
service buildings.
   B.   The water distribution system shall be constructed from pipe of cast
iron, wrought iron, copper, asbestos cement or other materials specifically
approved for such use. The piping shall have sufficient capacity and size to
supply a minimum pressure of fifteen (15) pounds per square inch at each coach
outlet.
   C.   An individual water connection shall be provided at an appropriate
location at each trailer coach space, consisting of a riser terminating at
least four inches (4") above the ground surface, with two (2) 3/4-inch valved
outlets. The outlets shall be threaded so that a screwed connection using
flexible metallic tubing may be made to the coach's water piping system with
one, leaving the other for use as a hose connection for lawn watering and fire
control. The ground surface around the riser pipe shall be graded so as to
divert surface drainage away from the connection. The riser pipe shall be
encased in a six inch (6") vitrified clay pipe, with the intervening space
filled with an insulating material to protect it from freezing. An insulated
cover shall be provided that will encase both valve outlets, but which will not
prevent connection to the trailer during freezing weather. When the coach space
is not occupied during cold weather, the outlets shall be protected from
freezing either by a heater tape connected to the court's electrical system or
by draining of the pipes. A shutoff valve placed below frost depth on the
service line is desirable, but in no instance should this valve be a stop and
waste cock. (1980 Code)
3-4-8: SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Wastes from toilets, slop sinks, bathtubs, showers, lavatories and
laundries shall be discharged into a public sewerage system or into a private
sewerage system and disposal plant. The method of disposal shall meet with the
approval of the council. Each trailer coach space shall have a trapped sewer
inlet to receive all trailer coach wastes.
   B.   All plumbing installed in the trailer courts shall conform to state and
city plumbing code requirements and the regulations of the state board of
health.
   C.   Each coach space shall be equipped with a four inch (4") sewer
connection, trapped below frost line and extended to at least four inches (4")
above the surface of the ground. The sewer connection shall be protected by a
concrete collar at least three inches (3") deep and extending twelve inches
(12") from the connection in all directions. The sewer connection shall be
provided with suitable fittings so as to permit a watertight junction with the
trailer outlet.
   D.   It is desirable that the connection between the coach and the sewer be
made with a flexible hose, which may be provided either by the trailer owner or
by the court owner. The hose should be four feet (4') to five feet (5') in
length and two inches (2") in diameter and shall be equipped with standard hose
coupling so that a threaded connection can be made to the outlet drain of the
trailer and the pipe fittings of the sewer connection. The sewer outlet shall
consist of a four inch (4") quarter bend capped with a standard tapered pipe
thread. The screw plug shall be fastened by chain or other device to the
concrete collar surrounding the sewer connection, to prevent its removal from
the site while the sewer connection is in use. A threaded hose connection shall
be provided connecting with the ferrule by use of pipe fittings. However, if
temporary pipe connections are necessary, the two inch (2") pipe can be
inserted into the ferrule and caulked to make an acceptable connection.
   E.   Whenever trailer coaches are parked overnight outside of trailer
courts, the plumbing fixtures within the coaches should not be used unless
satisfactory means of disposal of all sewage wastes are available. Wherever
possible, parking areas should be located close to toilet buildings and the
trailer coach occupants should be directed to use the toilet facilities in
those buildings.
   F.   All sewer lines shall be laid in trenches at a grade which will ensure
a velocity of two feet (2') per second when the sewer is flowing one-half (1/2)
full. All joints on the sewer line should be made watertight. Every effort must
be made to minimize ground water infiltration into the sewerage system. All
sewer connections and manholes should be so constructed as to prevent surface
water from entering the sanitary sewers. Manholes shall be provided for the
main sewer at every change in direction, at every junction of two (2) or more
branch sewers, and at intervals of not more than four hundred feet (400'). Each
sewer lateral serving a row of coaches may need to be vented at its upper end.
   G.   In general practice, sewer mains are limited to a minimum of six inches
(6") in size. However, due to the low consumption of water per coach space,
four inch (4") lateral lines may be constructed on the court's sewerage system;
provided, that sufficient grade is maintained. The minimum grade per one
hundred feet (100'), to maintain a velocity of two feet (2') per second when
flowing one-half (1/2) full for four inch (4") sewers is fifteen inches (15");
for six inch (6") sewers, eight inches (8"); for eight inch (8") sewers, five
inches (5"); and for ten inch (10") sewers, three and one-half inches (31/2").
(1980 Code)
3-4-9: REFUSE DISPOSAL:
The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the court shall be in a
manner so as not to create health hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding
areas, accident hazards or air pollution. All refuse shall be stored in
flytight, watertight, rodentproof containers and such containers shall be
provided in number and capacity sufficient to prevent any refuse from
overflowing on the ground. Satisfactory container racks or holders shall be
provided and located not more than one hundred fifty feet (150') from any
trailer coach space. (1980 Code)
3-4-10: ELECTRICITY:
An electrical outlet supplying one hundred ten (110) volts shall be provided
for each trailer coach space, and the installation shall be in compliance with
all state and city electrical codes. Such electrical outlets shall be
weatherproof and no power line shall be permitted to lie on the ground or to be
suspended less than ten feet (10') above the ground. (1980 Code)
3-4-11: FUEL:
Bottled gas for cooking purposes shall not be used at individual trailer coach
spaces unless the containers are properly connected by copper or other suitable
metallic tubing. Bottled gas cylinders shall be securely fastened in place and
adequately protected from the weather. No cylinder containing bottled gas shall
be located in a trailer coach or within five feet (5') of a door thereof. (1980
Code)
3-4-12: FIRE PROTECTION:
The court area shall be subject to the rules and regulations of the fire
department. (1980 Code)
3-4-13: ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS:
No permanent additions of any kind shall be built into or become a part of any
trailer coach. Skirting of coaches is permissible, but such skirting shall not
permanently attach the coach to the ground, provide harborage for rodents or
create a fire hazard. The wheels of the coach shall not be removed except
temporarily for repairs. Jacks and stabilizers may be placed under the frame of
the coach to prevent movement on the springs while the coach is parked and
occupied. (1980 Code)
3-4-14: ANIMALS AND PETS:
No owner or person in charge of a dog, cat or other pet animal shall permit it
to run at large or commit any nuisance within the limits of any trailer court.
(1980 Code)
3-4-15: REGISTRATION OF OCCUPANTS; COMMUNICABLE DISEASES:
Each trailer court owner or operator shall maintain a register containing a
record of all trailer coaches and occupants using the trailer court. Such
register shall be available to any authorized person inspecting the court, and
shall be preserved for the period required by the council. Such register shall
contain:
   A.   The names and addresses of all trailer coach occupants stopping in the
court.
   B.   The make, model and license number of each motor vehicle and trailer
coach.
   C.   The state, territory or county issuing the trailer license.
   D.   The dates of arrival and departure of each trailer coach.
Every person operating a trailer court shall notify immediately, the council of
any suspected communicable or contagious disease within the court. In the event
the council determines or confirms the existence of a communicable disease,
such person operating a trailer court shall permit the departure of a trailer,
coach or its occupants, or the removal therefrom of clothing or other articles,
only upon instruction or after approval of the council. Rules and regulations
of the state board of health governing communicable diseases shall apply to
persons served by the individual trailer coach, or served by the entire trailer
court, as the council shall determine in each case. (1980 Code)
3-4-16: REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
The council is hereby authorized to revoke or suspend any license issued
pursuant to the terms of this chapter, if it is determined that the holder
thereof has violated any of the provisions of this chapter or that any trailer
coach or trailer park is being maintained in an unsanitary or unsafe manner or
is a nuisance. (1980 Code)
CHAPTER 5
SEWER CONNECTING AND HOUSE DRAINAGE
SECTION:
3-5-1: License Required
3-5-2: Application For License
3-5-3: License Fee
3-5-4: Use Of License
3-5-5: Bond
3-5-6: Installation Of Backwater Valves Required; Nuisance
3-5-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in or conduct the business of sewer connecting and house
drainage; or excavate any trenches for sewer pipe; or open, uncover or in any
manner make any connection with, or lay any sewer pipe or drain; or attach to,
modify or repair any appurtenances to sewer connections with the sewers in the
streets or alleys or with any private sewer or drain in the city, without
holding the proper license for such work from the council, excepting only such
persons operating under special contract with the city for such work. (Ord. 51,
1937)
3-5-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The application for license shall be presented to the council and endorsed by
the sewer committee, and no person shall receive such license who shall not
first have furnished the sewer committee with satisfactory evidence of his
responsibility and qualifications to ply their trade in accordance with the
requirements of the provisions of this code and the rules and regulations for
the conduct of such work. (Ord. 51, 1937)
3-5-3: LICENSE FEE:
The license fee for conducting the business of sewer connecting and house
drainage shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) per annum, payable in advance,
and no license shall be granted for a greater or lesser period than one year.
(Ord. 51, 1937)
3-5-4: USE OF LICENSE:
No person engaged in the business of sewer connecting and house drainage shall
allow his name to be used by any other person directly or indirectly, either to
obtain a permit or to do any work under his license and bond. Any person
violating the provisions of this section shall, upon conviction thereof before
the police judge, be fined in any sum not exceeding fifty dollars ($50.00) for
each offense, together with costs of prosecution. Repeated violation of said
rules shall be cause for suspension of the license of the offender by the
council in addition to such other penalties prescribed herein. (Ord. 51, 1937)
3-5-5: BOND:
After favorable action by the council granting a license and before the same
shall be issued, the applicant or applicants shall file with the clerk a bond
in the sum of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00), which bond shall be approved by
the council conditioned that the license will indemnify and save harmless the
city and all owners of property from all loss or damage should any be
occasioned in anywise by accident due to carelessness or negligence in either
the execution or protection of the work, or the lack of care and skill in the
prosecution of such work, or by reason of any unfaithful or inadequate work
done by such person, and conditioned also that he will promptly and at the
proper time, replace and restore the street, avenue or alley over such opening
to as good condition as it was previous to opening the same, and that he will
conform in all respects to the rules, regulations, conditions and requirements
of the city for his government, or in default thereof will submit to such
penalties as are or may be prescribed for such violation. Actions may be
maintained on said bonds by either the city or any person or persons who shall
suffer any loss or damage by reason or on account of any failure or neglect on
the part of the licensee in the full compliance of the provisions hereof. Bonds
shall be executed for one year, covering the period of time for which the
license is issued, and said bonds shall remain in full force and effect for a
period of five (5) years following the completion of any work done under said
license and bond. (Ord. 51, 1937)
3-5-6: INSTALLATION OF BACKWATER VALVES REQUIRED; NUISANCE:
Upon any incident of reverse flow of sewage and/or liquid waste through a floor
drain located within the city, the owner of the premises in which the floor
drain is located shall cause the drain to be equipped with an approved
backwater valve immediately thereafter fully conforming to the uniform plumbing
code's provisions for floor drain traps and backwater valves. The owner shall
be granted a thirty (30) day grace period in which to make the required
installation. Thereafter, such condition shall be considered a public nuisance
and a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 201, 3-21-1995)
CHAPTER 6
FOR HIRE VEHICLES
SECTION:
3-6-1: Licenses Required
3-6-2: License Fee, Term
3-6-3: License Card Or Tag
3-6-4: License Nontransferable
3-6-5: Suspension And Revocation Of License
3-6-6: Stand Permit, Application
3-6-1: LICENSES REQUIRED:
   A.   Taxicab License: No person shall run or operate any automobile taxi
within the city unless such person shall hold a duly authorized license
therefor. No license shall be issued to any person for an automobile taxi until
the same has been authorized by a resolution, passed by an affirmative vote of
a majority of the members of the council, approved by the mayor and attested by
the clerk, upon written application therefor to the council. (Ord. 18, 11-2-
1927)
   B.   Bus Lines: No person shall carry on or engage in the business of common
carrier of passengers for hire by the operation of a bus line having a terminal
in the city without a license therefor from the city. Provided however, that
this license shall not be required for buses used in the transportation of
school children, known as school buses. (Ord. 38, 11-21-1928)
3-6-2: LICENSE FEE, TERM:
The charges for a license for any automobile, taxicab or other motor vehicle
for carrying passengers for hire shall be as determined by the council from
time to time, due and payable in advance on April 1 of each calendar year, and
the period for which license shall be issued shall be from April 1 of each year
to April 1 of the succeeding year. Licenses issued after April 1 shall expire
April 1 of the following year. Upon payment of such annual license fee the
person applying therefor shall receive an official receipt which receipt shall
show the number and make of the car. (Ord. 18, 11-2-1927)
3-6-3: LICENSE CARD OR TAG:
Upon payment of the annual license fee as required herein, the person applying
therefor shall receive a card, tag or ticket, which shall be changed in color
each year, upon which shall be printed the number of such license and the words
"City License" and the year for which issued.
The license card, tag or ticket shall be posted and displayed in a conspicuous
place on the front of the motor vehicle where the same can be plainly seen by
the public. If on demand of any passenger in such vehicle or conveyance, such
license is not produced or exhibited, the owner or agent of such vehicle, which
is liable for a license charge, shall not be entitled to any fare for the
conveyance of a passenger unless he shall first obtain a city license as
provided for in this chapter. (Ord. 18, 11-2-1927)
3-6-4: LICENSES NONTRANSFERABLE:
No license shall be transferable. (Ord. 18, 11-2-1927)
3-6-5: SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The council may at any time temporarily suspend a license and for cause and
upon a hearing had for that purpose may revoke any license previously issued or
refuse to issue any license, the council to determine the time of hearing
thereof and procedure to be followed thereat. (Ord. 18, 11-2-1927)
3-6-6: STAND PERMIT, APPLICATION:
Any person or persons desiring to secure a permit for any motor vehicle used
for hire or for the purpose of doing general passenger work, to stand on any of
the streets or alleys in the city, must present to the council, the written
consent signed by the owner or occupant of not less than fifteen feet (15') of
continuous frontage of the lot before which such applicant desires his motor
vehicle to stand, and on the approval by the council at any meeting by written
motion, said applicant shall be furnished with a written permit to stand such
motor vehicle while unemployed before the premises described in such
application; provided however, that no permit shall be issued to stand a motor
vehicle within ten feet (10') of the boundaries of any stand permit issued to
any person prior thereto. Any stand permit granted as hereinbefore set forth
may be revoked at any time by the council.
It shall be unlawful and is hereby declared a nuisance for the owner, driver or
person in charge of any motor vehicle for hire or used in general passenger
work, to allow the same to remain standing unemployed in front of any premises
without having first procured a stand permit as in this chapter provided. (Ord.
46, 10-15-1930)
CHAPTER 7
GAMING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-7-1: Unqualified Locations
3-7-2: Video Gambling Machines; Hours Of Play
3-7-1: UNQUALIFIED LOCATIONS:
A gaming license may be denied if the governing body deems that the place or
location for which the license is sought is unsuitable for the conduct of
gaming operations. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the
following places or locations may be deemed unsuitable:
   A.   Premises located within the immediate vicinity of churches, hospitals,
schools, and children's public playgrounds;
   B.   Premises located in a place where gaming would be contrary to a zoning
ordinance;
   C.   Premises difficult to police by reason of physical layout or
construction;
It is not intended that schools and churches not be qualified to conduct
gambling games. (Ord. 132, 10-17-1974; amd. Ord. 208, 1-7-1997)
3-7-2: VIDEO GAMBLING MACHINES; HOURS OF PLAY:
In addition to the playing hours otherwise established by state law, video
gambling machines may be played within the city limits between the hours of two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. (Ord. 200, 3-21-1995; amd.
Ord. 208, 1-7-1997)
TITLE 4
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
4-1-1: Adoption Of Codes
4-1-2: Copies Of Adopted And Enforced Codes
4-1-3: Definitions
4-1-4: Permits Required
4-1-5: Permit Requirements
4-1-6: Plans And Specifications
4-1-7: Final Building Inspection Approval
4-1-8: Building Plan Review
4-1-9: Inspection Required
4-1-10: Appointment Of Building Official And Qualifications
4-1-11: Factory Built Buildings
4-1-12: Permit Fees
4-1-13: Application
4-1-14: Repeal
4-1-15: Appeals
4-1-16: Board Of Appeals
4-1-17: Violations And Penalties
4-1-18: Enforcement
4-1-1: ADOPTION OF CODES:
There is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length
herein, by the city council for the purpose of regulating buildings in the city
and of protecting the health and safety of the city’s citizens the following:
   A.   The International Building Code (IBC), 2021 edition, together with
amendments and modifications, as set forth in Title 24, Chapter 301, of the
Administrative Rules of Montana, as adopted by the State of Montana, Department
of Labor and Industry;
   B.   The International Energy Conservation Code (IECC), 2021 edition,
together with all accompanying appendices, amendments and modifications, as set
forth in Title 24, Chapter 301, of the Administrative Rules of Montana, as
adopted by the State of Montana, Department of Labor and Industry;
   C.   The International Residential Code (IRC), 2021 edition, together with
amendments and modifications, as set forth in Title 24, Chapter 301, of the
Administrative Rules of Montana, as adopted by the State of Montana, Department
of Labor and Industry;
   D.   The International Existing Building Code (IEBC), 2021 edition, together
with all accompanying appendices, amendments and modifications, as set forth in
Title 24, Chapter 301, of the Administrative Rules of Montana, as adopted by
the State of Montana, Department of Labor and Industry;
   E.   The International Swimming Pool and Spa Code (ISPSC), 2021 edition,
together with all accompanying appendices, amendments and modifications, as set
forth in Title 24, Chapter 301, of the Administrative Rules of Montana, as
adopted by the State of Montana, Department of Labor and Industry; and
   F.   Sections 24.301.901 through 24.301.905, inclusive, of the
Administrative Rules of Montana (ARM). (Ord. 231, 5-18-2004; amd. Ord. 255, 1-
6-2015; Ord. 273, 7-7-2020; Ord. 275, 7-6-2021; Ord. 281, 9-6-2022)
4-1-2: COPIES OF ADOPTED AND ENFORCED CODES:
A copy of all building codes adopted and enforced by the city is available for
viewing in the city clerk's office located at 306 East Main Street, East
Helena, Montana 59635. (Ord. 273, 7-7-2020)
4-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, the following definitions apply, unless specified
otherwise:
 
                   The building official appointed by the mayor or the building
BUILDING OFFICIAL: official's designee, to include a building inspector and all
                   city code inspectors.
ENFORCED CODES:    All codes adopted and enforced by the city as specified in
                   this chapter. (Ord. 273, 7-7-2020)
 
4-1-4: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   No building construction, alteration, repair, or demolition may begin
without a permit issued by the building official if a permit is required by the
enforced codes.
   B.   The building official must retain the building permit and upon
completion of the permitted work the permit shall be retained by the city clerk
as a public record. (Ord. 273, 7-7-2020)
4-1-5: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The property owner, or the owner's designee, must submit the
information for each permit as required by the building official, on the forms
provided. The building official may require that all permit applications be
submitted electronically.
   B.   All applicable permit fees, as set by resolution of the city council,
must be paid prior to a permit being issued. (Ord. 273, 7-7-2020)
4-1-6: PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Whenever the issuance of a permit requires the applicant to submit
plans and specifications for review by the building official, when the permit
is issued, the building official must endorse in writing or stamp "Approved"
the submitted plans and specifications. Such approved plans and specifications
shall not be changed, modified, or altered without authorization from the
building official and all work shall be done in accordance with the approved
plans.
   B.   A copy of the approved plans and specifications must be kept at the
work site to which the plans and specifications pertain at all times during
which the work authorized thereby is in progress and shall be open to
inspection by the building official.
   C.   The building official must retain a copy, as public record, of the
plans and specification submitted and approved as part of a permit for a period
of not less than ninety (90) days from the date of completion of the work
covered therein. (Ord. 273, 7-7-2020)
4-1-7: FINAL BUILDING INSPECTION APPROVAL:
   A.   No building may be occupied, including in part, unless or until a Final
Building Inspection Approval Form has been issued by the building official. The
building official shall, after an application therefore has been filed by the
owner or the owner’s agent, issue a Final Building Inspection Approval Form for
such building if, after inspection of the work authorized by applicable
permits, it is found that such building substantially complies with the
provisions of this title and all other requirements of the enforced code
applicable hereto.
   B.   The issued Final Building Inspection Form is not a certification or
guarantee of total compliance with the applicable effective codes. (Ord. 273,
7-7-2020; amd. Ord. 281, 9-6-2022)
4-1-8: BUILDING PLAN REVIEW:
   A.   The building official shall be responsible for plan review coordination
and for issuance of building permit.
   B.   Upon application by any person for a building permit, the building
official shall review the plans for compliance with the codes.
   C.   Building plan review shall be completed by the building official within
thirty (30) working days of submittal by applicant.
   D.   The building official shall act as building inspector or may appoint a
building inspector.
   E.   The building official may, in proper cases, request the aid of the
building codes division, other state agencies or professional consultants to
aid on coordination of review. In such cases the building official may lengthen
the completion time for review by ten (10) working days when necessary. (Ord.
148, 6-8-1981; amd. Ord. 273, 7-7-2020)
4-1-9: INSPECTION REQUIRED:
   A.   All work requiring a permit must be inspected by the building official
at various intervals, as required by the city, to assure compliance with the
enforced codes. No work may be covered up until the same has been approved by
the building official.
   B.   The building official must be provided access to the property to
conduct the required inspections.
   C.   Following an inspection, the permit holder must correct any condition
that is determined to be unsafe to life and property or in violation of the
applicable enforced code. (Ord. 148, 6-8-1981; amd. Ord. 273, 7-7-2020)
4-1-10: APPOINTMENT OF BUILDING OFFICIAL AND QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   The mayor may appoint the building official, to serve at the pleasure
of the mayor or contract for the services of the building official with
qualified individuals or firms. The building official is hereby authorized and
directed to enforce the provisions of this title.
   B.   The building official and building inspectors shall meet the
qualifications set forth in Title 24, Chapter 301, of the Administrative Rules
of Montana, as adopted by the State of Montana, Department of Labor and
Industry. (Ord. 148, 6-8-1981; amd. Ord. 273, 7-7-2020)
4-1-11: FACTORY BUILT BUILDINGS:
Factory built buildings which are approved by the Montana Building Codes
Division, Department of Administration, shall be subject to local government
inspection and fees for only zoning, utility connections and foundations.
Application to the building official for erection and utility connection shall
be made in accordance with sections
4-1-4 through
4-1-9. (Ord. 148, 6-8-1981; amd. Ord. 273, 7-7-2020)
4-1-12: PERMIT FEES:
Building permit fees shall be established and adjusted periodically upon
resolution of the council. (Ord. 148, 6-8-1981; amd. Ord. 273, 7-7-2020)
4-1-13: APPLICATION:
The construction and safety codes adopted by the city are applicable to all
buildings within the building code enforcement area of East Helena, including,
but not limited to, residential buildings containing less than five (5)
dwelling units or their attached-to structures, any farm or ranch building, and
any private garage or private storage structure used only for the owner's own
use.
However, application of the uniform building code adopted by the city is not
applicable to the following non-structural projects regarding residential
buildings containing less than five (5) dwelling units or their attached-to
structures, or any private garage or private storage structure used only for
the owner's own use:
   A.   Replacement of external weather side finishes of such structures, e.g.,
external re-siding.
   B.   Replacement of the external (i.e., weather side of rafters and trusses)
roof covering.
   C.   Window replacement, in which no change or modification of the header(s)
or foundation occur(s).
   D.   Door replacement, in which no change of the header(s) occur(s).
   E.   Replacement of interior ceiling covering.
   F.   Replacement of interior wall covering, e.g., drywall, paneling, finish
work.
   G.   Replacement or installation of cabinets and/or closets only.
Informational building permits issued by the city are required for these
projects. The fee for this permit shall be set by resolution by the city
council.
The jurisdictional area for municipal enforcement of these codes is the
corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 225, 10-15-2002; amd. Ord. 273, 7-7-2020)
4-1-14: REPEAL:
All ordinances and parts of ordinances contrary to or inconsistent with the
provisions of this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of such
inconsistency. (Ord. 148, 6-8-1981; amd. Ord. 273, 7-7-2020)
4-1-15: APPEALS:
The administration of this title shall be under the supervision of the public
works director in consultation with the building official, who is charged with
the enforcement of this title.
An appeal from any decision of the public works director, building official or
their designee, or any other city officer upon any matter affecting any of the
uniform codes adopted in this title or any other provisions in this title may
be taken to the board of appeals, which shall be appointed by the city council
and have the membership, powers and duties as provided in the Uniform Building
Code as well as the powers and duties of an appeal board in any of the uniform
codes adopted in this title.
Any appeal to the board of appeals shall be in conformity with the specific
appeal provisions of any of the uniform codes adopted in this title. However,
if no specific appeal provisions are specified in the uniform codes, the
following appeal procedure shall take place: such appeal shall be taken by
filing and serving a notice of appeal, as in the applicable code provided, and
in the absence of such provision, by filing written notice with the public
works director within thirty (30) days of the decision of the public works
director or building official, from which appeal is taken. The notice shall
specify the provision of the applicable code or the decision of the public
works director or building official being appealed. The board shall hear and
render a decision on such appeal within thirty (30) days of said filing, unless
by written agreement of the public works director and the appellant said time
is extended.
Thereafter, an appeal from the decision of the board of appeals may be taken to
the city council, by filing and serving a notice of appeal upon the city clerk,
within thirty (30) days after the decision of the board of appeals, and serving
a copy of such appeal within such time, upon the board of appeals. The city
council shall have the power to review the decision of the board of appeals,
hear evidence relative thereto, and to revise, amend, or alter the order of the
board of appeals. (Ord. 192, 12-21-1993; amd. Ord. 224, 9-17-2002; Ord. 273, 7-
7-2020)
4-1-16: BOARD OF APPEALS:
The board of appeals shall be appointed by the mayor with the concurrence of
the city council. There shall be three (3) members of the board. One member
shall be a member of the city fire department; one member shall be a consumer/
citizen of the city; and one member shall be an architect or engineer or
construction contractor. Each member of the board shall serve for a term of
three (3) years from the date of appointment. The terms of the members of the
board shall be staggered so that the initial terms for the members shall be
one, two (2) and three (3) years respectively. Thereafter, each board member
shall serve a term of three (3) years. The public works director shall be an ex
officio member of and shall act as secretary to the board but shall have no
vote on any matter before the board. The board shall determine the suitability
of alternate materials and methods of construction and provide for reasonable
interpretations of the uniform codes adopted in this title. (Ord. 192, 12-21-
1993; amd. Ord. 224, 9-17-2002; Ord. 273, 7-7-2020)
4-1-17: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person failing to comply with or violating any of the provisions of
the uniform codes adopted in this title or any order made thereunder, or who
shall build in violation of any detailed statement or specifications or plans
submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued
thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to
comply with an order of the board of appeals of the city whereby a court of
competent jurisdiction within the time fixed herein, shall severally for each
and every violation and noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more
than three hundred dollars ($300.00). The imposition of one penalty for any
violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue, and all such
persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects
within a reasonable time; and when not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days
that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
Application of this penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal
of prohibited conditions.
   B.   Any contractor who performs work without a permit when a permit is
required by the applicable enforced code may have that contractor's city
business license suspended or revoked as provided for in Title 3 of this code
subject to any applicable penalties. (Ord. 192, 12-21-1993; amd. Ord. 273, 7-7-
2020)
4-1-18: ENFORCEMENT:
The city may seek injunctive relief in the East Helena City Court to assure
compliance with the provisions of this title. (Ord. 273, 7-7-2020)
CHAPTER 2
GAS PIPING, EQUIPMENT AND APPLIANCES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Application Of Regulations
4-2-2: Enforcement
4-2-3: Gas Fitters; License, Bond Required
4-2-4: Permit Required; Inspection; Fees
4-2-5: Gas Installations To Conform To Good Practice
4-2-6: Unsafe Conditions
4-2-7: Dispute Between Gas Utility And Consumer
4-2-1: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all installations, extensions,
additions, alterations, maintenance and repairs of gas piping, equipment and
appliances on a consumer's premises from the outlet of the utility's gas meter.
(Ord. 123, 9-7-1965)
4-2-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The water commissioner shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and for
this purpose shall have the right to enter any and all buildings and premises
at all reasonable times to inspect gas piping, equipment and appliances, and he
shall hereinafter be designated the gas inspector. (Ord. 123, 9-7-1965)
4-2-3: GAS FITTERS; LICENSE, BOND REQUIRED:
   A.   License Required, Fee: Any person engaging in the business of
installing, maintaining or repairing gas piping, equipment or appliances shall
first apply to the treasurer for a license to engage in such business and do
such work and shall pay to the treasurer the sum of five dollars ($5.00) as an
annual fee. Said license shall be renewed annually. The license shall be issued
on a calendar year basis with a proration of the annual fee on the basis of six
(6) months.
No person shall install gas piping, equipment or appliances unless said person
shall have first complied with all of the provisions of this section with
regard to said license as set forth hereinbefore.
   B.   Bond: Prior to issuance of said license, the applicant shall file and
thereafter keep on file in the office of the clerk, and in full force and
effect at all times, a surety bond executed by a surety company duly authorized
to transact business in the state of Montana and running to the city in the sum
of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) conditioned to the effect that such person
shall perform all work in connection with the installation, maintenance and
repair of gas piping, equipment and appliances in a skilful and workmanlike
manner, using only suitable and proper materials, equipment and appliances and
shall comply with all of the provisions of this code relating thereto. (Ord.
123, 9-7-1965)
4-2-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; INSPECTION; FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: Every person shall make application to the gas
inspector, furnishing required plans and specifications, and obtain a permit
from said gas inspector before installing, extending or altering any gas
piping, equipment or appliance for the conveyance or use of natural or
artificial gas on a consumer's premises from the outlet of the utility's gas
meter. Said permit form shall be provided by the gas inspector. In the absence
or inability to act of said gas inspector, the mayor shall designate some other
fit and proper person to perform said duties and shall notify the utility
thereof.
   B.   Gas "Turn On": The gas utility or any employee or agent thereof, or any
other person, must first obtain the consent of the said gas inspector, or such
other person designated by the mayor as hereinbefore provided, to "turn on" gas
at the meter into any new system of gas piping, or into any old system of gas
piping which has been extended or altered on a consumer's premises beyond the
utility's gas meter. The utility shall, upon demand of the gas inspector or
other person designated, turn gas on at any time for the purpose of inspection
and test.
It shall be unlawful for any person, except an agent of the gas utility, to
"turn on" gas at the meter into any new system of gas piping or into any old
system of gas piping after it has been "turned off" for any reason.
   C.   Inspection Fees: There shall be paid to the treasurer for each
inspection by the gas inspector of any gas piping, gas installations, gas
fixtures and appliances the following amounts:
 
First appliance                           $2.00
Each additional appliance after the first 0.50
 
This fee shall be paid upon taking out the permit required hereinbefore. (Ord.
123, 9-7-1965)
4-2-5: GAS INSTALLATIONS TO CONFORM TO GOOD PRACTICE:
   A.   All gas piping, equipment and appliances for the conveyance and use of
natural or artificial gas shall be installed to conform with generally accepted
good practice. The standards for "installation of gas piping and gas appliances
in buildings" as adopted and amended from time to time by the American Gas
Association, while not exclusive, shall be deemed to be generally accepted good
practice.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to turn gas into or use any gas piping, equipment
or appliance until the same has been inspected and approved by the gas
inspector, as provided in this chapter.
   C.   Rubber hose connections or fittings arranged for rubber hose
connections for gas heaters or similar appliances shall not be permitted.
   D.   Concealed gas fuel piping must not have any plugged openings except for
such gas fuel appliances as will be installed. All plugged openings in
concealed piping must be exposed.
Concealed unions, standard weight steel couplings, gas cocks, valves or
bushings will not be permitted. Concealed dresser type couplings will not be
permitted inside buildings.
   E.   All gas consuming appliances installed shall be equipped with an
effective draft diverter, shall be properly vented to a suitable flue, and
shall be inspected to determine that all products of combustion are vented to
the atmosphere, except that AGA approved gas ranges need not be vented. AGA
approved gas refrigerators, gas mangles and other appliances, the consumption
of which is less than five thousand (5,000) Btu per hour, need not have draft
diverters or be vented to flues.
   F.   Piping shall be of a size and so installed as to provide a supply of
gas sufficient to meet the maximum demand of all appliances served by that
piping without undue loss of pressure between the meter and the appliance or
appliances.
   G.   All piping, equipment and appliances shall be tested for tightness
before being used, either by a meter "turn on" test or an "air pressure" test,
as follows:
      1.   Meter "Turn On" Test: All gas outlets shall be closed and gas shall
be turned into the system and the hand on the test dial of the meter carefully
watched to ascertain that no gas is passing through the meter. This test shall
be applied for a reasonable length of time, but in no case for less than
fifteen (15) minutes.
      2.   Air Pressure Test: Air pressure of not less than three (3) pounds
per square inch above the atmospheric pressure shall be applied to the system
for a period of not less than ten (10) minutes. In case of concealed piping,
the air pressure test must be used with pressure at not less than six (6)
pounds per square inch above atmospheric pressure.
All testing apparatus shall be furnished by the installer. Piping shall be
completely roughed in and ready for testing prior to the time an inspection is
requested.
   H.   Standard full weight wrought iron or steel pipe, free from defects,
shall be used in conveying gas from meter to appliances, except that approved
seamless, well annealed, nonferrous tubing with approved fittings may be used
for permanent connections of small stationary appliances such as radiant fires
installed in fireplaces, etc. All fittings for wrought iron or steel pipe
(except stock cocks or valves) shall be of the best quality malleable iron.
Threads shall be in accordance with the American pipe thread standard. (Ord.
123, 9-7-1965)
4-2-6: UNSAFE CONDITIONS:
Whenever an inspection shall reveal a condition unsafe to life or property, the
gas inspector shall notify the consumer of what is necessary to correct the
unsafe condition and shall not permit gas to be turned on until all such
conditions have been corrected, remedied and made safe. The gas inspector may
make subsequent inspections and tests of gas piping, gas installations and gas
appliances when he believes or has reason to believe that any appliance's
piping or venting is in an unsafe condition to life or property and the gas
inspector shall order the gas utility to discontinue the supply of gas to any
consumer when any such condition is found and until the same is remedied.
The consumer shall be responsible for the installations, appliances, apparatus
and equipment on his side of the point of delivery and for the natural gas
after it passes said point of delivery. The consumer assumes the duties of
having inspected his house piping, appliances, apparatus, equipment, chimneys
and flues and every part thereof to see that the same are clean and in proper
working order. In the event the consumer finds the gas service to be defective,
he should immediately notify the utility to that effect. (Ord. 123, 9-7-1965)
4-2-7: DISPUTE BETWEEN GAS UTILITY AND CONSUMER:
Whenever there shall arise a dispute between a gas utility and a consumer
relative to the safety of any installation or appliance, the matter shall be
referred to the gas inspector who shall examine the same or cause it to be
examined and make final determination thereon. (Ord. 123, 9-7-1965)
TITLE 5
FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Organization
5-1-2: Compensation
5-1-3: Election Of Officers; Appointment Of Firemen; Approval
5-1-4: Suspensions
5-1-5: Retirement; Reappointments
5-1-6: Qualifications Of Firefighters; Physical Examination
5-1-7: Fire Chief; Powers And Duties
5-1-8: Call Men
5-1-9: Limits In Vicinity Of Fire
5-1-1: ORGANIZATION:
The fire department of the city shall consist of a chief of the fire
department, one assistant chief and such number of paid firemen as the council
may from time to time provide. (Ord. 63, 12-3-1945)
5-1-2: COMPENSATION:
The compensation of the members of the fire department shall be set forth by
the council upon recommendation of the chief of the fire department. The
council shall determine the compensation to be paid to the fire chief. (Ord.
63, 12-3-1945)
5-1-3: ELECTION OF OFFICERS; APPOINTMENT OF FIREMEN; APPROVAL:
The chief and assistant chief of the fire department shall be elected by the
members and firemen shall be appointed, as shall be provided by the
constitution and bylaws of the department; provided however, that all elections
and appointments shall be approved by the mayor and council at the next regular
meeting of the council after such elections or appointments, or at a special
meeting called for that purpose, and no election or appointment shall be
effective until such approval. (Ord. 106, 4-4-1961)
5-1-4: SUSPENSIONS:
The mayor may suspend the chief and assistant or any fireman of the fire
department for neglect of duty or a violation of any of the rules and
regulations of the fire department; and the chief of the fire department shall
have the authority to suspend the assistant chief of the fire department or any
fireman; and the assistant chief of the fire department shall have authority to
suspend any fireman for a like cause.
In all cases of suspension the person suspended must be furnished with a copy
of the charge against him in writing, setting forth reasons for the suspension
and such charges must be presented at the next meeting of the council and a
hearing had thereon shall be held when the suspended member of the fire
department may appear in person or by counsel and make his defense to said
charges. If such charges are found proven by the council, the council, by a
vote of a majority of the whole council, may impose such penalty as it shall
determine the offense warrants, either in the continuation of the suspension
for a time limited, or in the removal of the suspended person from the fire
department. Should the charges be not presented at the next meeting of the
council after the suspension, or should the charges be found not proven by the
council, the suspended person shall be reinstated and be entitled to his usual
compensation for the time so suspended. (Ord. 63, 12-3-1945)
5-1-5: RETIREMENTS; REAPPOINTMENTS:
Should the council at any time reduce the number of firemen in the fire
department, those most recently appointed shall be selected for retirement from
the fire department, and the clerk shall keep a list of such retired firemen,
and should the number of firemen be again increased by the council, the men on
said list shall be called into service, the longest service firemen being first
selected for service in the fire department. (Ord. 63, 12-3-1945)
5-1-6: QUALIFICATIONS OF FIREFIGHTERS; PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
The qualifications of firefighters shall be that they shall reside within a
fifteen (15) minute response time of the city limits, and (with the exception
of previous, verifiable firefighter or medical experience of not less than 6
months) not be over forty five (45) years of age at the time of their
appointment, and shall have passed a physical examination by a practicing
physician duly authorized to practice in the state of Montana, which
examination shall be in writing and filed with the clerk. Such examination
shall disclose the ability of such applicant to perform the physical work
usually required of firefighters in the performance of their duty. (Ord. 233,
6-7-2005)
5-1-7: FIRE CHIEF; POWERS AND DUTIES:
The chief of the fire department shall have sole command and control over all
persons connected with the fire department of the city and shall possess full
power and authority over its organization, government and discipline, and to
that end from time to time establish such disciplinary rules and regulations as
he may deem advisable, subject to the approval of the council. He shall have
charge of and be responsible for the equipment and apparatus of the fire
department, the property of the city connected with the fire department, and
see that all of it is at all times ready for use in the extinguishing of fire.
The assistant chief of the fire department shall aid the chief in the work of
the department, and in his absence shall perform his duties. The chief of the
fire department or in his absence the assistant chief of the fire department,
shall have sole and absolute control and command of all the other members of
the department and of other persons present at fires, and shall ex officio have
and exercise all the powers of a policeman at the time and place of a fire. He
shall have the power, if need be, to summon any and all persons present to aid
in extinguishing any fire or in removing any property from any building on fire
or in danger thereof, and in guarding same, he shall have the power to order
the cutting down and removal of any building, structure, fence or other thing
if he shall deem it necessary for the purpose of checking the progress of any
fire. He shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the council.
The officer in command of a company which first arrives at a fire shall be the
officer in command until the chief of the fire department or his assistant
arrives. (Ord. 63, 12-3-1945)
5-1-8: CALL MEN:
In addition to the members of the regular fire department, the mayor is
authorized to employ other persons to assist, only in the case of fire, to be
known as "call men". It shall be the duty of the call men to respond to every
alarm and to report at such points and for such times as may be prescribed by
the rules of the department, and the council shall fix their number and
compensation from time to time. (Ord. 63, 12-3-1945)
5-1-9: LIMITS IN VICINITY OF FIRE:
The chief of the fire department may prescribe the limits in the vicinity of
any fire within which no persons, except those who reside therein and firemen
and policemen and those admitted by order of any officer of the fire
department, shall be permitted to come. The chief of the fire department is
hereby authorized to request of the chief of police or other officer in charge
of the police station, a detail of policemen sufficient in his judgment
therefor, who, for the time being, shall act under the instructions of said
chief of the fire department or officer in command. It shall be unlawful for
any person to break through or attempt to break through the limits mentioned in
this section. (Ord. 63, 12-3-1945)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
SECTION:
5-2-1: Adoption Of Fire Prevention Code
5-2-2: Fire Limits
5-2-1: ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of prescribing regulations
governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion,
that certain code known as the fire prevention code recommended by the American
Insurance Association, being particularly the 1965 edition thereof and the
whole thereof save and except such portions as may be hereafter deleted,
modified or amended, of which code not less than three (3) copies are on file
in the office of the clerk, and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as
if fully set out at length herein, and from the date hereof the provisions
thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the city. (1980 Code)
5-2-2: FIRE LIMITS:
The city limits of the city shall be and are hereby declared to be the fire
limits of the city. (1980 Code)
CHAPTER 3
OUTDOOR BURNING
SECTION:
5-3-1: Amendment To Fire Code
5-3-2: Definitions
5-3-3: Outdoor Burning Restricted
5-3-4: Penalty
5-3-1: AMENDMENT TO FIRE CODE:
Insofar as the provisions of this chapter conflict with the provisions of the
uniform fire code, as adopted by section
4-1-1 of this code, the provisions set forth herein shall control. (Ord. 204,
6-4-1996)
5-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
   FIRE NUISANCE: Any thing or act, which is annoying, unpleasant, offensive or
obnoxious because of fire.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT: Lewis And Clark County health department.
   OUTDOOR BURNING: Combustion of any material out of doors, with or without a
receptacle. "Outdoor burning" does not include:
A. The use of a barbecue fueled by natural gas, propane or wood, or charcoal
briquettes for cooking purposes only on private property, or the use of heating
devices using refined liquid or gaseous fuel.
B. A noncommercial recreational fire, burning material other than rubbish,
measuring less than thirty six inches (36") in diameter and twenty four inches
(24") in height that is in and surrounded by a nonflammable structure and for
which a suitable source of extinguishing the fire is immediately available in
source, proximity, and volume. (Ord. 248, 4-17-2012)
5-3-3: OUTDOOR BURNING RESTRICTED:
   A.   Outdoor burning is unlawful within the East Helena city limits except
as specifically authorized below.
   B.   Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, outdoor burning may be
allowed within the city limits if:
      1.   A valid permit has been issued by the health department or its
authorized agent or the fire has been approved by the city fire department;
      2.   The fire does not cause a fire nuisance as determined by the fire or
health department;
      3.   The fire is conducted in accordance with the uniform fire code and
the Lewis And Clark County air pollution control program; and
      4.   The fire is for one of the following purposes:
         a.   Eliminating a fire hazard that cannot be abated by any other
means; or
         b.   Firefighter training; or
         c.   Thawing frozen ground to allow excavation of utilities. (Ord.
248, 4-17-2012)
5-3-4: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed six (6) months,
or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 204, 6-4-1996; amd. Ord. 248, 4-
17-2012)
CHAPTER 4
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Amendment To Fire Prevention Code
5-4-2: Fireworks Defined
5-4-3: Fireworks Restricted
5-4-4: Dates Sales Permitted; Discharge Hours; Debris
5-4-5: Supervised Public Display Of Fireworks
5-4-6: Applicability Of Provisions
5-4-7: Confiscation
5-4-8: Penalty
5-4-1: AMENDMENT TO FIRE PREVENTION CODE:
Insofar as the provisions of this chapter conflict with the provisions of the
fire prevention code, especially article 13 thereof, as adopted by section
5-2-1 of this title, the provisions set forth herein shall be deemed to govern.
(1980 Code)
5-4-2: FIREWORKS DEFINED:
The term "fireworks" shall mean and include any combustible or explosive
composition, or any substance or combination of substances, or article prepared
for the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect by combustion,
explosion, deflagration or detonation, and shall include sky rockets, Roman
candles, dago bombs, blank cartridges, toy cannons, toy canes or toy guns in
which explosives other than toy paper caps are used, the type of balloons which
require fire underneath to propel the same, firecrackers, torpedoes, sparklers
or other fireworks of like construction and any fireworks containing any
explosive of flammable compound or any tablets or other device containing any
explosive substance. Nothing in this section shall be construed as applying to
toy paper caps containing not more than twenty five hundredths (0.25) of a
grain of explosive composition per cap, and to the manufacture, storage, sale
or use of signals necessary for the safe operation of railroads or other
classes of public or private transportation, nor applying to the military or
navy forces of the United States or of this state, or to peace officers, nor as
prohibiting the sale or use of blank cartridges for ceremonial, theatrical or
athletic events. (Ord. 126, 4-25-1967)
5-4-3: FIREWORKS RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful to sell, transport or use any fireworks within the city
except as hereinafter provided.
It shall be lawful for any person to possess for sale within the city, sell or
offer for sale at retail, or use within the city the permissible fireworks
herein enumerated. Permissible fireworks shall include dangerous articles and
more specifically shall include, and be limited to, the following, but
specifically excluding sky rockets, Roman candles and dago bombs:
   A.   Helicopter type spinners, total pyrotechnic composition not to exceed
twenty grams (20 g) each in weight;
   B.   Cylindrical fountains, total pyrotechnic composition not to exceed
twenty five grams (25 g) each in weight. The inside tube diameter shall not
exceed three-fourths inch (3/4");
   C.   Cone fountains, total pyrotechnic composition not to exceed fifty grams
(50 g) each in weight;
   D.   Wheels, total pyrotechnic composition not to exceed sixty grams (60 g)
in weight for each driver unit, but there may be any number of drivers on any
one wheel. The inside bore of driver tubes shall not be over one-half inch (1/
2");
   E.   Illuminating torches and colored fire in any form, total pyrotechnic
composition not to exceed one hundred grams (100 g) each in weight;
   F.   Sparklers and dipped sticks, total pyrotechnic composition not to
exceed one hundred grams (100 g) each in weight. Pyrotechnic composition
containing any chlorate shall not exceed five grams (5 g);
   G.   Firecrackers with soft casings, the external dimensions of which do not
exceed one and one-half inches (11/2") in length or one-fourth inch (1/4") in
diameter, total pyrotechnic composition not to exceed two (2) grains each in
weight;
   H.   Whistles without report, total pyrotechnic composition not to exceed
forty grams (40 g) each in weight.
It shall be unlawful for any individual under the age of eighteen (18) to
possess for sale, sell or offer for sale within the city, permissive fireworks
herein enumerated.
It shall be unlawful for any wholesaler to sell, or offer for sale within the
city, fireworks, except as herein defined. (Ord. 126, 4-25-1967)
5-4-4: DATES SALES PERMITTED; DISCHARGE HOURS; DEBRIS:
   A.   No person shall offer "fireworks" of any kind as defined herein for
sale at retail at any time other than:
      1.   From ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on June 24
through July 3 and from ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. to twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight on July 4; and
      2.   From ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on
December 29 through December 30 and from ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. to twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight on December 31;
of each year.
As a condition to being able to offer fireworks for retail sale, the seller of
fireworks shall post a complete copy of the city's fireworks ordinance in a
prominent location at the place of retail sale so as to be readily observable
to customers.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge fireworks within the
city at any time, except during the following hours:
      1.   Ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on July 1
through July 3;
      2.   Ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. until twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on
July 4; and
      3.   Eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on December 31 until one o'clock (1:00)
A.M. on the immediately following day.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge fireworks from or on
any city property.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or deposit firework debris
or litter in or upon any city property, or street, alley, or adjacent right of
way located within the city. (Ord. 244, 12-21-2010)
5-4-5: SUPERVISED PUBLIC DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS:
Public displays of fireworks shall be unlawful except as hereinafter provided.
Applicants for supervised public displays of fireworks by fair associations,
amusement parks and other organizations or groups of individuals shall obtain
permits and any required indemnity bond from the state of Montana, department
of justice's fire prevention and investigation bureau in advance of the date of
the display. Every such display shall not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person or persons. After such permit has been granted and any required
indemnity bond obtained, sales, possession, use, and distribution of fireworks
for supervised public display shall be lawful for that purpose only. A granted
permit shall not be transferable. (Ord. 206, 6-18-1996)
5-4-6: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the use of fireworks by
railroads or other transportation agencies for signal purposes or illumination,
or when used in quarrying or blasting or other industrial use, or the sale or
use of blank cartridges for a show or theater, or for signal or ceremonial
purposes in athletics or sports or for use by military organizations, or
organizations composed of veterans of the United States army, navy or marine
corps. (Ord. 206, 6-18-1996)
5-4-7: CONFISCATION:
The chief of police or any police officer shall seize, take, remove or cause to
be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks or combustibles
offered or exposed for sale, stored or held in violation of this chapter. (Ord.
126, 4-25-1967; amd. Ord. 206, 6-18-1996)
5-4-8: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed six (6) months,
or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 206, 6-18-1996)
TITLE 6
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
MISDEMEANORS
SECTION:
6-1-1: State Laws Adopted
6-1-2: False Fire Alarms
6-1-3: Public Drinking, Display And Exhibition Of Liquor Or Beer
6-1-4: Discharge Of Firearms Prohibited; Exceptions; Penalty
6-1-1: STATE LAWS ADOPTED:
Any person committing acts in the city or within the police jurisdiction
thereof, not specifically declared to be an offense by any other ordinance or
provision of this code, but which are declared to be misdemeanors by any law or
laws of the state shall, upon conviction thereof, suffer the same punishment as
is provided by the state law but subject to the maximum sentence allowed to be
decreed by city magistrates, and the prosecution of such offense so committed
in the city or within the police jurisdiction thereof, may be had before the
police magistrate. In pursuance thereof, there are hereby adopted by reference
all such state laws defining misdemeanors, except where the subject is
otherwise specifically covered by a provision of this code. Such laws shall be
in force and effect as though set out at length herein. (Ord. 61, 11-5-1945;
amd. 1980 Code)
6-1-2: FALSE FIRE ALARMS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to negligently or maliciously turn in any
fire alarm at any fire alarm box or central station, and any person so doing
shall upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 63, 12-3-1945)
6-1-3: PUBLIC DRINKING, DISPLAY AND EXHIBITION OF LIQUOR OR BEER:
   A.   Definitions: The following words and phrases used in this section shall
be defined as follows:
   BEER: Any beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt, hops or of any similar products in drinkable water
containing not more than four percent (4%) of alcohol by weight.
   LIQUOR OR LIQUORS: Any alcoholic, spirituous, vinous, fermented, malt or
other liquor which contains more than one percent (1%) of alcohol by weight,
but which shall not mean or include beer as that term is defined in the Montana
beer act.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled by which any person or
property is, or may be, transported or drawn upon a public highway.
   PUBLIC DISPLAY OR EXHIBITION OF BEER OR LIQUOR: The carrying and exhibiting
of open cans or bottles of beer, or the carrying and exhibiting of glasses or
other types of containers, either empty or containing beer or liquor, from
retail liquor or beer establishments to any public place as defined in this
subsection or to, in, on or within any motor vehicle while parked or operated
on any public place as defined in this subsection; but does not include
carrying or transporting such beer or liquor from retail liquor or beer
establishments in sacks, cases, boxes, cartons or other similar containers with
unbroken seals when no display or exhibition is made, nor transporting from
private residences.
   PUBLIC DRINKING: The drinking or consuming of beer or liquor in any "public
places" as defined in this subsection or within or upon any motor vehicle while
parked or operated in any "public places" as defined in this subsection.
   PUBLIC PLACES: All streets, avenues, alleys, public parking lots and motor
vehicles when parked or operated on any streets, avenues, alleys or public
parking lots within the city limits of the city, but shall not include Kennedy
park.
   B.   Public Drinking, Display, Exhibition Prohibited: Public drinking and
public display and exhibition of "beer" or liquor as defined herein is hereby
prohibited, and it shall be unlawful for any person to engage in "public
drinking" as herein defined within the limits of the city; and it shall be
unlawful for any person to engage in any public display or exhibition of "beer"
or liquor as herein defined within the city limits of the city.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in a sum of not less than ten dollars
($10.00) nor more than fifty dollars ($50.00) for each separate offense. (Ord.
140, 9-20-1977)
6-1-4: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or shoot
any loaded firearm, air gun, pistol, pellet gun, BB gun, slingshot or bow and
arrow within the city limits of East Helena, subject to the exceptions
delineated herein.
   B.   Exceptions: Nothing in this section shall apply to:
      1.   Any peace officer in the discharge of his duties.
      2.   Any citizen in the legitimate and urgent protection of his life or
that of his family or of his property.
      3.   Any legitimate display of firearms at shows or other public occasion
by collectors and others, provided such events and individuals making the
discharge are approved by the city.
      4.   Any person participating in a hunter, gun or archery safety class
authorized by the city.
      5.   Areas designated as indoor or outdoor firearm or archery ranges as
designated and approved by the city.
   C.   Penalty: Any person convicted of a violation of any provision of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed
five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed
six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 185, 6-16-1992)
CHAPTER 2
NONMEDICAL DRUG ADDICTS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definition
6-2-2: Commitment Required
6-2-3: Discharge
6-2-1: DEFINITION:
For the purposes of this chapter a "nonmedical habitual user of narcotic drugs"
shall mean any person who uses narcotic drugs merely to satisfy a craving for
such drugs and who does not have a legitimate medical need for narcotic drugs.
(Ord. 81, 11-19-1951)
6-2-2: COMMITMENT REQUIRED:
   A.   The chief of police or police magistrate, upon the voluntary
application to him of any nonmedical habitual user of narcotic drugs, shall
commit such person to any hospital maintained by the city, which hospital must
receive such addict for treatment of drug addiction.
   B.   Whenever a complaint is made to the chief of police or other designated
official of the city, that any person is a nonmedical habitual user of any
narcotic drug, accompanied by a certificate executed by the health officer of
the city certifying that such person is a nonmedical habitual user of narcotic
drugs, he shall commit such person to any hospital maintained by the city,
which hospital must receive such person for treatment of drug addiction. (Ord.
81, 11-19-1951)
6-2-3: DISCHARGE:
No person, whether committed upon voluntary application or upon complaint being
filed, shall be discharged sooner than six (6) months from the date of such
commitment, unless the health officer shall certify to the committing
magistrate that any person so committed has received maximum benefit from such
treatment. (Ord. 81, 11-19-1951)
CHAPTER 3
DOGS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Enforcement
6-3-3: Animal Shelter
6-3-4: Impoundment And Disposition
6-3-5: Redemption And Destruction
6-3-6: Impoundment Fees
6-3-7: Public Nuisance Dogs
6-3-8: Vicious Dogs
6-3-9: Dog Bites
6-3-10: Licensing
6-3-11: Restraint Of Dogs
6-3-12: Vaccination
6-3-13: Warnings
6-3-14: Records
6-3-15: Restitution
6-3-16: Dogs Prohibited In City Parks, Exception
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
set forth below:
   ABANDONED: Any dog that is not fed or sheltered by its owner.
   ANIMAL SHELTER: Any place designated by the City to impound and care for
dogs violating this chapter.
   BARKING DOG: Any dog which annoys or disturbs any person by repeated and
frequent barking, yelping, or howling.
   CONFINED: Within the premises or property boundary of the owner or under the
restraint of the owner or another person authorized to control the dog.
   DOG CONTROL OFFICER OR DCO: Any person hired by or contracted with by the
City to enforce this chapter. This term includes a Law Enforcement Officer of
the City.
   OWNER: Any person who owns, keeps, or harbors a dog or allows the same to
remain or be fed in or about his premises.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE: Any dog that threatens people or property specifically
including livestock, other dogs, or pets; that damages or destroys property;
that is abandoned or deserted by its owner; that is not restrained as required
by this chapter; that is not licensed as required by this chapter; that is not
vaccinated as required by this chapter; or, that is a barking dog as defined by
this chapter.
   RESTRAINT: Being controlled by a leash, at the heel position, in a vehicle,
or on the property of the owner of the dog.
   VACCINATED: Inoculated with an antirabies vaccine within the previous two
(2) years.
   VICIOUS DOG: Any dog that, unprovoked, bites, or attempts to bite any person
or that, unprovoked, had killed or injured another animal. (Ord. 177, 8-7-1990)
6-3-2: ENFORCEMENT:
This chapter shall be enforced by the DCO or any City Law Enforcement Officer.
The Chief of Police shall be the primary Animal Control Officer of the City.
(Ord. 177, 8-7-1990)
6-3-3: ANIMAL SHELTER:
All animals shall be kept in a safe and sanitary condition and shall be
regularly fed and watered in a humane manner. A shelter may be built and
operated by the City or the City may contract with a veterinarian or other
suitable person or organization to supply or operate a shelter. (Ord. 177, 8-7-
1990)
6-3-4: IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION:
The following dogs are subject to impoundment:
   A.   A dog which is a public nuisance in violation of section
6-3-7 of this chapter.
   B.   A vicious dog in violation of section
6-3-8 of this chapter.
   C.   A dog held for quarantine.
   D.   An injured dog whose owner cannot be located.
   E.   A dog subject to restraint which is in violation of section
6-3-11 of this chapter.
The DCO may impound such dogs upon personal observation, or as ordered by a
court having jurisdiction over the offenses herein, or in response to a written
complaint signed by the complainant and which contains the complainant's name
and address, the dog's description, and an explanation of the reason for the
violation. The DCO will impound dogs at the animal shelter where they will be
confined for not less than three (3) nor more than five (5) days. the DCO shall
make a reasonable effort to notify the owner of any impounded dog. (Ord. 177,
8-7-1990)
6-3-5: REDEMPTION AND DESTRUCTION:
Should any impounded dog not be reclaimed by its owner within three (3) days,
it may be humanely destroyed or placed with a person deemed suitable by the
shelter. Notwithstanding the above, the shelter manager may destroy any sick or
injured dog before the three (3) day period if the shelter manager determines
it is necessary and humane. Destruction will be medically acceptable and by
humane means. (Ord. 177, 8-7-1990)
6-3-6: IMPOUNDMENT FEES:
Impounded dogs may be reclaimed by the owner by payment of a twenty five dollar
($25.00) impoundment fee and a boarding fee set by the shelter. Payment of
these fees shall be made to the shelter. (Ord. 177, 8-7-1990)
6-3-7: PUBLIC NUISANCE DOGS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain a dog which is
a public nuisance.
   B.   Any person who keeps or maintains a dog which is a public nuisance in
violation of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a
fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) for more than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for the first offense, not less than sixty dollars ($60.00)
or more than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for the second offense, and
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) or more than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) for the third and any subsequent offense.
   C.   Second and subsequent offenses as set forth above are chargeable
directly to the person violating this chapter and are not dependent upon the
involvement of the same dog.
   D.   Upon the conviction of any person under this section, the court may, in
its discretion, order any public nuisance dog or dogs owned or kept by such
person to be impounded as set forth in sections 6-3-4, 6-3-5, and 6-3-6 of this
chapter. Where the owner is convicted of keeping or maintaining two (2) or more
public nuisance dogs, and it cannot be ascertained through the testimony of the
owner or otherwise the specific dogs which are the subject matter of the
complaint, the court may impound all dogs of the owner. (Ord. 177, 8-7-1990)
6-3-8: VICIOUS DOGS:
Any person who keeps or maintains a "vicious dog" as defined in section
6-3-1 of this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable for a first
offense by a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) or destruction of the dog,
or both. If the dog is not ordered destroyed, the dog shall be confined at all
times. A second offense involving the same dog is punishable by a fine to the
owner of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and upon the second conviction,
the dog shall be turned over to the DCO for destruction unless the dog is
permanently removed outside the corporate limits of the city within forty eight
(48) hours of the owner's conviction. (Ord. 212, 5-27-1997)
6-3-9: DOG BITES:
   A.   If any dog bites a person within the city, the bite shall be
immediately reported to the DCO, who shall promptly investigate the matter. If
the DCO determines that the dog does not have current rabies shots as set forth
in section
6-3-12 of this chapter, then the DCO or any city law enforcement officer shall
order the quarantine of the dog, at the owner's expense, in an escape proof
enclosure at a veterinarian's office, at a kennel not operated by the owner, or
at an animal shelter. If the dog is quarantined by the DCO, the owner shall pay
an impoundment fee.
   B.   If the owner is not home, the order may be served upon a person at the
owner's residence of suitable age, or by placing it in a prominent place at the
main entrance of the residence. The dog shall be seized by the DCO if the owner
refuses to surrender the dog within a reasonable time after receiving the
notice. If the owner is unknown or the dog is at large, the DCO may seize and
impound the dog without notice. All dogs impounded under this section shall be
quarantined as required by the Montana Department of Health and Environmental
Sciences. (Ord. 177, 8-7-1990)
6-3-10: LICENSING:
   A.   Required: Any person who owns, harbors, or keeps any dog within the
City must license the dog with the City Clerk within thirty (30) days after the
dog becomes six (6) months old or within thirty (30) days of the date the dog
was brought into the City. The licenses shall be renewed by March 1 (the due
date) of each year by supplying to the City Clerk the required fee, the owner's
name and address, a description of the dog including name, color, age, and sex,
and written proof of a current rabies vaccination, in accordance with the
manufacturer's recommended time period. Licenses are not transferable between
dogs or owners.
   B.   License Fees:
 
1. Spayed or neutered dog (written proof required)  $ 3.00
2. Unaltered dog                                    10.00
3. Duplicate tags                                   1.00
4. Delinquent tags (tags sold after due date)        Applicable fee plus $1.00
 
   C.   Issuance: Licenses will be issued for one (1) year, beginning with
January 1 of each year. Licenses shall not be delinquent if after the due date:
1) the dog became six (6) months old; 2) the owners moved into the City; or 3)
the dog was acquired after the due date.
   D.   Chain And Tags Required: Every dog within the City shall wear a choke
chain, collar or harness which has attached to it the current license and
rabies vaccination tags issued to that dog. (Ord. 177, 8-7-1990)
6-3-11: RESTRAINT OF DOGS:
No person shall permit any dog which he owns, harbors, or keeps to be off of
the property of the owner unless such dog is under the restraint of the owner
or another person authorized to control the dog. (Ord. 181, 4-2-1991)
6-3-12: VACCINATION:
It is unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, or harbor any dog over six (6)
months of age unless it has been vaccinated against rabies and is currently
immune. Dogs must be vaccinated every two (2) years. (Ord. 177, 8-7-1990)
6-3-13: WARNINGS:
At the DCO's discretion, one (1) warning may be issued to owners of dogs in
violation of this chapter. (Ord. 177, 8-7-1990)
6-3-14: RECORDS:
The City shall assure that accurate records are maintained of requests for
services, any capture, impoundment, or disposition of a dog, and all money
collected. The records shall show the time, date, and method of notifying
owners of the capture and impoundment of their dog. (Ord. 177, 8-7-1990)
6-3-15: RESTITUTION:
Any court having jurisdiction to hear and decide misdemeanor offenses in this
chapter shall also be able to order full restitution for such offenses. (Ord.
177, 8-7-1990)
6-3-16: DOGS PROHIBITED IN CITY PARKS 1
, EXCEPTION:
Except as otherwise provided herein, no person shall permit any dog which he
owns, harbors, or keeps to be within any of the City parks within the City of
East Helena. The owner, harborer, or keeper of such dog, including the parent
or guardian of any such person under the age of eighteen (18) years, shall be
strictly liable for any such violation of this section. This section shall not
apply to a service dog actually assisting and accompanying a person with a
disability as defined by applicable law.
Exception: A dog may be accompanied by its handler upon the graveled,
asphalted, or cemented walkways within Kennedy Park, provided:
   A.   The dog remains only upon these walkways;
   B.   The dog and handler are appropriately connected to each other with a
dog leash of not more than eight feet (8') in length;
   C.   The dog is currently licensed by the City or other County or
municipality and this license is evidenced by the dog or handler; and
   D.   Handler will remove all fecal substance from the park and while walking
the dog, and the handler is in physical possession of an appropriate bag for
such purpose. (Ord. 258, 8-18-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
   6-4-6 of this title.
CHAPTER 4
ANIMALS OTHER THAN DOGS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Animals Running At Large Prohibited
6-4-2: Impoundment, Fees
6-4-3: Feeding Animals, Charges
6-4-4: Keeping Animals Restricted, Exceptions
6-4-5: Penalty
6-4-6: Animals Prohibited In City Parks
6-4-1: ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or any person in control or charge of any
horses, cattle, sheep, goats or other domestic animals to suffer or permit the
same to run at large within the city limits. (Ord. 138, 1-20-1977)
6-4-2: IMPOUNDMENT, FEES:
All such animals found running at large may be impounded by the animal control
officer of the city. When any such animal is taken up and confined, it shall
not be released until the owner shall pay to the animal control officer having
such animal in charge, the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) as his fee for taking up
or discharging each and every such animal taken up and confined, and the sum of
five dollars ($5.00) for the suitable and proper sustenance of each and every
such animal for every twenty four (24) hours the same shall be kept. For a
second violation of this section in the same calendar year, the further sum of
twenty dollars ($20.00) for each and every animal so impounded and for every
subsequent offense during the same calendar year, an additional twenty dollars
($20.00) for each and every animal so impounded. (Ord. 138, 1-20-1977)
6-4-3: FEEDING ANIMALS, CHARGES:
It shall be the duty of the animal control officer to furnish such necessary
forage as shall or may be necessary for the sustenance of any and all animals
impounded for which he shall receive the sum of five dollars ($5.00) per day
for each animal impounded as provided in section
6-4-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 138, 1-20-1977)
6-4-4: KEEPING ANIMALS RESTRICTED, EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the city
limits, any swine, rabbits, horses, cattle, sheep, goats or other domestic
animals, except domestic dogs and cats.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the city
limits any poultry, except a maximum of six (6) chickens may be kept or
maintained in compliance with the following:
      1.   No rooster may be kept.
      2.   All chickens shall have a covered, hen house or coop providing a
floor space of not less than four (4) square feet per chicken.
      3.   All chickens shall be kept within a hen house, coop or a fenced
enclosure at all times, however all chickens shall be kept secured within a
henhouse or coop during nondaylight hours.
      4.   No hen house, coop or fenced enclosure shall be located in the front
yard, and shall not be closer than ten feet (10') to any property line of any
adjacent property, or within twenty five feet (25') of any adjacent residential
structure. Odors from chickens, chicken manure, or other chicken related
substances shall not be detectable at any of the property boundaries.
      5.   Any hen house, coop or fenced enclosure for the keeping of chickens
shall be: a) constructed and maintained so as to prevent any rodent or other
pest from being harbored underneath, within, or within any wall of the
enclosure; b) impermeable to rodents, wild birds, predators, including dogs and
cats; and c) kept in neat and clean condition, including provision of clean,
dry bedding material and regular waste material removal.
      6.   Feed and all other items associated with the keeping of chickens
that are attractable to any rodent or other pest shall be kept secured within a
secure container or otherwise protected so as to prevent rodent and pest
access.
      7.   Chickens may be kept only on a single-family parcel of property.
Chickens may be kept on a parcel having more than one dwelling unit provided
all residents and the owner consent in writing to allowing the chickens on the
property, and the owner of the chickens maintains, and produces a copy of the
fully signed approval document for inspection upon request of any law
enforcement officer.
      8.   The sale of eggs or any other chicken product generated within the
city is prohibited.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any chicken in
the city without complying with these regulations. Any dog or cat that attacks
or kills a chicken, for that reason alone, will not be considered a dangerous
or aggressive animal.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any chicken
that individually or collectively constitutes a nuisance to any person,
including, but not limited to, noxious odor to any neighbor due to the animal
or its enclosure; or noise of a loud and persistent nature.
   E.   Nothing herein shall prohibit a property owner from establishing or
enforcing a chicken-keeping or maintenance private property restriction or
regulation more stringent than provided herein, including a complete
prohibition. (Ord. 254, 5-20-2014)
6-4-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and punished by a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00)
and if such violation be continuing, each day's violation shall be a separate
offense. (Ord. 138, 1-20-1977)
6-4-6: ANIMALS PROHIBITED IN CITY PARKS 1
:
No person shall permit any animal which he owns, harbors, or keeps to be within
any of the city parks within the city. The owner, harborer, or keeper of such
animal, including the parent or guardian of any such person under the age of
eighteen (18) years, shall be strictly liable for any such violation of this
section. This section shall not apply to a service animal actually assisting
and accompanying a person with a disability as defined by applicable law. (Ord.
194, 4-19-1994)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
   6-3-16 of this title.
CHAPTER 5
CURFEW
SECTION:
6-5-1: Curfew Hours
6-5-2: Parental Responsibility
6-5-3: Violations
6-5-1: CURFEW HOURS:
Except when accompanied by a parent or by an adult acting with or by the
authority of a parent, or except when upon an errand for same, or except when
in legal employment, shall any child less than eighteen (18) years of age go
about any public place within the city between the hour of ten thirty o'clock
(10:30) P.M. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, or the hour of
one o'clock (1:00) A.M. on Friday and Saturday, and the hour of six o'clock (6:
00) A.M. following; provided however, that the hour of ten thirty o'clock (10:
30) P.M. shall not be applicable, but that the hour of one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
of the day following shall be applicable to the going about of children less
than eighteen (18) years of age on the date preceding any legal holiday and
shall be similarly applicable during the period December 23 to January 2
inclusive. (Ord. 101, 3-17-1938; amd. 1980 Code)
6-5-2: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
Except as above excepted, no parent and no persons acting with or by the
authority of a parent shall permit any child of the ages above named to violate
this chapter, and lack of knowledge of such violation shall constitute no
defense. (Ord. 101, 3-17-1958)
6-5-3: VIOLATIONS:
Parents and others in parental positions shall have timely forewarning of
violations hereunder and opportunity to set good example and to correct
violations in the privacy of the home, the police officers of the city shall
immediately take all children found in apparent first violation of this chapter
to the police station and summon their parents, legal guardians or other
persons in loco parentis to said police station and upon their arrival, the
child in apparent violation shall be remanded to the custody of such parent,
legal guardian or other persons in loco parentis, and the officer shall make a
report to the chief of police of all children apprehended hereunder, their
residences, their parents and others, if any, charged with their custody. And
if such parent, legal guardian or other persons in loco parentis cannot be
located, said child or children or any of them, found in apparent violation
shall remain in the custody of the police department or be turned over to
juvenile authorities as the chief of police may see fit, for custody until such
parent can be located and so summoned.
Thereafter any child found in apparent second or subsequent violation of this
chapter shall be delivered to the juvenile authorities for disposal as the
juvenile court shall decree. Any parent or other person charged with the
custody of such child shall, when found guilty of a second or subsequent
violation hereof, be sentenced as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 101, 3-17-1958)
CHAPTER 6
ABANDONED, WRECKED PROPERTY
SECTION:
6-6-1: Abandoned, Wrecked Property Prohibited
6-6-2: Removal From Private Property
6-6-3: Sale Of Impounded Properties
6-6-4: Redemption After Sale
6-6-1: ABANDONED, WRECKED PROPERTY PROHIBITED:
   A.   Abandoned Property: A vehicle, motor vehicle, trailer, recreational
vehicle (RV) or watercraft left on a City street, alley, roadway or public
property over seventy two (72) hours without being moved may be declared
abandoned. After the vehicle has been declared abandoned, the City police may
place a five (5) day notice of intent to remove and impound the vehicle. The
owner of the vehicle, motor vehicle, trailer, recreational vehicle (RV) or
watercraft which has been removed and impounded will be responsible for moving
and storage expenses arising from the transportation of said vehicle, motor
vehicle, trailer, recreational vehicle (RV) or watercraft.
   B.   Penalty: Any person convicted of a violation of this section may be
fined in a sum not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for any one offense
and such person may be confined in the County Jail for a period of not more
than six (6) months. Either or both such fine and imprisonment may be imposed.
(Ord. 267, 11-20-2018)
6-6-2: REMOVAL FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY:
If at any time, a vehicle is parked upon private property without the consent
of the owner of such property, the Police Department is hereby authorized to
remove said vehicle therefrom and to cause the same to be stored, provided the
owner of such private property has first signed a complaint against the owner
or operator of said vehicle.
The City shall have a lien for all necessary costs of removing and storing such
vehicle and said vehicle may be held by the City until such lien is paid. (1980
Code)
6-6-3: SALE OF IMPOUNDED PROPERTIES:
All motor vehicles and other personal property impounded or heretofore
impounded by the Police Department and unredeemed by the owner thereof for a
period of sixty (60) days shall thereafter be subject to sale by the Chief of
Police to the highest bidder for cash as hereinafter provided, and the proceeds
of said sale shall be applied to the removal and storage charges accumulated
against each article, which shall be deposited with the Treasurer and credited
with him and shall be kept in a separate fund for a period of one year from the
date of receipt and if at the end of said year the former owner of said
property has not made satisfactory proof of claim then the balance of said
proceeds of sale shall be credited to the General Fund of the City. (1980 Code)
6-6-4: REDEMPTION AFTER SALE:
Any person claiming to be the owner of any impounded property shall make
written application therefor to the Police Department and shall furnish such
additional proof as may be required to establish said ownership of said
impounded property prior to the date of actual sale thereof, then the property
itself shall be delivered to said owner under these conditions; but if said
property has been sold then the department shall endorse its finding of
ownership with a copy of the written application, which application and
findings shall be addressed to the Clerk and if presented within one year after
said sale, then such balance of the proceeds of the sale, after deductions,
shall be paid to said owner.
Any appeal from the removal, storage and publication costs, if any, assessed by
the Police Department shall be in the same manner as provided by law. (1980
Code)
CHAPTER 7
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-7-1: Sale Of Unclaimed Personal Property
6-7-2: Jurisdiction
6-7-1: SALE OF UNCLAIMED PERSONAL PROPERTY:
   A.   Auction Sale Of Property: All personal property in possession of the
police department, and unclaimed by the owner thereof for a period of six (6)
months, may be sold by the chief of police at public auction, for cash, to the
highest bidder.
   B.   Notice Of Sale: Notice of sale, specifying the property to be sold,
date and place of sale, shall be published in at least one publication of a
newspaper published in said city and said date of sale shall be not less than
ten (10) days from the first publication (or in the case of only 1 publication,
then from date of publication) and not more than fifteen (15) days from such
publication. (Ord. 156, 4-16-1985)
6-7-2: JURISDICTION:
Each police officer of the city is hereby authorized to make an arrest of a
person charged with or committing crime(s):
   A.   Within the limits of the city;
   B.   Within five (5) miles of the limits of the city; and
   C.   Along the line of water supply of the city. (Ord. 220, 7-19-2000)
TITLE 7
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
HEALTH NUISANCES
SECTION:
7-1-1: Nuisances Prohibited
7-1-1-1: Pens, Stables
7-1-1-2: Cellars, Vaults, Privies
7-1-1-3: Dead Animals
7-1-1-4: Deposits Of Offensive Materials
7-1-1-5: Slaughtering Animals
7-1-1-6: Dangerous Dwellings
7-1-1-7: Deposits On Public Ways
7-1-1-8: Deposits In Waterways
7-1-2: Abatement Of Nuisance
7-1-3: Control Of Community Decay; Enforcement
7-1-1: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
7-1-1-1: PENS, STABLES:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to, within the limits of the city, keep or
maintain any pen, enclosure, stable or building for swine, horses, cattle or
other animals, in such a filthy condition as to be offensive to neighbors or
passersby or injurious to the health of the neighborhood. (Ord. 22, 10-12-1927)
7-1-1-2: CELLARS, VAULTS, PRIVIES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to suffer any cellar, vault, private drain
pool, privy, sewer or ground upon any premises belonging to or occupied by him
to become nauseous, foul, offensive or injurious to public health or offensive
or injurious to any person. (Ord. 22, 10-12-1927)
7-1-1-3: DEAD ANIMALS:
It shall be the duty of the owner of any animal dying within the city limits,
forthwith, or with all reasonable dispatch, and before the same becomes
offensive from decomposition, to remove the same beyond the city limits and
burn or bury the same and it shall be unlawful for such owner to fail, neglect
or refuse to remove, burn or bury the same after reasonable notice, or to throw
or leave any such dead animal in any public way, or on any private grounds or
in any watercourse, or in any pit or vault, unburied, and if the party
responsible therefor shall not proceed at once to abate such nuisance, it shall
be done by the chief of police, and the costs thereof may be recovered in an
action before the police judge. (Ord. 22, 10-12-1927)
7-1-1-4: DEPOSITS OF OFFENSIVE MATERIALS:
No person shall throw, place or conduct, or suffer any member of his family, or
any servant or employee, to throw, place or conduct into any street, alley or
lot, any putrid or decaying meat, fish, fowl, hides or skin of any kind or
filth, offal, dung, dead animals, vegetables or fruit, or other decaying or
offensive matter whatever, or anything likely to become so, or allow such
filth, offal, dung or other offensive matter as aforesaid to be or remain upon
his premises, or in any outhouse, stable, privy or other place occupied by him,
or in any street or alley in the rear or front of such premises, in such manner
as to be offensive to the neighborhood, or offensive or injurious to any
person. (Ord. 22, 10-12-1927)
7-1-1-5: SLAUGHTERING ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to slaughter or kill any cattle, calves,
sheep or swine within the city limits or within half a mile of the same, or
occupy or use any yard, pen, enclosure or building for the purpose aforesaid
without written permission from the council. (Ord. 22, 10-12-1927)
7-1-1-6: DANGEROUS DWELLINGS:
Whenever any frame structure within the city limits has been damaged by fire or
natural decay to such an extent as to be unfit for use and dangerous to
adjoining premises or passersby, the council shall, by a resolution in writing,
declare the same to be a nuisance, and shall direct the chief of police to
notify the owner or owners thereof to remove or repair the same as it may seem
fit within a time to be specified in said notice. (Ord. 22, 10-12-1927)
7-1-1-7: DEPOSITS ON PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person within the limits of the city to
deposit or store personal property or storage containers in or upon any street,
thoroughfare or alley of this municipality, or in or upon any municipal
recreational property. In addition, it shall be unlawful to deposit or leave
any garbage, waste paper, rubbish, refuse, or debris of any kind in or upon any
street, thoroughfare or alley of this municipality, or to allow the same to
accumulate upon premises occupied by him or her so as to become dangerous to
such or adjoining premises.
   B.   A person may obtain a permit from the City Public Works Director for
short-term storage of building materials or building debris while active
construction or demolition is taking place on the abutting premises. The permit
shall specify the beginning and end date of storage, the materials to be
stored, the location to be utilized for storage, the address the use is
pertaining to and the requesting party’s name, address and phone number. (Ord.
22, 10-12-1927; amd. Ord. 268, 6-4-2019)
7-1-1-8: DEPOSITS IN WATERWAYS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, empty or throw manure, tin cans or
other course rubbish, or any dead animals into any covered or open water ditch,
flume or natural watercourse within the limits of the city. (Ord. 22, 10-12-
1927)
7-1-2: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE:
The chief of police or any officer designated by the mayor shall have authority
at all times between the rising and setting of the sun to enter upon any
building or premises and to do and perform whatever is necessary and proper for
the thorough inspection of the same. No person shall resist or obstruct any
officer in the performance of such duty, and whenever any person shall be
convicted of committing or maintaining a nuisance in pursuance of any provision
of this code, the police judge may order the chief of police to abate the same
and to certify the cost thereof to him; and he shall thereupon add the amount
so certified to the fine and enforce the payment of the same in the manner
provided for the collection of fines. (Ord. 23, 10-12-1927; amd. 1980 Code)
In case any such nuisance shall be in, upon or about any vacant or unoccupied
lot, tenement or structure owned by a nonresident having no agent living in the
city, the council may by order, direct the chief of police to abate such
nuisance which shall be done at the owner's expense and the costs thereof shall
be recovered in a civil action against such owner and his property sold to
satisfy any judgment recovered. (Ord. 23, 10-12-1927)
7-1-3: CONTROL OF COMMUNITY DECAY; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to own or maintain any
community decay on or adjacent to any public roadway or alley within the city
limits.
   B.   Definitions:
   COMMUNITY DECAY: A public nuisance created by allowing rubble, debris, junk,
refuse, fecal or putrid matter to accumulate resulting in conditions that are
injurious to health, indecent, offensive to the senses or obstruct the free use
of property so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or
property.
   PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, company, association, corporation,
city, town, or any other entity whether organized for profit or not.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE: A nuisance which affects, at the same time, an entire
community or neighborhood or any considerable number of persons, although the
extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted individuals may be unequal.
   PUBLIC VIEW: Any point six feet (6') above the surface of the center of any
public road from which the community decay can be seen.
   C.   Powers And Duties Of Agencies: The city council hereby designates and
grants to the chief of police, in consultation with the Public Works Director,
the following powers and duties:
      1.   The duty to inspect when there has been a complaint by more than one
person that "community decay" is present in the area.
      2.   The power to formulate further applicable standards by which to
enforce this section.
      3.   The power to determine whether or not this section applies after an
inspection of the property or area. The violation must be within public view.
      4.   The duty to send a written notice of violation to the owner of the
property in violation of this section.
      5.   The power to enter upon the property in violation after written
notice and a show cause hearing, if applicable, for the specific purpose of
abating the violation.
      6.   The power to assess the property owner for the actual costs of an
abatement made by the city.
   D.   Notification:
      1.   When the city receives a complaint by more than one person that a
public nuisance has been created by allowing rubble, debris, junk, refuse,
fecal or putrid matter to accumulate resulting in conditions that are injurious
to health, indecent, offensive to the senses, or obstruct the free use of
property, the chief of police, in consultation with the public works director,
shall inspect the property alleged to be in violation of this section. Upon
inspection, the chief of police shall determine whether there is a violation of
this section.
      2.   If there appears to be a violation of this chapter, the chief of
police shall notify the owner of the property in writing of the violation. This
notice shall be sent by certified mail. This notice shall include a statement
specifically describing the violation.
      3.   The notice of violation to the owner shall specify that the owner
has thirty (30) days from receipt of such notice within which to become in
compliance with this section by means of removal or shielding of the
conditions.
      4.   The owner may, after notification of violation, submit a plan of
abatement to the chief of police which shall include:
         a.   Type of abatement;
         b.   Date of commencement of action; and
         c.   Reason, if appropriate, why abatement cannot be started within
the thirty (30) days. The chief of police may accept such plan and defer
further proceedings under this section pending abatement.
      5.   After thirty (30) days or the date agreed to by the owner and chief
of police, not to exceed ninety (90) days, the chief of police shall determine
whether the violation has been abated by the owner.
      6.   If the owner has failed to act, the chief of police shall send a
notice setting a date and time for a hearing before the city court notifying
the owner to appear to show cause why the violation has not been abated.
      7.   A show cause hearing will be held by the city court. Both the city
and the owner may give evidence. At the end of the hearing the city judge shall
determine if proper notification was made and if the violation exists. The
owner shall be ordered to abate it within a reasonable time.
      8.   If after a show cause hearing the owner has not complied with the
court ordered abatement, the chief of police may send written notification by
certified mail and allow ten (10) days further to complete abatement. Ten (10)
days after receipt of notice by owner, the chief of police may enter upon the
owner's property with the specific purpose of abating or shielding the
violation, whichever the chief of police deems appropriate.
      9.   The city may assess the property owner/user for the actual costs of
the abatement.
      10.   Nonpayment of the assessment made by the city may be taken as a
lien upon the property and is enforceable as are nonpayment of property taxes.
(Ord. 186, 7-21-1992)
CHAPTER 2
GARBAGE
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definitions
7-2-2: Standards For Accumulation And Storage Of Garbage
7-2-3: Prohibition
7-2-4: Bulk Storage
7-2-5: Standards For The Collection Of Refuse And Garbage
7-2-6: Responsibilities
7-2-7: Penalties
7-2-8: Rates And Charges
7-2-9: Books Of Accounts
7-2-10: Interest Assessed On Past Due Accounts
7-2-11: Owner Responsible For Payment; Delinquency Shutoff
7-2-12: City As Exclusive Provider Of Garbage And Solid Waste Disposal Services
7-2-13: Unlawful Dumping Of Garbage Or Other Refuse
7-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meaning
set forth below:
   COMMERCIAL REFUSE GENERATOR: Any person in charge of, owning, leasing,
renting, or occupying any multi-family dwelling unit in excess of one unit,
business, industrial, or commercial building, including, but not limited to, an
apartment complex, store, office, factory, or school that generates garbage.
   DISPOSAL AREA: Any site, location, tract of land, area, building, structure,
or premises used or intended to be used by a refuse generator for garbage
disposal.
   GARBAGE: Every accumulation of table scraps, ashes, paper, rags, bottles,
glass, cans, sweepings, rubbish, refuse, debris of animal, vegetable, or other
matter that attends the preparation, consumption, decay, dealing in or storage
of meats, fish, fowl, birds, fruit, or vegetables, including the cans,
containers, or wrappers wasted along with such materials, and all other waste
matter.
   GARBAGE CONTAINER: Any container provided by the City to be used by a person
or occupant to store garbage, pending collection by the City.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE: Any caustic, toxic, corrosive, flammable, or radioactive
substance that may be dangerous to the public safety and welfare. Hazardous
substance includes, but is not limited to, irritants, strong sensitizers, and
those materials defined by the United States Environmental Protection Agency
and the State of Montana as a hazardous waste, hazardous substance, or
hazardous material.
   OCCUPANT: Any person owning or occupying a dwelling unit or the person
owning, operating, managing, or keeping any commercial establishment, business
establishment, school, church, institution, or premises wherein or whereon
garbage accumulates or is likely to accumulate.
   REFUSE: Any waste product solid or having the character of solids rather
than liquids in that it will not flow readily without additional liquid and
which is composed wholly or partly of such materials as garbage, swill,
seepings, cleanings, trash, rubbish, litter, industrial solid wastes, or
domestic solid wastes; organic wastes or residue of animals sold as meat; fruit
or other vegetable or animal matter from kitchens, dining rooms, markets, food
establishments, or any places dealing in or handling meat, fowl, fruits, grain,
or vegetable offal, animal excreta, or the carcasses of animals; brick,
plaster, or other waste matter resulting from the demolition, alteration, or
construction of buildings or structures; accumulated waste material, cans,
containers, tires, junk, or other such substance which may become a nuisance.
   RESIDENTIAL REFUSE GENERATOR: Any person generating garbage other than a
commercial refuse generator as defined above.
   RUBBISH: Wood, leaves, trimmings from shrubs, dead trees, or branches
thereof, wooden ware, printed matter, paper, paper board, pasteboard, grass,
rags, straw, boots, shoes, hats, and all other combustible materials not
included under the term "garbage".
   WASTE MATTER: Waste material composed of soil, earth, sand, clay, gravel,
loam, stone, bricks, plaster, crockery, glass, glassware, ashes, cinders,
shells, metals, and all other material which has been or is discarded or is to
be discarded. (Ord. 262, 8-1-2017)
7-2-2: STANDARDS FOR ACCUMULATION AND STORAGE OF GARBAGE:
The following standards and requirements are established as a minimum for the
sanitary accumulation and storage of garbage pending collection:
   A.   All garbage shall be placed in garbage containers provided by the City.
   B.   Any material to be placed within the garbage container shall be
appropriately bagged and tied closed prior to be being deposited within the
container.
   C.   All garbage containers shall be placed for collection, at a location
designated by the Public Works Director, which facilitates the collection
process and must be at least six feet (6') from each other and any obstruction
such as automobiles, trailers, motor homes, fences, lampposts, or portable
basketball hoops. Containers are not to block pedestrian access.
   D.   The garbage containers shall be placed on a flat surface at the edge of
the traveled portion of the right-of-way so as not to obstruct the driving lane
with the lid opening facing the street.
   E.   Garbage containers shall be placed in the designated collection
location before seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on the day of collection, and after
the containers are emptied they shall be removed from the designated location
on the day of collection and stored in the area designated by the Public Works
Director.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for the occupant or tenants of any dwelling,
building, or premises within the City to dump, throw, or scatter garbage within
the enclosure of or on any premises, or within or on any alley or street
adjoining the same, or anywhere within the City.
   G.   Garbage materials that do not fit into a garbage container shall be
secured in neat bundles, easily handled by the collector and shall not exceed
four feet (4') in length. Bundles shall be placed neatly in a pile in the
generator's portion of the alley (for alley service), or adjacent to the
generator's curb line (for street service). Garbage containers and public
rights-of-way shall not be blocked by placement of such materials.
   H.   The owner or occupant shall break down materials so that they will
readily fit into the container with the lid in the closed position. Whenever
special handling is required, the refuse generator shall be responsible to
contact the City to arrange for special collection.
   I.   All garbage material shall be placed within a sturdy and closed bag
before being placed for disposal in a garbage container. (Ord. 262, 8-1-2017)
7-2-3: PROHIBITION:
No person shall place the following materials in a garbage container:
   A.   Anything that prevents the lid of the garbage container from closing.
   B.   Large limbs or trimmings that do not allow the lid of the garbage
container to close.
   C.   Flammable liquids.
   D.   Large construction, demolition, or remodeling debris.
   E.   Concrete, dirt, or plaster.
   F.   Appliances or other furniture that will not allow the container to
close.
   G.   Motor vehicle tires.
   H.   Hot ashes.
   I.   Hazardous wastes. (Ord. 262, 8-1-2017)
7-2-4: BULK STORAGE:
Bulk handling or storage of refuse of any character shall be subject to review
by the City, and the owner or occupant of any industrial, commercial, or
business establishment shall make such provisions as the City may require for
the sanitary storage and collection of such refuse as may be produced in bulk.
(Ord. 262, 8-1-2017)
7-2-5: STANDARDS FOR THE COLLECTION OF REFUSE AND GARBAGE:
The following standards and requirements are established as a minimum for the
sanitary collection of refuse and garbage:
   A.   Every owner or occupant whose container, or the place where the
containers are kept for storage or pending collection, not meeting the
requirements of this chapter, shall be duly notified by mail or by personal
contact by the City.
   B.   Upon notifying the owner or occupant of any violation of this chapter,
the investigating representative shall establish an improvement deadline and
shall give the owner or occupant at least seven (7) days' written notice of the
improvement deadline. The Director of Public Works, at the time established for
correction, shall investigate, and if the condition has been found to continue,
the Director shall declare it to be a misdemeanor.
   C.   If the City receives notice in writing from the owner that a structure
has been permanently abandoned; or if the City receives notice in writing from
the City Director of Public Works or a Lewis and Clark County Health Officer
that a structure has been condemned as not habitable, or unsanitary and
dangerous to human life, refuse and garbage service may be discontinued and
monthly charges stopped. (Ord. 262, 8-1-2017)
7-2-6: RESPONSIBILITIES:
Every person shall have the duty of maintaining premises or equipment under
their supervision, or of maintaining containers or disposal areas, in
compliance with the requirements of this chapter, Lewis and Clark County health
regulations, and all applicable provisions of State law.
Every owner remains liable for violations imposed upon them by this Code even
though an obligation is also imposed on the occupants of their buildings, and
even though the owner has, by agreement, imposed on the occupants the duty of
complying with all the requirements of this chapter.
   A.   All commercial and residential refuse generators shall maintain and
keep the area surrounding the refuse and garbage containers free from refuse,
garbage, and other hazards to the public health, safety, or welfare.
   B.   All food service establishments producing putrescible waste and all
business areas shall provide adequate and sufficient storage containers to hold
all waste accumulated between collections, without creating a public hazard.
   C.   No person shall throw or deposit any refuse, garbage, rubbish, waste
matter, or dead animal, or cause the same to be thrown or deposited upon any
street, alley, gutter, park, or other public way or throw or deposit the same
in or upon any premises or vacant lot or in any water or waterway thereto, or
store or keep the same except in containers required by this chapter.
No person shall store, deposit, or keep refuse in any place or in any manner
where rodents can have access to or feed thereon, or can use such refuse as a
harborage, nest, or breeding place.
   D.   Any person engaged in the construction, repair, or demolition of any
building or structure or part thereof, shall remove and dispose of in an
authorized manner, from any street, alley, gutter, park, sidewalk, curbing,
curb space, any public way or any premises not owned by them, all waste matter
or rubbish deposited thereon in connection with that portion of the repair,
construction, or demolition work under their special or general supervision.
Such refuse, waste matter, and rubbish shall be cleaned up, removed, and
disposed of in a sanitary manner daily from all public ways and areas, and
otherwise within seven (7) days of the final cessation of work on such building
or structure or part thereof, and the area shall be restored to its original
condition by the person conducting the work, unless otherwise specifically
authorized by the City.
   E.   No refuse, garbage, rubbish, waste matter, soil, or manure shall be
transported along any public street, alley, or public way unless such vehicle
is so constructed and loaded that no such material can fall through or out of
such vehicle.
   F.   All persons owning, occupying, or being in control of property fronting
on an alley of this City shall keep the portion of said alley between the
centerline thereof and the property line of such property, and fronting on such
property, free from refuse, garbage, rubbish, and waste matter.
   G.   No refuse or garbage shall be collected which is not contained in the
manner set forth in this chapter. Special collections shall be arranged with
the City by the refuse generator. (Ord. 262, 8-1-2017)
7-2-7: PENALTIES:
Failure to carry out the duties herein or elsewhere required for the sanitary
accumulation, collection, transportation, and disposal of garbage or failure to
comply with the requirements of this chapter is declared a misdemeanor. Any
person violating the provisions of this chapter may be fined not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00), except that the minimum fine shall be the sum of ten
dollars ($10.00). (Ord. 262, 8-1-2017)
7-2-8: RATES AND CHARGES:
It shall be the duty of the City Council to set a charge or fee for the cost of
collecting and disposing garbage in the City by establishing both residential
and commercial fees. From and after September 1, 2017, and until otherwise
prescribed by ordinance, the monthly fee for collection and disposal of garbage
shall be as follows:
 
Container        Equivalent Units Monthly Rate (Once A Monthly Rate (Twice A
                                  Week)                Week)
Grey - 95 gal.   1                $12.25               $24.50
Black - 300 gal. 1                36.75                73.50
 
The monthly rate will cover each singular garbage container being emptied once
a week. If a citizen requires that their garbage container be emptied more
often they may schedule additional recurring services with the Public Works
Director (PWD) for an additional cost. Multiple garbage containers may be
requested through the PWD for an additional cost as described in the above
chart. Finally, the PWD may schedule additional one-time services for citizens
requesting additional services due to extraordinary circumstances. The
scheduling and cost of these one-time services shall be determined by the PWD
based on scheduling priorities and the estimated total number of gallons.
The following is not garbage under this chapter and must be disposed of at the
expense of the person responsible for its production:
   A.   Construction, demolition, or remodeling debris including, but not
limited to, roof shingles, siding, concrete, or plaster.
   B.   Shrubbery, trees, tree stumps, or soil.
   C.   Appliances or furniture.
   D.   Building rubbish resulting from construction or extensive remodeling or
alteration to buildings or yards.
   E.   Any trade waste condemned in large quantities.
   F.   Motor vehicle tires.
   G.   Any pounds or tons beyond the first two thousand (2,000) pounds
delivered annually (July 1st to June 30th) to the landfill by a resident owner
or tenant will be billed directly to that individual by the landfill. Such fee
shall be determined by the landfill. (Ord. 262, 8-1-2017)
7-2-9: BOOKS OF ACCOUNTS:
All accounts for garbage collection and disposal shall be kept by the City
Clerk in the name of the owner of the property only, or their legally
authorized agent. The property owner shall be held responsible for payment of
the garbage collection and disposal rates. (Ord. 262, 8-1-2017)
7-2-10: INTEREST ASSESSED ON PAST DUE ACCOUNTS:
Garbage collection and disposal bills are due and payable within thirty (30)
days of issuance, and any such bill that is more than thirty (30) days but less
than ninety (90) days past due is late. Any unpaid garbage collection and
disposal bill that is more than ninety (90) days past due is delinquent and
shall have assessed against it interest at the rate of one and one-half percent
(1.5%) per month until paid. (Ord. 262, 8-1-2017)
7-2-11: OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR PAYMENT; DELINQUENCY SHUTOFF:
The garbage collection and disposal rates and related sums from the City shall
be charged against the property to which it is furnished and against the owner
thereof. If any sums for garbage collection and disposal services become
delinquent, the water service shall be shut off from the property and in no
case turned on again until all such delinquent amounts, including any interest
assessed and owing, have been paid in full, together with fifty dollars
($50.00) additional for the expense of turning the water on and off. No change
of ownership shall affect the application of this provision. (Ord. 262, 8-1-
2017)
7-2-12: CITY AS EXCLUSIVE PROVIDER OF GARBAGE AND SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
SERVICES:
The City shall be the sole provider of garbage and solid waste disposal
services within the corporate limits of the City, subject to the exception that
any entity providing solid waste disposal services to an existing customer
within the corporate limits of the City as of December 19, 1991, shall be
allowed to continue providing solid waste disposal services to any such
existing customer, for a period of five (5) years after the effective date
hereof. After five (5) years, the City shall be the sole provider of such
services and all private solid waste disposal and collection services shall
cease and terminate within the corporate limits of the City. (Ord. 262, 8-1-
2017)
7-2-13: UNLAWFUL DUMPING OF GARBAGE OR OTHER REFUSE:
It shall be unlawful:
   A.   For any person to dump or dispose of garbage, refuse, or waste material
into any garbage container not assigned to that person.
   B.   For any person to dump garbage or other refuse into any City owned
garbage container located in public areas, except by those persons actually
using the facilities of such public area for the disposal of garbage, refuse,
or waste material generated at that public facility.
   C.   To dispose of, place or deposit within the City limits any ashes,
garbage, trash or any other kind of rubbish generated, created or originated
outside of the boundaries of the City limits. The City is not responsible for
collecting any ashes, garbage, trash or any other kind of rubbish generated,
created or originated outside of the boundaries of the City limits. This
prohibition against the depositing of ashes, garbage, trash or any other kind
of rubbish generated, created or originated outside of the boundaries of the
City limits applies regardless of landowner permission and all ordinances shall
be interpreted to include such a prohibition regardless of landowner consent.
This prohibition does not apply to minor amounts of ashes, garbage, trash or
rubbish which may have originated outside of the City limits but are deposited
infrequently and incidentally to the use of a property within the City limits
by an owner, or the owner's lessees, invitees and guests. An example of minor,
incidental use includes, without limitation, the cleaning out of trash from a
vehicle which may have accumulated incidentally from a trip outside of the City
limits. (Ord. 262, 8-1-2017)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definitions
7-3-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
7-3-3: Sanitary Sewers, Building Sewers And Connections
7-3-4: Use Of The Public Sewers
7-3-5: Protection From Damage
7-3-6: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
7-3-7: Penalty
7-3-8: Wastewater Service Area
7-3-9: Pretreatment Of Industrial Wastewaters
7-3-10:   Sewer System Development Fee
7-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
AASHO:         The American Association of State Highway Officials.
ASTM:          The American Society for Testing Materials.
AWWA:          The American Water Works Association.
AUTHORIZED     Either a principal executive officer of at least the level of vice
REPRESENTATIVE president, if the industrial user is a partnership or
OF INDUSTRIAL  proprietorship, or a duly authorized representative, if such a
USER:          representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
               facilities from which any direct or indirect discharge originates.
               Sewage containing wastes in amounts less than or equal to two
AVERAGE SEWER  hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l) BOD and two hundred
STRENGTH:      fifty-four milligrams per liter (254 mg/l) total suspended solids
               (TSS).
BIOCHEMICAL    The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of
OXYGEN DEMAND  organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five (5)
(BOD):         days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams
               per liter.
BUILDING       The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or other
SEWER:         place of disposal, also called house connection.
BYPASS:        The intentional or unintentional diversion of waste streams from
               any portion of an industrial user's treatment facility.
COMBINED       A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or surface
SEWER:         water.
               A representative flow proportioned or time proportioned sample
COMPOSITE      collection within a twenty-four (24) hour period composed of a
SAMPLE:        minimum of twelve (12) individual samples (aliquots) collected at
               equally spaced intervals and combined according to flow or time.
EASEMENT:      An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
               others.
EDU:           Equivalent dwelling unit.
               Fats, oils and greases in a physical state such that it will
               separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved
FOG:           pretreatment facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of
               floatable fat if it is properly pretreated and the wastewater does
               not interfere with the collection system.
GARBAGE:       The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
               preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
INDUSTRIAL     Any user that discharges wastewater other than domestic wastes
USER:          from industrial or commercial processes.
               Any industrial user subject to a categorical effluent standard and
INDUSTRIAL     noncategorical users whose process flows exceed twenty-five
USER,          thousand (25,000) gallons per day, have a waste stream flow
SIGNIFICANT:   greater than five percent (5%) of the wastewater treatment plant
               capacity or have a reasonable potential to adversely affect the
               POTW, including its effluent and biosolids.
INDUSTRIAL     The wastewater from industrial processes, trade or business as
WASTES:        distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
MAY:           Is permissive (see definition of Shall).
NATURAL        Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer overflows,
OUTLET:        into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
               groundwater.
OSHA:          The occupational safety health administration.
PERSON:        Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation
               or group.
               The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration.
               The concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per
pH:            liter of solution. Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7
               and a hydrogen ion concentration of 0.0000001 milligrams per
               liter.
               The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
               pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of the pollutants'
PRETREATMENT   properties in wastewater to an acceptable level prior to or in
OR TREATMENT:  lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into
               the wastewater utility, which may be obtained by physical,
               chemical or biological processes or other means exclusive of
               dilution.
               The wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food
PROPERLY       that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles will
SHREDDED       be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in
GARBAGE:       public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2")
               (1.27 cm) in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER:  A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
               utility.
               A sewer that carries liquid and water carried wastes from
SANITARY       residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
SEWER:         institutions together with minor quantities of ground, storm and
               surface waters that are not admitted intentionally.
SEWAGE:        The spent water of a community. The preferred term is "wastewater"
               as herein defined.
SEWER:         A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
SHALL:         Is mandatory (see definition of May).
               Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
               given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of
SLUG:          duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times
               the average twenty-four (24) hour concentration or flows during
               normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection system
               and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
               Sometimes termed "storm sewer" shall mean a drain or sewer for
STORM DRAIN:   conveying water, groundwater, subsurface water or unpolluted water
               from any source.
               Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface of, or is
SUSPENDED      in suspension in water, wastewater, or other liquids, and that is
SOLIDS:        removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in "Standard
               Methods For The Examination Of Water And Wastewater" and referred
               to as nonfilterable residue.
               Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent criteria in
UNPOLLUTED     effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
WATER:         quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the
               sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
WEF:           Water environment federation.
               The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source, it
               may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from
WASTEWATER:    residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
               institutions, together with any groundwater, surface water and
               stormwater that may enter into sewer collection system.
WASTEWATER     City owned structures, equipment and processes required to
FACILITIES:    collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and
               dispose of the effluent.
WASTEWATER     An arrangement of devices and structures for treating wastewater,
TREATMENT      industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous with
WORKS:         "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or "water
               pollution control plant".
               A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
WATERCOURSE:   continuously or intermittently. (Ord. 150, 7-20-1982; amd. Ord.
               214, 11-18-1997; Ord. 279, 4-19-2022)
 
7-3-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit any unsanitary
manner on public or private property within the city, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other
objectionable waste.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any wastewater or
other polluted waters.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool, private wastewater treatment works, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater within the wastewater service
area of said city, with the exception of industrial pretreatment facilities as
required by the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the
district, except as may presently be utilized in the city, is hereby required
at the owner(s) expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to
connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, within one hundred eighty (180) days after
date of official notice to do so. (Ord. 214, 11-18-1997; amd. Ord. 150, 7-20-
1982; Ord. 279, 4-19-2022)
7-3-3: SANITARY SEWERS, BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits: 1) for
residential, and 2) for commercial and industrial wastes. In either case, the
owner(s) or his agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the
city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications
or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the city.
Residential is a permit fee of ten dollars ($10.00) and a one hundred- and
fifty-dollar ($150.00) inspection fee. Commercial and Industrial is a permit
fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) and a two-hundred-dollar ($200.00) inspection
fee.
   B.   All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall indemnify
the City from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer. The owner shall be solely
responsible for the care, maintenance and operation of their service pipes,
apparatus and connection to the City's main.
   C.   The city is not responsible for service pipes, internal plumbing and
fixtures; all owners at their own expense must keep service pipes to city mains
and all their apparatus in good working order and properly protected from
plugging, freezing or other dangers. No claims may be made against the city on
account of the plugging, freezing or breaking of any service pipes or
apparatus. No reduction from the regular rates shall be made for any time that
service pipes or fixtures may be frozen.
   D.   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer, but the city does not and will not
assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from
any such single connection aforementioned.
   E.   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of all sanitary
sewers including building sewers, and the methods to be used in excavating,
placing of the pipe, joining, testing and backfilling the trench, shall all
conform to City of East Helena Engineering Standards and uniform plumbing code.
      1.   Size: The minimum size allowed shall be four inches (4"). Pipes less
than 8" must follow City of East Helena Engineering standards. Pipe size 8" and
greater must follow City of East Helena Engineering standards and all DEQ
requirements.
      2.   Slope: The minimum slope for the following size pipe shall be
required:
         a.   One and twenty five one-hundredths foot (1.25') drop for each one
hundred feet (100') of run of four inch (4") pipe;
         b.   Sixty two one-hundredths foot (0.62') drop for each one hundred
feet (100') of run of six inch (6") pipe;
         c.   Forty one-hundredths foot (0.40') drop for each one hundred feet
(100') of run for eight inch (8") pipe;
         d.   The slope of larger diameter pipe shall conform to the
specifications contained in "Recommended Standards For Wastewater Treatment
Systems" paragraph 24.31.
      3.   Materials:
         a.   The pipe material may be polyvinyl chloride (PVC) conforming to
ASTM specification D3034 type PSM polyvinyl chloride sewer pipe and fittings
with compression ring jointing or solvent weld jointing.
         b.   No other material shall be allowed.
   E.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted at owner(s) expense by an
approved means and discharged to the public sewer.
   F.   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer.
   G.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code and City of East
Helena Engineering Standard.
   H.   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the
supervision of city representative.
   I.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner per city engineering standards. (Ord.
150, 7-20-1982; amd. Ord. 151, 10-5-1982; Ord. 279, 4-19-2022)
7-3-4: USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted
waters such as stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage or cooling water to any sewer.
   B.   No user, whether or not subject to national categorical pretreatment
standards, shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or indirectly,
any pollutant or wastewater that may interfere with the operation or
performance of the wastewater utility or pass through the treatment facility
untreated including, but not limited to, any of the following water or wastes
to any public sewers:
      1.   Any pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard in the
wastewater utility, including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed
cup flashpoint of less than one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) using
the test methods specified in 40 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) 261.21.
Prohibited materials include, without limitation, gasoline, fuel oils, mineral
oil, lubricating oil, benzene, naphtha, ethers, carbides, perchlorates and
xylene.
      2.   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or gases
in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
contaminate the sludge of any municipal system, to injure or interfere with any
sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a
public nuisance, or create any hazard in or have an adverse effect on the
waters receiving any discharge from the treatment works.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5,or higher than 10.0,
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater system.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities.
      5.   Any waters emanating from a private wastewater treatment system such
as septic tanks, cesspools or other private wastewater treatment systems.
      6.   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (e.g., BOD),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which
will interfere with the ability of the wastewater utility to meet MPDES permit
requirements; or that exceeds the limitations set forth in a national
categorical pretreatment standard.
   C.   The following described substances, materials, waters or waste shall be
limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process or
equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or will not
otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. The
city may set limitations lower than the limitations established in the
regulations below if in his opinion such more severe limitations are necessary
to meet the above objectives. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability,
the superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantity of
subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, the wastewater treatment process employed, capacity
of the wastewater treatment plant, degree of treatability of the waste in the
wastewater treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The limitations or
restrictions on materials or characteristics of waste or wastewaters discharged
to the sanitary sewer which shall not be violated without approval of the city
are as follows:
      1.   Wastewater having a temperature higher than one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C) or heat in amounts which will inhibit
biological activity in the wastewater treatment facility resulting in
interference, but in no case heat in such quantities that the temperature at
the wastewater treatment facility exceeds one hundred four degrees Fahrenheit
(104°F).
      2.   Wastewater containing more than twenty-five milligrams per liter (25
mg/l) of petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils, or product of mineral
oil origin.
      3.   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fats or
grease in excess of (25 mg/l).
      4.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded (see definition,
section
7-3-1 of this chapter). Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers
from homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering
establishments or similar places where garbage originates from the preparation
of food in kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the premises or when
served by caterers.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing heavy metals and similar
objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that causes treatment or
operational difficulties, in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR 403.5
(c) and (c).
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing odor producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the superintendent.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations.
      8.   Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a
"slug" as defined in section
7-3-1 of this chapter.
      9.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
      10.   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious or toxic gases in a
quantity that may cause acute worker health and safety problems, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
      11.   Any waters or wastes with a reasonable potential to adversely
affect the POTW, including its effluent and biosolids.
   D.   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsection D of this section, and which in
the judgment of the superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the
wastewater facilities, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city
may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewer as described in section 7-3-11 of this chapter;
      3.   Require flow equalization control over the quantities and rates of
discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
subsection J of this section.. If the City of East Helena permits the
pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the
plants and equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the city.
   E.   No person operating a filling station, garage, or similar place having
wash or grease racks shall discharge to the public sewer unless such place is
provided with a sand and grease trap of a size and construction as required by
the current edition of the uniform plumbing code or plumbing regulations in
effect at the time. No person operating a restaurant or food preparation
establishment that discharges wastewater containing greater than one hundred
milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) of oil and grease or that has a recurring
problem with grease buildup or blockage of wastewater lines shall fail to
install an adequate grease trap. All sand and grease traps shall be properly
maintained and serviced at the owner's expense. Records of maintenance and
service shall be made available to the city upon request by the city.
   F.   Where pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner(s) at his expense.
   G.   When required by the city, the owner(s) of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure
together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building
sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such
structures, when required, are required to meet all current building codes and
meet City of East Helena Engineering, Zoning and building standards.
      1.   The monitoring facility shall normally be situated outside the
building on the user's premises. All domestic wastewaters from restrooms,
showers, drinking fountains, etc., shall be kept separate from all industrial
wastewaters until the industrial wastewaters have passed through a monitoring
facility.
      2.   There shall be ample room in or near such monitoring manhole or
facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis.
The industrial user shall maintain the facility and all sampling and measuring
equipment at all times in a safe and proper operating condition at the
industrial user's expense.
      3.   Whether constructed on public or private property, the industrial
user shall construct the sampling and monitoring equipment and facilities in
accordance with monitoring requirements and all applicable local construction
standards and specifications within sixty (60) days following written
notification by the city or before final inspection approval.
      4.   All industrial users shall obtain a written permit with the citys
approval for all sampling and measuring equipment prior to its installation or
use. All measuring, tests, and analyses and all sampling shall be at the
expense of the industrial user.
   H.   The city may require a user of sewer services to provide information
needed to determine compliance with this chapter. These requirements may
include:
      1.   Wastewaters' discharge peak rate and volume for hour, day, month,
and year.
      2.   Chemical analyses of wastewaters.
      3.   Information on raw materials, processes, and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality.
      4.   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent or
other materials important to sewer use control.
      5.   A drawing of the user's property showing sewer and pretreatment
facility location.
      6.   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities.
      7.   Details of system to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the Municipal sewer.
      8.   A slug prevention plan, including a spill prevention plan where
appropriate, when a significant industrial user has a potential to discharge
slugs or spills. Where a slug prevention plan is required, the industrial user
shall update the plan every two (2) years and ensure that the plan contains at
least the minimum elements required in 40 CFR 403.8(f)(2)(v).
   I.   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of
Water And Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, durations, and frequencies are to be based
on approved methods and approved in writing by the city.
   J.   The city may execute an agreement with a facility discharging to the
POTW which provides special provisions on pollutant levels, flow rates, and
pretreatment if the city finds that:
      1.   The industrial user is making reasonable progress toward eliminating
the violation;
      2.   Acceptance of the discharge does not adversely affect the wastewater
utility nor cause violation of the city's MPDES discharge permit and applicable
federal and state laws, or national categorical pretreatment standards.
      3.   The industrial user agrees to a compliance schedule including
milestones with specific dates which will bring the industrial user into
compliance with this chapter within a reasonable time frame. (Ord. 150, 7-20-
1982; amd. Ord. 214, 11-18-1997; Ord. 279, 4-19-2022)
7-3-5: PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE:
No person(s) shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the wastewater facilities. Any person(s) violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct. (Ord. 150, 7-20-1982; amd. Ord. 279, 4-19-2022)
7-3-6: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   City employees bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing pertinent to discharge to the community
system in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      1.   The city has the authority to enter and inspect, at least twice per
year, the facilities of all industrial users. The city's authorized personnel
have the right of entry to, upon or through any premises in which an effluent
source is located or in which records required to be maintained by the
industrial user are located, and, at all reasonable times, have access to and
copy any records, inspect any monitoring equipment or methods required of the
industrial user, and sample any effluents which the owner or operator of such
source is generating.
      2.   The city has the authority to randomly sample and analyze the
effluent from industrial users, conduct surveillance activities in order to
identify, independently of information supplied by the industrial users,
occasional and continuing noncompliance with pretreatment standards, and
inspect and sample the effluent from each significant industrial user at least
twice per year. After an effluent sample has been taken, the sample can be
split at the request of the industrial user, and made available to the
industrial user so that it can conduct its own analysis.
   B.   The city is authorized to obtain information concerning industrial
processes which have a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to
the wastewater collection system. The industry may withhold information
considered confidential. The industry must establish that the revelation to the
public of the information in question might result in an advantage to
competitors.
   C.   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in subsection A of this section, the city shall observe all safety rules
applicable to the premises established by the company, and the company shall be
held harmless for injury or death to the city employees, and the city shall
indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by city employees
and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage
asserted against the company growing out of the gauging and sampling operation,
except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to
maintain safe conditions as required in subsection
7-3-5H of this chapter.
   D.   City employees bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly
negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the wastewater facilities lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent
work if any, on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms
of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 150, 7-20-1982; amd. Ord. 214, 11-18-1997; Ord. 279, 4-19-2022)
7-3-7: PENALTY:
   A.   Civil Penalty: A violation of a provision of this chapter, an
industrial user permit, or any order issued hereunder is a municipal infraction
punishable by a civil penalty of not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00)
for each violation or if the infraction is a repeat offense, a civil penalty
not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each repeat violation. Each
day on which a violation occurs or continues shall be deemed a separate and
distinct offense. In addition to the penalties provided herein, the city may
recover, as a municipal infraction, its costs for abatement or correction of
the violation and such other costs allowed by law.
   B.   Criminal Penalty: A person who violates any provision of this chapter,
an industrial user permit, or any order issued hereunder is guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) per day per violation, or imprisonment for not more than six (6)
months or both.
   C.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the city by
reason of such violation. (Ord. 218, 4-4-2000; amd. Ord. 279, 4-19-2022)
7-3-8: WASTEWATER SERVICE AREA:
   A.   Adoption Of Service Area: The official wastewater service area for the
city is that area within the boundaries of the city and currently served by
city sewer and any subsequently approved amendments thereto.
   B.   Description: The description for the service district is legally
described as consisting of the following: the current townsite of East Helena,
as amended. (Ord. 213, 8-19-1997; amd. Ord. 279, 4-19-2022)
7-3-9: PRETREATMENT OF INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATERS:
   A.   General Guidelines: The discharging of any toxicants into the sanitary
sewer system is subject to the guidelines set forth in the city's local limits
as established by the city. The city may make the established local limits more
stringent, and additional toxicants may be added to the local limits guidelines
upon determination that a toxicant is harmful to human health, the wastewater
collection system, treatment facility, or prevents economical disposal of
sludge. An industrial wastewater pretreatment system or device may be required
by the city to treat industrial flows prior to discharge to the sewer system
when it is necessary to restrict or prevent the discharge to the sewer of
certain waste constituents, to distribute more equally over a longer time
period any peak discharges of industrial wastewaters or to accomplish any
pretreatment result required by the city. Any pretreatment systems or devices
shall not be installed or operated without the prior approval of the
superintendent but such approval shall not absolve the industrial discharger of
the responsibility of meeting any industrial effluent limitation required by
the city. If inspection of pretreatment systems or devices by authorized
personnel of the city reveals such systems are not installed or operating in
conformance with the plans and procedures submitted to the city, or are not
operating in compliance with the effluent limitations required by the city, the
industrial discharger shall make those modifications necessary to meet city
requirements. In special cases, the city may require construction of sewer
lines by the discharger to convey certain industrial wastes to a specific
sewer. All pretreatment systems judged by the city to require engineering
design shall have plans prepared and signed by an engineer of suitable
discipline licensed by the state of Montana. Normally, a gravity separation
interceptor, equalizing tank, neutralization chamber and control manhole or
other monitoring facility will be required respectively to remove prohibited
settleable and floatable solids, to equalize wastewater streams varying greatly
in quantity and/or quality, to neutralize low or high pH flows, and to
facilitate inspection, flow measurement and sampling. Floor drains from
commercial or manufacturing buildings, warehouses or multiuse structures shall
not discharge directly to the sewer, but shall first discharge to a gravity
separation interceptor.
   B.   National Pretreatment Standards: The city has the authority to and will
comply with the public participation requirements of 40 CFR part 25 in the
enforcement of national pretreatment standards. This will include at least
annual public notification of industrial users which, at any time during the
previous twelve (12) months, were in significant noncompliance with applicable
pretreatment requirements.
   C.   Reporting Requirements: Significant noncategorical industrial users
shall submit to the city, at least once every six (6) months (on dates
specified by the city), a description of the nature, concentration, and flow of
the pollutants required to be sampled by the city. These reports shall be based
on sampling and analysis performed in accordance with the techniques described
in 40 CFR part 136 and amendments thereto. This sampling and analysis may be
performed by the city in lieu of the significant industrial user. Where the
wastewater treatment facility itself collects all the information for the
report, the significant industrial user will not be required to submit a
report.
   D.   Bypasses: An industrial user may allow bypass to occur which does not
cause pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated but only if it also
is for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are
not subject to the provisions of subsections E and F of this section.
   E.   Notice:
      1.   When an industrial user knows in advance of the needs for a bypass,
it shall submit prior notice to the superintendent, if possible, at least ten
(10) days before the date of the bypass.
      2.   An industrial user shall submit oral notice of an unanticipated
bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards to the City within twenty
four (24) hours from the time the industrial user becomes aware of the bypass.
A written submission shall also be provided within five (5) days of the time
the industrial user becomes aware of the bypass. The written submission shall
contain a description of the bypass and its cause, the duration of the bypass,
including exact dates and times, and if the bypass has not been corrected, the
anticipated time of the correction and steps taken or planned to reduce,
eliminate, and prevent recurrence of the bypass. The city may waive the written
report on a case by case basis if the oral report has been received within
twenty four (24) hours.
   F.   Prohibition Of Bypass:
      1.   Bypass is prohibited and the superintendent may take enforcement
action against an industrial user for bypass unless:
         a.   The bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury, or severe property damage;
         b.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         c.   The industrial user submitted notices as required under
subsection E of this section.
      2.   The city may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering its
adverse effects, if the city determines that it will meet the three (3)
conditions listed in subsection F1 of this section.
   G.   Dilution Of Discharge: No industrial user shall increase the use of
process water or in any way attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or
complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with any
applicable limitations. The city in consultation with the user shall determine
whether a dilution has occurred.
   H.   Accidental Discharge:
      1.   Each industrial user shall provide to the superintendent written
procedures for handling accidental discharges to the city wastewater utility of
materials or substances regulated by this chapter.
         a.   Each industrial user shall permanently post a spill prevention
and notification procedure in compliance with this section on its bulletin
board and prominently display the procedure at each area of possible accidental
discharge.
         b.   In the case of an accidental discharge, no industrial user shall
fail to notify immediately by telephone the city of the location of the
discharge, type of waste, concentration, volume, and corrective actions.
         c.   Within five (5) working days following an accidental discharge,
the industrial user shall submit to the city a detailed written report
describing the cause of the discharge and measures to be taken by the
industrial user to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification does
not relieve the industrial user of any expense, loss, damage, or liability that
may be incurred from damage to the wastewater utility or quality of receiving
stream, or any other damage to persons or property. Nor does such notification
relieve the industrial user from any fines, civil penalties, or other
liabilities that may be imposed by this chapter or other applicable law.
      2.   The city may require installation, operation, and maintenance of
facilities to prevent accidental discharge of such materials or substances, at
the user's expense.
      3.   The city has the authority to evaluate whether each significant
industrial user needs a plan to control slug discharges. For purposes of this
subsection, a slug discharge is any nonroutine, episodic event, including, but
not limited to, accidental spills or noncustomary batch discharges. The results
of such activities shall be available to the city upon request. If the city
determines a slug control plan is necessary, the plan shall contain, at a
minimum, the following elements:
         a.   A description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
         b.   A description of stored chemicals;
         c.   Procedures for immediately notifying the city of slug discharges,
including any discharge that would violate a prohibition under 40 CFR 403.5(b),
with procedures for follow up written notification within five (5) days; and
         d.   If necessary, procedures to prevent adverse impact from
accidental spills, including inspection and maintenance of storage areas,
handling and transfer of materials, loading and unloading operations, control
of plant site runoff, worker training, building of containment structures for
equipment, and measures for containing toxic materials, and equipment for
emergency response.
   I.   Reporting Requirements:
      1.   Within ninety (90) days following the date for final compliance with
applicable pretreatment standards including local limits or, in the case of a
new source, following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the
wastewater utility, any user subject to pretreatment standards and requirements
shall submit to the city a report indicating the nature and concentration of
all pollutants in the discharge from the regulated process which are limited by
pretreatment standards and requirements. The report shall state whether the
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on a consistent
basis and, if not, what additional operation and maintenance and/or
pretreatment is necessary to bring the user into compliance with the applicable
pretreatment standards or requirements. This statement shall be signed by an
authorized representative of the industrial user and certified by a qualified
professional.
      2.   All industrial users that discharge prohibited substances or
specific pollutants that may cause a significant impact on the wastewater
utility shall submit to the city during the months of June and December or
other months designated by the superintendent a report containing information
and data specified by the superintendent and signed by an authorized
representative of the industrial user and certified by a qualified
professional. (Ord. 214, 11-18-1997; amd. Ord. 279, 4-19-2022)
7-3-10: SEWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEE:
   A.   Any party desiring to connect to the sanitary sewer system shall be
subject to the sewer system development fee listed in the rate schedule. Any
future increases to the development fees will be adopted by City Council
resolution after conducting a public hearing.
   B.   Exemptions. All properties currently being assessed the sewer use
charge shall be exempt from paying the sewer system development fee except as
provided in section
7-3-10C. below.
   C.   Increased Sewer Use: Whenever a property owner requests a permit to
connect an additional sewer service on their property said owner shall pay to
the City a sewer system development fee. No refund shall be made to any sewer
users who decrease their total services to their property.
   D.   Credit for Excess Capacity: When an applicant for a sewer connection
permit is required to pay for sewer improvements that are extra capacity,
general benefit facilities, the applicant may request that the cost for the
extra capacity paid by the applicant become a credit against the sewer system
development fee for properties of the applicant served by installed sewer
improvements. The Public Works Director will determine the amount of the credit
based upon the cost of the approved extra capacity, general benefit facilities.
   E.   Payment: The sewer system development fee is to be paid in full by the
party seeking connection before a sewer connection permit for connection of the
sewer to a building is issued.
   F.   Payment Alternatives: Arrangements for alternative means of payment may
be made as described in the following:
      1.   The sewer system development fee may be paid through a special
improvement district at the discretion of the City.
      2.   A property owner whose sewer system development fee will exceed five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) may execute a written agreement with the City to
pay any required sewer development fee in equal, semi-annual payments for a
number of years not exceeding a total of five years with no interest charge on
the outstanding balance owed for the sewer system development fee. These equal,
semi-annual installments shall be due and payable on November 30 and May 31 of
each year. In addition to the required sewer system development fee, property
owner shall pay an administrative fee, as specified in the utility rate
schedule, per sewer connection to the City to initiate and administer this
agreement. The administrative fee is to be paid to the City prior to initiating
the agreement and deposited in the City General Fund.
      3.   Sewer system development fee semi-annual payments not paid on the
due date shall be a lien upon the real property subject to the fee until paid
and may be assessed a penalty pursuant to the rate schedule.
   G.   Use of Fee: All funds received in payment of the sewer system
development fee shall be deposited in a segregated account. Funds shall be
expended for expansion inclusive of payment of debt service for general benefit
sewer facilities. General benefit sewer facilities are defined as public sewer
treatment facilities, public sewer lift stations, and public sewer collection
system except sewer mains less than ten (10") inches in diameter. Expenditures
of these funds shall be set forth by the City Council in its capital
improvements program and/or annual budget.
   H.   Appeals: A decision made by the Public Works Director under this
ordinance may be appealed to the City Council. (Ord. 283, 11-15-2022)
CHAPTER 4
WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Purpose
7-4-2: Determining The Total Annual Cost Of Operation And Maintenance
7-4-3: Determining Each Customer's Wastewater Contribution Percentage
7-4-4: Determining A Surcharge System For Customers With Excess BOD And SS
7-4-5: Wastewater Service Rates
7-4-6: Rate Schedule
7-4-7: Surcharge Rate Structure And Schedule
7-4-8: Payment Of The Customer's Wastewater Service Charge And Penalties
7-4-9: Review Of Each Customer's Wastewater Service Charge
7-4-10: Notification
7-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter shall be to generate sufficient revenue to pay all
costs for the operation and maintenance of the complete wastewater system. The
costs shall be distributed to all customers of the wastewater system in
proportion to each customer's contribution to the total loading of the
treatment works. Factors such as strength (BOD and SS), volume, and delivery
flow rate characteristics shall be considered for inclusion in the basis for
the customer's contribution to ensure a proportional distribution of operation
and maintenance costs to each customer. (Ord. 219, 8-15-2000)
7-4-2: DETERMINING THE TOTAL ANNUAL COST OF OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE:
The city or its engineer, shall determine the total annual costs of operation
and maintenance of the wastewater system which are necessary to maintain the
capacity and performance, during the service life of the treatment works, for
which such works were designed and constructed. The total annual cost of
operation and maintenance shall include, but need not be limited to, labor,
repairs, equipment replacement, maintenance, necessary modifications, power,
sampling, laboratory tests, and a reasonable contingency fund. (Ord. 149, 5-5-
1982)
7-4-3: DETERMINING EACH CUSTOMER'S WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERCENTAGE:
   A.   The city or its engineer, shall determine each customer's average
volume of wastewater, which has been discharged to the wastewater system, which
shall then be divided by the average daily volume of all wastewater discharged
to the wastewater system, to determine each customer's volume contribution
percentage. The amount contributed as the total average daily volume of
wastewater shall exclude infiltration and inflow.
   B.   The city or its engineer, shall determine each customer's average daily
poundage of five (5) day twenty degree centigrade (20°C) biochemical oxygen
demand (BOD) which has been discharged to the wastewater system which shall
then be divided by the average daily poundage of all five (5) day BOD
discharged to the wastewater system to determine each customer's BOD
contribution percentage.
   C.   The city or its engineer, shall determine each customer's average
suspended solids (SS) poundage which has been discharged to the wastewater
system which shall then be divided by the average daily poundage of all
suspended solids discharged to the wastewater system, to determine the
customer's suspended solids contribution percentage.
   D.   Each customer's volume contribution percentage, BOD contribution
percentage and suspended solids contribution percentage shall be multiplied by
the annual operation and maintenance costs for wastewater treatment of the
total volume flow, of the total five (5) day twenty degree centigrade (20°C)
BOD and of the suspended solids, respectively. (Ord. 219, 8-15-2000)
7-4-4: DETERMINING A SURCHARGE SYSTEM FOR CUSTOMERS WITH EXCESS BOD AND SS:
The city or its engineer, will determine the average suspended solids (SS) and
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) daily loadings for the average residential
customer. The city or its engineer, will assess a surcharge rate for all
nonresidential customers discharging wastes with BOD and SS strengths greater
than the average residential customer. Such customers will be assessed a
surcharge sufficient to cover the cost of treating such customer's above normal
strength wastes. Normal strength wastes are considered to be two hundred fifty
(250) ppm BOD and three hundred (300) ppm SS. The surcharge rate structure for
such above normal strength waste discharges is on file in the office of the
city clerk. (Ord. 219, 8-15-2000)
7-4-5: WASTEWATER SERVICE RATES:
Customers shall be charged monthly, in accordance with a sewer service rate
schedule and customer classifications adopted from time to time by the city
council.
(Ord. 219, 8-15-2000; amd. Ord. 284, 2-7-2023)
7-4-6: RATE SCHEDULE:
The City shall implement and modify a fair and reasonable system of rates and
charges for the municipal sewer system by resolution of the city council duly
adopted after a public hearing with notice thereoff given as required by law.
(Ord. 251, 5-28-2013; amd. Ord. 284, 2-7-2023)
7-4-7: SURCHARGE RATE STRUCTURE AND SCHEDULE:
The city of East Helena or its engineer will determine the average total
suspended solids (SS) and five (5) day biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) daily
loadings for the average residential customer or in lieu of such a
determination will consider the average residential strength wastes to be two
hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l) BOD and three hundred milligrams
per liter (300 mg/l) SS. The city of East Helena will assess a surcharge rate
for all commercial customers discharging wastes with BOD and SS strengths
greater than the average residential customer. The surcharge will be sufficient
to cover the costs of treating such customer's above normal strength wastes.
Such customers will pay an additional service charge equal to six percent (6%)
of the monthly operation and maintenance cost for each fifty milligrams per
liter (50 mg/l) over two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l) of BOD
and three percent (3%) of the monthly operation and maintenance cost for each
fifty milligrams per liter (50 mg/l) over three hundred milligrams per liter
(300 mg/l) SS. (Ord. 219, 8-15-2000)
7-4-8: PAYMENT OF THE CUSTOMER'S WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE AND PENALTIES:
The city shall submit a monthly statement to the customer for the customer's
wastewater service charge. The city shall add a penalty of one and five-tenths
percent (1.5%) per month if the payment is not received by the city within
thirty (30) days. Should any customer fail to pay the customer wastewater
service charge and penalty within three (3) months of the due date, the city
may stop the wastewater and/or water service to the property. (Ord. 219, 8-15-
2000)
7-4-9: REVIEW OF EACH CUSTOMER'S WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE:
The city shall review the total annual cost of operation and maintenance as
well as each customer's wastewater contribution percentage not less often than
every two (2) years and will revise the system as necessary to assure equity of
the service charge system established herein and to assure that sufficient
funds are obtained to adequately operate and maintain the wastewater treatment
works. If a significant customer, such as an industry, has completed in-plant
modifications which would change that customer's wastewater contribution
percentage, the customer can present at a regularly scheduled meeting of such
factual information and the city then shall determine if the customer
wastewater contribution percentage is to be changed. The city shall notify the
customer of its findings as soon as possible. (Ord. 219, 8-15-2000)
7-4-10: NOTIFICATION:
Each customer will be notified, at least annually, in conjunction with a
regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the wastewater service that is
attributable to wastewater treatment services. (Ord. 219, 8-15-2000)
CHAPTER 5
NUISANCE VEGETATION
SECTION:
7-5-1: Title
7-5-2: Intent
7-5-3: Definitions
7-5-4: Nuisance Vegetation To Be Cut
7-5-5: Noxious Weeds Prohibited
7-5-6: Notice Of Violation
7-5-7: Violation
7-5-8: Enforcement By City; Costs
7-5-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the NUISANCE VEGETATION ORDINANCE FOR
THE CITY OF EAST HELENA. (Ord. 264, 2-20-2018)
7-5-2: INTENT:
To declare and determine what vegetation within the City shall be nuisance
weeds and provide the manner in which they shall be exterminated and
controlled.
It is not the intent of this section to require the control or maintenance of
native plant communities in areas not disturbed by development or in
undisturbed areas to which equipment access is restricted by topography unless
those areas pose an imminent physical danger to people or property, or visual
obstruction for pedestrians or vehicles. (Ord. 264, 2-20-2018)
7-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural include the singular, and words in the singular include the plural. The
words "shall" and "must" are mandatory and not merely directory.
   BOARD: Lewis and Clark County Weed District Board.
   DEPARTMENT: City of East Helena Public Works Department.
   NOXIOUS WEEDS: Any weed defined and designated as a noxious weed under title
7, chapter 22, part 21, Montana Code Annotated.
   NUISANCE VEGETATION: All grass, dandelions, weeds (other than noxious weeds)
and other uncared for vegetation growing in excess of eight inches (8") in
height of every kind and nature. All vegetation that constitutes an imminent
physical danger to people or property or visual obstruction for pedestrians or
vehicles. (Ord. 264, 2-20-2018)
7-5-4: NUISANCE VEGETATION TO BE CUT:
All property owners shall cut nuisance vegetation on their premises and the
one-half (1/2) of any alley or street lying next to their property, and the
boulevard abutting thereon. When cutting of nuisance vegetation is not
sufficient to prevent physical danger to people or property the nuisance
vegetation must be removed. (Ord. 264, 2-20-2018)
7-5-5: NOXIOUS WEEDS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Noxious weeds are prohibited on all property within the corporate
limits of the City.
   B.   The department, upon determination that a property within the corporate
limits of the City contains noxious weeds, shall forward the name and mailing
address of the property owner and the description of the property where the
violation exists to the board. (Ord. 264, 2-20-2018)
7-5-6: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
When nuisance vegetation is found on property or the adjacent alley, street, or
boulevard in violation of this chapter, the City will send a written notice of
violation to the property owner informing the owner of the violation and
advising the owner that the nuisance vegetation must be cut, or removed if
necessary, within ten (10) days from the date of the notice.
If the nuisance vegetation is not cut or removed within that period, the
property owner is subject to the penalties in this chapter. (Ord. 264, 2-20-
2018)
7-5-7: VIOLATION:
Violations of this chapter may subject the property owner to a fine not to
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), or imprisonment in the County Jail for a
period no more than thirty (30) days, or both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord.
264, 2-20-2018)
7-5-8: ENFORCEMENT BY CITY; COSTS:
If the property owner does not cut or remove the nuisance vegetation following
a conviction, the City may take whatever reasonable action is necessary to cut
or remove the offending vegetation. The actual costs of such cutting or
removal, together with a reasonable charge for administration and supervision,
shall be billed to the owner of the property. If the charges are not paid
forthwith, the Public Works Director shall certify the same to the City
Council, which shall pass a resolution assessing such charges as a special tax
against the property involved. (Ord. 264, 2-20-2018)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
SIDEWALKS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Sidewalks Required
8-1-2: Terms Defined
8-1-3: Public Works Director To Supervise
8-1-4: Conformance To Grade And Width Required
8-1-5: Notice To Construct
8-1-6: Failure Of Owner To Construct
8-1-7: Order To Repair
8-1-8: Obstructions Prohibited
8-1-9: Removal Of Snow, Ice
8-1-10: Ditches, Pipes; Protection From
8-1-11: City To Control
8-1-1: SIDEWALKS REQUIRED:
All persons owning abutting property shall build the sidewalk and all necessary
sidewalks for such property and the same shall be built within the curb line,
and in no case shall the width of any portion of the sidewalk within the curb
line be less than the width of the walk of which it is the prolongation. (Ord.
72, 10-17-1949)
8-1-2: TERMS DEFINED:
For the purpose of this chapter all property having a frontage upon the side or
margin of any street shall be deemed to be abutting property, and such property
shall be chargeable as provided by this chapter for all cost of maintenance,
repairs or renewal of any form of sidewalk improvement between the said street
margin and the roadway lying in front of and adjacent to said property, and the
term "sidewalk" as provided and intended for the purpose of this chapter shall
be taken to include any and all structures or forms of street improvement
included in the space between the street margin and the roadway. (Ord. 72, 10-
17-1949)
8-1-3: PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR TO SUPERVISE:
The duties imposed upon owners of abutting property by the law of the state of
Montana and by this chapter shall at all times be exercised under the
supervision and to the acceptance of the public works director or his
inspector. No work which shall create any obstruction to public travel shall be
commenced until a permit therefor shall have been granted by the said public
works director, and the owner of abutting property shall be liable for all
damage which may arise by reason of carelessness in conducting any work upon
the adjacent sidewalk or by reason of lack of protection to the public from
danger by proper guards or signals, either by night or day. (Ord. 72, 10-17-
1949; amd. Ord. 224, 9-17-2002)
8-1-4: CONFORMANCE TO GRADE AND WIDTH REQUIRED:
All sidewalks constructed within the city shall conform to the grades and width
approved and established by the council and shall be constructed of such
material as shall be approved and established by the council. (Ord. 72, 10-17-
1949)
8-1-5: NOTICE TO CONSTRUCT:
Upon the council ordering the construction of any sidewalk, the public works
director shall immediately give notice thereof in writing, to the owner of the
property immediately abutting such sidewalk or to his agent, lessee or tenant,
either by mailing or delivering the same, fully describing therein the termini,
course, width and character of the walk ordered and allowing a period of twenty
(20) days during which the parties so desiring may construct the walk abutting
their property, and further providing that all such walks so ordered remaining
unbuilt at the expiration of said twenty (20) days from the date of said notice
shall be built by the city at the expense of said property owner as hereinafter
provided for.
At the expiration of twenty (20) days from the date of notice as aforesaid, the
public works director must build such portions of the walk that remain unbuilt
at the expiration of said twenty (20) days. (Ord. 72, 10-17-1949; amd. Ord.
224, 9-17-2002)
8-1-6: FAILURE OF OWNER TO CONSTRUCT:
The construction of all new sidewalks ordered as hereinbefore provided, where
the owner fails to do so, shall be under the supervision and to the
satisfaction of the public works director. The total cost of all sidewalks
constructed by the city or that may be constructed or repaired by the public
works director in accordance with the orders of the council or in the
maintenance of sidewalks (which total cost shall include that of the sidewalk
proper as well as that of any notice, grade, blocking, handrailing, private
crossings and all other necessary expenditure) shall be certified by the public
works director to the clerk, who shall transmit forthwith a copy thereof to the
owner of the property immediately abutting upon said sidewalk, or to his agent,
lessee or tenant, either by mailing or delivering the same, which total cost of
construction must be paid within one month from the date thereof and if not
paid within said time, the same shall become a lien or tax against the lot or
lots abutting upon such sidewalk or sidewalks and shall be collected at the
same time and in the same manner as other taxes affected by such charge. (Ord.
72, 10-17-1949; amd. Ord. 224, 9-17-2002)
8-1-7: ORDER TO REPAIR:
Whenever any sidewalk which is now or which may by reason of natural
deterioration or decay or by reason of unevenness, rapid slopes or from any
cause whatever, become unfit or unsafe for public travel or dangerous to the
public safety, the public works director shall require the owner of the
premises abutting such sidewalk or his agent to immediately repair the same,
and in case of his refusal or neglect to comply with such requisition or in
case no one can be found upon whom to serve such notice to repair such
sidewalk, such sidewalk shall be by the public works director immediately
removed, remodeled, rebuilt, paved, cleaned, repaired or newly built, or such
other form of relief as may be required to make the same fit for public travel
as in his judgment may be most expedient. The cost thereof shall be a lien upon
the lot or lots abutting upon such sidewalk and may be enforced or the amount
may be recovered against the owner by a suit before any court of competent
jurisdiction or may be assessed and collected as a special tax against such lot
or lots as in other cases. (Ord. 72, 10-17-1949; amd. Ord. 224, 9-17-2002)
8-1-8: OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED:
None of the duties or privileges imposed or conferred by this chapter shall in
any way be deemed to authorize or allow the obstruction of any street, either
during or after any work upon any sidewalk, except under permit therefor. No
material removed from any sidewalk shall be placed upon any portion of any
adjacent street, alley, place or square, except permit therefor be granted. All
refuse lumber and debris remaining after the completion of any sidewalk repairs
or renewal shall be removed from the street forthwith. Any owner, lessee or
tenant of abutting property who shall fail to remove any such obstruction from
any street, alley, place or square within forty eight (48) hours after being
notified by the public works director so to do, shall be deemed guilty of
maintaining a public nuisance and shall be subject to the penalties prescribed
therefor. In case of such failure to remove obstructions after such notice, the
public works director shall cause the same to be removed and shall charge the
full cost of such removal to such owner, lessee or tenant and the said charge
shall become a lien upon said abutting property and shall be collected as
hereinbefore provided for the collection of cost of construction or repair of
sidewalks. (Ord. 72, 10-17-1949; amd. Ord. 224, 9-17-2002)
8-1-9: REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE:
It shall be the duty of the occupant of any premises within the city limits, or
in case the same are unoccupied then the owner or his agent, to keep the
sidewalk in front of said premises unobstructed, and such occupant, owner or
agent shall, with all reasonable dispatch, remove snow, ice, slush, mud or
other impediment to allow safe and convenient foot travel and prevent the
continuance and accumulation of the same. (Ord. 29, 11-2-1927)
8-1-10: DITCHES, PIPES; PROTECTION FROM:
Any person who shall dig, construct, maintain, own or use, either as proprietor
or tenant, any ditch, flume, canal or pipe over or across or through or along
the line of, or extending into any portion of any street, alley or public
square within the city, shall be required to keep such ditch, flume, canal or
pipe substantially covered at every point where the same crosses or extends
into, through or over any portion of any street, alley or public square so that
the same may be crossed or passed over by the traveling public with safety and
convenience and shall sink, imbed, cover and protect such ditch, flume, canal
or pipe at such points in such manner so that the same shall cause no
obstruction or impediment to the free, convenient and safe use of such street,
alley or public square as a public highway. (Ord. 29, 11-2-1927)
8-1-11: CITY TO CONTROL:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting the existing powers of
the city with reference to the maintenance or control of sidewalks. (Ord. 72,
10-17-1949)
CHAPTER 2
OFFICIAL BENCH MARK
SECTION:
8-2-1: Official Bench Mark Designated
8-2-2: Description
8-2-1: OFFICIAL BENCH MARK DESIGNATED:
The bench mark established by the United States geological survey, located in
the foundation wall of the East Helena Public School, be and the same is hereby
designated as the official bench mark of city and to which all elevations and
grades are hereby referred. (Ord. 33, 6-5-1928)
8-2-2: DESCRIPTION:
The location and description of said bench mark is more particularly described
as follows: A regulation USGS bench mark consisting of a brass cap upon which
is inscribed the following:
U.S.G.S. B.M. Elevation 3886 feet. Butte, Datum
located near the front entrance on the right side, imbedded in the masonry
foundation approximately two feet (2') above the surface of the ground of the
East Helena Public School located at the corner of Main Street and Montana
Avenue. (Ord. 33, 6-5-1928)
CHAPTER 3
WATER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Rules And Regulations Of Waterworks System
8-3-2: Duties Of Police
8-3-3: Water Rates
8-3-4: Construction Costs
8-3-5: Conflicting Provisions
8-3-6: Water Service Area
8-3-7: Private Water Wells Prohibited; Definition; Penalty
8-3-8: Water System Development Fee
8-3-1: RULES AND REGULATIONS OF WATERWORKS SYSTEM:
The rules and regulations set out in rules 1 through 31 are hereby established
for the management, control, and protection of the waterworks system. These
rules shall be considered a part of the contract with every person or entity
who takes water supplied by the city and every such person or entity agrees by
making application for water supplied by the city to be bound thereby.
   Rule 1. Application. All applications for water must be made at the office
of the city clerk on the printed form furnished for that purpose. The
application must be made and signed by the owner of the property to be served
or their agent, designating the street address where water is desired and shall
state fully all of the purposes for which the water is required. Service will
be furnished to any consumer who fully and truly sets forth all the purposes
for which water may be required and who agrees to and conforms with all the
rules and regulations governing the service; provided the purposes set forth
comply with all the city's rules, and that the system of mains and pipes
extends to the point where service is desired, and is adequate to supply the
service applied for.
   Rule 2. Change of Use or Service. No person supplied with water from the
city mains will be entitled to use it for any other purpose than those stated
in the application, or supply in any way other persons or families unless
authorized by the city for temporary or emergency services. Should the owner of
the premises desire to apply the water for a purpose not stated in the original
application, a new application must be made.
   Rule 3. Water Service. When a water application has been granted, the city
or its authorized agent will tap the main in accordance with rule 17. All the
expense of laying and maintaining the service pipes from the mains to the
consumer's premises, including any and all materials, shall be borne by the
consumer. The service pipe must be laid as per current approved city
engineering standards.
   Rule 4. Separate Connection for Each Premises; Minimum Water Meter Size.
Unless specifically authorized by the city, all service lines shall be so
arranged that the supply to each separate structure or premises shall be
supplied by a separate service line from the city main. No consumer shall be
permitted to conduct water lines across lots or through structures to an
adjoining structure and/or premises. All service lines shall enter the property
at the front or back of the structure nearest the sidewalk.
   Minimum water meter sizes shall be as provided herein, according to the date
of construction completion and connection of water service. Meter sizes listed
are nominal sizes, not accounting for different diameter end connections.
Meters designated "3/4-inch" shall have three-fourths inch (3/4") metering
chambers and three-fourths inch (3/4") end connections, and meters designated
"5/8-inch by 3/4-inch" shall have five-eighths inch (5/8") metering chambers
and three- fourths inch (3/4") end connections.
   Base rate charges will be according to meter size installed. With prior
written approval of the city, meters larger than minimum sizes listed may be
installed at the option of the property owner.
For construction existing as of May 1, 1999:
   A.   For all structures or properties existing and served as of May 1, 1999,
water meter installations shall be sized according to the following criteria:
 
Single-family residence              3/4 inch
Single-family residence w/basement   3/4 inch
apartment
Duplex (with single service line)    1 inch
                                     1 inch or equal to nominal diameter of
Triplex (with single service line)   existing buried service line where it
                                     enters the building, whichever is larger
                                     1 inch or equal to nominal diameter of
Fourplex (with single service line)  existing buried service line where it
                                     enters the building, whichever is larger
Apartment with 5 or more units (with 1 1/2 inch or equal to nominal diameter
single service line)                 of existing buried service line where it
                                     enters the building, whichever is larger
                                     3/4 inch or equal to nominal diameter of
Commercial, institutional and        existing buried service line where it
industrial (including churches,      enters the building, whichever is
cemeteries and schools)              larger, subject to the approval of the
                                     city
 
   B.   Where an existing structure is served by more than one water service
line, each service line shall be metered with a separate meter. Meter size
shall be equal to the nominal diameter of the existing buried service line, or
three-fourths inch (3/4"), whichever is greater. Base rate and varied rate
charges shall apply to each water meter. The meter readings for separate meters
to the same structure shall not be combined for purposes of measurement or
application of the water rate schedule.
   C.   Where an existing structure is served in series with another existing
structure, and both structures are owned by one property owner, the two (2)
structures may be metered through a common water meter. Charges for water usage
measured through the common meter will be billed to the property owner. Meter
size for the common meter shall be three-fourths inch (3/4") nominal, minimum,
subject to the approval of the city. Upon a change in ownership of any such
structures after May 1, 1999, separate water service lines connected directly
to the city's main and separate water meters shall be established for each
structure at the property owner's expense.
   D.   Where an existing structure is served in series with one or more other
existing structures, and the structures are owned by different property owners,
each structure shall be metered with separate water meters. Charges for water
usage to each structure will be determined by the city based on the arithmetic
difference between the individual water meter readings. Charges for water usage
to each structure will be billed to the respective property owners. Meter sizes
for such structures shall be three-fourths inch (3/4") or equal to the nominal
diameter of the existing buried service line arriving at the structure,
whichever is greater. Upon a change in ownership of any such structures after
May 1, 1999, a separate water service line connected directly to the city's
main and a separate water meter shall be established for that structure at the
property owner's expense.
   E.   When two (2) or more existing structures are served from a common water
service line tap at the main, and the service line branches underground prior
to entering any of the structures, separate water meters shall be provided for
each structure. Meter sizes for each structure shall be according to the
classifications stipulated previously for residential or commercial structures.
Upon a change in ownership of any such structures after May 1, 1999, separate
water service lines connected directly to the city's main and separate water
meters shall be established for each structure at the property owner's expense.
For new construction completed after May 1, 1999:
   F.   1.   For all structures constructed after or to which new water service
is extended between May 1, 1999, and July 1, 2004, water meter installations
shall be sized according to the following criteria:
 
Single-family residence             3/4 inch
Duplex (including single- family    1 inch for common service line, or
residence with basement apartment)  separate 5/8 inch x 3/4 inch meters for
                                    each unit
                                    1 1/2 inch for common service line, or
Triplex                             separate 5/8 inch x 3/4 inch meters for
                                    each unit
                                    1 1/2 inch for common service line, or
Fourplex (with single service line) separate 5/8 inch x 3/4 inch meters for
                                    each unit
                                    Separate 5/8 inch x 3/4 inch meters for
Apartment with 5 or more units      each unit (at the option of the city, a
                                    single meter of a size determined by the
                                    city may be allowed)
Commercial, institutional and       To be determined by the city based on
irrigation (including churches,     service line size or as stipulated in
cemeteries and schools)             service agreement
 
      2.   For all structures constructed after or to which new water service
is extended after July 1, 2004, water meter installations shall be sized
according to the following criteria:
Single-family residence                               3/4 inch
                                                      3/4 inch meters for each unit, or
                                                      a single meter sized according to
                                                      the number of water supply
                                                      fixture units in accordance with
                                                      use of the following calculation:
                                                      Total Number
                                                      Of Water
                                                      Supply Fixture Meter Size
                                                      Units In
                                                      Entire
                                                      Building
                                                      18 or less     3/4 inch
                                                      19-70          1 inch
                                                      71 or more     1 1/2 inch
                                                      The number of water supply
                                                      fixture units shall be calculated
                                                      as follows:
                                                                     Minimum  Number of
                                                      Appliances,    Fixture  Water
                                                      Appurtenances, Branch   Supply
                                                      or Fixtures2   Pipe     Fixture
                                                                     Size1,4  Units
                                                                     (inches) (private)
Duplex (including single-family residence with        Bathtub or
basement apartment), triplex, and fourplex            Combination    1/2      4.0
                                                      Bath/Shower
                                                      (fill)
                                                      3/4 inch
                                                      Bathtub Fill   3/4      10.0
                                                      Valve
                                                      Bidet          1/2      1.0
                                                      Clothes Washer 1/2      4.0
                                                      Dishwasher,    1/2      1.5
                                                      domestic
                                                      Drinking
                                                      Fountain or    1/2      0.5
                                                      Water Cooler
                                                      Hose Bibb      1/2      2.5
                                                      Hose Bibb,
                                                      each           1/2      1.0
                                                      additional6
                                                      Lavatory       1/2      1.0
                                                      Lawn
                                                      Sprinkler,     -        1.0
                                                      each head5
                                                      Mobile Home,   -        12.0
                                                      each (minimum)
                                                      Sinks          -        -
                                                      Bar            1/2      1.0
                                                      Kitchen,       1/2      1.5
                                                      domestic
                                                      Laundry        1/2      1.5
                                                      Service or Mop 1/2      1.5
                                                      Basin
                                                      Shower per     1/2      2.0
                                                      head
                                                      Urinal, 1.0
                                                      GPF            3/4      3.0
                                                      Flushometer
                                                      Valve
                                                      Urinal,
                                                      greater than
                                                      1.0 GPF        3/4      4.0
                                                      Flushometer
                                                      Valve
                                                      Urinal, flush  1/2      2.0
                                                      tank
Duplex (including single-family residence with        Water Closet,
basement apartment), triplex, and fourplex (Cont’d) 1.6 GPF        1/2      2.5
                                                      Gravity Tank
                                                      Water Closet,
                                                      1.6 GPF        1/2      2.5
                                                      Flushometer
                                                      Tank
                                                      Water Closet,
                                                      1.6 GPF        1        5.0
                                                      Flushometer
                                                      Valve
                                                      Water Closet,
                                                      greater than   1/2      3.0
                                                      1.6 GPF
                                                      Gravity Tank
                                                      Water Closet,
                                                      greater than
                                                      1.6 GPF        1        7.0
                                                      Flushometer
                                                      Valve
Apartment with 5 or more units                        Separate ¾ inch meters for each
                                                      unit
Commercial, institutional, industrial, and irrigation To be determined by city based on
(including churches, cemeteries and schools)          service line size or as
                                                      stipulated in service agreement
For SI units: 1 inch = 25 mm
   1.   Based on currently adopted Uniform Plumbing Code.
Notes:
1.   Size of the cold branch pipe, or both the hot and cold branch pipes.
2.   Appliances, appurtenances, or fixtures not included in this table shall be
permitted to be sized by reference to fixtures having a similar flow rate and frequency
of use.
3.   The listed fixture unit values represent their total load on the cold water
building supply. The separate cold water and hot water fixture unit value for fixtures
having both cold and hot water connections shall be permitted to be three-quarters of
the listed total value of the fixture.
4.   The listed minimum supply branch pipe sizes for individual fixtures are the
nominal (I.D.) pipe size.
5.   For fixtures or supply connections likely to impose continuous flow demands,
determine the required flow in gallons per minute (gpm) (L/s) and add it separately to
the demand in gpm (L/s) for the distribution system or portions thereof.
6.   Reduced fixture unit loading for additional hose bibbs is to be used where sizing
total building demand and for pipe sizing where more than one hose bibb is supplied by
a segment of water distribution pipe. The fixture branch to each hose bibb shall be
sized by 2.5 fixture units.
 
   G.   Structures constructed or properties to which new service is connected
after May 1, 1999, shall be served by separate water service lines from the
city's main. Service lines to a structure or property from another structure or
property are prohibited.
   H.   Multiple water service lines to a single structure or property are
prohibited, unless approval is granted by the city. Dedicated fire protection
lines equipped with detector type check valves inside the structure are allowed
as separate water service lines connected directly to the city's mains.
   I.   Upon a change in occupancy status for any existing structure after May
1, 1999, whereby the number of individual residences or apartments is altered,
the city shall determine the appropriate water meter numbers and sizes for the
altered status. Additional metering shall be established at the property
owner's expense. Meter sizes shall be according to the classifications
stipulated previously for residential or commercial structures.
   J.   The final determination of number of water meters and sizes for mixed
residential and commercial structures or properties shall be made by the city.
   Rule 5. Curb Stops and Boxes; Responsibility; Maintenance. A valve or curb
stop of an approved pattern (with box) shall be installed by the consumer, at
the consumer's own expense, per current approved city engineering standards. No
branch connections shall be made to a service line between the main and the
entrance valve. When the owner fails to properly maintain the curb stop and box
and it becomes necessary for the city to shut off the water, necessary repairs
or restoration will be made by the city, or if the service line fails between
the city main and the curb shutoff and the owner does not take prompt action
for its repair, the city will shut the service line off at the corporation
connection to the main, but will not repair or replace the service line. In
both of the foregoing instances, a reasonable effort will be made to contact
and inform the owner of the action to be taken by the city. The entire cost of
time and materials will be charged to the owner. This charge shall be paid
before the water service is restored.
   Rule 6. Turning Off Water for Emergency Repairs. The water may be shut off
from the mains at any time without notice for emergency repair purposes.
   Rule 7. Turning Off Water for Repairs to System. The city reserves the right
at any time to shut the water off for the purpose of making repairs, laying or
relaying mains, installing hydrants, or other connections, or for any other
needful purpose. Notice will be given to consumers whenever practical prior to
shutting off the water.
   Rule 8. Interruptions of Service; City Liability. The city will make
reasonable effort to avoid interruptions of service, and when such
interruptions occur, shall reestablish service with reasonable diligence. The
city shall not be liable to customers or others for failure or interruption of
service due to acts of God, governmental regulations, court or governmental
orders, acts of the public enemy, strikes or labor disputes, accidents, weather
conditions, acts of third parties, droughts, or, without limitation by the
foregoing, any other cause beyond the reasonable control of the city. When it
is necessary for the city to make repairs to or change its plant, transmission
or distribution system, meters or other property, it may, without incurring any
liability therefor, suspend services for such periods as may reasonably be
necessary. Interruptions of service shall not render the city liable for any
pro rata reduction in base rate charges or flat rate surcharges.
   Rule 9. Unnecessary Waste of Water. Water will not be furnished where there
are defective or leaking faucets, closets, or other fixtures, and when such may
be discovered, and if not repaired after reasonable notice is given, the supply
will be shut off by the city until the proper repairs are made. Consumers must
prevent the unnecessary waste of water and keep all water outlets closed when
not in use. Irrigation must be conducted in a manner so that water is not
running down the street. When deemed necessary by the city, it may instruct
water users to flow the line to prevent freeze up during inclement weather. The
consumer shall ensure adjustment of the stream of discharged water so that a
minimum amount of water will be discharged.
   Rule 10. Service Lines; Corrosion or Leaking. Consumers making connections
with the water mains are required to adhere to current, approved engineering
standards. The city reserves the right, because of apparent corrosion or
leaking, to require that any service line that is corroded or leaking be
removed and replaced. Such replacement and maintenance of the service line
shall be at the consumer's expense.
   Rule 11. Private Hydrants; Irrigation Hydrants Prohibited. No private
hydrants shall be located within the street lines or in any place of easy
access to the public. Privately owned irrigation hydrants existing and
connected to dedicated service lines prior to May 1, 1999, will not be metered.
The charge for each irrigation hydrant will be a flat rate monthly surcharge to
the property owner. New connection, reconnection, or alteration of connection
of irrigation hydrants to any point on a water user's service line upstream of
the water meter location is prohibited. After May 1, 1999, new connection or
reconnection of irrigation hydrants to any dedicated water service line is
prohibited.
   Rule 12. Nonliability of the City for Service Lines and Repairs. The city
will not be responsible for service lines and fixtures. Owners must keep
service lines and fixtures from the city mains in good working order and
properly protected from frost and other dangers at their own expense. The city
shall not be responsible for the failure of any service line or fixtures or for
any failure in the supply of water. No reductions from the regular rates will
be made for any time that service lines or fixtures are out of commission due
to frost.
   Rule 13. Restriction of Water Use. The city reserves the right to forbid,
limit, or suspend the use of water for irrigation, sprinkling, washing of
vehicles, or other similar uses. When it becomes necessary to protect the
public health, safety, and general welfare, the mayor may by written executive
order, which shall be filed with the city clerk, direct such time or times for
irrigating or sprinkling as deemed fit and proper in the best interest of the
city. All such executive orders when written and signed by the mayor and on
file with the clerk and after giving notice through publication shall have the
same force and effect as if set forth in full in this chapter and any violation
of such terms of such executive order shall be punishable as a violation of
this chapter until such executive order expires or is rescinded by either the
mayor or a majority vote of the city council.
   Rule 14. Irrigation - Size. Unless otherwise approved by the city, the
inside diameter of hose or pipe used for irrigating or sprinkling lawns or
gardens must not exceed three-fourths inch (3/4"). All such hose or pipe when
in use must be equipped with standard type water nozzle, spray, or sprinkler
attachments.
   Rule 15. Water for Construction Purposes. Contractors, builders, or owners
wanting water service for building or other non-potable purposes are required
to make application for a permit to the city. The amount to be charged shall be
equal to the current varied rate and metered or based upon the quantity of
water used or estimated by the city.
   Rule 16. Tapping Water Mains.
   A.   Person Authorized. No person other than an authorized plumber currently
licensed by the state of Montana or an authorized agent of the city shall tap,
connect with, or make a perforation or opening of any kind in any main or
distributing pipe of the city water system. No person is allowed to make a
connection with the city main or make a connection in any conduit, pipe, or
fixture connecting therewith, or to connect any pipe when it has been
disconnected, or to turn water off or on any premises without written
permission of the city.
   B.   Permit Required. Any person wanting to tap into the city water system
shall apply to the city for a permit to tap to the main or other pipe before
laying any service or other water pipe. The permit shall apply to the location
at which the main or other pipe is to be tapped. Service pipes, ferrules, curb
stop, and other fixtures shall be installed as per current approved city
engineering standards and located as per engineering drawings approved by the
city.
   C.   Failure To Obtain Permit Declared Unlawful. It shall be unlawful for
any person, either as owner, or as an agent or employee of the owner, or as an
independent contractor, to tap or connect to any city water main of the city
until written application therefor has been approved by the city and an
appropriate permit is issued, and all tapping charges paid.
   D.   Permit Fee. Uniform fees for a permit for tapping city water mains
shall be collected by the city clerk in the amount of ten dollars ($10.00) and
must be paid in advance of any tapping.
   E.   Tapping Charge. Any person desiring to make connection to the water
mains of the city must pay for the cost of tapping in advance, the following
amounts:
 
Service Tap Sizes Are Nominal Pipe And Corporation Cock Diameters Tapping Fee
3/4" service tap or 1" service tap to 3/4" meter                  $200.00
1" service tap to 1" meter                                        $350.00
1 1/4" service tap                                                $500.00
1 1/2" service tap                                                $750.00
2" service tap                                                    $1,000.00
 
For service lines exceeding two inch (2") nominal diameter, the fee for a two
inch (2") service will be charged, plus an additional one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each inch over two inch (2") diameter. The one thousand dollar
($1,000.00) per inch charge will be assigned pro rata for fractional nominal
pipe sizes.
   F.   Workmanship of Plumbers. Plumbers failing to perform their work
according to the established rules, regulations, and current approved city
engineering standards, or executing their work unskillfully, or causing damage
to the city waterworks, shall be prohibited from making connection with the
city mains, by order of the city.
   G.   Backflow Prevention and Cross Connection Control. If the city
determines that it is necessary to protect its water system against
contamination or pollution resulting from backflow of objectionable materials
from the water user's premises or water service, the city may require the
installation of backflow prevention devices. The type of device used shall be
determined by the city, and the property owner shall pay all costs related to
the installation of such device. The property owner shall also be responsible
for the maintenance of backflow devices so installed.
   Rule 17. Water Meter Installations.
   A.   Water meter equipment for new construction and initial use, as well as
all installation costs shall be borne by the water user. Costs so borne shall
include the meter, radio, readout device, connection between the meter and
readout device, meter pit if required, and plumbing connections to incorporate
the meter into the water user's service line at a point inside the structure,
or in a meter pit, if used.
   B.   Water meter equipment and installation costs exclude any underground
piping, underground connection, service line extension or relocation costs, or
costs of replumbing within the structure needed to comply with city ordinances.
Excluded costs shall be borne by the water user, irrespective of the date of
structure construction or service connection.
   C.   The cost of water meter installation shall be borne by the water user.
All metering equipment and appurtenances, the cost of which is borne by the
water user for new construction and initial use, shall meet the city's
engineering standards for such materials and installation.
   D.   Installation of water meters shall in all cases be made by the city or
a plumber currently licensed by the state of Montana and authorized by the
city.
   E.   Acts of meter tampering, are prohibited and will be grounds for
discontinuance of service by the city and/or criminal prosecution. The water
user shall be responsible for all damage to or loss of the city's water service
related property, including the meter and radio, located upon the premises
being served unless caused by the negligence of the city.
   F.   Duly authorized employees and agents of the city shall have access at
all reasonable hours to the premises of the water user for purposes of
installing, reading, testing, removing, or replacing water meters and
appurtenances, and for other purposes incidental to the supplying of water
service. Only employees or agents of the city are permitted to inspect or
handle the city's water service related property.
   Rule 18. Water Meter Location and Installation.
   A.   Water meters and any readout equipment associated therewith shall be
and remain the property of the city. Water meters shall be located per current
approved city engineering standards.
   B.   Water meter readout devices, the cost of which is borne by the water
user, shall be provided for all meters and shall meet the city's standard for
such equipment and installation.
   Rule 19. Right of Entry for Inspection by City Employees. The city's agents
or other authorized persons shall have free access at reasonable hours to all
parts of any structure and premises to which water is provided by the city for
the purpose of inspecting the condition of the pipes and fixtures and
investigating the manner in which the water is being used.
   Rule 20. Prohibited Acts. The following acts are strictly prohibited:
   A.   To use the city water or permit it to be used for any other purpose
than that for which the party has made application.
   B.   To permit water pipes or fixtures to remain in a leaky condition.
   C.   To allow water to run through fixtures when not being used for the
purpose intended.
   D.   To open, close, turn, or interfere with, or attach to, or connect with
any fire hydrant, stop valve, or curb stop belonging to the city unless prior
approval is granted by the city.
   E.   To disturb, meddle with, or damage any pipe, materials, implements,
machinery, tools, shutoff boxes, or any other property of the city's waterworks
system.
   F.   To deface or injure any structure, dam, reservoir, or other improvement
of the city's waterworks system.
   G.   To place any foreign thing or deleterious matter upon the grounds or in
the water supply of the city waterworks system.
   H.   For any person to fill any tank or container having a capacity of more
than five (5) gallons and used for the transportation of chemicals or solutions
of chemicals of any kind whatsoever with water obtained directly from any water
source connected with the city water system including, but not limited to,
public, private, or domestic standpipes, hydrants, taps, pipes, or hoses,
unless the same have been equipped with a backflow preventive device approved
and inspected by the city. The foregoing shall not prohibit any person from
filling such containers with water obtained directly from the city water system
by means of a second or intermediate container, or at water sources in the city
specifically designated and approved by the city for the filling of containers
used for the transportation of chemicals or solutions of chemicals.
   I.   To provide water service or water conveyance by pipe or hose to another
individual, entity, or property, including irrigation use.
   J.   To extend water conveyance facilities across or under a street, alley,
public right of way, or property line in order to obtain a rate advantage by
taking water service for two (2) or more properties through one source or
meter.
   Rule 21. Water Service Line Installation. When permission has been granted
to lay water pipes within the street lines, all trenches shall be refilled in a
careful manner and thoroughly compacted so as to replace as nearly as possible
all material excavated. All surplus materials must be removed when work is
completed and any refilling of trenches necessary to maintain the roadway in
good condition must be done by the property owner at their expense. All such
work must comply with applicable city and state standards.
   Rule 22. Excavations. Excavations within the street lines shall be made in
such manner as to impede traffic as little as possible. The public works
director may determine and limit the time such excavations are allowed to
remain open, and if unnecessarily delayed, shall direct the excavations to a
timely completion. Flashing caution lights must be maintained upon all
unfinished work at night from sundown to sunrise, and sufficient barricades
shall be in place at all times until the work is completed.
   Rule 23. Completion of New Work. In no case shall anyone, after completion
and test of new work, leave the water turned on to the premises, but shall in
all cases turn the curb stop off before leaving.
   Rule 24. Rule Making Authority; City Inspection of Work and Materials. The
city may adopt such rules and regulations as it deems necessary to provide and
ensure proper protection and inspection of mains and service lines, and no
materials shall be used until the same has been approved, and no lines shall be
covered until inspected and approved by the city.
   Rule 25. Owner Responsibility for Payment; Delinquency Shutoff. The water
rates shall be charged against the property on which it is furnished to the
property owner, legally authorized agent, or tenant, and if for any cause any
sums owing therefor become delinquent, the water shall be shut off from the
property and in no case turned on again until all such delinquencies have been
paid in full. No change of ownership shall affect the application of this rule.
   Rule 26. Books of Accounts; Billing. All accounts for water shall be kept in
the name of the owner of the property, their legally authorized agent, the name
of tenant. The owner shall ultimately be held responsible for payment of the
water rates. Water service charges will be billed on a monthly basis. Payment
is due upon receipt of the bill, and will be considered delinquent if not paid
within thirty (30) days of billing.
   Rule 27. Shutoff of Water by City; Water Service Line Turn Off/On. On
failure to comply with the rules and regulations established as a condition to
the use of water, or to pay the water rates or any charge or penalty imposed,
in the time and manner herein provided, the water may be shut off until full
payment of the amount due is made, together with a fifty dollar ($50.00)
reinstatement fee. First time offenders shall have the reinstatement fee
waived. Water service line curb stops will only be operated by the city, unless
written authorization is granted by the city. There shall be assessed a twenty
five dollar ($25.00) fee for turning the water on or off. Water service line
turn ons/offs will be made by the city only with twenty four (24) hour advance
notice, excluding weekends and holidays, and contingent on prior payment of the
twenty five dollar ($25.00) turn off fee.
   Rule 28. Water Main Shutoff. Should the owner or occupant of the premises
turn on the water, or cause it to be turned on after it has been shut off at
the curb stop, the water will be turned off at the main, with all associated
costs borne by the water user, payable before the water is turned back on.
   Rule 29. Discontinuing Service. Should it be desired to discontinue or
abandon the use of water, written notice thereof shall be filed at the office
of the city clerk. It shall be the responsibility of the owner to disconnect
the water service upon discontinuance, abandonment, or nonuse at the point of
connection with the public main in such a method acceptable to the city. Should
the owner fail to satisfactorily disconnect such service, the city may make
such disconnection and charge the owner the actual cost thereof. Rates will be
charged until such notice is given and all arrearages paid.
   Rule 30. Interest Assessed On Past Due Accounts. Any unpaid water bill that
is more than thirty (30) days past due shall have assessed against it interest
at the rate of one and one-half percent (1.5%) per month. Accounts which are
ninety (90) days past due may become a lien on the real property and filed with
the county recorder. All filing and attorney costs will be included in the
amount to be collected from the real property owner.
   Rule 31. Penalty. Any person violating a rule or regulation of the
waterworks system shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and may be fined not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and have their water turned off. In no
case shall the water be turned on again until the fine has been paid and any
violation corrected.
(Ord. 216, 5-18-1999; amd. Ord. 232, 6-2-2004; Ord. 278, 12-21-2021)
8-3-2: DUTIES OF POLICE:
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to give vigilant aid to the public
works director in the enforcement of these rules and regulations and to this
end, the chief of police shall report all violations thereof which come to
their attention to the public works director. (Ord. 44, 1-2-1930; amd. 1980
Code; Ord. 278, 12-21-2021)
8-3-3: WATER RATES:
   A.   The City shall implement and modify a fair and reasonable system of
rates and charges for the municipal water system by resolution of the City
Council duly adopted after a public hearing with notice thereof given as
required by law.
   B.   Water user charges shall include a base rate charge per calendar month,
according to the nominal size of water meter installed. Water service line size
may be different than water meter size, and service line size or type of water
service will not be the basis for the base rate charge.
   C.   The base rate is charged irrespective of the amount of water use
recorded on the meter. The property owner, legally authorized agent, or tenant
will be required to pay the base rate for water during periods of complete
nonuse of premises to meet City debt obligation. For new construction, water
service charges shall start on the date after initial testing is complete if
curb stop is turned on, or on the date of initial occupancy when the curb stop
is turned on.
   D.   Water user charges shall also include a varied rate charge, based on
the metered amount of water used as recorded by the water meter.
   E.   To reduce the risk of freezing the city's mains or service lines
connected to shallow mains, the city may issue written permission to water
users to maintain slight flows through their service line. For users in
possession of such written permission, the city will base the monthly varied
rate charges during such periods on the average of the past consecutive years'
historic water usage by the user for the same month, not to exceed a three (3)
year average.
   F.   Unintentional high water usage may, at the discretion of the public
works director, be adjusted. Any single adjustment or multiple adjustments for
the same property over one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be approved by the
city council.
   G.   No base rate or varied rate water use charges shall apply to fire
hydrants nor water used from such hydrants for emergency firefighting or uses
otherwise authorized by the city. No water use charges shall apply to dedicated
private fire protection lines used for fire suppression sprinklers or other
fire protection flows, provided such lines have detector type check valves
inside the structure. No water use charges shall apply to water used from such
fire protection lines for emergency fire suppression or uses otherwise
authorized by the city. (Ord. 216, 5-18-1999; amd. Ord. 276, 10-5-2021; Ord.
278, 12-21-2021)
8-3-4: CONSTRUCTION COSTS:
   A.   The costs of construction for mains, exclusive of service lines, shall
be kept on record with the city clerk. A record shall be kept in the water
department showing mains, services and the length and size of mains or pipes,
together with supporting data and date of completion. The city shall own all
mains of any extension and will maintain them.
   B.   Applicants for extension of main service shall pay the cost of such
extension which shall be determined by the distance from the starting point
(the main from which the extension is made) to the point of tap off for the
applicant's service pipe. Provided however, in the event an area in the city
which has not theretofore been served by main line service, has developed, the
city council, in its discretion may, upon petition of a majority of the owners
in the developed area to be served, and upon finding that funds are available,
authorize the extension of main service to such area and such construction
costs shall be paid by the city.
   C.   No consumer who made an original contribution will receive more total
refund than their original contribution. After ten (10) years from the date of
the original extension no refund will be made to any consumer who made a
contribution. A consumer who made a contribution and failed to be a continuous
consumer within the ten (10) year period forfeits all right to refund. If,
within ten (10) years from the date of the original extension the city finds it
necessary or desirable to make an extension or connection known as a loop feed,
no refunds will be made after such improvement is made. (Ord. 155, 10-2-1984;
amd. Ord. 278, 12-21-2021)
8-3-5: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
If any of the provisions of this chapter shall be in conflict with the rules of
the public service commission, then the rules of the public service commission
shall prevail. (Ord. 44, 1-2-1930; amd. Ord. 278, 12-21-2021)
8-3-6: WATER SERVICE AREA:
   A.   Adoption of Service Area: The official water service area for the city
is that area of the city within the boundaries of the city and currently served
by city water, any areas presently served outside the city and any subsequently
approved amendments thereto.
   B.   Map: A map depicting the water service area adopted herein, and any
enlargements that may be from time to time approved by the city council, shall
be made available at all times for public inspection during regular working
hours at city hall. (Ord. 183, 10-1-1991; amd. Ord. 278, 12-21-2021)
8-3-7: PRIVATE WATER WELLS PROHIBITED; DEFINITION; PENALTY:
   A.   Prohibition: Each of the following is prohibited within the East Helena
water service area:
      1.   The drilling or activation of a private water well.
      2.   The reactivation of an existing, inactive private water well.
      3.   The change of use in any fashion of a preexisting private water
well.
      4.   The transfer, delivery, or distribution of water via a water
transportation system or device into the East Helena water service area from a
private water well located outside of the water service area.
   B.   Definition: A "water well" is defined as any digging, drilling, or
excavation, by hand or by the use of machinery or equipment, whereby water is
obtained from under the surface of the ground to be used on or above the ground
surface for irrigation, manufacturing, commercial, noncommercial, human or
other consumption purposes, regardless of whether or not such proposed use is
potable.
   C.   Penalty: Any person convicted of a violation of any provision of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed
five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed
six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day on which any
such violation shall occur or continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct
offense. (Ord. 227, 9-2-2003; amd. Ord. 278, 12-21-2021)
8-3-8: WATER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEE:
   A.   Any party desiring to connect to the water system shall be subject to
the water system development fee listed in the rate schedule. Any future
increases to the development fees will be adopted by City Council resolution
after conducting a public hearing.
   B.   A water line that is devoted exclusively to providing fire protection
services or landscape irrigation shall be exempt from the water system
development fee.
   C.   Exemptions: All properties currently being assessed the water use
charge shall be exempt from paying the water system development fee except as
provided in section
8-3-8D. below.
   D.   Increased Water Use: Whenever a property owner requests a permit to
connect an additional water service on their property said owner shall pay to
the City a water system development fee. No refund shall be made to any water
users who decrease their total services to their property.
   E.   Credit for Excess Capacity: When an applicant for a water connection
permit is required to pay for water improvements that are extra capacity,
general benefit facilities, the applicant may request that the cost for the
extra capacity paid by the applicant become a credit against the water system
development fee for properties of the applicant served by installed water
improvements. The Public Works Director will determine the amount of the credit
based upon the cost of the approved extra capacity, general benefit facilities.
   F.   Payment: The water system development fee is to be paid in full by the
party seeking connection before a water connection permit for connection of the
water to a building is issued.
G.   Payment Alternatives: Arrangements for alternative means of payment may be
made as described in the following:
      1.   The water system development fee may be paid through a special
improvement district at the discretion of the City.
      2.   A property owner whose water system development fee will exceed five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) may execute a written agreement with the City to
pay any required water system development fee in equal, semi-annual payments
for a number of years not exceeding a total of five years with no interest
charge on the outstanding balance owed for the water system development fee.
These equal, semi-annual installments shall be due and payable on November 30
and May 31 of each year. In addition to the required water system development
fee, property owner shall pay an administrative fee, as specified in the
utility rate schedule, per water connection to the City to initiate and
administer this agreement. The administrative fee is to be paid to the City
prior to initiating the agreement and deposited in the City General Fund.
      3.   Water system development fee semi-annual payments not paid on the
due date shall be a lien upon the real property subject to the fee until paid
and may be assessed a penalty pursuant to the rate schedule.
   H.   Use of Fee: All funds received in payment of the water system
development fee shall be deposited in a segregated account. Funds shall be
expended for expansion inclusive of payment of debt service for general benefit
water facilities. General benefit water facilities are defined as public water
treatment facilities, public wells, public water tanks, and public water
distribution lines. Expenditures of these funds shall be set forth by the City
Council in its capital improvements program and/or annual budget.
   I   Appeals: A decision made by the Public Works Director under this section
may be appealed to the City Council. (Ord. 282, 11-15-2022)
CHAPTER 4
SNOW AND ICE
SECTION:
8-4-1: Snow And Ice Removal
8-4-2: Unlawful Sight Obstruction
8-4-3: Unlawful Hazard To Pedestrians Or Automobiles
8-4-4: Unlawful Hazard To Drivers
8-4-1: SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Pile, deposit or dump snow or ice removed from private property on
any road, street, avenue, alley or any other public place within the City; or
      2.   Pile, deposit or dump snow or ice removed from the shoulder of any
roadway to the traveled portion of the roadway.
   B.   Any person who shall be guilty of a violation of this section and who
shall fail to remove such ice or snow wrongfully piled, deposited or dumped by
such person within three (3) hours after they shall have been notified to do so
by the City police, shall be deemed guilty of a separate violation for every
twenty four (24) hours such failure to remove the same continues, and subject
to the same penalty for such offense provided for in this section.
   C.   Any person who is found to have violated this section shall be guilty
of creating and fostering a nuisance, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 263, 12-5-2017)
8-4-2: UNLAWFUL SIGHT OBSTRUCTION:
Notwithstanding other provisions of this title, snow piles from the plowing or
removal of snow shall not be allowed to exceed a height of two and one-half
feet (21/2') from street grade for a distance of fifty feet (50') from an
intersection. (Ord. 263, 12-5-2017)
8-4-3: UNLAWFUL HAZARD TO PEDESTRIANS OR AUTOMOBILES:
It shall be unlawful for any property owner or other person, business or
corporation to shovel, plow or place snow on public streets, highways, alleys
or sidewalks in such a manner as to create a hazard or potential hazard for
pedestrians or automobiles. (Ord. 263, 12-5-2017)
8-4-4: UNLAWFUL HAZARD TO DRIVERS:
In no case shall snow be piled or placed in such a manner that it impedes the
vision of a driver of a vehicle approaching a street, alley or driveway
intersection with another vehicle traveled area. (Ord. 263, 12-5-2017)
CHAPTER 5
STREET MAINTENANCE AND IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Street Maintenance And Improvements
8-5-1: STREET MAINTENANCE AND IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   The city's method of providing maintenance and improvements in street
maintenance districts is as follows:
      1.   Maintenance and improvements may be accomplished by city employees,
through contract for services by outside parties, or any combination thereof.
      2.   City may purchase, rent, lease, or borrow any equipment necessary to
perform the maintenance and improvements.
      3.   City may procure necessary materials, supplies, or other goods
necessary to perform the maintenance and improvements.
      4.   Maintenance and improvements consist of any of the tasks, repairs,
and improvements defined by sections 7-12-4401 and 4405, Montana Code
Annotated, as being appropriate for street maintenance and improvements.
      5.   The level and types of maintenance and improvements are determined
in accordance with priorities established by the city and to the extent of the
availability of adequate funding.
   B.   The city's method of paying for street maintenance and improvement
costs will be an assessment against all assessable real property within the
city that receives the benefit of the maintenance or improvement. The
assessment will be based upon an assessment option or combination of options
provided for by section 7-12-4422, Montana Code Annotated, for street
maintenance and improvement assessments. The improvement costs may be assessed
in a single year, assessed over multiple years to match project completion
timing, or assessed over multiple years for scheduled debt payments incurred to
finance the improvements. The selected assessment methodology and the
assessment rate will be set annually by resolution adopted by the city
commission.
   C.   During the annual budget development as provided in title 7, chapter 6,
part 40, Montana Code Annotated, street maintenance district improvements shall
be determined, listed, and included in the street maintenance district fund
budget.
   D.    Any proposed improvement that is not listed in the annual street
maintenance district fund budget must be approved by the city commission before
the project can proceed.
   E.    Any remaining improvement budget may be carried over from year to year
as necessary for the completion of the improvements. (Ord. 277, 11-16-2021)
TITLE 9
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Terms Defined
9-1-1: TERMS DEFINED:
The following words and phrases when used in this title shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them:
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES: Vehicles of the fire department, police
vehicles and such ambulances and emergency vehicles as are designated or
authorized by the commissioner of law enforcement or the chief of police.
   BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two (2) tandem wheels, either of which is over twenty inches (20")
in diameter.
   BUS: Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten (10) passengers
and used for the transportation of persons.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a public
thoroughfare when within any six hundred feet (600') along such thoroughfare
there are buildings in use for business or industrial purposes, including, but
not limited to, hotels, banks or office buildings, railroad stations and public
buildings which occupy at least three hundred feet (300') of frontage on one
side or three hundred feet (300') collectively on both sides of the
thoroughfare.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Every vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily for
the transportation of property.
   CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY: Every highway, street or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
such highway, street or roadway.
   CROSSWALK: A. That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on the opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway.
B. Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   FARM TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing plows, mowing machines and other implements of husbandry.
   INTERSECTION: A. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of
the lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two (2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
B. Where a highway includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event such
intersecting highway also includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or more
apart, then every crossing of two (2) roadways of such highways shall be
regarded as a separate intersection.
   LANED ROADWAY: A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly
marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails.
   MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
   OWNER: A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle or in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this title.
   PARK: When prohibited means the standing of a vehicle whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading.
   PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER: Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY: Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel only by the owner or by those having express or implied
permission from the owner.
   RAILROAD TRAIN: A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except street cars.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a public
thoroughfare not comprising a business district when the property on such
thoroughfare for a distance of three hundred feet (300') or more is in the main
improved with residences or residences and buildings in use for business.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY: That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two (2) or more separate roadways, the term roadway as used herein
shall refer to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways
collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE: The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
   SCHOOL BUS: Every motor vehicle owned by a public or governmental agency and
operated for the transportation of children to or from school or privately
owned and operated for compensation for the transportation of children to or
from school.
   SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STOP: When required means complete cessation from movement.
   STOP, STOPPING OR STANDING: When prohibited means any stopping or standing
of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control sign or signal.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH ROADWAY: Every roadway or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic
is given preferential right of way and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting roadways is required by law to yield the right of way
to vehicles on such through roadway in obedience to either a stop sign or a
yield sign, when such signs are erected as provided in this title.
   TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any thoroughfare for
purposes of travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL: Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   TRAILER: Every vehicle with or without motive power, designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed
that no part of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
   TRUCK: Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
   TRUCK TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
   VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a thoroughfare, except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary tracks or rails. (1980 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ENFORCEMENT AND OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Authority Of Department Officials
9-2-2: Obedience To Regulations
9-2-3: Obedience To Department Officials
9-2-4: Push Carts; Animals
9-2-5: Coasters, Roller Skates And Similar Devices
9-2-6: Employees To Obey Regulations
9-2-7: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
9-2-1: AUTHORITY OF DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the officers of the police department or such
officers as are assigned by the chief of police to enforce all street traffic
laws of the state and city.
   B.   Officers of the police department or such officers as are assigned by
the chief of police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand
or signal; provided that, in the event of a fire or other emergency or to
expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers of the police department
may direct traffic as conditions may require.
   C.   Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity. (1980 Code)
9-2-2: OBEDIENCE TO REGULATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform
any act required herein. (1980 Code)
9-2-3: OBEDIENCE TO DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person wilfully to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order or direction of a police officer or fire department official.
(1980 Code)
9-2-4: PUSH CARTS; ANIMALS:
Every person propelling any push cart or driving any animal drawn vehicle or
riding an animal upon a roadway shall be subject to the provisions of this
title applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those provisions which by
their own nature can have no application. (1980 Code)
9-2-5: COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES:
It shall be unlawful for any person upon roller skates or riding any coaster,
toy vehicle or similar device to go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk and when crossing, such person shall be granted all of
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
This section shall not apply upon any street while set aside as a play street.
(1980 Code)
9-2-6: EMPLOYEES TO OBEY REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned
by or used in the service of the United States government, this state, county
or city and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate any of the
provisions of this title, except as otherwise permitted. (1980 Code)
9-2-7: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual suspected violator of the
law or when responding to, but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   B.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      1.   Park or stand irrespective of the provisions of this title.
      2.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operations.
      3.   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he does not endanger
life or property.
      4.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   C.   The exemption herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of any said vehicle while in motion sounds audible
signal or bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary and
when the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted lamp displaying a red
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of five
hundred feet (500') to the front of such vehicle, except that an authorized
emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or
display a red light visible from in front of the vehicle.
   D.   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from consequences of his
reckless disregard for the safety of others. (1980 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
SECTION:
9-3-1: Authority To Install
9-3-2: Specifications
9-3-3: Obedience To Devices
9-3-4: When Devices Required
9-3-5: Signal Legend
9-3-6: Pedestrian Control Signals
9-3-7: Flashing Signals
9-3-8: Unauthorized Signs, Signals Or Markings
9-3-9: Interference With Devices
9-3-10: Crosswalks And Safety Zones
9-3-11: Traffic Lanes
9-3-1: AUTHORITY TO INSTALL:
The chief of police shall place and maintain traffic control signs, signals and
devices when and as required under the traffic regulations of the city to make
effective the provisions of said regulations, and may place and maintain such
additional traffic control devices as he may deem necessary. (1980 Code)
9-3-2: SPECIFICATIONS:
All traffic control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the approved
specifications. All signs and signals required hereunder for a particular
purpose shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and location
throughout the city. All traffic control devices so erected and not
inconsistent with the provisions of this title shall be official traffic
control devices. (1980 Code)
9-3-3: OBEDIENCE TO DEVICES:
The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official traffic
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the traffic
regulations of the city, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, subject
to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle. (1980
Code)
9-3-4: WHEN DEVICES REQUIRED:
No provisions of this title for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged violation
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, such section shall be effective even though no signs
are erected or in place. (1980 Code)
9-3-5: SIGNAL LEGEND:
Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting the words
"Go", "Caution" or "Stop" or exhibiting different colored lights successively
one at a time or with arrows, the following colors only shall be used and said
terms and light shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians
as follows:
   A.   Green alone or "Go":
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal, except when prohibited herein,
may proceed straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place
prohibits either such turn. But vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning
right or left shall yield the right of way to other vehicles and to pedestrians
lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such
signal is exhibited.
      2.   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   B.   Yellow alone or "Caution" when following the green or "Go" signal:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or "Go" is
shown alone.
      2.   Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway and any pedestrian then starting to
cross shall yield the right of way to all vehicles.
      3.   Pedestrians facing such signal shall not enter the roadway until the
green or "Go" is shown alone unless authorized to do so by a pedestrian "Walk"
signal.
   C.   Red alone or "Stop":
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or "Go" is
shown alone.
      2.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or "Go" is shown alone unless authorized so to do by a pedestrian "Walk"
signal.
   D.   Red with green arrow:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow but shall yield
the right of way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      2.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or "Go" is shown alone unless authorized so to do by a pedestrian "Walk"
signal.
   E.   In the event an official traffic control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
chapter shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal. (1980 Code)
9-3-6: PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS:
Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words "Walk" or
"Don't Walk" are in place, such signals shall indicate as follows:
   A.   Walk: Pedestrians facing such a signal may proceed across the roadway
in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right of way.
   B.   Wait Or Don't Walk: It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to start to
cross the roadway in the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has
partially completed his crossing on the "Walk" signal shall proceed to a
sidewalk or safety zone while the wait signal is showing. (1980 Code)
9-3-7: FLASHING SIGNALS:
Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a traffic sign
or signal it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows:
   A.   Flashing Red; Stop Signal: When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked or, if
none, then before entering the intersection and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   B.   Flashing Yellow; Caution Signal: When a yellow lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   C.   This section shall not apply to railroad grade crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
the traffic rules as set forth in this title. (1980 Code)
9-3-8: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS:
   A.   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be
or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic or
which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official
traffic control device or any railroad sign or signal.
   B.   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority permit
upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial
advertising.
   C.   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   D.   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is hereby declared to be
a public nuisance and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
hereby empowered to remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(1980 Code)
9-3-9: INTERFERENCE WITH DEVICES:
It shall be unlawful for any person, without lawful authority, to attempt to or
in fact alter, deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic
control device or any railroad sign or signal or an inscription, shield or
insignia thereon or any part thereof. (1980 Code)
9-3-10: CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES:
The chief of police is hereby authorized:
   A.   To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon
the surface of roadways, crosswalks at intersections where in his opinion there
is particular danger to pedestrian crossing the roadway and at such other
places as he may deem necessary.
   B.   To establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such places
as he may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians. (1980 Code)
9-3-11: TRAFFIC LANES:
   A.   The chief of police is hereby authorized to mark traffic lanes upon the
roadway of any street or highway where a regular alignment of traffic is
necessary.
   B.   Where such traffic lanes have been marked it shall be unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement. (1980 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SPEED LIMITS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Speed Restrictions; Basic Rule
9-4-2: Alteration Of Speed Limits
9-4-1: SPEED RESTRICTIONS; BASIC RULE:
   A.   A person operating or driving a vehicle of any character on a highway
of this city shall drive it in a careful and prudent manner and at a rate of
speed no greater than is reasonable and proper under the conditions existing at
the point of operation, taking into account the amount and character of
traffic, condition of brakes, weight of vehicle, grade and width of highway,
condition of surface and freedom of obstruction to view ahead, and he shall
drive it so as not to unduly or unreasonably endanger the life, limb, property
or other rights of a person entitled to the use of the street or highway.
   B.   Where no special hazard exists that requires lower speed for compliance
with subsection A of this section, or where the speed limit has not been posted
at a greater or lesser speed, the basic speed limit within the city is twenty
five (25) miles per hour.
   C.   The driver of a vehicle shall, consistent with subsection A of this
section, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when approaching and crossing an
intersection or railway grade crossing, when approaching and going around a
curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon a narrow or winding
roadway and when a special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians or other
traffic or by reason of weather or highway condition. (1980 Code)
9-4-2: ALTERATION OF SPEED LIMITS:
Whenever the chief shall determine that any speed limit hereinbefore set forth
is greater or lesser than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found to
exist on any highway or part thereof, he may determine and declare a reasonable
and safe speed limit therefor, which shall be effective when appropriate signs
denoting the same are erected on such highway. (1980 Code)
CHAPTER 5
RULES OF THE ROAD
SECTION:
9-5-1: Right Side Of Roadway
9-5-2: Passing Vehicles
9-5-3: Overtaking On The Left
9-5-4: Overtaking On The Right
9-5-5: Limitations On Overtaking
9-5-6: Driving To Left Of Center
9-5-7: One-Way Streets And Alleys
9-5-8: Roadway Laned For Traffic
9-5-9: Following Too Closely
9-5-10: Divided Highways
9-5-11: Turning At Intersections
9-5-12: Starting Parked Vehicle
9-5-13: Turning Movements; Required Signals
9-5-14: Hand And Arm Signals
9-5-15: Approaching Or Entering Intersection
9-5-16: Turning Left At Intersection
9-5-17: Entering Stop Or Yield Intersection
9-5-18: Private Road Or Driveway
9-5-19: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
9-5-20: Safety Zones
9-5-1: RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY:
   A.   Upon all roadways of sufficient width a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement.
      2.   When the right half of the roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair.
      3.   Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon.
      4.   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
   B.   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall
be driven in the right hand lane then available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway. (1980 Code)
9-5-2: PASSING VEHICLES:
Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other to
the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of traffic
in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-half (1/2)
of the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible. (1980 Code)
9-5-3: OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT:
The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions and
special rules hereinafter stated:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle.
   B.   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle. (1980 Code)
9-5-4: OVERTAKING ON THE RIGHT:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
      1.   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn.
      2.   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied by
parked vehicles of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles in each direction.
      3.   Upon a one-way street or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main traveled
portion of the roadway. (1980 Code)
9-5-5: LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING:
No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless
such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a
sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing to be
completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction of any vehicle overtaken. In every
event the overtaking vehicle must return to the right hand side of the roadway
before coming within one hundred feet (100') of any vehicle approaching from
the opposite direction. (1980 Code)
9-5-6: DRIVING TO LEFT OF CENTER:
   A.   No vehicle shall at any time be driven to the left side of the roadway
under the following conditions:
      1.   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the highway
where the driver's view is obstructed within such distance as to create a
hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite direction.
      2.   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of or traversing any
intersection or railroad grade crossing.
      3.   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within one hundred feet
(100') of any bridge, viaduct or tunnel.
   B.   The foregoing limitations shall not apply upon a one-way roadway. (1980
Code)
9-5-7: ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS:
The chief of police may designate any street or alley under his jurisdiction
for one-way traffic and shall erect appropriate signs giving notice thereof:
   A.   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic, a vehicle
shall be driven only in the direction designated.
   B.   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only
to the right of such island. (1980 Code)
9-5-8: ROADWAY LANED FOR TRAFFIC:
Whenever any roadway has been divided into two (2) or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith
shall apply:
   A.   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   B.   Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes, a vehicle shall
not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing another
vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is clear
within a safe distance or in preparation for a left turn or where such center
lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction
the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of such allocation.
   C.   Official signs may be erected directing slow moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign. (1980 Code)
9-5-9: FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY:
   A.   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
   B.   The driver of any motor truck or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle
when traveling upon a roadway outside of a business or residence district and
which is following another motor truck or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle
shall, whenever conditions permit, leave sufficient space so that an overtaking
vehicle may enter and occupy such space without danger, except that this shall
not prevent a motor truck or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle from
overtaking and passing any like vehicle or other vehicle. (1980 Code)
9-5-10: DIVIDED HIGHWAYS:
Whenever any street has been divided into two (2) roadways by leaving an
intervening space or a physical barrier or clearly indicated dividing section
so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be driven
only upon the right hand roadway and no vehicle shall be driven over, across or
within any such dividing space, barrier or section, except through an opening
in such physical barrier or dividing section or space or at a cross over or
intersection established by public authority. (1980 Code)
9-5-11: TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS:
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
   A.   Right Turns: Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall
be made as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   B.   Left Turns On Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the roadway nearest the centerline where it enters the intersection and after
entering the intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave the
intersection to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made in that portion of the
intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
   C.   Left Turns On Other Than Two-Way Roadways: At any intersections where
traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways, the
driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle and after entering
the intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection,
as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered.
   D.   The chief of police is authorized to place markers, buttons or signs
within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled by
vehicles turning at such intersections and such course to be traveled as so
indicated may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law. When authorized
markers, buttons or other indications are placed within an intersection
indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning thereat, it shall be
unlawful for a driver of a vehicle to disobey the directions of such
indications. (1980 Code)
9-5-12: STARTING PARKED VEHICLE:
No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked unless and
until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. (1980 Code)
9-5-13: TURNING MOVEMENTS; REQUIRED SIGNALS:
   A.   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle is
in proper position upon the roadway as required in this chapter, or turn a
vehicle to enter a private road or driveway or otherwise turn a vehicle from a
direct course or move right or left upon a roadway unless and until such
movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person shall so turn any
vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided
in the event any other traffic may be affected by such movement.
   B.   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet (100')
traveled by the vehicle before turning.
   C.   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear where there is opportunity to
give such signal. (1980 Code)
9-5-14: HAND AND ARM SIGNALS:
All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from the left
side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals shall indicate as
follows:
   A.   Left turn: Hand and arm extended horizontally.
   B.   Right turn: Hand and arm extended upward.
   C.   Stop or decrease speed: Hand and arm extended downward. (1980 Code)
9-5-15: APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right of way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
street.
   B.   When two (2) vehicles enter an intersection from different streets at
approximately the same time the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield
the right of way to the vehicle on the right.
   C.   The right of way rules declared in subsections A and B of this section
are modified at through streets and otherwise as hereinafter stated in this
title. (1980 Code)
9-5-16: TURNING LEFT AT INTERSECTION:
The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right of way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard, but said driver, having so yielded and having given a
signal when and as required by this chapter, may make such left turn and the
drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from said opposite
direction shall yield the right of way to the vehicle making the left turn.
(1980 Code)
9-5-17: ENTERING STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTION:
   A.   Preferential right of way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
signs or yield signs.
   B.   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicted by a
stop sign shall stop as required by this title and after having stopped shall
yield the right of way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from
another roadway or which is approaching so closely on said roadway as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but said driver having so yielded may proceed
and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield
the right of way to the vehicle so proceeding.
   C.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall in obedience to
such sign slow down to a speed reasonable for existing conditions, or shall
stop if necessary as provided in the provisions of this title, and shall yield
the right of way to any pedestrian legally crossing the roadway on which he is
driving, and to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another
roadway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard. Said driver having so
yielded may proceed and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the
intersection shall yield to the vehicle so proceeding; provided however, that
if such driver is involved in a collision with a pedestrian in a crosswalk or a
vehicle in the intersection after driving past a yield sign without stopping,
such collision shall be deemed prima facie evidence of his failure to yield the
right of way. (1980 Code)
9-5-18: PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY:
The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from a private road
or driveway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on said
highway. (1980 Code)
9-5-19: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle equipped with at
least one lighted lamp exhibiting red light visible under normal atmospheric
conditions from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the front of such
vehicle other than a police vehicle when operated as an authorized emergency
vehicle, and when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle
or bell the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right of way and
shall immediately drive to a position parallel to and as close as possible to
the right hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection and shall
stop and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has
passed, except when otherwise directed by a police officer.
This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons using the
roadway. (1980 Code)
9-5-20: SAFETY ZONES:
No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety zone. (1980
Code)
CHAPTER 6
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
9-6-1: Traffic Regulations Applicable
9-6-2: Pedestrians In Crosswalks
9-6-3: Crossing Streets
9-6-4: Driver's Responsibility
9-6-5: Pedestrians' Use Of Crosswalk
9-6-6: Pedestrians On Roadway
9-6-7: Soliciting Rides Or Business
9-6-1: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS APPLICABLE:
Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals at intersections as
provided in the provisions of this title, but at all other places pedestrians
shall be accorded the privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions
stated in this chapter. (1980 Code)
9-6-2: PEDESTRIANS IN CROSSWALK:
   A.   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway which the vehicle is
traveling upon or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the
opposite half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian shall
suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of
a vehicle which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield. This
provision shall not apply under the conditions stated in subsection
9-6-3B of this chapter.
   B.   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle. (1980 Code)
9-6-3: CROSSING STREETS:
   A.   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   B.   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right of way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   C.   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk. (1980 Code)
9-6-4: DRIVER'S RESPONSIBILITY:
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this chapter, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon any roadway. (1980 Code)
9-6-5: PEDESTRIANS' USE OF CROSSWALK:
Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks. (1980 Code)
9-6-6: PEDESTRIANS ON ROADWAY:
   A.   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon adjacent roadways.
   B.   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and upon
a highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of the roadway or
its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite direction.
(1980 Code)
9-6-7: SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS:
   A.   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride, employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   B.   No person shall stand on or in proximity to a street or highway for the
purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or
about to be parked on a street or highway. (1980 Code)
CHAPTER 7
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
SECTION:
9-7-1: Train Signal
9-7-2: Railroad Crossings
9-7-3: Heavy Equipment Crossings
9-7-4: Stop And Yield Signs
9-7-5: Alleys Or Private Driveways
9-7-6: Overtaking School Bus
9-7-7: Stopping, Standing Or Parking Restricted
9-7-8: Illegally Stopped Vehicles
9-7-9: Stopping, Standing Or Parking Prohibited
9-7-10: Method Of Parking
9-7-11: Unattended Vehicle
9-7-12: Removal Of Improperly Parked Vehicles
9-7-13: Curb Loading Zones
9-7-1: TRAIN SIGNAL:
   A.   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
such vehicle shall stop within fifty feet (50') but not less than fifteen feet
(15') from the nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until he
can do so safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      1.   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives warning
of the immediate approach of a railroad train.
      2.   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagman gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train.
      3.   A railroad train approaching within approximately one thousand five
hundred feet (1,500') of the highway crossing emits a signal audible from such
distance and such railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such
crossing, is an immediate hazard.
      4.   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in hazardous
proximity to such crossing.
   B.   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is closed or
is being opened or closed. (1980 Code)
9-7-2: RAILROAD CROSSINGS:
   A.   The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, or of any
school bus carrying any schoolchild, or any vehicle carrying explosive
substances or inflammable liquids as a cargo or part of a cargo, before
crossing at grade any track or tracks of a railroad, shall stop such vehicle
within fifty feet (50') but not less than fifteen feet (15') from the nearest
rail of such railroad and while so stopped shall listen and look in both
directions along such track for any approaching train, and for signals
indicating the approach of a train, except as hereinafter provided, and shall
not proceed until he can do so safely. After stopping as required herein and
upon proceeding when it is safe to do so the driver of any said vehicle shall
cross only in such gear of the vehicle that there will be no necessity for
changing gears while traversing such crossing and the driver shall not shift
gears while crossing the track or tracks.
   B.   No stop need be made at any such crossing where a police officer or a
traffic control signal directs traffic to proceed.
   C.   This section shall not apply at street railway grade crossings within a
business or residence district. (1980 Code)
9-7-3: HEAVY EQUIPMENT CROSSINGS:
   A.   No person shall operate or move any crawler type tractor, steam shovel,
derrick, roller or any equipment or structure having a normal operating speed
of ten (10) or less miles per hour or a vertical body or load clearance of less
than one-half inch (1/2") per foot of the distance between any two (2) adjacent
axles or in any event of less than nine inches (9"), measured above the level
surface of a roadway, upon or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing
without first complying with this section.
   B.   Notice of any such intended crossing shall be given to a station agent
of such railroad and a reasonable time be given to such railroad to provide
proper protection at such crossing.
   C.   Before making any such crossing, the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same not less than fifteen feet
(15') nor more than fifty feet (50') from the nearest rail of such railroad and
while so stopped shall listen and look in both directions along such track for
any approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a trail, and
shall not proceed until the crossing can be made safely.
   D.   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal, crossing gates or a flagman or otherwise of the immediate approach of a
railroad train or car. If a flagman is provided by the railroad, movement over
the crossing shall be under his direction. (1980 Code)
9-7-4: STOP AND YIELD SIGNS:
   A.   The chief of police may designate through roadways and erect stop signs
or yield signs at specified entrances thereto or may designate any intersection
as a stop intersection or as a yield intersection and erect stop signs or yield
signs at one or more entrances to such intersection.
   B.   Every stop sign shall bear the word "Stop" in letters not less than
eight inches (8") in height. Every yield sign shall bear the word "Yield" in
letters not less than seven inches (7") in height. Every stop sign and every
yield sign shall at nighttime be rendered luminous by internal illumination, or
by a floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or by efficient reflecting
element in the face of the sign.
   C.   Every stop sign and every yield sign shall be erected as near as
practicable to the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, if there is no crosswalk, then as near as practicable to the
nearest line of the intersecting roadway.
   D.   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or in the event there is no crosswalk shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting
roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting
roadway before entering the intersection.
   E.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign if required for safety
to stop shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. (1980
Code)
9-7-5: ALLEYS OR PRIVATE DRIVEWAYS:
The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging from
an alley, driveway or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to
driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway
or driveway and shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian as may be
necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the
right of way to all vehicles approaching on said roadway. (1980 Code)
9-7-6: OVERTAKING SCHOOL BUS:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway outside of a business or
residence district upon meeting or overtaking from either direction any school
bus which has stopped on the highway for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any schoolchildren shall stop the vehicle before reaching such
school bus and shall not proceed until such school bus resumes motion or until
signaled by the driver to proceed.
   B.   Every bus used for the transportation of schoolchildren shall bear upon
the front and rear thereon a plainly visible sign containing the words "School
Bus" in letters not less than eight inches (8") in height. When a school bus is
being operated upon a highway for purposes other than the actual transportation
of children either to or from school, all markings thereon indicating "School
Bus" shall be covered or concealed.
   C.   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway with separate roadways need not
stop upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on a different roadway or
when upon a controlled access highway and the school bus is stopped in a
loading zone which is a part of or adjacent to such highway and when
pedestrians are not permitted to cross the roadway. (1980 Code)
9-7-7: STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING RESTRICTED:
   A.   Parking On Highway: Upon any highway outside of a business or residence
district, no person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle, whether
attended or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled part of the highway
when it is practical to stop, park or so leave such vehicle off such part of
said highway, but in every event an unobstructed width of the highway opposite
a standing vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles and a
clear view of such stopped vehicles shall be available from a distance of two
hundred feet (200') in each direction upon such highway.
This subsection shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is disabled
while on the paved or main traveled portion of the highway in such manner and
to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and temporarily leaving
such disabled vehicle in such position. (1980 Code)
   B.   Parking In Alleys: It shall be unlawful for an operator to stop, stand
or park any vehicle upon a street or alley in such a manner or under such
conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, except that an operator may
stop temporarily during the actual loading or unloading of passengers or goods,
or when necessary in obedience to traffic regulations or traffic signs or
signals or a police officer. (Ord. 75, 5-15-1950)
   C.   All Night Parking: It shall be unlawful for any person to park a
vehicle within the business district for a period of time longer than thirty
(30) minutes between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. of any day, except physicians on emergency calls.
   D.   Parking Of Trucks In Business District: Parking of trucks and/or truck
trailers is hereby prohibited within the business district.
   E.   Parking For Certain Purposes: It shall be unlawful for any person to
park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose of:
      1.   Displaying such vehicle for sale.
      2.   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
   F.   Parking Adjacent To Schools:
      1.   The chief of police is hereby authorized to erect signs indicating
no parking upon either or both sides of any street adjacent to any school
property when such parking would, in his opinion, interfere with traffic or
create a hazardous situation.
      2.   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon either
side of a street adjacent to any school property as authorized herein, it shall
be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle in any such designated place.
   G.   Parking On Narrow Streets:
      1.   The chief of police is hereby authorized to erect signs indicating
no parking upon any street when the width of the roadway does not exceed twenty
feet (20') or upon one side of a street as indicated by such signs when the
width of the roadway does not exceed thirty feet (30').
      2.   When official signs prohibiting parking are erected upon narrow
streets as authorized herein, it shall be unlawful for any person to park a
vehicle upon any such street in violation of any such sign.
   H.   Parking Near Congested Places:
      1.   The chief of police is hereby authorized to determine and designate
by proper signs, places not exceeding one hundred feet (100') in length if
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles would create an especially hazardous
condition or would cause unusual delay in traffic.
      2.   When official signs prohibiting parking are erected upon narrow
streets as authorized herein, it shall be unlawful for any person to park a
vehicle upon any such street in violation of any such sign. (Ord. 75, 5-15-
1950)
   I.   Parking Of Certain Vehicles In Residential Areas Prohibited:
      1.   No person shall stand or park any truck, truck tractor, trailer,
semitrailer, bus, or any vehicle exceeding the GVW limit for a one ton, on the
side of any residential street for any purpose or period of time other than for
the expeditious loading or unloading of such vehicles. A residential street is
defined as any street within the city other than Main Street.
      2.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the operator of a
truck, truck tractor, trailer, semitrailer, bus, or any other vehicle exceeding
the GVW limit for a one ton while such vehicle is actively being used in
connection with the construction or repair of buildings, service calls, or the
moving of household goods, and shall not be applicable to the operator of a bus
while such vehicle is parked in a designated bus stop.
      3.   Any person who parks a vehicle on a residential street as prohibited
in this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be
subject to a minimum fine of twenty dollars ($20.00) and a maximum fine of one
hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 165, 5-19-1987)
   J.   Handicapped Parking:
      1.   Definition: For the purposes of this subsection, "handicapped" means
a person with a physical disability as defined by applicable law.
      2.   Reserved Handicapped Parking: Whenever a particular parking space
has been vertically signed as reserved for the handicapped, no person shall
park in that space unless he has visibly displayed on his vehicle, a valid
handicapped parking permit or license plate, issued by the State of Montana or
any other state, hospital or the Veterans Administration.
      3.   Penalty: Any person who parks a vehicle in violation of this
subsection is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of one hundred
dollars ($100.00). However, any person charged with violating this subsection
may not be convicted if, within twenty four (24) hours of the violation or on
the next business day on which the court is open for business, that person
produces a handicapped parking permit that was previously issued to the person
and that was valid at the time the citation was issued. (Ord. 209, 2-4-1997)
9-7-8: ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES:
Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street in violation
of any of the provisions of this title, such officer is hereby authorized to
move such vehicle or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move the same to a position off the paved or main traveled part of
such street. (1980 Code)
9-7-9: STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to stop, stand or park said
vehicle in any of the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic, or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control sign or signal:
   A.   Within an intersection;
   B.   On a crosswalk;
   C.   Within fifteen feet (15') of the center of the driveway entrance to any
fire station;
   D.   Within ten feet (10') of a fire hydrant;
   E.   In front of a private driveway;
   F.   On a sidewalk;
   G.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction or another
parked car;
   H.   Alongside any marked or designated area adjacent to curb lines when
such has been marked or established by the City Council; or (Ord. 75, 5-15-
1950)
   I.   When official signs prohibiting parking are erected indicating no
parking.
Any person who parks a vehicle as prohibited in this section, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor punishable and upon conviction shall be subject to a minimum
fine of twenty dollars ($20.00) and a maximum fine of one hundred dollars
($100.00). (Ord. 245, 1-18-2011)
9-7-10: METHOD OF PARKING:
   A.   Parallel Parking Of Vehicles Required: A vehicle that is stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway must be stopped or parked with the right-hand
wheels of the vehicle parallel to and within eighteen inches (18") of the
right-hand curb or as close as practicable to the right edge of the right-hand
shoulder as to not impede traffic.
   B.   Exceptions: Vehicles must be stopped or parked parallel with the edge
of the roadway headed in the direction of traffic except as provided in the
following subsections:
      1.   Upon those streets which have been marked or signed for angle
parking, vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by such
marks or signs.
      2.   In places where, and at hours when, stopping for the loading or
unloading of merchandise or materials is permitted, vehicles used for
transportation of merchandise or materials may back into the curb to take on or
discharge loads.
      3.   The City Council, upon the East Helena Safety Committee
recommendation, shall determine upon which streets angle parking shall be
permitted and shall authorize such parking. The City of East Helena shall
require the same to be marked and signed by the entity requesting the allowance
of angle parking.
      4.   When necessary for obedience of traffic regulations, signs, signals
or a police officer.
      5.   Motorcycles, defined as a motored vehicle with not more than three
(3) wheels, are exempt from the parallel parking requirement. Motorcycles may
park at an angle or perpendicular in non-designated angle parking areas.
   C.   Double Parking Prohibited: Double parking is expressly prohibited and
forbidden on every publicly maintained way open to vehicular travel within the
City.
   D.   Yielding: Vehicles proceeding from a stopped, standing or parked
position, into the line of traffic, shall yield the right- of-way to vehicles
proceeding in the line of traffic.
   E.   Encroachment Prohibited: A vehicle parked on private property shall not
encroach upon or cross onto public right-of-way, roadway, boulevard or
thoroughfare.
   F.   Cul-De-Sac Parking: Parking is prohibited in the center of a cul-de-
sac. (Ord. 265, 5-15-2018)
9-7-11: UNATTENDED VEHICLE:
No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing
the key and effectively setting the brake thereon, and when standing upon any
grade turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the roadway. (1980 Code;
amd. Ord. 165, 5-19-1987)
9-7-12: REMOVAL OF IMPROPERLY PARKED VEHICLES:
Any vehicle parked in violation of traffic regulations or any vehicle parked so
as to obstruct the free movement of traffic or to cause a traffic hazard may be
immediately removed upon order of the Police Department. Any such vehicle
removed by the Police Department shall be kept under the control of the Police
Department until the owner or authorized agent pays a reasonable cost of
removal and storage in addition to the penalty provided for such improper
parking. Any such vehicle shall be deemed to be improperly parked after a
period of three (3) minutes unless said vehicle is parked in a regularly marked
parking area, when it shall be deemed to be improperly parked, after any period
of time longer than that designated by a meter or proper sign. If said vehicle
is redeemed within five (5) days, said removal charges shall not exceed fifty
dollars ($50.00), however, if said vehicle is not redeemed within five (5)
days, the cost of redemption shall include the actual cost and expense of said
removal in addition to a storage charge of five dollars ($5.00) per day and
said costs and expenses shall be a lien in favor of the City. (1980 Code; amd.
Ord. 165, 5-19-1987)
9-7-13: CURB LOADING ZONES:
   A.   Location Determined; Signs Erected: The Chief of Police is hereby
authorized to determine the location of passenger and freight curb loading
zones and shall place and maintain appropriate signs indicating the same and
stating the hours during which the provisions of this subsection are
applicable.
   B.   Permit Required Upon Special Request For Zone: The Chief of Police
shall not hereafter designate or sign any curb loading zone upon special
request of any person unless such person makes application for a permit for
such zone and for two (2) signs to indicate the ends of each such zone. Said
permit fee shall be set and designated by the Governing Body.
   C.   Freight Curb Loading Zone: It shall be unlawful for any person to stop,
stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of time other than for the
expeditious unloading and delivery or pick up and loading of materials in any
place marked as a freight curb loading zone during the hours when the
provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall the stop
for loading or unloading of materials exceed thirty (30) minutes. (1980 Code;
amd. Ord. 165, 5-19-1987)
CHAPTER 8
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT
SECTION:
9-8-1: Lighted Lamps
9-8-2: Mounted Height Of Lamps
9-8-3: Headlamps
9-8-4: Taillamps
9-8-5: Stop Lamps; Turn Signals
9-8-6: Lamps On Parked Vehicles
9-8-7: Driving Lamps Required
9-8-8: Brakes
9-8-9: Horns And Warning Devices
9-8-10: Mirrors
9-8-11: Windshield Wipers
9-8-1: LIGHTED LAMPS:
Every vehicle upon a highway at any time from one-half (1/2) hour after sunset
to one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise and at any other time when there is not
sufficient light to render clearly discernible persons and vehicles on the
highway at a distance of five hundred feet (500') ahead shall display lighted
lamps and illuminating devices as hereinafter respectively required for
different classes of vehicles, subject to exceptions with respect to parked
vehicles. (1980 Code)
9-8-2: MOUNTED HEIGHT OF LAMPS:
   A.   Whenever a requirement is hereinafter declared as to the distance from
which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible or within which
such lamps or devices shall be visible, said provisions shall apply during the
times stated in this chapter in respect to a vehicle without load when upon a
straight, level, unlighted highway under normal atmospheric conditions unless a
different time or condition is expressly stated.
   B.   Whenever a requirement is hereinafter declared as to the mounted height
of lamps or devices, it shall mean from the center of such lamp or device to
the level ground upon which the vehicle stands when such vehicle is without a
load. (1980 Code)
9-8-3: HEADLAMPS:
   A.   Every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle or motor driven cycle shall
be equipped with at least two (2) headlamps with at least one on each side of
the front of the motor vehicle, which headlamps shall comply with the
requirements and limitations set forth in this chapter.
   B.   Every motorcycle and every motor driven cycle shall be equipped with at
least one and not more than two (2) headlamps which shall comply with the
requirements and limitations of this chapter.
   C.   Every headlamp upon every motor vehicle, including every motorcycle and
motor driven cycle, shall be located at a height measured from the center of
the headlamp of not more than fifty four inches (54") nor less than twenty four
inches (24") to be measured as set forth in this chapter. (1980 Code)
9-8-4: TAILLAMPS:
   A.   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer and pole trailer and any
other vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles, shall be
equipped with at least one taillamp mounted on the rear, which, when lighted as
hereinbefore required, shall emit a red light plainly visible from a distance
of five hundred feet (500') to the rear, provided that, in the case of a train
of vehicles only the taillamp on the rearmost vehicle need actually to be seen
from the distance specified. Provided further, every such above mentioned
vehicle, other than a truck tractor, shall be equipped with at least two (2)
taillamps mounted on the rear, which when lighted as herein required, shall
comply with the provisions of this section.
   B.   Every taillamp upon every vehicle shall be located at a height of not
more than seventy two inches (72") nor less than twenty inches (20").
   C.   Either a taillamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed and placed
as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate and render it
clearly legible from a distance of fifty feet (50') to the rear. Any taillamp
or taillamps, together with any separate lamp for illuminating the rear
registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted whenever the headlamps
or auxiliary driving lamps are lighted. (1980 Code)
9-8-5: STOP LAMPS; TURN SIGNALS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell any new motor vehicle,
including any motorcycle or motor driven cycle unless it is equipped with at
least one stop lamp. Stop lamps shall display a red or amber light, or any
shade of color between red and amber, visible from a distance of not less than
one hundred feet (100') to the rear in normal sunlight, and which shall be
actuated upon application of the service (foot) brake, and which may but need
not be incorporated with one or more other rear lamps.
   B.   No person shall sell or offer for sale or operate on the highways any
new motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer unless it is equipped with
mechanical or electrical turn signals meeting the following requirements: Any
motor vehicle may be equipped and when required shall be equipped with lamps or
mechanical signal devices showing to the front and rear for the purposes of
indicating an intention to turn either to the right or left. When lamps are
used for such purpose, the lamps showing to the front shall be located on the
same level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable and when in use shall
display a white or amber light, or any shade of color between white and amber,
visible from a distance of not less than one hundred feet (100') to the front
in normal sunlight, and the lamps showing to the rear shall be located at the
same level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable and when in use shall
display a red or amber light, or any shade of color between red and amber,
visible from a distance of not less than one hundred feet (100') to the rear in
normal sunlight. When actuated such lamps shall indicate the intended direction
of turning by flashing the lights showing to the front and rear on the side
toward which the turn is made. Where mechanical signal devices are used for
such purpose, said devices shall be self-illuminated when in use at the times
mentioned in this chapter.
   C.   No stop lamp or signal lamp or device shall project a glaring light.
(1980 Code)
9-8-6: LAMPS ON PARKED VEHICLES:
   A.   Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked upon a street during the hours
between one-half (1/2) hour after sunset and one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise
and in the event there is sufficient light to reveal any person or object
within a distance of five hundred feet (500') upon such street, no lights need
be displayed upon such parked vehicle.
   B.   Whenever a vehicle is parked or stopped upon a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto, whether attended or unattended, during the hours between one-
half (1/2) hour after sunset and one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise, if there
is not sufficient light to reveal any person or object within a distance of
five hundred feet (500') upon such roadway, such vehicle so parked or stopped
shall be equipped with one or more lamps meeting the following requirements: At
least one lamp shall display a white or amber light visible from a distance of
five hundred feet (500') to the front of the vehicle, and the same lamp or at
least one other lamp shall display a red light visible from a distance of five
hundred feet (500') to the rear of the vehicle, and the location of said lamp
or lamps shall always be such that at least one lamp or combination of lamps
meeting the requirements of this section is installed as near as practicable to
the side of the vehicle which is closest to passing traffic. The foregoing
provision shall not apply to a motor driven cycle.
   C.   Any lighted headlamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed. (1980 Code)
9-8-7: DRIVING LAMPS REQUIRED:
   A.   At all times specified in the provisions of this chapter, at least two
(2) lighted lamps shall be displayed, one on each side at the front of every
motor vehicle other than a motorcycle or motor driven cycle, except when such
vehicle is parked subject to the regulations governing lights on parked
vehicles.
   B.   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlamps as herein required is
also equipped with any auxiliary lamps or a spot lamp or any other lamp on the
front thereof projecting a beam of intensity greater than three hundred (300)
candlepower, not more than a total of four (4) of any such lamps on the front
of a vehicle shall be lighted at any one time when upon a street or highway.
(1980 Code)
9-8-8: BRAKES:
   A.   Brake Equipment Required:
      1.   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle or motor driven cycle,
when operated upon a roadway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control
the movement of and to stop and hold such vehicle, including two (2) separate
means of applying the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply
the brakes to at least two (2) wheels. If these two (2) separate means of
applying the brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that
failure of any one part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor
vehicle without brakes on at least two (2) wheels.
      2.   Every motorcycle and every motor driven cycle, when operated upon a
highway, shall be equipped with at least one brake which may be operated by
hand or foot.
      3.   Every trailer or semitrailer of a gross weight of three thousand
(3,000) pounds or more, when operated upon a roadway, shall be equipped with
brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to hold such vehicle
and so designed as to be applied by the driver of the towing motor vehicle from
its cab, and said brakes shall be so designed and connected that in case of an
accidental breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes shall be automatically
applied.
      4.   Every new motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer hereafter sold and
operated upon the streets shall be equipped with service brakes upon all wheels
of every such vehicle, except any motorcycle or motor driven cycle, and except
that any semitrailer of less than one thousand five hundred (1,500) pounds'
gross weight need not be equipped with brakes.
      5.   One of the means of brake operation shall consist of a mechanical
connection from the operating lever to the brake shoes or hands and this brake
shall be capable of holding the vehicle, or combination of vehicles, stationary
under any condition of loading on any upgrade or downgrade upon which it is
operated.
      6.   The brake shoes operating within or upon the drums on the vehicle
wheels of any motor vehicle may be used for both service and hand operation.
   B.   Performance Ability Of Brakes: Every motor vehicle or combination of
vehicles, at all times and under all conditions of loading, shall, upon
application of the service (foot) brake, be capable of decelerating and
developing a braking force equivalent to such deceleration according to the
minimum requirements set forth herein, and also of stopping within the
distances set forth herein:
 
                       Stopping Distance Deceleration   Equivalent Braking
                                                        Force
Passenger vehicles not 25'               17' per second 53.0% of vehicle or
including buses                                         combination weight
Single unit vehicles
with a manufacturer's                                   43.5% of vehicle or
gross vehicle weight   30'               14' per second combination weight
rating of less than
10,000 pounds
Single unit, 2 axle
vehicles with a
manufacturer's gross   40'               14' per second 43.5% of vehicle or
vehicle weight rating                                   combination weight
of 10,000 or more
pounds
All other vehicles and
combinations with a
manufacturer's gross   50'               14' per second 43.5% of vehicle or
vehicle weight rating                                   combination weight
of 10,000 or more
pounds
 
Compliance with standards set forth herein shall be determined either by actual
road tests conducted on a substantially level (not to exceed a plus or minus 1
percent grade) dry, smooth, hard surfaced road that is free from loose
material, and with stopping distances measured from the actual instant braking
controls are moved and from an initial speed of twenty (20) miles per hour, or
else by suitable mechanical tests in a testing lane which recreates such same
conditions or by a combination of both methods.
   C.   Maintenance Of Brakes: All brakes shall be maintained in good working
order and shall be so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with
respect to the wheels on opposite sides of the vehicle. (1980 Code)
9-8-9: HORNS AND WARNING DEVICES:
   A.   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a public thoroughfare shall be
equipped with a horn in good working order and capable of emitting sound
audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than two hundred
feet (200'), but no horn or other warning device shall emit an unreasonably
loud or harsh sound or whistle. The driver of a motor vehicle shall, when
reasonably necessary to ensure safe operation, give audible warning with his
horn but shall not otherwise use such horn when upon a thoroughfare.
   B.   No vehicle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
vehicle any siren, whistle or bell except as otherwise permitted in this
section.
   C.   It is permissible, but not required that any commercial vehicle be
equipped with a theft alarm signal device which is so arranged that it cannot
be used by the driver as an ordinary warning signal.
   D.   Any authorized emergency vehicle may be equipped with a siren, whistle
or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a
distance of not less than five hundred feet (500'), but such siren shall not be
used except when such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or
in the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in
which said latter events the driver of such vehicle shall sound said siren when
reasonably necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach
thereof. (1980 Code)
9-8-10: MIRRORS:
Every motor vehicle which is so constructed or loaded as to obstruct the
driver's view to the rear thereof from the driver's position shall be equipped
with a mirror so located as to reflect to the driver a view of the roadway for
a distance of at least two hundred feet (200') to the rear of such vehicle.
(1980 Code)
9-8-11: WINDSHIELD WIPERS:
   A.   No person shall drive any motor vehicle with any sign, poster or other
nontransparent material upon the front windshield, side wings or side or rear
windows of such vehicle which obstructs the driver's clear view of the roadway
or any intersecting roadway.
   B.   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow or other moisture from the windshield, which device
shall be so constructed as to be controlled or operated by the driver of the
vehicle.
   C.   Every windshield wiper upon a motor vehicle shall be maintained in good
working order. (1980 Code)
CHAPTER 9
MISCELLANEOUS DRIVING RULES
SECTION:
9-9-1: Backing
9-9-2: Motorcycles
9-9-3: Driver's View
9-9-4: Following Fire Apparatus
9-9-5: Crossing Fire Hose
9-9-6: Processions
9-9-7: Clinging To Vehicles
9-9-8: Driving On Sidewalk
9-9-9: Boarding Or Alighting
9-9-10: Unlawful Riding
9-9-11: Bus Stops
9-9-1: BACKING:
It shall be unlawful for any driver of a vehicle to back the same unless such
movement can be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other
traffic. (1980 Code)
9-9-2: MOTORCYCLES:
A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon a permanent and regular
seat attached thereto, and such operator shall not carry any other person nor
shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless such motorcycle is designed
to carry more than one person. (1980 Code)
9-9-3: DRIVER'S VIEW:
   A.   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded or when there is
in the front seat, such number of persons exceeding three (3) as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   B.   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver's view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with his control
over the driving mechanism of the vehicle. (1980 Code)
9-9-4: FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS:
It shall be unlawful for any driver of any vehicle other than one on official
business to follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm
closer than five hundred feet (500') or drive or park such vehicle within the
block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm. (1980 Code)
9-9-5: CROSSING FIRE HOSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or permit any vehicle to be driven
over any unprotected hose of the fire department when laid down on any street
or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of fire without the consent
of the fire department official in command. (1980 Code)
9-9-6: PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Driving Through Processions: It shall be unlawful for a driver of a
vehicle to drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized
procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously
designated.
   B.   Drivers In A Procession: Each driver in a funeral or other procession
shall drive as near to the right hand edge of the roadway as practical and
shall follow the preceding vehicle as close as is practical and safe.
   C.   Identification Of Funeral Processions Required: A funeral composed of a
procession of vehicles shall be identified as such by the display upon the
outside of each vehicle of a pennant or other identifying insignia or by such
other method as may be determined and designated by the chief of police.
   D.   Permits For Parades, Processions Required: It shall be unlawful for any
funeral procession or parade containing persons or vehicles to occupy, march or
proceed along any street except in accordance with a permit issued by the chief
of police and such other regulations as are set forth. (1980 Code)
9-9-7: CLINGING TO VEHICLES 1
:
It shall be unlawful for any person riding upon a bicycle, coaster, roller
skates, sled or toy vehicle to attach the same or himself to any vehicle upon a
roadway. (1980 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
   9-11-11 of this title.
9-9-8: DRIVING ON SIDEWALK:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to drive within any sidewalk
area except at a permanent or temporary driveway. No person shall park a
vehicle within any sidewalk area. (1980 Code)
9-9-9: BOARDING OR ALIGHTING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to board or alight from any vehicle while
such vehicle is in motion. (1980 Code)
9-9-10: UNLAWFUL RIDING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride any vehicle upon any portion
thereof not designated or intended for the use of passengers. This provision
shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or
to persons riding within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise. (1980
Code)
9-9-11: BUS STOPS:
   A.   The chief of police shall have the authority to designate bus stops at
such locations and in such manner and number as may be necessary and of the
greatest benefit and convenience to the public. Every such bus stop shall be
designated by appropriate signs.
   B.   The operator of a bus shall not stop such bus at any place for the
purpose of taking on or discharging passengers other than at a bus stop so
designated except in case of emergency.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a vehicle at
an authorized bus stop so designated or between the right curb and any such
stop, except that the operator of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop
thereat for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the discharge or the
pick up of passengers then in readiness at the curb. (1980 Code)
CHAPTER 10
ACCIDENTS
SECTION:
9-10-1: Accidents Involving Death Or Personal Injuries
9-10-2: Accidents Involving Damage
9-10-3: Duty To Give Information And Render Aid
9-10-4: Striking Unattended Vehicle
9-10-5: Damaging Fixtures On Public Thoroughfares
9-10-6: Accident Reports
9-10-1: ACCIDENTS INVOLVING DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURIES:
   A.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury
to or death of any person shall immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of
such accident or as close thereto as possible and shall then forthwith return
to and in every event shall remain at the scene of the accident until he has
fulfilled the requirements of the provisions of this chapter. Every such stop
shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is necessary.
   B.   Any person failing to stop or to comply with said requirements under
such circumstances shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
   C.   The license of any person so convicted shall be revoked for a period of
one year. (1980 Code)
9-10-2: ACCIDENTS INVOLVING DAMAGE:
   A.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in
damage to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall immediately
stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident or as close thereto as possible
but shall forthwith return to and in every event remain at the scene of such
accident until he has fulfilled the requirements of this chapter. Every such
stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is necessary.
   B.   Any person failing to stop or comply with said requirements under such
circumstances shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (1980 Code)
9-10-3: DUTY TO GIVE INFORMATION AND RENDER AID:
The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to or
death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is driven or attended by any
person shall give his name, address and the registration number of the vehicle
he is driving and shall, upon request and if available, exhibit his operator's
or chauffeur's license to the person struck or the driver or occupant of or
person attending any vehicle collided with and shall render to any person
injured in such accident reasonable assistance, including the carrying or the
making of arrangements for the carrying of such person to a physician, surgeon
or hospital for medical or surgical treatment if it is apparent that such
treatment is necessary or if such carrying is requested by the injured person.
(1980 Code)
9-10-4: STRIKING UNATTENDED VEHICLE:
The driver of any vehicle which collides with any vehicle, which is unattended
shall immediately stop and shall then and there either locate and notify the
operator or owner of such vehicle of the name and address of the driver and
owner of the vehicle striking the unattended vehicle or shall leave in a
conspicuous place in the vehicle struck a written notice giving the name and
address of the driver and of the owner of the vehicle doing the striking and a
statement of the circumstances thereof. (1980 Code)
9-10-5: STRIKING FIXTURES ON PUBLIC THOROUGHFARES:
The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in damage to
fixtures or other property legally upon or adjacent to a public thoroughfare
shall take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge
of such property of such fact and of his name and address and of the
registration number of the vehicle he is driving and shall upon request and if
available exhibit his operator's or chauffeur's license and shall make report
of such accident when and as required in the provisions of this chapter. (1980
Code)
9-10-6: ACCIDENT REPORTS:
   A.   Written Reports:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in bodily
injury to or death of any person or total property damage to an apparent extent
of fifty dollars ($50.00) or more shall, within five (5) days after such
accident, forward a written report of such accident to the police department.
      2.   The police department may require any driver of a vehicle involved
in an accident of which report must be made as provided in this section to file
supplemental reports whenever the original report is insufficient in the
opinion of the police department and may require witnesses of accidents to
render reports to the police department.
      3.   Every police officer who, in the regular course of duty,
investigates a motor vehicle accident of which report must be made as required
in this subsection, either at the time of and at the scene of the accident or
thereafter by interviewing participants or witnesses shall, within twenty four
(24) hours after completing such investigation, forward a written report of
such accident to the state department of law enforcement.
   B.   Inability To Report:
      1.   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of giving
immediate notice of an accident as required and there was another occupant in
the vehicle at the time of the accident capable of doing so, such occupant
shall give or cause to be given the notice not given by the driver.
      2.   Whenever the driver is physically incapable of making a written
report of an accident as required and such driver is not the owner of the
vehicle, then the owner of the vehicle involved in such accident shall, within
five (5) days after learning of the accident, make such report not made by the
driver.
   C.   Accident Report Forms:
      1.   The police department shall keep an adequate supply of forms for
accident reports required hereunder, appropriate with respect to the persons
required to make such reports and the purposes to be served. The written
reports to be made by persons involved in accidents and by investigating
officers shall call for sufficiently detailed information to disclose with
reference to a traffic accident the cause, conditions then existing and the
persons and vehicles involved.
      2.   Every accident report required to be made in writing shall be made
on the appropriate form approved by the police department and shall contain all
of the information required therein unless not available.
      3.   Every such report shall also contain information sufficient to
determine whether the requirements for the deposit of security under any of the
laws of this state are inapplicable by reason of the existence of insurance or
other exceptions specified therein.
   D.   Garages To Report: The person in charge of any garage or repair shop to
which is brought any motor vehicle which shows evidence of having been involved
in an accident of which report must be made as provided in the provisions of
this title or struck by any bullet, shall report to the police department
within forty eight (48) hours after such motor vehicle is received, giving the
engine number, registration number and the name and address of the owner or
operator of such vehicle.
   E.   Accident Report Confidential: All required accident reports and
supplemental reports shall be without prejudice to the individual so reporting
and shall be for the confidential use of the board or other state agencies
having use of the records for accident prevention purposes, or for the
administration of the laws of this state relating to the deposit of security
and proof of financial responsibility by persons driving or the owners of motor
vehicles, except that the board may disclose the identity of a person involved
in an accident when such identity is not otherwise known or when such person
denies his presence at such accident.
All accident reports and supplemental information filed in connection with the
administration of the laws of this state relating to the deposit of security or
proof of financial responsibility shall be confidential and not open to the
general public inspection, nor shall copying of lists of such reports be
permitted; except, however that, such reports and supplemental information may
be examined by any person named therein or by his representative designated in
writing.
No such report shall be used as evidence in any trial, civil or criminal,
arising out of an accident, except that the board shall furnish upon demand of
any person who has, or claims to have, made such a report or upon the demand by
any court, of a certificate showing that a specified accident report has or has
not been made to the board solely to prove compliance or failure to comply with
the requirement that such a report be made to the board. (1980 Code)
CHAPTER 11
BICYCLES
SECTION:
9-11-1: Effect Of Regulations
9-11-2: Licensing Regulations
9-11-3: Rental Agencies
9-11-4: Bicycle Dealers
9-11-5: Traffic Laws Apply
9-11-6: Traffic Control Devices
9-11-7: Riding On Bicycles
9-11-8: Riding On Roadways
9-11-9: Speed
9-11-10: Emerging From Alley
9-11-11: Clinging To Vehicles
9-11-12: Carrying Articles
9-11-13: Parking
9-11-14: Riding On Sidewalks
9-11-15: Lamps And Equipment
9-11-1: EFFECT OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required herein.
   B.   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter.
   C.   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a bicycle
is operated upon any public thoroughfare or public path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles. (1980 Code)
9-11-2: LICENSING REGULATIONS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person residing in the
city to ride or propel a bicycle on any public thoroughfare unless such bicycle
has been licensed and a license plate is attached thereto.
   B.   License Application: Application for a bicycle license and license
plate shall be made to the clerk. A fee of one dollar ($1.00) per annum shall
be paid before such license is issued.
   C.   Issuance Of License:
      1.   The clerk, upon receiving proper application therefor, is authorized
to issue a bicycle license which shall be effective until the end of the
calendar year.
      2.   The clerk shall not issue a license for any bicycle when he knows
the applicant is not the owner of or entitled to the possession of such
bicycle.
      3.   The clerk shall keep a record of the number of each license, the
date issued, the name and address of the person to whom issued, the number on
the frame of the bicycle and a record of all bicycle license fees collected.
   D.   Attachment Of Plate:
      1.   The clerk, upon issuing a bicycle license, shall also issue a
license plate bearing the license number assigned to the bicycle, the name of
the city and the calendar year for which issued.
      2.   Each license plate shall be firmly attached to the bicycle in such a
position as to be plainly visible.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove a license plate from a
bicycle during the period for which issued except upon a transfer of ownership
or in the event the bicycle is dismantled.
   E.   Inspection: The clerk shall inspect each bicycle before licensing the
same and shall refuse a license for any bicycle which he determines is in
unsafe mechanical condition.
   F.   Renewal Of License: Upon the expiration of any bicycle license, the
same may be renewed upon application and payment of the same fee as upon the
original application.
   G.   Transfer Of Ownership: Upon the sale or transfer of a licensed bicycle
the licensee shall remove the plate and shall either surrender the same to the
clerk or may, upon proper application but without payment of an additional fee,
have said plate assigned to another bicycle owned by the applicant. (1980 Code)
9-11-3: RENTAL AGENCIES:
A rental agency shall not rent or offer any bicycle for rent unless the bicycle
is licensed and a license plate is attached thereto. (1980 Code)
9-11-4: BICYCLE DEALERS:
Every person engaged in the business of buying or selling new or secondhand
bicycles shall make a report to the clerk of every bicycle purchased or sold by
such dealer, giving a description of such bicycle by name or make, the frame
number thereof, and the number of the license plate, if any, found thereon.
(1980 Code)
9-11-5: TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY:
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle, except as to special regulations in this chapter and except as to
those provisions of this title which by their nature can have no application.
(1980 Code)
9-11-6: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signs, signals and other control devices applicable to vehicles
unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   Wherever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left or
U-turn is permitted, it shall be unlawful for any person operating a bicycle to
disobey the direction of any such sign, except where a person dismounts from
the bicycle to make such turn in which event such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians. (1980 Code)
9-11-7: RIDING ON BICYCLES:
   A.   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or astride
a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   B.   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped. (1980 Code)
9-11-8: RIDING ON ROADWAYS:
   A.   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   B.   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two (2)
abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
   C.   Wherever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the roadway.
(1980 Code)
9-11-9: SPEED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle at a speed greater
than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing. (1980 Code)
9-11-10: EMERGING FROM ALLEY:
The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall,
upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
yield the right of way to all pedestrians approaching on said sidewalk and upon
entering the roadway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching
on said roadway. (1980 Code)
9-11-11: CLINGING TO VEHICLES 1
:
It shall be unlawful for any person riding upon any bicycle to attach the same
or himself to any vehicle upon any public thoroughfare. (1980 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
   9-9-7 of this title.
9-11-12: CARRYING ARTICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person operating a bicycle to carry a package,
bundle or article which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon
the handlebars. (1980 Code)
9-11-13: PARKING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park a bicycle in such a manner as to
interfere or obstruct pedestrian traffic. (1980 Code)
9-11-14: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk
within a business district.
   B.   The clerk is authorized to erect signs on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon and when such signs are in place it
shall be unlawful for any person to disobey the same. (1980 Code)
9-11-15: LAMPS AND EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp on
the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
five hundred feet (500') to the front, and on the rear, a red reflector of a
type which shall be visible from all distances from fifty feet (50') to three
hundred feet (300') to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of
headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a
distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle unless it is
equipped with a bell or other device capable of giving a signal audible for a
distance of at least one hundred feet (100'), except that a bicycle shall not
be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle any siren or whistle.
   C.   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, clean pavement. (1980
Code)
CHAPTER 12
PENALTY
SECTION:
9-12-1: Violation, Penalty
9-12-2: Monies Into General Fund
9-12-1: VIOLATION, PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this title, or violating any of
the rules, regulations, rules of the road and street adopted and promulgated by
authority of this title, shall upon conviction thereof be punished by a fine of
not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00), or by imprisonment in the city
jail for a period not exceeding six (6) months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment, or such fine or imprisonment provided by state law, whichever is
greater. (Ord. 46, 10-15-1930; amd. 1980 Code)
9-12-2: MONIES INTO GENERAL FUND:
All fines and forfeitures collected upon conviction or upon the forfeiture of
bail of any person charged with a violation of any of provisions of this title
shall be paid into the city treasury to the credit of the general fund. (Ord.
46, 10-15-1930)
TITLE 10
FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; INTENT; PURPOSE
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Intent
10-1-3: Purpose
10-1-1: TITLE:
These regulations shall be known and cited as the CITY OF EAST HELENA, MONTANA,
FLOODPLAIN HAZARD MANAGEMENT (FLOODPLAIN) REGULATIONS. These regulations are in
accordance with and exercising the authority of the laws of the state of
Montana, chapter 5, floodplain and floodway management, sections 76-5-101
through 76-5-406, Montana Code Annotated 2011. (Ord. 249, 8-21-2012)
10-1-2: INTENT:
These floodplain regulations are enacted in order to comply with state of
Montana law and to ensure compliance with the requirements for the continued
participation by the city in the national flood insurance program (NFIP). Land
use regulations which are hereby adopted are to be applied to all identified
floodplains within the city. (Ord. 249, 8-21-2012)
10-1-3: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of these floodplain regulations is to promote the public
health, safety, and general welfare, and to minimize losses due to flood
conditions in the floodplain. These regulations have been established with the
following purposes intended:
      1.   Protect human life and health;
      2.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      3.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      4.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      5.   Minimize damage to public infrastructure and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in the floodplain;
      6.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
      7.   Ensure compliance with the minimum standards for the continued
participation in the national flood insurance program for the benefit of the
residents of the city.
   B.   Specifically it is the purpose of these regulations to:
      1.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, and
property in times of flood, or that cause increased flood heights and
velocities;
      2.   Require that uses of land vulnerable to floods, including public
facilities, be developed and constructed to minimize flood damage;
      3.   Regulate the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are needed to accommodate floodwaters;
      4.   Regulate filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage;
      5.   Regulate the construction of flood barriers which will impact other
property, floodwater depth, or velocity of floodwaters;
      6.   Distinguish between the regulations applicable to the floodway
within the floodplain and those applicable to the floodway fringe;
      7.   Apply more restrictive regulations within the floodway; and
      8.   Ensure that regulations and minimum standards balance the greatest
public good with the least private injury. (Ord. 249, 8-21-2012)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Words Defined
10-2-1: WORDS DEFINED:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in these regulations
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give these regulations the most reasonable application.
   ALTERATION: Any change or addition to an artificial obstruction that
increases its external dimensions or increases its potential flood hazard.
   ARTIFICIAL OBSTRUCTION: Any obstruction that is not natural and includes any
dam, diversion, wall, riprap, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, revetment, excavation, channel rectification, road, bridge,
conduit, culvert, building, refuse, automobile body, fill, or other analogous
structure or matter in, along, across, or projecting into any regulated flood
hazard area that may impede, retard, or change the direction of the flow of
water, either in itself or by catching or collecting debris carried by the
water, or that is placed where the natural flow of the water would carry the
same downstream to the damage or detriment of either life or property.
   BASE FLOOD: A flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. A base flood is the same as a 100-year flood and
the terms are used interchangeably.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation above sea level of the base flood
in relation to the North American vertical datum of 1988 (NAVD 88) unless
otherwise specified.
   BASEMENT: Any area of a building having its floor subgrade on all sides.
   CHANNEL: The geographical area within either the natural or artificial banks
of a watercourse or drainway.
   CHANNELIZATION PROJECT: The excavation or construction of an artificial
channel for the purpose of diverting the entire flow of a stream from its
established course.
   CRAWL SPACE: Any area below the ground level and below the lowest floor
having an interior dimension of four feet (4') or less measured from the
interior ground surface to the top of the stem wall.
   DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real property,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DRAINWAY: A depression two feet (2') or more below the surrounding land
serving to give direction to a current of water less than nine (9) months of
the year and having a bed and well defined banks.
   DWELLING: A permanent structure for human habitation, a place for living
purposes.
   ENCROACHMENT: Activities or construction within the floodplain including
fill, new construction, substantial improvements, and other development.
   EROSION: The process of the gradual wearing away.
   ESTABLISH: To construct, place, insert, or excavate.
   EXISTING STRUCTURES: Structures where the start of construction commenced on
or before the effective date of these floodplain regulations.
   FEMA: The federal emergency management agency that manages compliance with
the national flood insurance program.
   FLOOD: The water of any watercourse or drainway that is above the bank or
outside the channel and banks of the watercourse or drainway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: The map on which FEMA has delineated the 100-year
floodplain, the base flood elevations, and the risk premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The report in which FEMA has provided flood profiles,
as well as the flood boundary, floodway map, and the water surface profiles.
   FLOODPLAIN: The area including and adjoining the watercourse or drainway
that would be covered by the floodwater of a flood of a 100-year frequency.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: The city official or representative appointed by
the city council to administer and implement the provisions of this title.
   FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real and personal property, water and sanitary facilities, HVAC systems,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY: The floodplain area whose limits are identified in the regulated
flood hazard area and is the channel and the areas adjoining the channel that
are reasonably required to carry the discharge of the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface by more than one-half foot (1/2').
   FLOODWAY FRINGE: That portion of the regulated flood hazard area outside the
limits of the floodway.
   LOWEST FLOOR: Any floor of a dwelling, building, or structure used for
living purposes, storage, or recreation. This includes any floor that could be
converted to such a use.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure that is transportable in one or more
sections, built on a permanent chassis, and designed to be used with or without
a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term does
not include a recreational vehicle.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL: The North American vertical datum of 1988 (NAVD 88) or other
datum to which base flood elevations are referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the start of construction,
substantial improvement, or alteration commences on or after the effective date
hereof.
100-YEAR FLOOD: A flood magnitude having a one percent (1%) chance of occurring
in any given year and is the same as a base flood. A 100-year flood has nearly
a twenty three percent (23%) chance of occurring in a twenty five (25) year
period.
   OWNER: Any person who has dominion over, control of, or title to an
artificial obstruction.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is: a) built on a single chassis; b)
four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at its largest horizontal
projections; c) designed to be self- propelled or permanently towable by a
light duty truck; and d) designed primarily for use as temporary living
quarters for recreation, camping, travel, or seasonal use and not for use as a
permanent dwelling.
   REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA (FLOOD HAZARD AREA): The jurisdictional area of
these floodplain regulations which includes the floodplain, floodway fringe,
and floodway. A floodplain whose limits have been designated pursuant to part
2, chapter 5 of title 76, Montana Code Annotated, and is determined to be the
area adjoining the watercourse that would be covered by the floodwater of a
base flood, a flood of a 100-year frequency.
   RIPRAP: Stone, rocks, concrete blocks, or analogous material that is placed
within the floodplain for the purpose of preventing or alleviating erosion.
   RIVERINE: Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, or brook.
   SCOUR DEPTH: The maximum depth of streambed scour caused by erosive forces
of the base flood discharge.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION: Commencement of clearing, grading, filling, or
excavating to prepare a site for construction.
   STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home, a bridge,
culvert, dam, diversion, wall, revetment, dike, or other projection that may
impede, retard, or alter the pattern of flow of water.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would exceed
fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either:
A. Before the improvement or repair is started, or
B. If the structure has been damaged and is being restored before the damage
occurred. For purposes of this definition, "substantial improvement" is
considered to occur when the first construction to any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences. The term does not include:
1. Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or
local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely necessary
to assure safe living conditions, or
2. Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of historic
places or state inventory of historic places.
   SUITABLE FILL: Fill material which is stable, compacted, well graded, and
pervious, not adversely affected by water and frost, devoid of trash or similar
foreign matter, tree stumps or other organic material, and is fitting for the
purpose of supporting the intended use and/or permanent structure.
   VIOLATION: A failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with these regulations. (Ord. 249, 8-21-2012)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Jurisdictional Area
10-3-2: Rules For Interpretation Of Floodplain Boundaries
10-3-3: Compliance
10-3-4: Abrogation And Greater Responsibility
10-3-5: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
10-3-6: Severability
10-3-7: Disclosure Provision
10-3-1: JURISDICTIONAL AREA:
These regulations shall apply to all floodplains within the jurisdiction of the
city as identified on the Lewis And Clark County and incorporated flood
insurance study dated September 19, 2012, and the federal emergency management
agency flood insurance rate maps dated September 19, 2012, specifically rate
map numbers 30049C2331E, 30049C2332E, and 30049C2333E. Areas within the
regulated flood hazard area have specific areas identified as a floodplain,
floodway, or flood fringe that have differing uses allowed and building
standards that apply. (Ord. 249, 8-21-2012)
10-3-2: RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF FLOODPLAIN BOUNDARIES:
The flood insurance rate map may be used as a guide for determining the
floodplain boundary, but the exact location of the floodplain boundary is where
the base flood elevation intersects the natural ground. The boundaries of the
floodplain are determined by scaling distances on the flood insurance rate maps
and using the floodplain data table contained in the flood insurance study.
(Ord. 249, 8-21-2012)
10-3-3: COMPLIANCE:
Development, new construction, alteration, or substantial improvement may not
commence without full compliance with the provisions of these floodplain
regulations and other applicable regulations. (Ord. 249, 8-21-2012)
10-3-4: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESPONSIBILITY:
It is not intended by these regulations to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions, or underlying zoning.
However, where these floodplain regulations impose greater restrictions, the
provisions of these floodplain regulations prevail. (Ord. 249, 8-21-2012)
10-3-5: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
These regulations do not imply that areas outside the regulated flood hazard
areas or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood
damages. These regulations shall not create liability or cause of action
against the city, or any officer or employee thereof, for any flood damage that
may result from reliance on these regulations or any lawfully made
administrative decision made hereunder. (Ord. 249, 8-21-2012)
10-3-6: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, clause, provision or portion of these regulations is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of these regulations shall not be affected. (Ord. 249, 8-21-2012)
10-3-7: DISCLOSURE PROVISION:
All owners of property in an identified regulated flood hazard area as
indicated on the flood insurance rate maps shall notify potential buyers or
their agents that such property is located within the regulated flood hazard
area and is subject to the provisions of these floodplain regulations. (Ord.
249, 8-21-2012)
CHAPTER 4
SPECIFIC STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Required Base Flood Elevation Data
10-4-2: Permit Application And Review
10-4-3: Development Standards In The Floodway
10-4-4: Development Standards In The Floodway Fringe
10-4-5: Floodproofing Requirements
10-4-6: Postconstruction Certification
10-4-7: Emergency Waiver
10-4-8: Variances
10-4-9: Violation And Notice
10-4-10: Penalties
10-4-1: REQUIRED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION DATA:
Base flood elevation data for developments greater than fifty (50) lots or five
(5) acres is required to be provided by the applicant before development may
begin. (Ord. 249, 8-21-2012)
10-4-2: PERMIT APPLICATION AND REVIEW:
   A.   General:
      1.   A permit is required within the regulated flood hazard area for a
person to establish or alter an artificial obstruction, nonconforming use, or
development.
      2.   Artificial obstructions, nonconforming uses, and uses not
specifically listed require a permit except as allowed without a permit in
subsection
10-4-3B of this chapter or prohibited as specified in subsections 10-4-3E and
10-4-4C of this chapter.
      3.   A permit is required to reconstruct or repair an existing structure
that has experienced substantial damage or substantial improvement.
      4.   A permit is not required for existing artificial obstructions or
nonconforming uses established in the floodplain before the effective date of
floodplain management regulations.
   B.   Required Information: When a floodplain development permit is required
by these regulations, applicants are required to furnish the following
information:
      1.   A completed and signed floodplain permit application;
      2.   The required fee;
      3.   Plans in duplicate drawn to scale (including dimensions) showing the
location and elevation of the lot, existing and proposed structure locations
(and also all of these also in relation to the regulated flood hazard areas),
external dimension of structures, floodproofing measures, mean sea level
elevation of the lowest floor of proposed structures and location of the
channel, street or road finished grade elevations, well locations, and
excavation or fill quantity estimates;
      4.   Specifications for floodproofing, filling, excavating, grading,
riprapping, storage of materials, and location of utilities;
      5.   A professional engineer's or registered architect's design
calculations and certification that the proposed activity has been designed to
be in compliance with these regulations; and
      6.   Certification of floodproofing or elevation shall be provided on a
standard form available from the floodplain administrator.
   C.   Information Required At Conformance Inspection: To determine that the
permit specifications and conditions have been completed, applicants who have
received permits are required to furnish the following at the time of an on
site conformance inspection:
      1.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or licensed land
surveyor of the actual mean sea level elevation of the lowest floor (including
basement) of all new, altered, or substantially improved buildings;
      2.   If floodproofing techniques were used for buildings, the mean sea
level elevation to which the floodproofing was accomplished must be certified
by a structural engineer or licensed architect in the same manner;
      3.   Certification for artificial obstructions other than buildings,
verifying that the activity was accomplished in accordance with these
floodplain regulations and the design plans submitted with the application for
the permit activity; and
      4.   Certification of floodproofing or elevation on a standard form
available from the floodplain administrator.
   D.   Granting Or Denial Of Permit: Floodplain development permits may be
granted (with or without conditions) or denied within sixty (60) days of
receipt of a correct and complete application by the floodplain administrator
on the basis of whether the proposal meets the requirements of these floodplain
regulations. Factors that must be considered are:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights,
increased floodwater velocities or alterations in the pattern of flood flow
caused by encroachments;
      2.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others;
      3.   The proposed water supply and wastewater systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary conditions;
      4.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effects of such damage on the individual owner;
      5.   The importance of the services provided by the facility to the
community;
      6.   The requirement of the facility for a waterfront location;
      7.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use;
      8.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
anticipated development in the foreseeable future;
      9.   The relationship of the proposed use to the growth policy and
floodplain management program for the area; and
      10.   The safety of access to property in times of flooding for ordinary
and emergency services.
   E.   Additional Information: The floodplain administrator may require
additional information if necessary to determine whether the proposal meets the
requirements of these floodplain regulations.
   F.   Notice Of Permit Application: Upon receipt of a complete application
for a floodplain development permit or a variance, the floodplain administrator
must prepare a notice containing the facts pertinent to the application and
must publish the notice at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in
the area. Notice must also be sent by first class mail upon adjacent property
owners and by the most efficient method to the DNRC floodplain management
section. The notice must provide at least fifteen (15) days, for interested
parties to submit comments on the proposed activity.
   G.   Copies Of Permits To Be Sent To DNRC: Copies of all permits granted
must be sent, by the most efficient method, to the DNRC floodplain management
section.
   H.   Riverine Situations: In riverine situations, notification by the
floodplain administrator must be made to adjacent communities, the DNRC
floodplain management section, and FEMA prior to any alteration or relocation
of a watercourse.
   I.   Notice Of Approval; Denial: The floodplain administrator shall notify
the applicant that the permit is denied, conditionally approved, or additional
information pertinent to the permit review process is required. The granting of
a permit does not affect any other type of approval required by any other
statute or ordinance of the state of Montana, city, or the United States, but
is an added requirement.
   J.   Permit Requirements And Conditions: Upon approval or conditional
approval of the floodplain permit application, the floodplain administrator
shall provide the applicant with a permit that includes, but is not limited to,
the following requirements and conditions:
      1.   The floodplain permit will become valid when all other necessary
permits are in place;
      2.   A time limit of up to one year or as commensurate with the project
construction time line will be set for completion of the project or
development. The applicant may request an extension for completion for up to an
additional year. The request must be made at least thirty (30) days prior to
the completion deadline;
      3.   The permittee shall notify all subsequent property owners and their
agents and potential buyers of the floodplain development permit issued on the
property and that such property is located within a regulated flood hazard
area;
      4.   The permittee shall maintain the obstruction or use so as to comply
with the conditions and specifications of the permit;
      5.   The permittee shall submit a certificate of compliance report and
elevation certificate where applicable within thirty (30) days of completion or
other time as specified; and
      6.   The permit requires FEMA approval of revisions that affect the
national flood insurance rate map. (Ord. 249, 8-21-2012)
10-4-3: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS IN THE FLOODWAY:
   A.   The minimum floodplain development standards listed in this section
apply to the floodway portions of the floodplain as delineated on the flood
insurance rate maps identified in section
10-3-1 of this title.
   B.   The following open space uses are allowed without a permit within the
floodway hazard area, provided that such uses conform to the floodproofing
provisions of these floodplain regulations, are not prohibited by any other
ordinance, resolution, or statute, and do not require fill, excavation,
permanent storage of materials or equipment or structures other than portable
structures:
      1.   Agricultural uses, not including related structures, such as
grazing;
      2.   Accessory uses such as loading and parking areas, or emergency
landing strips associated with industrial or commercial facilities;
      3.   Private and public recreational uses such as golf courses, driving
ranges, archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching ramps, parks, wildlife
management and natural areas, game farms, fish hatcheries, shooting preserves,
target ranges, trap and skeet ranges, hunting and fishing areas, and hiking or
horseback riding trails;
      4.   Forestry, including processing of forest products with portable
equipment;
      5.   Residential uses, such as lawns, gardens, parking areas, and play
areas;
      6.   Irrigation and livestock supply wells, provided that they are
located at least five hundred feet (500') from domestic water supply wells with
the top of the casing eighteen inches (18") above base flood elevation;
      7.   Fences such as those that have a low impact to the flow of water
such as wood rail fences and shall not include permanent fences crossing
channels;
      8.   Recreational vehicle use provided that they are on the site for
fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days or fully licensed and
ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is
on its wheels or jacking system with wheels intact, attached to the site only
by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently
attached additions;
      9.   The addition of highway guardrail, signing, and utility poles along
a roadway; and
      10.   Maintenance of an existing use or artificial obstruction.
Preventive maintenance activities such as bridge deck rehabilitation and
roadway pavement preservation activities are considered maintenance.
   C.   The following may be permitted in the floodway subject to the issuance
of a permit by the floodplain administrator:
      1.   Excavation of material from pits and pools provided that:
         a.   A buffer strip of undisturbed land of sufficient width is left
between the edge of the channel and the edge of the excavation. This buffer
strip must be of sufficient width to prevent flood flows from channeling into
the excavation;
         b.   The excavation meets all applicable laws and regulations of local
and state of Montana agencies; and
         c.   Excavated material may be processed inside but is stockpiled
outside the floodplain.
      2.   Railroad, highway, and street stream crossings provided the
crossings are designed to offer minimal obstruction to flood flow. Stream
crossings may not increase the elevation of the 100-year flood more than one-
half foot (1/2') nor cause a significant increase in flood velocities.
      3.   Limited filling for highway, street, and railroad embankments not
associated with stream crossings, provided that:
         a.   Reasonable alternative transportation routes outside the floodway
are not available; and
         b.   Such floodway encroachment is located as far from the stream
channel as possible (and shall not result in a cumulative increase in base
flood elevations, after allowable encroachments into the floodway fringe,
exceeding 1/2 foot).
      4.   Buried or suspended utility transmission lines, provided that:
         a.   Suspended utility transmission lines are designed so the lowest
point of the suspended line is at least six feet (6') higher than the base
flood elevation;
         b.   Towers and other appurtenant structures are designed and placed
to withstand and minimally obstruct flood flows; and
         c.   Utility transmission lines carrying toxic or flammable materials
are buried to a depth of at least twice the calculated maximum depth of scour
for 100-year flood. The maximum depth of scour may be determined by hydraulic
engineering methods acceptable to the floodplain administrator.
      5.   Storage of materials and equipment, provided that:
         a.   The material or equipment is not subject to major damage by
flooding and is properly anchored to prevent flotation or downstream movement;
or
         b.   The material or equipment is readily movable within the limited
time available after flood warning.
      6.   Domestic water supply wells, provided that:
         a.   They are driven or drilled wells located on ground higher than
the surrounding ground to assure positive drainage from the well;
         b.   Well casings are watertight to a distance of at least twenty five
feet (25') below the ground surface and the well casing height is a minimum of
eighteen inches (18") above the base flood elevation;
         c.   Water supply and electrical lines have watertight seals where the
lines enter the casing;
         d.   All pumps, electrical lines, and equipment are either submersible
or adequately floodproofed; and
         e.   Check valves are installed on main water lines at wells and all
building entry locations.
      7.   Buried and sealed vaults for sewage disposal in recreational areas
provided that they are in conformance with applicable state of Montana laws.
      8.   Public or private campgrounds provided that:
         a.   Access roads require only limited fill and do not obstruct or
divert floodwaters; and
         b.   Recreational vehicles and travel trailers are licensed and ready
for highway use. They are ready for highway use if on wheels or jacking system
with wheels intact, are attached to the site with only quick disconnect type
utilities and securing devices and have no permanently attached additions.
      9.   Structures accessory to the uses permitted in this section such as
boat docks, marinas, sheds, picnic shelters, tables, and toilets provided that:
         a.   The structures are not intended for human habitation;
         b.   The structures will have a low flood damage potential;
         c.   The structures will, insofar as possible, be located on ground
higher than the surrounding ground and as far from the channel as possible;
         d.   The floodproofing standards of these floodplain regulations are
met; and
         e.   The structures will be constructed and placed so as to offer
minimal obstruction to flood flows and also are anchored to prevent flotation.
      10.   Substantial improvements to a structure or alterations to a
structure or artificial obstructions provided that the alteration or
substantial improvement will not raise flood heights and that the structure
will be floodproofed or elevated on a permanent foundation rather than on fill.
      11.   All other artificial obstructions or development not specifically
listed or prohibited by this section.
   D.   Flood control works are allowed by permit within floodways subject to
the following conditions:
      1.   Levees and floodwalls are permitted if:
         a.   The proposed levee or floodwall is designed and constructed to
safely convey a 100-year flood; and
         b.   The cumulative effect of the levee or floodwall combined with
allowable floodway fringe encroachments does not increase the unobstructed base
flood elevation more than one-half foot (1/2'). The floodplain administrator
may establish either a lower or higher permissible increase in the base flood
elevation for individual levee projects only with concurrence from the DNRC and
the federal emergency management agency based upon consideration of the
following criteria:
            (1)   The estimated cumulative effect of any anticipated future
permissible uses;
            (2)   The type and amount of existing flood prone development in
the affected area; and
            (3)   The impact to existing or foreseeable development.
         c.   The proposed levee or floodwall, except those to protect
agricultural land, is constructed at least three feet (3') higher than the base
flood elevation.
      2.   Riprap, except that which is hand placed, if:
         a.   The riprap is designed to withstand a 100-year flood;
         b.   The riprap does not increase the base flood elevation; and
         c.   The riprap will not increase erosion upstream, downstream, or
adjacent to the riprap site.
      3.   Channelization projects if they do not significantly increase the
magnitude, velocity, or base flood elevation in the proximity of the project
and that the flood carrying capacity is maintained.
      4.   Dams, provided that:
         a.   They are designed and constructed in accordance with the Montana
dam safety act and applicable safety standards; and
         b.   They will not increase flood hazards downstream, either through
operational procedures or improper hydrologic design.
   E.   Permits for the establishment of a water diversion or change in place
of diversion may not be issued if, in the judgment of the floodplain
administrator:
      1.   The proposed diversion will significantly increase the upstream base
flood elevation to the detriment of neighboring property;
      2.   The proposed diversion is not designed and constructed to minimize
potential erosion from a 100-year flood; and
      3.   Any permanent diversion structure crossing the full width of the
stream channel is not designed and constructed to safely withstand up to a 100-
year flood.
   F.   The following are prohibited within the floodway:
      1.   New construction of any structure or placement of any manufactured
home;
      2.   Development that would result in erosion of the embankment,
obstruction of the natural flow of waters, or increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of a 100-year flood;
      3.   Solid and hazardous waste disposal and wastewater treatment and
disposal systems; and
      4.   Storage of highly toxic, flammable, hazardous, or explosive
materials. (Ord. 249, 8-21-2012)
10-4-4: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS IN THE FLOODWAY FRINGE:
   A.   All uses allowed in the floodway without a permit, are allowed without
a permit in the floodway fringe.
   B.   All uses allowed in the floodway that require a permit, are allowed by
permit within the floodway fringe. In addition, new construction, substantial
improvements, and alterations to structures are allowed by permit. This
includes, but is not limited to, residential, commercial and industrial
construction, and suitable fill to be allowed by permit from the floodplain
administrator subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Structures or fill must not be prohibited by any other statute,
regulation, ordinance, or resolution;
      2.   All structures and substantial improvements must be designed and
adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the
structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the
effects of buoyancy. Additionally all structures must be constructed with
materials that are resistant to flood damage, constructed with methods and
practices that minimize flooding damages.
      3.   New construction, alterations, and substantial improvements of
residential structures must be constructed such that:
         a.   The lowest floor elevation including basement; and electrical,
heating, duct work, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment is
two feet (2') or more above the base flood elevation by elevating with a
permanent foundation; and
         b.   Any crawl space must be designed so that the crawl space floor is
at or above the base flood elevation.
      4.   New construction, alterations, and substantial improvements of
nonresidential structures must be constructed such that the lowest floor
elevation including basement, and electrical, heating, duct work, ventilation,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment is two feet (2') or more above the
base flood elevation by elevating with a permanent foundation. If not elevated
two feet (2') or more above the base flood elevation then the nonresidential
structure must be adequately floodproofed to an elevation no lower than two
feet (2') above the base flood elevation. Floodproofing must be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect that the floodproofing methods
are adequate to withstand the flood depths, hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
pressures, velocities, impact, buoyancy, and uplift forces associated with the
100-year flood:
         a.   If the structure is designed to allow internal flooding of the
areas below the lowest floor, use of the space shall be limited to parking,
loading areas, building access and storage of equipment or materials not
appreciably affected by floodwaters. The floors and walls shall be designed and
constructed of materials resistant to flooding to an elevation no lower than
two feet (2') above the base flood elevation. Walls must be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic forces by allowing for entry and exit of
floodwaters. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, other
coverings, or devices which permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters;
         b.   Structures whose lowest floors are used for a purpose other than
parking, loading, or storage of materials resistant to flooding shall be
floodproofed to an elevation no lower than two feet (2') above the base flood
elevation. Floodproofing must include impermeable membranes or materials for
floors and walls and watertight enclosures for all windows, doors, and other
openings. These structures must be designed to withstand the hydrostatic,
hydrodynamic, and buoyancy effects of a 100-year flood; and
         c.   Floodproofing of electrical, heating, and plumbing systems must
also be accomplished in accordance with section
10-4-5 of this chapter.
      5.   Fill material placed in the floodway fringe must be stable,
compacted, well graded, pervious, generally unaffected by water and frost,
devoid of trash or similar foreign matter, devoid of tree stumps or other
organic material, and appropriate for the purpose of supporting the intended
use or permanent structure;
      6.   Roads, streets, highways, and rail lines must be designed to
minimize increase in flood heights. Where failure or interruption of
transportation facilities would result in danger to the public health or
safety, the facility must be located two feet (2') above the base flood
elevation;
      7.   Agricultural structures that have a low damage potential, such as
sheds, barns, shelters, and hay or grain storage structures must be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation or collapse and all electrical facilities must be
placed above the base flood elevation; and
      8.   Recreational vehicles, if they are on the site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) consecutive days or are not ready for highway use, must
meet the elevating requirements of subsection B3 of this section and securely
anchored.
   C.   The following are prohibited within the floodway fringe:
      1.   Solid and hazardous waste disposal; and
      2.   Storage of highly toxic, flammable, hazardous, or explosive
materials. Storage of petroleum products may be allowed by permit if stored on
compacted fill at least two feet (2') above the base flood elevation and
anchored to a permanent foundation to prevent downstream movement. (Ord. 249,
8-21-2012)
10-4-5: FLOODPROOFING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   When floodproofing is required by these regulations, the methods used
must be certified as adequate by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   B.   Permitted floodproofing systems must conform to the conditions listed
below and the floodproofing standards listed in subsection
10-4-4B4 of this chapter for commercial and industrial structures:
      1.   Electrical Systems:
         a.   All incoming power service equipment, including all metering
equipment, control centers, transformers, distribution and lighting panels, and
all other stationary equipment must be located at least two feet (2') above the
base flood elevation;
         b.   Portable or movable electrical equipment may be placed below the
base flood elevation provided the equipment can be disconnected by a single
submersible plug and socket assembly;
         c.   The main power service line shall have automatic or manually
operated electrical disconnect equipment located at an accessible location
outside the floodplain or above the base flood elevation; and
         d.   All electrical wiring systems installed at or below the base
flood elevation must be suitable for continuous submergence and may not contain
fibrous components.
      2.   Heating Systems:
         a.   Float operated automatic control valves must be installed in gas
furnace supply lines so that the fuel supply is automatically shut off when
floodwaters reach the floor level where the furnace is located;
         b.   Manually operated gate valves must be installed in gas supply
lines. The gate valves must be operable from a location above the base flood
elevation;
         c.   Furnaces, cooling units, and duct work must be installed at least
two feet (2') above the base flood elevation; and
         d.   Electric heating and cooling systems must be installed in
accordance with the provisions of subsection A of this section.
      3.   Plumbing Systems:
         a.   Wastewater service lines, except those to be buried and sealed in
vaults, must have check valves installed to prevent sewage backup into
permitted structures; and
         b.   All toilet stools, sinks, urinals, and drains must be located so
the lowest point of possible water entry is at least two feet (2') above the
base flood elevation. (Ord. 249, 8-21-2012)
10-4-6: POSTCONSTRUCTION CERTIFICATION:
An applicant is required to submit certification by a registered professional
engineer, architect, land surveyor, or other qualified person designated by the
floodplain administrator that finished fill and building floor elevations,
floodproofing, hydraulic design, or other flood protection measures were
constructed and installed in compliance with these floodplain regulations in
addition to the requirements in subsection
10-4-2C of this chapter. (Ord. 249, 8-21-2012)
10-4-7: EMERGENCY WAIVER:
   A.   Emergency repair or replacement of severely damaged public
transportation facilities, public water and wastewater facilities and flood
control works may be authorized and the floodplain development permit
requirements may be waived if:
      1.   Upon prior notification to the floodplain administrator and prior to
the emergency repair or replacement, the floodplain administrator determines
that an emergency condition exists warranting immediate action; and
      2.   The floodplain administrator agrees upon the nature and type of
proposed emergency repair or replacement.
   B.   Authorization to undertake emergency repair or replacement work may be
given verbally if the floodplain administrator believes that such a written
authorization would unduly delay the emergency work. Such verbal authorization
must be followed by a written authorization describing the emergency condition,
the type of emergency work agreed upon, and stating that a verbal authorization
had been previously given. Unless otherwise specified in writing by the
floodplain administrator, within thirty (30) days of initiating the emergency
action, a person who has undertaken an emergency action must submit a
floodplain permit application that describes what action has taken place during
the emergency and describe any additional work that may be required to bring
the project into compliance with these regulations. A person who has undertaken
an emergency action may be required to modify or remove the project in order to
meet the permit requirements. (Ord. 249, 8-21-2012)
10-4-8: VARIANCES:
   A.   The city council may, by variance, grant a permit that is not in
compliance with the minimum standards contained in these regulations according
to this section.
   B.   An applicant desiring to obtain a variance from the requirements of
these floodplain regulations must present a completed floodplain application
and required supporting material must be submitted, and a completed variance
application specific to the variance request including facts and information
addressing the criteria in this section.
   C.   The city council shall hold a public hearing on the variance and
development permit application. Public notice must be given by publication in a
newspaper of general circulation in Lewis And Clark County not less than
fifteen (15) days prior to the date of hearing as required by law. The notice
must include a summary of the application, including the location and size of
the development, and specify where additional information can be obtained.
   D.   The city council may by variance grant a floodplain development permit
that is not in compliance with the minimum standards contained in these
regulations according to the following procedures:
      1.   Variances shall not be issued for areas within a floodway if any
increase in flood elevations or velocities, after allowable encroachments into
the floodway fringe, would result.
      2.   Variances may only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights to existing insurable buildings, additional threats
to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, or conflict
with existing state and local laws;
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, present additional threats to public safety, be an
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, or conflict with existing state
and local laws;
         d.   A determination that a proposed use would be adequately
floodproofed;
         e.   A determination that a reasonable alternate location outside the
floodplain is not available; and
         f.   A determination that the variance requested is the minimum
necessary to afford relief, considering the flood hazard.
      3.   Variances granted shall be issued in writing from the city council
and must notify the applicant that:
         a.   A specific variance is granted, and certain conditions are
attached;
         b.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
floodplain elevation will result in increased premium rates; and
         c.   Such construction below the base flood elevation increases risks
to life and property. The floodplain administrator shall maintain records of
the variance notification and actions, including justification for their
issuance, and forward copies of all variance actions to the DNRC and FEMA.
      4.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum relief necessary to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure. (Ord. 249, 8-21-2012)
10-4-9: VIOLATION AND NOTICE:
Any development, new construction, substantial improvement, or alteration that
is not in compliance with these regulations is a violation and punishable as
provided herein. The floodplain administrator must bring any violation of these
regulations to the attention of the city attorney and the DNRC. (Ord. 249, 8-
21-2012)
10-4-10: PENALTIES:
Violation of the provisions of these regulations or failure to comply with any
of the requirements, including permit approval prior to development in the
regulated flood hazard area is a misdemeanor, and also may constitute a public
nuisance. Any person who violates these regulations or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall upon conviction be fined not more than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) or imprisoned in jail for not more than ten (10) days or
both. Each day's continuance of a violation is a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 249, 8-21-2012)
