TOWN CODE
of
ENNIS, MONTANA
2003
Code current through:
Ord. 159-2024, passed 10-30-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the Town of Ennis, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to and
including ordinance 159-2024, passed 10-30-2024. Ordinances of the Town adopted
after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the extent that
they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Town office in
order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has been
amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
TOWN CHARTER
CERTIFICATE
ESTABLISHING THE RATIFIED PLAN OF GOVERNMENT FOR THE TOWN OF ENNIS
As ratified by the voters on November 2, 1976 the government of the Town of
Ennis shall be organized under this plan of government (Charter) in accordance
with Section 47A-3-208, Revised Codes of Montana:
Article I: General Provisions
1.01: Powers Of The City
1.02: Interpretation Of Power
1.03: Intergovernmental Relations
1.04: Oath Of Office
Article II: City Commission
2.01: Composition, Terms, Election, Qualifications, Compensation, Removal,
Filling Of Vacancies, Meetings
2.02: Powers And Duties
2.03: Ordinances
2.04: Prohibitions
Article III: City Mayor
3.01: Qualifications, Term, Election, Removal, Filling Vacancies, Meetings
3.02: Powers And Duties Of The Mayor
Article IV: Elections And Nominations
4.01: Elected City Officials
4.02: Date Of Holding Elections
Article V: Initiative, Referendum And Recall
5.01: Initiative And Referendum
5.02: Recall Provision
Article VI: Employees
6.01: Residency
Article VII: Amendment of Charter, Effective Date and Separability
7.01: Amendment Of Charter
7.02: Effective Date
7.03: Separability
Article VIII: Transitional Provisions
8.01: General Transition
8.02: Election Transition
ARTICLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.01: POWERS OF THE CITY:
   A.   The City of Ennis, Montana, shall have all powers not prohibited by the
Constitution of Montana, the laws of Montana, or this Charter.
   B.   The City of Ennis, may levy an amount not to exceed the maximum amount,
including the general mill levy and all special levies, allowable to a general
power local government unit by the State of Montana.
   C.   There shall be no new kinds of taxes levied without affirmative vote of
the people.
1.02: INTERPRETATION OF POWER:
The powers and authority of this self-government unit shall be liberally
construed. Every reasonable doubt as to the existence of a city power or
authority shall be resolved in favor of the existence of that power or
authority.
1.03: INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS:
The city may exercise any of its powers or perform any of its functions and may
participate in the financing thereof, jointly or in cooperation, by contract or
otherwise, with any one or more states or civil divisions or agencies thereof,
or the United States or any agency thereof.
1.04: OATH OF OFFICE:
Before entering upon the duties of office, all elected city officials shall
take and subscribe to the oath of office as follows: “I do solemnly swear (or
affirm) that I will support, protect and defend the Constitution of the United
States, the Constitution of the State of Montana, this Charter, and that I will
discharge the duties of my office, so help me God.”
ARTICLE II: CITY COMMISSION
2.01: COMPOSITION, TERMS, ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION, REMOVAL,
FILLING OF VACANCIES, MEETINGS:
   A.   The City of Ennis shall have a commission composed of five (5) members.
   B.   Members of the commission shall be elected for terms of four (4) years.
These terms shall be overlapping. (Election, November 1980)
   C.   Elections for the commission shall be non-partisan.
   D.   Commissioners shall be elected at large, as provided by state law.
   E.   Only qualified voters of the city shall be eligible to hold the office
of Commissioner.
   F.   The commission shall determine the annual salary of commission members,
and the mayor, by ordinance. No ordinance increasing such salary shall become
effective until the date of commencement of the terms of commission members
elected at the next regular election, provided that such election follows the
adoption of such ordinance by at least six (6) months.
   G.   1.   The office of commissioner shall become vacant upon his/her death,
resignation, removal from office by any method authorized by law, or forfeiture
of his/her office.
      2.   A commissioner shall forfeit his/her office if he/she:
         a.   Loses his/her eligibility for election to his/her commission
seat.
         b.   Violates any expressed prohibition of this charter.
         c.   Without commission approval, fails to attend two (2) consecutive,
regularly scheduled meetings or absences himself/herself from the city
continuously for thirty (30) days without consent of the commission.
         d.   Is convicted of a felony or other offence involving moral
turpitude.
   H.   In the event of a vacancy, the commission shall by majority vote of the
remaining members, appoint a person, eligible to hold such commission seat, to
fill the vacancy until the next regular city election at which time the
remainder of the term shall be filled as provided by law.
   J.   The commission shall meet regularly at least once a month at such times
and places as the commission may prescribe. Special meetings may be held on the
call of the mayor or four (4) members of the commission, or by ten percent
(10%) of the eligible voters. Such meetings shall be public and, whenever
practicable, upon twenty-four (24) hours notice. The commission may recess for
the purpose of discussing in a closed session, limited to its own membership,
any matter which would tend to defame or prejudice the character or reputation
of any person, provided the general subject matter for consideration is
expressed in the motion calling for such session and that final action thereon
shall not be taken by the commission until the matter is placed on the agenda.
2.02: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The city commission shall be the legislative and policy determining body of the
city. All powers of the city shall be vested in the commission, except as
otherwise provided by law or this charter, and the commission shall provide for
the exercise thereof and for the performance of all duties and obligations
imposed on the city by law.
2.03: ORDINANCES:
In addition to other acts required by law or by this charter to be done by
ordinance, those acts of the commission shall be by ordinance which:
   A.   Adopt or amend an administrative code or establish, alter or abolish
any city department, office or agency;
   B.   Provide for a fine or other penalty or establish a rule or regulation
for violation of which a fine or other penalty is imposed;
   C.   Levy taxes, except as otherwise provided by law or this charter;
   D.   Grant, renew or extend a franchise;
   E.   Regulate the rate charged for its services by a public utility;
   F.   Authorize the borrowing of money;
   G.   Convey or lease or authorize the conveyance or lease of any lands of
the city;
   H.   Amend or repeal any ordinance previously adopted, except as otherwise
provided in Article VI with respect to repeal of ordinances reconsidered under
the referendum power.
2.04: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Neither the commission nor any of its members may dictate the
appointment or removal of any employee whom the mayor or any of his/her
subordinates are empowered to appoint.
   B.   Except for the purpose of inquiry or investigation under this charter
or city ordinances, the commission or its members shall deal with city
employees who are subject to the direction and supervision of the mayor solely
through the mayor.
ARTICLE III: CITY MAYOR
3.01: QUALIFICATIONS, TERM, ELECTION, REMOVAL, FILLING VACANCIES, MEETINGS:
   A.   Only qualified voters of the city shall be eligible for the position of
mayor.
   B.   The mayor shall be elected for a term of four (4) years.
   C.   Election of the mayor shall be non-partisan.
   D.   The mayor shall be elected at large, as provided by state law.
   E.   1.   The office of mayor shall become vacant upon his/her death,
resignation, removal from office by any method authorized by law, or forfeiture
of his/her office.
      2.   The mayor shall forfeit his/her office if he/she:
         a.   Loses his/her eligibility for election to his/her position;
         b.   Violates any expressed prohibition of this charter;
         c.   Without commission approval, fails to attend two (2) consecutive
regularly scheduled meetings or absences himself/herself from the city
continuously for thirty (30) days without consent of the commission;
         d.   Is convicted of a felony or other offence involving moral
turpitude.
   F.   In the event of a vacancy, the commission shall by majority vote,
appoint a person, eligible to hold the mayor position, to fill the vacancy
until the next regular city election at which time the remainder of the term
shall be filled as provided by law.
   G.   The mayor shall preside at all meetings of the commission.
3.02: POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE MAYOR:
   A.   The mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the city; he/she
shall be responsible to the electors for the administration of all city affairs
placed in his/her charge by this charter, law, ordinance or resolution.
   B.   The mayor shall:
      1.   Enforce laws, ordinances, and resolutions;
      2.   Perform other duties required of him/her by law, ordinance or
resolution;
      3.   Direct, supervise and administer all departments, agencies, and
offices of the city except as otherwise provided by law or this charter;
      4.   Carry out policies established by the commission;
      5.   Prepare the commission agenda;
      6.   Preside at all meetings of the commission;
      7.   Make recommendations to the commission;
      8.   Call a general town meeting during the second quarter of the Fiscal
Year to report on the affairs and financial condition of the city;
      9.   Execute bonds, notes, contracts and written obligations of the
commission subject to the approval of the commission;
      10.   Report to the commission as the commission may require;
      11.   Attend, preside over, and take part in commission meetings, but may
not vote;
      12.   Prepare and present the budget to the commission for its approval
and execute the budget adopted by the commission;
      13.   Appoint a City Clerk-Treasurer with the approval (Majority plus
one) of the commission;
      14.   Appoint, suspend, and remove all employees of the city except as
otherwise provided by law, this charter, or ordinance. Employees appointed by
the mayor and his subordinates shall be administratively responsible to the
mayor;
      15.   Have the power to veto ordinances and resolutions, subject to
override by a majority plus one of the whole number of the commission;
      16.   Have the power to form Advisory Councils and appoint members to
Advisory Councils and appoint members to Advisory Councils whom from and after
June 1, 1997, all such members of the local Advisory Councils shall be bona
fide residents within the jurisdictional boundaries of the Town of Ennis during
the period of their service on said Advisory Councils. (Election, November
1996)
ARTICLE IV: ELECTIONS AND NOMINATIONS
4.01: ELECTED CITY OFFICIALS:
The procedure for the nomination and election of all city elected officers
shall be as prescribed by state law for non-partisan elections.
4.02: DATE OF HOLDING ELECTIONS:
The procedure for holding regular elections and special elections shall be as
prescribed by state law. Publication of notice of election shall be had in a
newspaper of general circulation in the Town of Ennis by the Town Clerk,
according to the laws regulating the election of local officials according to
the provisions of the Montana Code Annotated. (Election, November 1996)
ARTICLE V: INITIATIVE, REFERENDUM AND RECALL
5.01: INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM:
The people of Ennis shall retain the right to exercise initiative and
referendum powers according to provisions of state law.
5.02: RECALL PROVISION:
Any or all of the elected officials provided for in this charter may be removed
from office by the electors. The procedure to effect such removal shall be as
prescribed by state law.
ARTICLE VI: EMPLOYEES
6.01: RESIDENCY:
From and after June 1, 1997, all employees of the local government of the Town
of Ennis shall be bona fide residents within the boundaries of Ennis during the
period of their employment by the Town of Ennis.
This requirement shall not apply to any employee: who has been recommended by
his or her supervisor as having particular or special qualifications for
employment; and whose employment has been approved by a super majority of the
full council of the Town Commissioners. A super majority shall equal four (4)
out of five (5) Town Commissioners. (Election, November 1966)
ARTICLE VII: AMENDMENT OF CHARTER, EFFECTIVE DATE AND SEPARABILITY
7.01: AMENDMENT OF CHARTER:
The people of Ennis retain the right to amend this charter as prescribed by
state law.
7.02: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This charter shall become effective on May 2, 1977.
7.03: SEPARABILITY:
If a part of this act is invalid, all valid parts that are severable from the
invalid part remain in effect. If a part of this act is invalid in one or more
of its applications, the part remains in effect in all valid applications that
are severable from the invalid applications.
ARTICLE VIII: TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
8.01: GENERAL TRANSITION:
The present city commissioners shall provide for transition to this charter by
ordinance.
8.02: ELECTION TRANSITION:
On April 5, 1977 a general election shall be held to elect one (1) Mayor and
five (5) Commissioners. Terms of office for the city commission shall be
determined by drawing lots as prescribed by state law, The three (3)
Commissioners drawing the largest lots shall serve a two (2) year term and the
two (2) commissioners drawing the smallest lots shall serve a one (1) year
term. These terms are for the first election only.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL TOWN CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the council, this town code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official town code of Ennis. This town code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the ENNIS TOWN CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the council and shall be supplemented to incorporate
the most recent legislation of the town as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this town code by title in any legal documents. (Prior Code § 1.01.010; amd.
2003 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The town code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the town of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (Prior Code § 1.01.020; amd. 2003 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the town code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this town code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and such ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in its
proper place in each copy of this town code. Each such replacement page shall
be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the
town code. (Prior Code § 1.01.030; amd. 2003 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this town code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
council. The town clerk-treasurer shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk-
treasurer. Any person having custody of a copy of the town code shall make
every effort to maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances
passed. Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement
pages when such are delivered or made available to such person through the
office of the town clerk-treasurer. Such code books, while in actual possession
of officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of
the town and shall be returned to the office of the town clerk-treasurer when
directed so to do by order of the council. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-5: Rules Of Construction
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the town passed prior to the adoption of this town
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this town code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
town; and all special ordinances. (2003 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this town code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the town code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this town code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2003 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Currently Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the town herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the town under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this town code. (2003 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this town code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The council hereby
declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision,
paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any
one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses
or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (Prior Code §§
1.01.050D and 1.04.010; amd. 2003 Code)
1-2-5: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
In the construction of the official code and all ordinances amendatory thereof
or supplementary thereto, the following rules shall be observed unless such
construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the legislative
body or repugnant to the context:
   A.   Intent To Defraud: Whenever, by any of the provisions of the official
code, an intent to defraud is required in order to constitute an offense, it is
sufficient if any intent appears to defraud any person, association or body
politic or any combination of persons.
   B.   Liability Of Employers And Agents: When the provisions herein contained
prohibit the commission or omission of any act, not only the person actually
doing the prohibited thing or omitting the directed act, but also the employer
and all other persons concerned or aiding or abetting the person shall be
guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set forth. (Prior
Code § 1.01.050)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this town code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this town code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
town code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the town has been
changed in the content of this town code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the town's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2003 Code)
   C.   Words prohibiting anything being done, except in accordance with a
license or permit or authority from a board of officers, shall be construed as
giving such board of officers power to license or permit or authorize such
thing to be done. (Prior Code § 1.01.050E)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CLERK: The town clerk-treasurer.
CODE: The municipal code of the town of Ennis.
COUNCIL OR COMMISSION: The town commission of the town of Ennis.
COUNTY: The county of Madison, state of Montana.
DAY: Any twenty four (24) hour period from midnight to midnight.
DEPOSE: Every mode or oral statement under oath or affirmation.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a town employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the town of
Ennis".
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
KNOWINGLY: Imparts a knowledge that the fact exists which brings the act or
omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any knowledge
of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
LAND, REAL ESTATE AND REAL PROPERTY: Includes lands, tenements, hereditaments,
water rights, possessory rights and claims.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MCA: Abbreviation for Montana Code Annotated.
MAY: Is permissive.
MONTH: A calendar month unless otherwise expressed.
MUNICIPALITY OR MUNICIPAL: The town of Ennis.
NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE, NEGLIGENTLY: Impart a want of such attention to the nature
or probable consequences of the act or omission as a prudent man ordinarily
bestows in acting in his own concern.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the town, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OATH: Includes affirmation.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Includes officers and boards in charge of departments and the members
of such boards, and such reference as the use of the word "city" or "town"
shall mean this municipality. Whenever reference is made in this code to a town
officer by title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words
"of the town of Ennis".
OFFICIAL TIME: Standard time in town of Ennis.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any natural person, firm, association, body politic, joint venture,
joint stock company, partnership, organization, club, fraternal organization,
company, corporation, business, trust, or their manager, lessee, agent,
servant, officer, or employee or any of them.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
PUBLIC THOROUGHFARE: Includes streets, alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards,
public ways, public squares, public places and sidewalks.
QUARTER: Any three (3) month period, ending with the last day of March, June,
September and December.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
SHALL: Is mandatory.
SIGNATURE: Includes any name, mark or sign written with the intent to
authenticate any instrument of writing.
STATE: The state of Montana.
STREET: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
SWEAR: Includes affirm.
TENANT OR OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or
with others.
TOWN: The town of Ennis, county of Madison, state of Montana.
TREASURER: The town clerk-treasurer.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WILFULLY: When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make intent to
violate law or to injure another or to acquire an advantage.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: Includes printing and any other mode of representing words
and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by law to
any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper handwriting
of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such person's
proper mark.
YEAR: Any one calendar year unless otherwise expressed. (Prior Code § 1.00.05E;
amd. 2003 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the town code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY 1
SECTION:
1-4-1: Penalty
1-4-2: Municipal Infractions; Procedure
1-4-3: Municipal Infractions; Jurisdiction And Appeal
1-4-4: Construction And Interpretation
 
Notes
1 1. MCA §§ 7-1-4150, 7-1-4151, 7-1-4152.
1-4-1: PENALTY:
Whenever in any provision of this code or other ordinance of the town any act
is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful, or whenever in any such
provision or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do
any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is otherwise
provided, any person, upon conviction for the violation of any such provision
of this code or ordinances, shall be liable of a municipal infraction and
punished as follows:
   A.   A municipal infraction is a civil offense punishable by a civil penalty
of not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for each violation or if the
infraction is a repeat offense, a civil penalty not to exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each repeat violation.
   B.   Statutory surcharges must be imposed, as provided in Montana Code
Annotated 3-1-317(1)(a), 3-1-318(1), and 46-18-236(6)(a), on municipal
infractions that are criminal offenses under state law, and the amounts must be
distributed as provided in those sections.
   C.   A person may not be proceeded against for the same act or omission to
act under both a municipal infraction ordinance and the corresponding state law
criminal offense on which the municipal infraction ordinance is based.
   D.   An officer who is authorized by the town of Ennis to enforce a
municipal code or regulation may issue a civil citation to a person who commits
a municipal infraction. The citation may be served by personal service, by
certified mail addressed to the defendant at the defendant's last known mailing
address, return receipt requested, or by publication, as provided in rule 4D
(5), Montana rules of civil procedure. A copy of the citation must be retained
by the issuing officer and one copy must be sent to the clerk of the city
court. The citation must serve as notification that a municipal infraction has
been committed and must contain the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the defendant;
      2.   The name or description of the infraction attested to by the officer
issuing the citation;
      3.   The location and time of the infraction;
      4.   The amount of civil penalty to be assessed or the alternate relief
sought, or both;
      5.   The manner, location, and time in which the penalty may be paid;
      6.   The time and place of court appearance; and
      7.   The penalty for failure to appear in court.
   E.   Each day any violation of any provision of any ordinance shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 137, 12-8-2011)
1-4-2: MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS; PROCEDURE:
   A.   In municipal infraction proceedings:
      1.   The matter must be tried before a city court judge pursuant to the
Montana uniform rules for justice and city courts.
      2.   The town has the burden of proof that the municipal infraction
occurred and that the defendant committed the infraction. The proof must be by
clear and convincing evidence.
      3.   The court shall ensure that the defendant has received a copy of the
charges and that the defendant understands the charges. The defendant may
question all witnesses who appear for the municipality and produce evidence or
witnesses on the defendant's behalf.
      4.   The defendant may be represented by counsel of the defendant's own
choosing and at the defendant's own expense;
      5.   The defendant may answer by admitting or denying the infraction;
      6.   If a municipal infraction is proven, the court shall enter a
judgment against the defendant. If the infraction is not proven, the court
shall dismiss the charges. Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to
exist by the defendant constitutes a separate infraction.
   B.   All penalties or forfeitures collected by the court for municipal
infractions must be remitted to the municipality in the same manner as fines
and forfeitures collected for criminal offenses. If the person named in the
citation is served as provided in Montana Code Annotated 7-1-4150 and fails
without good cause to appear in response to the civil citation, judgment must
be entered against the person.
   C.   A person against whom judgment is entered shall pay court costs and
fees as in small claims court under title 25, chapter 35 Montana Code
Annotated. If the action is dismissed by the court, the municipality is liable
for the court costs and court fees.
   D.   In addition to a civil penalty, the town may seek alternative relief
from the court in the same action.
   E.   When judgment has been entered against a defendant, the court may do
any of the following:
      1.   Impose a civil penalty by entry of a judgment against the defendant;
      2.   Direct that payment of the civil penalty be suspended or deferred
under conditions imposed by the court;
      3.   Grant appropriate alternative relief ordering the defendant to abate
or cease the violation;
      4.   Authorize the municipality to abate or correct the violation;
      5.   Order that the municipality's costs for abatement or correction of
the violation be entered as a judgment against the defendant or assessed
against the property where the violation occurred, or both.
   F.   If a defendant wilfully violates the terms of an order imposed by the
court, the failure is contempt. (Ord. 137, 12-8-2011)
1-4-3: MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS; JURISDICTION AND APPEAL:
   A.   A city court judge has jurisdiction to assess or enter judgment for
costs of abatement or correction in any amount not to exceed the jurisdictional
amount for a money judgment in a civil action pursuant to Montana Code
Annotated 3-11-103. If the municipality seeks abatement or correction costs in
excess of that amount, the matter must be referred to the district court for
hearing and entry of an appropriate order. The procedure for hearing in the
district court shall be the same procedure as that for a small claims appealed
under Montana Code Annotated 25-35-803.
   B.   The defendant or the municipality may file a motion for a new trial or
may appeal the decision to district court. A factual determination made by the
trial court, supported by substantial evidence as shown in the record, is
binding for purposes of appeal relating to the violation at issue, but is not
admissible or binding as to any future violations for the same or similar
ordinance provision by the same defendant.
   C.   Except for wilful or wanton misconduct on the part of the municipality,
the issuance of a civil citation for a municipal infraction or the ensuing
court proceedings do not provide an action for false arrest, false
imprisonment, or malicious prosecution.
   D.   An action brought pursuant to this section for a municipal infraction
that is an environmental violation does not preclude, and is in addition to,
any other enforcement action that may be brought under state law. (Ord. 137,
12-8-2011)
1-4-4: CONSTRUCTION AND INTERPRETATION:
In the construction and interpretation of this chapter, the revocation of a
license or permit shall not be considered as a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced. (Ord. 137, 12-8-2011)
CHAPTER 5
POWERS OF TOWN 1
SECTION:
1-5-1: Powers
1-5-2: Interpretation
1-5-3: Intergovernmental Relations
 
Notes
1 1. See article I of the "Certificate Establishing The Ratified Plan Of
  Government For The Town Of Ennis", at the beginning of this code.
1-5-1: POWERS:
   A.   The town shall have all powers not prohibited by the constitution of
Montana, the laws of Montana or the town charter.
   B.   The town may levy an amount not to exceed the maximum amount, including
the general mill levy and all special levies, allowable to a general power
local government unit by the state.
   C.   There shall be no new kinds of taxes levied without affirmative vote of
the people. (Prior Code § 1.00.010)
1-5-2: INTERPRETATION:
The powers and authority of this self-government unit shall be liberally
construed. Every reasonable doubt as to the existence of a town power or
authority shall be resolved in favor of the existence of that power or
authority. (Prior Code § 1.00.020)
1-5-3: INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS:
The town may exercise any of its powers or perform any of its functions and may
participate in the financing thereof, jointly or in cooperation, by contract or
otherwise, with any one or more states or civil divisions or agencies thereof,
or the United States or any agency thereof. (Prior Code § 1.00.030)
CHAPTER 6
TOWN COMMISSION 1
SECTION:
1-6-1: Composition
1-6-2: Overlapping Terms
1-6-3: Nomination; Election; Qualification
1-6-4: Nonpartisan Elections
1-6-5: Commission To Judge; Public Hearing
1-6-6: Vacancy Of Office
1-6-7: Powers And Duties
1-6-8: Prohibitions
1-6-9: Procedures
1-6-10: Salaries
 
Notes
1 1. See article II of the "Certificate Establishing The Ratified Plan Of
  Government For The Town Of Ennis", at the beginning of this code.
1-6-1: COMPOSITION:
The town commission shall be composed of five (5) members. (Prior Code §
2.00.010)
1-6-2: OVERLAPPING TERMS:
Members of the commission shall be elected for terms of four (4) years. These
terms shall be overlapping. (Prior Code § 2.00.020; amd. Election, November
1980)
1-6-3: NOMINATION; ELECTION; QUALIFICATION:
Commissioners shall be elected at large as provided by state law. Only
qualified voters of the town shall be eligible to hold the office of
commissioner. (Prior Code § 2.00.030)
1-6-4: NONPARTISAN ELECTIONS:
Elections for the commission shall be nonpartisan. (Prior Code § 2.00.040)
1-6-5: COMMISSION TO JUDGE; PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Judge Of Election And Qualifications: The commission shall be the judge
of the election and qualifications of its members and of the grounds of
forfeiture of their office.
   B.   Entitled To Public Hearing: A member charged with conduct constituting
grounds for forfeiture of his office shall be entitled to a public hearing on
demand, and notice of such hearing shall be published in a manner consistent
with state law. (Prior Code § 2.00.060)
1-6-6: VACANCY OF OFFICE:
   A.   Vacancies Established:
      1.   The office of commissioner shall become vacant upon his/her death,
resignation, removal from office by any method authorized by law, or forfeiture
of his/her office.
      2.   Ground For Forfeiture: A commissioner shall forfeit his/her office
if he/she:
         a.   Loses his/her eligibility for election to his/her commission
seat.
         b.   Violates any expressed prohibition of this code.
         c.   Without commission approval, fails to attend two (2) consecutive,
regularly scheduled meetings or absences himself/herself from the town
continuously for thirty (30) days without consent of the commission.
         d.   Is convicted of a felony or other offense involving moral
turpitude. (Prior Code § 2.00.050)
   B.   Filling Of Vacancies: In the event of a vacancy, the commission shall,
by majority vote of the remaining members, appoint a person eligible to hold
such commission seat to fill the vacancy until the next regular town election
at which time the remainder of the term shall be filled as provided by law.
(Prior Code § 2.00.070)
1-6-7: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The town commission shall be the legislative and policy determining
body of the town. All powers of the town shall be vested in the commission,
except as otherwise provided by law or the charter, and the commission shall
provide for the exercise thereof and for the performance of all duties and
obligations imposed on the town by law.
   B.   In addition to other acts required by law or the charter to be done by
ordinance, those acts of the commission shall be by ordinance which:
      1.   Adopt or amend an administrative code or establish, alter or abolish
any town department, office or agency.
      2.   Provide for a fine or other penalty or establish a rule or
regulation for violation of which a fine or other penalty is imposed.
      3.   Levy taxes, except as otherwise provided by law or the charter.
      4.   Grant, renew or extend a franchise.
      5.   Regulate the water rates established by the public service
commission for its services by a public utility.
      6.   Authorize the borrowing of money.
      7.   Convey or lease or authorize the conveyance or lease of any lands of
the town.
      8.   Amend or repeal any ordinance previously adopted, except as
otherwise provided in section
1-9-6 of this title with respect to repeal of ordinances reconsidered under the
referendum power.
      9.   Approve all contracts.
      10.   Cooperate in the exercise of any function, power or responsibility
with one or more other local governmental units, school districts, the state or
the United States.
      11.   Provide for an independent audit of the finances of the town.
(Prior Code § 2.00.080)
1-6-8: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Neither the commission nor any of its members may dictate the
appointment or removal of any employee whom the mayor or any of his/her
subordinates are empowered to appoint.
   B.   Except for the purpose of inquiry or investigation under the charter or
town ordinances, the commission or its members shall deal with town employees
who are subject to the direction and supervision of the mayor solely through
the mayor. (Prior Code § 2.00.090)
1-6-9: PROCEDURES:
   A.   State Law: Commission procedures shall be as prescribed by state law.
   B.   Rules; Order Of Business; Journal: The commission shall determine its
own rules and order of business and shall provide for the keeping of a journal
of its proceedings.
   C.   Meetings: The commission shall meet regularly at least once a month at
such times and places as the commission may prescribe.
   D.   Special Meetings: Special meetings shall be held on the call of the
mayor or four (4) members of the commission, or by ten percent (10%) of the
eligible voters.
   E.   Meetings Open To Public: All meetings of the commission shall be public
except that the commission may recess for the purpose of discussing in a closed
session, limited to its own membership, any matter which would tend to defame
or prejudice the character or reputation of any person, provided the general
subject matter for consideration is expressed in the motion calling for such
session and that final action thereon shall not be taken by the commission
until the matter is placed on the agenda. (Prior Code § 2.00.100)
1-6-10: SALARIES:
The commission shall determine the annual salary of the commission members and
the mayor by ordinance. No ordinance increasing such salary shall become
effective until the date of commencement of the terms of commission members
elected at the next regular election; provided, that such election follows the
adoption of such ordinance by at least six (6) months. (Prior Code § 2.00.110)
CHAPTER 7
MAYOR 1
SECTION:
1-7-1: Nomination; Election; Qualification
1-7-2: Term
1-7-3: Nonpartisan Election
1-7-4: Vacancy Of Office
1-7-5: Commission To Judge; Public Hearing
1-7-6: Temporary Absence Or Disability
1-7-7: Powers And Duties
 
Notes
1 1. See article III of the "Certificate Establishing The Ratified Plan Of
  Government For The Town Of Ennis", at the beginning of this code.
1-7-1: NOMINATION; ELECTION; QUALIFICATION:
The mayor shall be elected at large as provided by state law. Only qualified
voters of the town shall be eligible for the position of mayor. (Prior Code §
2.02.010)
1-7-2: TERM:
The mayor shall be elected for a term of four (4) years. (Prior Code §
2.02.020)
1-7-3: NONPARTISAN ELECTION:
Election of the mayor shall be nonpartisan. (Prior Code § 2.02.030)
1-7-4: VACANCY OF OFFICE:
   A.   Vacancy Established:
      1.   The office of mayor shall become vacant upon his/her death,
resignation, removal from office by any method authorized by law, or forfeiture
of his/her office.
      2.   The mayor shall forfeit his/her office if he/she:
         a.   Loses his/her eligibility for election to his/her position.
         b.   Violates any expressed prohibition of the charter.
         c.   Without commission approval, fails to attend two (2) consecutive
regularly scheduled meetings or absences himself/herself from the town
continuously for thirty (30) days without consent of the commission.
         d.   Is convicted of a felony or other offense involving moral
turpitude. (Prior Code § 2.02.040)
   B.   Filling Of Vacancy: In the event of a vacancy, the commission shall, by
majority vote, appoint a person eligible to hold the mayor position to fill the
vacancy until the next regular town election at which time the remainder of the
term shall be filled as provided by law. (Prior Code § 2.02.060)
1-7-5: COMMISSION TO JUDGE; PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Judge Grounds Of Forfeiture: The commission shall be the judge of the
grounds of forfeiture of the office of mayor.
   B.   Entitled To Public Hearing: A mayor charged with conduct constituting
grounds for forfeiture of his/her office shall be entitled to a public hearing
on demand, and notice of such hearing shall be published in the manner
consistent with state law. (Prior Code § 2.02.050)
1-7-6: TEMPORARY ABSENCE OR DISABILITY:
The commission shall appoint one of its members to serve as acting town mayor
in the event of a temporary absence or disability of the mayor. (Prior Code §
2.02.070)
1-7-7: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Chief Executive Officer: The mayor shall be the chief executive officer
of the town; he/she shall be responsible to the electors for the administration
of all town affairs placed in his/her charge by the charter, law, ordinance or
resolution.
   B.   Duties: The mayor shall:
      1.   Enforce laws, ordinances and resolutions.
      2.   Perform other duties required of him/her by law, ordinance or
resolution.
      3.   Direct, supervise and administer all departments, agencies and
offices of the town except as otherwise provided by law or the charter.
      4.   Carry out policies established by the commission.
      5.   Prepare the commission agenda.
      6.   Preside at all meetings of the commission.
      7.   Make recommendations to the commission.
      8.   Call a general town meeting during the second quarter of the fiscal
year to report on the affairs and financial condition of the town.
      9.   Execute bonds, notes, contracts and written obligations of the
commission subject to the approval of the commission.
      10.   Report to the commission as the commission may require.
      11.   Attend, preside over and take part in commission meetings, but may
not vote.
      12.   Prepare and present the budget to the commission for its approval
and execute the budget adopted by the commission.
      13.   Appoint a town clerk-treasurer with the approval (majority plus
one) of the commission.
      14.   Appoint, suspend and remove all employees of the town except as
otherwise provided by law, the charter or ordinance. Employees appointed by the
mayor and his subordinates shall be administratively responsible to the mayor.
      15.   Have the power to veto ordinances and resolutions, subject to
override by a majority plus one of the whole number of the commission.
      16.   Have the power to form advisory councils and appoint members to
advisory councils with the approval of the commission. (Prior Code § 2.02.080)
CHAPTER 8
CLERK-TREASURER
SECTION:
1-8-1: Appointment
1-8-2: Duties
1-8-1: APPOINTMENT:
The mayor shall, subject to the approval of a majority plus one of the
commission, appoint a clerk-treasurer who shall hold office for the duration of
his/her appointment or until his/her successor is appointed and qualified.
(Prior Code § 2.04.010)
1-8-2: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the town clerk-treasurer:
   A.   To receive all monies that come to the town, either from taxation or
otherwise, and to pay the same out of the warrant of the mayor, countersigned
by the clerk-treasurer, drawn in accordance with law.
   B.   To perform such duties in the collection of taxes, licenses, or
assessments as are or may be prescribed by law or ordinance.
   C.   To present to the commission each month, on a date set by the
commission, a full and detailed statement of the amounts of money belonging to
the town received by him/her and by him/her disbursed during the preceding
month and the state of each particular fund.
   D.   To keep the books and accounts of the town in such manner as to
correctly present the condition of the finances thereof which must always be
open to the inspection of the mayor, commission, or any member thereof.
   E.   To keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation and the debits
and credits thereof.
   F.   To give every person paying to him/her money as town clerk- treasurer a
receipt therefor specifying the date of payment, the amount and for what paid.
   G.   To render, at any time, an account to the commission showing the money
on hand and the condition of the treasury.
   H.   To keep a register of all warrants paid which must show the date,
amount and number, the person to whom and the fund from which the same was
paid. (Prior Code § 2.04.020)
   I.   To annually make out and submit to the town commission at its last
meeting prior to August 1, a detailed account of all receipts and expenditures
during the past fiscal year. An abstract thereof must be published in the
official newspaper. (Prior Code § 2.04.020; amd. 2003 Code)
   J.   To pay out, in the order which they are registered, all warrants
presented for payment when there are funds in the treasury to pay the same.
   K.   To deposit all public monies in his/her possession and under his/her
control, excepting such as may be required for current business, in any solvent
bank located in such town, subject to national supervision or state
examination, as the commission shall designate, and no other.
   L.   To attend all meetings of the commission, to record and sign the
proceedings thereof and all ordinances, bylaws, resolutions and contracts
passed, adopted or entered into, and to sign, number and keep a record of all
licenses, commissions or permits granted or authorized by the commission.
   M.   To record all ordinances, resolutions and bylaws passed and adopted by
the commission.
   N.   To enter in a book kept for that purpose, the date, amount and person
in whose favor and for what purpose warrants are drawn upon the town treasury.
   O.   To countersign and cause to be published or posted, as provided by law,
all ordinances, bylaws or resolutions passed and adopted by the commission.
   P.   To file and keep all records, books, papers or property belonging to
the town and to deliver the same to his/her successor when qualified.
   Q.   To prepare and process financial statements as required by Montana law.
   R.   To be treasurer. Any reference to a town treasurer in this code shall
mean the town clerk-treasurer.
   S.   To perform such other duties as the town commission may prescribe.
(Prior Code § 2.04.020)
CHAPTER 9
ELECTIONS 1
SECTION:
1-9-1: Elected Officials
1-9-2: Date Of Holding Elections
1-9-3: Filing Fees
1-9-4: Polling Or Voting Place
1-9-5: Oath Of Office
1-9-6: Initiative, Referendum And Recall
1-9-7: Amendment Of Charter
 
Notes
  1. MCA § 13-1-104 et seq., and article IV of the "Certificate Establishing The
1 Ratified Plan Of Government For The Town Of Ennis", at the beginning of this
  code.
1-9-1: ELECTED OFFICIALS:
The procedure for the nomination and election of all town elected officers
shall be as prescribed by state law for nonpartisan elections. (Prior Code §
1.02.010)
1-9-2: DATE OF HOLDING ELECTIONS:
The procedure for holding regular elections and special elections shall be as
prescribed by state law. (Prior Code § 1.02.020)
1-9-3: FILING FEES:
All filing fees shall be as prescribed by state law. (Prior Code § 1.02.030)
1-9-4: POLLING OR VOTING PLACE:
There shall be one polling or voting place as shall be determined by the town
commission for all general elections for town officers or for all special
elections for bond issues, increasing tax levies or for any other kind of
election. (Prior Code § 1.02.040)
1-9-5: OATH OF OFFICE:
Before entering upon the duties of office, all elected town officials shall
take and subscribe to the oath of office as follows:
I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support, protect and defend the
constitution of the United States, the constitution of the state of Montana,
the town charter and town code, and that I will discharge the duties of my
office, so help me God.
(Prior Code § 1.02.050; amd. 2003 Code)
1-9-6: INITIATIVE, REFERENDUM AND RECALL:
   A.   Initiative And Referendum 1 : The people shall retain the right to
exercise initiative and referendum powers according to provisions of state law.
   B.   Recall 2 : Any or all of the elected officials provided for in the
charter may be removed from office by the electors. The procedure to effect
such removal shall be as prescribed by state law. (Prior Code § 1.02.060)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-5-131 et seq.
2 2. MCA § 2-16-601 et seq.
1-9-7: AMENDMENT OF CHARTER 1 :
The people retain the right to amend the charter as prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code § 1.02.070)
 
Notes
1 3. MCA § 7-3-103.
CHAPTER 10
REVENUE AND FINANCE
SECTION:
1-10-1: Capital Improvement Program Fund
1-10-1: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM FUND:
An amount not to exceed the amount allowed by state statute of the money
received may be placed in a separate fund known as the capital improvement
program fund to be earmarked for the replacement and acquisition of a dump
truck and loader, costing in excess of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) with a
life expectancy of five (5) years or more. (Prior Code § 3.02.010; amd. 2003
Code)
CHAPTER 11
CITY COURT 1
SECTION:
1-11-1: City Court Established
1-11-2: Office Of City Judge Established
1-11-3: Method Of Selection And Term Of Office
1-11-4: Qualifications; Requirements
1-11-5: Powers; Duties; Hours
1-11-6: Compensation; Expenses
1-11-7: Funds
1-11-8: Vacancy
 
Notes
1 1. MCA title 3, chapter 11.
1-11-1: CITY COURT ESTABLISHED:
There is established a city court within the town, which shall be located in
the town hall. (Ord. 95, 2-13-1992)
1-11-2: OFFICE OF CITY JUDGE ESTABLISHED:
There is established the office of city judge for the town. (Ord. 95, 2-13-
1992)
1-11-3: METHOD OF SELECTION AND TERM OF OFFICE:
   A.   Method Of Selection: The person holding the office of city judge shall
be nominated and, with the consent of the town commission, appointed by the
mayor. The town shall advertise for the position, shall state the
qualifications, and shall make the appointment as set forth herein. The town
may appoint a justice of the peace or city judge of another city provided in
section 3-11-205 Montana Code Annotated.
   B.   Term: The city judge shall hold office for a term of four (4) years. A
city judge shall continue to hold office until qualification of a successor.
(Ord. 95, 2-13-1992)
1-11-4: QUALIFICATIONS; REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Oath Of Office: At the time of appointment, the city judge shall,
before entering upon the duties of the office, take the constitutional oath of
office, which must be filed with the town clerk-treasurer.
   B.   Qualifications: Before the town clerk-treasurer may file the oath, the
appointed city judge must satisfy the clerk-treasurer that the appointee is
either:
      1.   Attorney: An attorney at law authorized to practice law in the
state;
      2.   Justice Of Peace/City Judge: A person who has held the office of
justice of the peace or city judge within the preceding five (5) years; or
      3.   Orientation Course: A person who has completed the orientation
course of study held under the direction of the state supreme court or has been
excused by the supreme court. If a person is appointed after the course is
offered, the appointee must agree to take the course at the next offering, and
upon failure to do so, will be disqualified.
   C.   Residency: The city judge must be a resident of Madison County,
Montana, and must maintain residency within the said county during the term of
office. (Ord. 95, 2-13-1992)
1-11-5: POWER; DUTIES; HOURS:
   A.   Powers And Duties: The city judge shall have those powers and duties as
are provided by state law.
   B.   Hours: The normal hours of city court shall be as set by resolution of
the town commission. (Ord. 95, 2-13-1992)
1-11-6: COMPENSATION; EXPENSES:
The annual salary of the city judge shall be established by resolution. In
addition to the salary the city judge shall receive actual and necessary travel
expenses incurred in performing official duties as provided by state law. (Ord.
95, 2-13-1992)
1-11-7: FUNDS:
   A.   State Statutes: All monies, from whatever source, collected under the
jurisdiction of the city judge shall be deposited and managed in accordance
with the applicable statutes of the state.
   B.   Daily Deposits With Clerk-Treasurer: So long as the rules of the
Montana supreme court or the statutes of the state of Montana do not require
otherwise, all such monies shall be deposited daily with the town clerk-
treasurer as directed by the town clerk-treasurer.
   C.   Trust Fund Created: In order to establish appropriate control, monies
deposited temporarily for bonds, appearance bonds, etc., a trust fund is
created into which all such monies shall be placed. Upon final disposition of
any matter to which such a deposit pertains, such monies shall immediately be
disbursed from the trust fund to the town clerk-treasurer as directed by the
city judge under the mandates of the state. (Ord. 95, 2-13-1992)
1-11-8: VACANCY:
Should a vacancy occur in the office of city judge, the position shall be
filled for the remainder of the term using the same method of selection as set
forth is subsection
 1-11-3A of this chapter. (Ord. 95, 2-13-1992)
CHAPTER 12
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM
SECTION:
1-12-1: Old Age And Survivors' Insurance System
1-12-2: Public Employees' Retirement System
1-12-3: Payroll Deductions And Contributions
1-12-1: OLD AGE AND SURVIVORS' INSURANCE SYSTEM:
The town has heretofore authorized a plan and agreement with the social
security system to cover all employees under the provisions of the old age and
survivors' insurance system. (Prior Code § 2.06.010)
1-12-2: PUBLIC EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT SYSTEM:
The town has heretofore authorized a plan and agreement with the state to
include all employees under the public employees' retirement system of the
state. (Prior Code § 2.06.020)
1-12-3: PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS AND CONTRIBUTIONS:
The town clerk-treasurer is hereby authorized to make payroll deductions with
matching payments by the town to be made into the contribution funds of both
the social security act and the public employees' retirement system. (Prior
Code § 2.06.030)
CHAPTER 13
POLICE DEPARTMENT 1
SECTION:
1-13-1: Definitions
1-13-2: Police Department Authorized And Required
1-13-3: Supervision Of Police Department
1-13-4: Duties Of Chief Of Police
1-13-5: Qualifications Of Police Officers
1-13-6: Probationary Period And Confirmation Of Appointment
1-13-7: Exemptions Of Members Of Police Force
1-13-8: Reserve Officers
1-13-9: Regulations Governing Arrest Authorized
 
Notes
1 1. MCA title 7, ch. 32; § 61-10-54.
1-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise, the following
definitions apply:
ARREST: Taking a person into custody in the manner authorized by law.
AUXILIARY OFFICER: An unsworn, part time, volunteer member of a law enforcement
agency who may perform, but is not limited to, the performance of such
functions as civil defense, search and rescue, office duties, crowd and traffic
control, and crime prevention activities.
CHARGE: A written statement that accuses a person of the commission of an
offense, that is presented to a court, and that is contained in a complaint,
information, or indictment.
GENERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT DUTIES: Patrol operations performed for detection,
prevention, and suppression of crime and the enforcement of criminal and
traffic codes of this state and its local governments.
LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY: A law enforcement service provided directly by a local
government.
LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: A sworn, full time, employed member of a law
enforcement agency who is a peace officer, as defined in Montana Code Annotated
46-1-202, and has arrest authority, as described in Montana Code Annotated 46-
6-210. The term peace officer and law enforcement officer are considered the
same.
MCA: The Montana Code Annotated.
NOTICE TO APPEAR: A written direction that is issued by a peace officer and
that requests a person to appear before a court at a stated time and place to
answer a charge for the alleged commission of an offense.
OFFENSE: A violation of any penal statute of this state or any ordinance of its
political subdivisions. Also includes a violation of the provisions of title 49
of the United States Code and regulations that have been adopted under title 49
regarding motor carrier enforcement.
PEACE OFFICER: Any person who by virtue of the person's office or public
employment is vested by law with a duty to maintain public order and make
arrests for offenses while acting within the scope of the person's authority.
Also includes the term "public safety officer".
RESERVE OFFICER: A sworn, part time, volunteer member of a law enforcement
agency who is a peace officer, as defined in Montana Code Annotated 46-1-202,
and has arrest authority, as described in Montana Code Annotated 46-6-210, only
when authorized to perform these functions as a representative of the law
enforcement agency. (Ord. 137, 12-8-2011)
1-13-2: POLICE DEPARTMENT AUTHORIZED AND REQUIRED:
There shall be a police department which shall be organized, managed, and
controlled as provided in this chapter and it shall be known as the Ennis
police department. The mayor shall appoint a chief of police to manage and
direct the police department. (Ord. 137, 12-8-2011)
1-13-3: SUPERVISION OF POLICE DEPARTMENT:
The mayor has charge of and supervision over the police department. The mayor
shall appoint all the members and officers of the department. Subject to the
provisions of this chapter, the mayor may suspend or remove any member or
officer of the force. The mayor shall make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this chapter, the other laws of the state, or the ordinances of
the town commission, for the government, direction, management, and discipline
of the police force. (Ord. 137, 12-8-2011)
1-13-4: DUTIES OF CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   The chief of police:
      1.   Shall execute and return all process issued by the city judge or
directed to the chief of police by any legal authority and must be present and
shall assist the city court regularly;
      2.   Shall arrest all persons guilty of a breach of the peace or for the
violation of any local ordinance, state law, or federal law or any applicable
local, state, or federal administrative rule and bring them before the city
judge for trial;
      3.   Must have charge and control of all police officers, subject to
rules that may be prescribed by ordinance, and report to the mayor all
delinquencies or neglect of duty or official misconduct of police officers for
action of the mayor;
      4.   Shall perform other duties that the mayor may prescribe.
   B.   The chief of police has the same powers as a constable in the discharge
of duties, but the chief of police may not serve a process in a civil action or
proceeding except when the town is a party.
   C.   Quotas for investigative stops, citations, or arrests may not be
established and may not be used in evaluating police officers. (Ord. 137, 12-8-
2011)
1-13-5: QUALIFICATIONS OF POLICE OFFICERS:
A member of a police department on the active list of the town at the time of
appointment under this chapter may not be less than eighteen (18) years of age,
must be a citizen of the United States, and must meet the minimum qualifying
standards for employment as a peace officer promulgated by the Montana public
safety officer standards (POST) and established in the Montana Code Annotated 1
. (Ord. 137, 12-8-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 2-15-2029.
1-13-6: PROBATIONARY PERIOD AND CONFIRMATION OF APPOINTMENT:
   A.   Every applicant who has passed the examination and received the
certificate referred to in Montana Code Annotated 7-32-4108 must first serve
for a probationary term of not more than one year. At any time before the end
of such probationary term, the mayor may revoke such appointment.
   B.   After the end of such probationary period and within thirty (30) days
thereafter, the appointment of such applicant must be submitted to the mayor,
and if such appointment is confirmed by the mayor, such applicant becomes a
member of the police force and shall hold such position during good behavior
unless suspended or discharged as provided by law. (Ord. 137, 12-8-2011)
1-13-7: EXEMPTIONS OF MEMBERS OF POLICE FORCE:
No member of the police force shall be liable to military or jury duty or to
arrest on civil process while actually on duty. (Ord. 137, 12-8-2011)
1-13-8: RESERVE OFFICERS:
The mayor and chief of police may authorize reserve police officers. A reserve
officer must meet the qualifications and training for appointment as a reserve
police officer as prescribed in the Montana Code Annotated for reserve police
officers. Reserve police officers are subject to the limitations and
restrictions imposed by the Montana Code Annotated. Reserve police officers
serve at the pleasure of the chief of police and may be terminated at any time
by the chief of police by written notification without any cause. (Ord. 137,
12-8-2011)
1-13-9: REGULATIONS GOVERNING ARREST AUTHORIZED:
The town commission authorizes the police of the town to make arrests of
persons charged with crime:
   A.   Within the limits of the town;
   B.   Within five (5) miles thereof; and
   C.   Along the line of water supply of the town. (Ord. 137, 12-8-2011)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING BOARD
SECTION:
2-1-1: Established
2-1-2: Membership
2-1-3: Officers
2-1-4: Compensation
2-1-5: Meetings
2-1-6: Employees, Services And Compensation
2-1-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a planning commission of the town which shall be
known as the Ennis planning board. (Ord. 97, 2-13-1992)
2-1-2: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Number Of Members: The membership of the town planning board shall
consist of seven (7) members to be appointed as follows:
      1.   One member to be appointed by the town commission from its
membership;
      2.   One member to be appointed by the town commission, who may, in the
discretion of the town commission, be an employee or hold public office in the
town or county.
      3.   One member to be appointed by the mayor upon the designation by the
county commissioners; and
      4.   Four (4) citizen members to be appointed by the mayor, two (2) of
whom shall be resident freeholders within the urban area, if any, outside of
the town limits over which the planning board has jurisdiction under this
chapter and two (2) of whom shall be resident freeholders within the town
limits.
   B.   Certification: The town clerk-treasurer shall certify members appointed
by the commission. The certificate shall be sent to and become part of the
records of the planning board. The mayor shall make similar certification for
the appointment of citizen members.
   C.   Commission Member:
      1.   Term: The term of the member of the town commission appointed to the
planning board shall be coextensive with the term of office to which he/she has
been elected or appointed unless the commission, at its first regular meeting
of each year, appoints another to serve as its representative or unless his/her
term is terminated as hereinafter provided.
      2.   Vacancies: The town commission shall fill any vacancy occurring in
its prospective membership on the planning board.
   D.   County Representative: The board of county commissioners may designate
a representative of the county to the mayor for appointment to the planning
board. This representative may be a member of the board of county commissioners
or an office holder or an employee of the county. In the event of the failure
of the county to so designate a member, the mayor may appoint a person of his/
her own choosing and at his sole discretion as the representative of the
county.
   E.   Citizen Members:
      1.   Qualifications: Citizen members of the planning board shall be
qualified by knowledge and experience of matters pertaining to development of
the office and hold no other office in the town government.
      2.   Removal: Any citizen appointee may be removed from office by a
majority vote of the town commission. (Ord. 97, 2-13-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
2-1-3: OFFICERS:
At its first regular meeting in each year, the board shall elect from its
members a president and vice president, who shall serve for a term of one year.
(Ord. 97, 2-13-1992)
2-1-4: COMPENSATION:
The members of the planning board shall receive no salary for service on the
planning board, but may be reimbursed from town funds for transportation and
actual expenses up to but not exceeding the state transportation reimbursement
and allowable expenses incurred for attending meetings, and performing their
duties, and tending regional or national conferences. (Ord. 97, 2-13-1992)
2-1-5: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The board shall meet at least in the months of
January, April, July, and October and shall fix the time for holding other
regularly scheduled meetings.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meeting of the planning board may be called
by the president or by two (2) members upon written request to the secretary.
The secretary shall send to all members, at least two (2) days in advance of
the special meeting a written notice fixing the time and place of the meeting.
However, written notice is not required if the time of the special meeting has
been fixed in a regular meeting or if all members are present at the special
meeting. (Ord. 97, 2-13-1992)
2-1-6: EMPLOYEES, SERVICES AND COMPENSATION:
   A.   Secretary And Other Employees: The board may appoint and prescribe the
duties and fix the compensation of the secretary and such employees as are
necessary for the discharge of the duties and responsibilities of the board.
   B.   Special Temporary Services: The board may make contract for special or
temporary service and any professional services needed for planning, subject to
budget restrictions imposed by the town commission. (Ord. 97, 2-13-1992; amd.
2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
TREE BOARD
SECTION:
2-2-1: Created
2-2-2: Membership
2-2-3: Term Of Office
2-2-4: Compensation
2-2-5: Operation
2-2-6: Duties
2-2-1: CREATED:
There is hereby created and established a tree board for the town, which shall
consist of five (5) members. (Ord. 103, 3-18-1993)
2-2-2: MEMBERSHIP:
Members of this board will be comprised of four (4) citizens and residents of
the town to be appointed by the mayor and approved by the commission. The town
commissioner serving as the town's park commissioner shall serve as the fifth
member of the board. (Ord. 103, 3-18-1993)
2-2-3: TERM OF OFFICE:
The staggered terms of the four (4) noncommission members shall each be for
three (3) years. (Ord. 103, 3-18-1993; amd. 2003 Code)
2-2-4: COMPENSATION:
Members of the board shall serve without compensation. (Ord. 103, 3-18-1993)
2-2-5: OPERATION:
The board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and regulations and
keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of members shall be a quorum for
the transaction of business. (Ord. 103, 3-18-1993)
2-2-6: DUTIES:
   A.   Tree Plan: It shall be the responsibility of the board to meet at least
quarterly to develop and/or update, as necessary, a comprehensive written plan
for the planting, care, trimming, replanting, removal or disposition of trees
and shrubs on public property and public ways. Such plan will be presented
annually to the commission and, upon their acceptance and approval, shall
constitute the official tree plan for the town.
   B.   Additional Duties: The board, when requested by the town commission,
shall consider, investigate, make findings, report and recommend on any matter
of question coming within the scope of its work. (Ord. 103, 3-18-1993)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS LICENSES AND REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS 1
SECTION:
3-1-1: Title
3-1-2: Enacting Clause
3-1-3: Definitions
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-21-4101 et seq., and § 7-21-4201 et seq.
3-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and cited as the BUSINESS LICENSING ORDINANCE. (Prior
Code § 5.01.010; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
3-1-2: ENACTING CLAUSE:
This title is adopted as an exercise of the general police powers of the Town
for the promotion of health, sanitation, traffic control, building use, fire
protection and general welfare of the community, to finance the regulation of
those business activities authorized by title 7 of the Montana Code Annotated.
(Prior Code § 5.01.020; amd. Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
3-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
               Employment, occupation, profession, or commercial activity engaged in for
               profit. Every trade, occupation, profession, vocation, enterprise, nonprofit
               enterprise, establishment, or activity that is conducted for private profit or
               benefit and that is not specifically exempted by state law or this chapter.
BUSINESS:      "Business" also includes the lease or rental of commercial facilities/buildings
               and includes the lease or rental of residential facilities, such as single-
               family homes, apartments, mobile homes, or condominiums, whether nightly or
               long-term. "Business" excludes temporary or short-term fundraising activities
               conducted by a church, school or by a nonprofit civic, fraternal organization,
               or individual under the age of eighteen.
BUSINESS       All structures used for sale or production of goods or services for profit.
ESTABLISHMENT:
               A person, firm, or corporation who, in the pursuit of any independent business,
               undertakes to do a specific piece of work for other persons, using his own means
               and methods and who renders service in the course of an independent occupation
CONTRACTOR:    representing the will of his employer only as to the result of his work and not
               as a means by which it is accomplished. This definition shall include all
               building trades such as, but not limited to, general, carpenters, electrical,
               plumbing, roofing, mechanical, sheet metal and excavating contractors.
               A trade, occupation, or profession for profit in the confines of a residential
HOME           dwelling provided it is a secondary use of the dwelling and employs only family
INDUSTRIES:    members. There shall be no outward signs or display of the profession without an
               approved sign permit from the Town of Ennis.
HOTEL:         Includes motels, inns, boarding houses and lodging houses.
               Any person engaged or employed in the business of retailing to consumers by
               going from consumer to consumer, either on the streets or their place of
ITINERANT      residence or employment and there soliciting selling, or offering to sell, or
VENDOR:        exhibiting for sale (by sample, by catalogue or otherwise) or taking orders for
               future delivery of any goods, wares, or merchandise, or for services to be
               performed in the future. Itinerant vendors are prohibited within the Town of
               Ennis.
               A residential or commercial building that contains individual sleeping rooms or
               suites and that provides overnight lodging for compensation. "Lodging facility"
LODGING        includes a hotel, motel, resort, dormitory, inn, condominium, dude ranch, guest
FACILITY:      ranch, hostel, public lodging house, time share, bed and breakfast facility, or
               nightly rental. "Lodging facility" also includes any campground, recreational
               vehicle or trailer park, or similar facility.
               The process of making goods, by machinery or by other method; the production of
MANUFACTURING: articles for use from raw or prepared materials by giving such materials new
               forms, qualities, properties, or combinations.
               Any group which is religious, charitable, social, educational, recreational, or
NONPROFIT      scientific which does not contemplate the distribution of pecuniary gains,
ORGANIZATIONS: profit, or dividends to the members thereof and that pecuniary profit is not the
               object of the group.
PERSON:        An individual or a corporation, firm, partnership, association, or business
               entity.
PROFESSIONAL:  Any person whose occupation is subject to the licensing and regulation
               requirements of title 37, Montana Code Annotated.
               A dwelling unit, or portion thereof, that is offered or provided to a guest by a
               short-term rental owner or operator for a fee for fewer than 30 consecutive
               nights. They are commonly referred to as vacation rentals and are a form of
SHORT TERM     tourist or transient accommodations. Short-term rental units may be whole house
RENTAL:        rentals, apartments or condominiums but do not include hotels, motels, hospitals
               or nursing homes. For the purpose of administration and enforcement of this
               title, the terms "overnight rental," "nightly rental," and "vacation rental" are
               interchangeable with short-term rentals.
TRANSFERRED    Any business that changes location from one address to another address.
BUSINEES:
TRANSPORTATION Transportation for hire, while engaged in intracity, interurban, or intercity
FIRMS:         transporting of persons, freight, commodities, or any other type of goods or
               refuse.
               Utility services falling within the following listed categories: electric power,
UTILITIES:     natural gas, telephone and any other public utility not otherwise classified in
               this title, which is regulated by the Public Service Commission.
               Every device in, upon, or by which persons or property are or may be transported
VEHICLE:       upon a public way. (Prior Code §§ 5.04.010 – 5.04.110; amd. Ord. passed 7-14-
               2022)
 
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
3-2-1: License Required
3-2-2: License Fees; Penalties; Exceptions
3-2-3: Application
3-2-4: Separate License Required
3-2-5: Allocation Of Fees
3-2-6: Issuance
3-2-7: Term Of License
3-2-8: Transferability
3-2-9: Posting Required
3-2-10: Inspection And Regulation; Exception
3-2-11: Number Of Licenses
3-2-12: Licenses Issued Contrary To Title
3-2-13: Unlawful Activities
3-2-14: Interstate Commerce
3-2-15: Grounds For Revocation
3-2-16: Notice Of Denial Or Revocation
3-2-17: Appeal
3-2-18: Violation; Penalty
3-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Pursuant to the provisions of title 7, chapter 21, parts 41 and 42, Montana
Code Annotated, no person, business establishment, firm, association, or
corporation shall conduct, operate, transact, engage in, or carry on any
industry, trade, pursuit, profession, vocation, or business within the Town
without first applying for and obtaining a license therefor from the Town as
herein provided. (Prior Code § 5.06.010; amd. Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
3-2-2: LICENSE FEES; PENALTIES; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   License: The license to be issued shall be issued by the Town Clerk-
Treasurer or Deputy Clerk and shall be countersigned by the Mayor.
   B.   License Fees: All license fees will be set by resolution by the Town of
Ennis Commission. For the purpose of establishing business license fees, all
business establishments, unless otherwise specified in this title, must pay
appropriate fees as outlined by resolution before business operations begin.
Business license fees may be reviewed annually and fee amounts will be set by
Resolution of the Town Commission. The Town Clerk-Treasurer or Deputy Clerk
shall collect the license fee as required by this title upon making of the
application thereto.
   C.   Exceptions: The following enterprises shall be excepted from licensing:
      1.   A sole proprietor or home industry conducting a business from a
residence with no employees or agents shall be exempt from the provisions of
this title.
      2.   "Nonprofit organizations" as defined in section
3-1-3 of this title.
      3.   Any enterprise carried out by the Town, county, state, or federal
governments.
      4.   Wholesalers and freight companies who deliver and sell merchandise
on a regular basis solely to business establishments in the Town.
      5.   The Town shall not license a practicing professional governed by a
section of title 37 of the Montana Code Annotated, only if the statute which
forbids a local government from imposing such a license is specifically made
applicable to local governments with self-government powers or if the Montana
supreme court has specifically made that statute applicable to self-governing
powers. (Prior Code § 5.06.020; amd. Ord. 2003 Code; Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
3-2-3: APPLICATION:
Application for licenses shall be obtained from and filed with the Town Clerk-
Treasurer or Deputy Clerk. All applications, when filed, shall be accompanied
with the necessary fees and any other documents required and shall be signed by
the applicant. The form of the application shall be determined by the Town
Clerk-Treasurer or Deputy Clerk, but shall contain a statement regarding the
applicant's agreement to all terms and conditions of Ennis Town Code or other
applicable ordinances. (Prior Code § 5.06.060; amd. Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
3-2-4: SEPARATE LICENSE REQUIRED:
Except as otherwise provided, no license issued by the Town Clerk-Treasurer or
Deputy Clerk shall cover more than one classification or more than one trade,
pursuit, business, occupation, vocation, or entertainment. (Prior Code §
5.06.030; amd. Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
3-2-5: ALLOCATION OF FEES:
All fees collected under this title shall be deposited by the Town Clerk-
Treasurer or Deputy Clerk in the all-purpose general fund and used to support
the various departments, divisions and activities of the Town charged with
providing the special services required and for the administration of this
title. (Prior Code § 5.06.040; amd. Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
3-2-6: ISSUANCE:
Upon successful application, the Town Clerk-Treasurer or Deputy Clerk shall
issue a license in accordance with the provisions of this title. (Prior Code §
5.06.100; amd. Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
3-2-7: TERM OF LICENSE:
   A.   Prohibition On Rebate/Proration: License fees shall not be prorated. No
rebate or refund of any license fee, or part thereof, shall be made by reason
of the nonuse of such license or by reason of a change of location or business
rendering the use of such license ineffective.
   B.   License Year: Except where otherwise specifically provided in
connection with a business, the license year shall run from July 1 until June
30 of the following year. No person may continue to operate a business after
the expiration of the license unless an application has been made for a new
license and a new license has been issued.
   C.   Renewal:
      1.   Filing Deadline: All applications and renewals for an annual
license, as required herein, shall be filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer or
Deputy Clerk no later than August 1 of each year.
      2.   Declared Delinquent: Applications filed after August 1 are hereby
declared delinquent and shall pay a late fee of ten dollars ($10.00) per month;
total late fee not to exceed cost of business license. Applications postmarked
by midnight of August 1 shall not be declared delinquent. (Prior code §§
5.06.120 and 5.06.130; amd. Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
3-2-8: TRANSFERABILITY:
   A.   Licensee: No license shall be transferable to another licensee and this
shall be stated on both the application and the license.
   B.   Location Change: When a business is moved from one location to another,
the license for such business shall be transferred to the new location. The
licensee shall complete a new application with the updated information/location
and pay any applicable transfer fees, submit new application to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer or Deputy Clerk and obtain updated license before operating in new
location. (Prior Code §§ 5.06.110 and 5.06.140; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. passed 7-
14-2022)
3-2-9: POSTING REQUIRED:
Every license issued under the provisions of this title shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises where the business is conducted. All licenses
issued for a business without a fixed place of business shall be carried by the
licensee while the licensee is conducting business and shall be shown to any
person with whom the licensee is conducting business or any law enforcement
officer upon demand. (Prior Code § 5.06.150; amd. Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
3-2-10: INSPECTION AND REGULATION; EXCEPTION:
   A.   Authority to Inspect: Any business in the Town may be inspected by Town
officers and employees authorized to enforce provisions of ordinances relating
to that business.
   B.   Time of Inspection: In the absence of an emergency and in the absence
of sound reasons whereby an inspection cannot be made during regular business
hours, inspections shall be made during normal business hours.
   C.   Identification: Immediately upon arriving at a place of business for
the purpose of making an inspection, the Town officer or employee making the
inspection shall identify himself or herself and shall state that the purpose
of the visit is to make an inspection.
   D.   Exception: The Town may not regulate, inspect, control and supervise
any aspect of a profession that is duly licensed and regulated by the state or
federal government where such regulation, inspection, control and supervision
are clearly covered and provided for by such governmental agency. (Prior code §
5.06.050; amd. Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
3-2-11: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
In the absence of a specific provision to the contrary, no ordinance is to be
interpreted as limiting the number of licenses that may be issued or as
limiting the number of business enterprises of any particular kind that may be
operated in the Town. No Town officer or employee may refuse to issue a license
because of the officer's or employee's belief that there are enough of a
particular type of business in the Town already. (Prior code § 5.06.160; amd.
Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
3-2-12: LICENSES ISSUED CONTRARY TO TITLE:
Any license issued in violation of this title shall be null and void and of no
effect without necessity of any proceedings or revocation or nullification
thereof. (Prior code § 5.06.170; amd. Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
3-2-13: UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES:
No provision herein contained shall be construed so as to license any trade,
business, occupation, vocation, profession, or entertainment prohibited by any
enforced law of the United States, of the state, or any ordinance of the Town.
(Prior code § 5.06.180; amd. Ord. 134, 11-5-2010; Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
3-2-14: INTERSTATE COMMERCE:
Nothing in this title contained is intended to operate as to interfere with the
power of the Congress of the United States to regulate the commerce between the
states. (Prior code § 5.06.190; amd. Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
3-2-15: GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION:
The Mayor, on recommendation of the Town Clerk-Treasurer or Deputy Clerk or law
enforcement personnel may revoke and cancel any license issued by the Town for
fraud or misrepresentation in its procurement or for violation of any provision
of this code or any ordinance of the Town or any state or enforced federal
statute. (Prior code § 5.06.070; amd. Ord. 134, 11-5-2010; Ord. passed 7-14-
2022)
3-2-16: NOTICE OF DENIAL OR REVOCATION:
Denials of applications or revocations of Town licenses shall be made in
writing and the applicant shall be notified by certified mail, return receipt
requested. The notice shall be mailed within three (3) working days of denial
or revocation. (Prior code § 5.06.080; amd. Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
3-2-17: APPEAL:
   A.   Notice of Appeal: An applicant who has been denied a license or whose
license has been revoked may appeal said denial or revocation to the Town
Commission by notice, in writing, filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer or Deputy
Clerk within ten (10) days of the date of the revocation or denial.
   B.   Contents of Notice: The notice shall state any reasons supporting the
grant of a license, the applicant's correct mailing address and shall be signed
by the applicant.
   C.   Placement of Agenda: The Clerk-Treasurer shall cause the matter to be
placed on the Commission agenda not more than thirty (30) days after the
receipt of the notice of appeal.
   D.   Notice of Hearing: The applicant shall be notified, in writing, by
certified mail, return receipt requested, of the date and time the matter will
be considered on the agenda.
   E.   Hearing: The applicant may appear at the time and place and be heard.
The applicant may be represented by counsel at this hearing. No such suspension
or revocation is final until the licensee has been given the opportunity for a
hearing to contest the suspension or revocation under the procedures
prescribed. (Prior code § 5.06.090; amd. Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
3-2-18: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Form of Complaint: Whenever a violation of this title occurs or is
alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written complaint. Such
complaint stating fully the cause and basis thereof shall be filed with the
Town Clerk-Treasurer or Deputy Clerk, who shall make or cause to be made a
complete investigation of the allegations and take the appropriate action as
provided by this title.
   B.   Penalty: Violations of the provisions of this title or failure to
comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person
who violates this title or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall,
upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved
in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense and punishable as such. (Prior Code §§ 5.28.010 and 5.28.020; amd. 2003
Code; Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
CHAPTER 3
JUNK DEALERS, PAWNBROKERS, SECONDHAND DEALERS AND ANTIQUE DEALERS 1
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Register; Police Inspection
3-3-3: Examination Of Register And Property
3-3-4: Report To Police
3-3-5: Retention After Delivery Of Register To Police
3-3-6: Receiving Articles From Minors
 
Notes
1    MCA §§ 7-21-4201, 7-21-4207, 7-21-4208, 32-1-401 et seq., and 45-5-623.
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
 
            Any person, partnership, or corporation who engages in the business of
ANTIQUE     buying and selling, trading, or taking as pledge, pawn, or security for
DEALER:     money loaned any antique or other object the value of which appreciates
            with age.
            Any person, partnership, or corporation who engages in the business of
COIN        buying and selling, trading, or taking as pledge, pawn, or security for
DEALER:     money loaned any coin issued by the government of the United States or any
            other government which is or ever has been in existence.
            Any person, partnership, or corporation who engages in the business of
GEM DEALER: buying and selling, trading, or taking as pledge, pawn, or security for
            money loaned any gem or precious stone.
            Any person who engages in the business of buying and selling old iron,
JUNK        lead, steel, copper, brass, or other metals, bottles, or broken glass,
DEALER:     bagging, secondhand clothing, or secondhand goods, wares, or merchandise,
            etc., of any kind, or any other article usually found in a junk shop.
            Any person whose business it is to take or receive by the way of pledge,
PAWNBROKER: pawn, or exchange any goods, wares, or merchandise, or any kind of personal
            property whatsoever as security for the repayment of money loaned.
SECONDHAND  Any person, partnership, or corporation who engages in the business of
DEALER:     buying and selling, trading, or taking as pledge, pawn, or security for
            money loaned any secondhand or used merchandise or property of any kind.
            Any person, partnership, or corporation who engages in the business of
STAMP       buying and selling, trading, or taking as pledge, pawn, or security for
DEALER:     money loaned any stamp issued by the government of the United States or any
            other government which is or ever has been in existence. (Prior Code §
            5.18.010; amd. Ord. passed 7-14-2021)
 
3-3-2: REGISTER; POLICE INSPECTION:
   A.   Any person who carries on the business of pawnbroker, secondhand
dealer, junk dealer, keeper of a secondhand store, keeper of a junk shop, coin
dealer, stamp dealer, gem dealer, or antique dealer shall keep a register in
which shall be entered in legible writing a description of every article pawned
to him or purchased by him, with:
      1.   The date of the pawning or purchasing;
      2.   Date when the article must be redeemed;
      3.   The name of the person by whom the same was pawned or by whom
purchased; and
      4.   The amount loaned thereon or paid therefor.
   B.   In case of the sale of any article pawned or pledged, the pawnbroker or
junk dealer must enter upon said register:
      1.   The name of the purchaser;
      2.   The time of the sale; and
      3.   The price paid therefor.
   C.   The register must always be open to inspection and examination of any
peace officer or other persons. (Prior Code § 5.18.020; amd. 2003 Code; Ord.
passed 7-14-2021)
3-3-3: EXAMINATION OF REGISTER AND PROPERTY:
No person carrying on the business of a pawnbroker, junk dealer, secondhand
dealer, keeper of a secondhand store, coin dealer, stamp dealer, gem dealer, or
antique dealer shall fail or neglect to keep the register required by section
3-3-2 of this chapter or refuse to exhibit it to the chief law enforcement
officer of the Town or to any law enforcement officer, or to any third person
brought as a friend to redeem property pledged by another requesting to do so,
or refuse to permit the chief law enforcement officer for the Town or any law
enforcement officer or any third person brought by the pledgor or to redeem
property pledged to inspect any article purchased or traded or received. (Prior
Code § 5.18.030; amd. Ord. passed 7-14-2021)
3-3-4: REPORT TO POLICE:
Any person carrying on the business of a pawnbroker, junk dealer, secondhand
dealer, keeper of a junk shop, keeper of a secondhand store, coin dealer, stamp
dealer, gem dealer, or antique dealer shall be required to make at twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon of each day a copy of the entries for the proceeding
twenty four (24) hours in the register required by section
3-3-2 of this chapter and to deliver a copy of the same to the chief law
enforcement officer for the Town, except items purchased from all estate sales,
licensed auction sales, licensed dealers and regular licensed suppliers. (Prior
Code § 5.18.040; amd. Ord. passed 7-14-2021)
3-3-5: RETENTION AFTER DELIVERY OF REGISTER TO POLICE:
No property or article purchased, traded, or received by a pawnbroker, junk
dealer, secondhand dealer, keeper of a junk shop, keeper of a secondhand store,
coin dealer, stamp dealer, gem dealer, or antique dealer shall be sold or taken
from the place of business for one week after the date of its receipt and the
entry of its description in the register and delivery of a copy of such
register to the chief law enforcement officer for the Town, except upon written
authority from the chief law enforcement officer. (Prior Code § 5.18.050; amd.
Ord. passed 7-14-2021)
3-3-6: RECEIVING ARTICLES FROM MINORS:
No person carrying on the business of a pawnbroker, junk dealer, secondhand
dealer, keeper of a junk shop, keeper of a secondhand store, coin dealer, stamp
dealer, gem dealer, or antique dealer shall purchase, trade, or receive any
article from any person eighteen (18) years of age or under without the written
consent of the parent or guardian of such minor. (Prior Code § 5.18.060; amd.
2003 Code; Ord. passed 7-14-2021)
CHAPTER 4
SHORT TERM RENTALS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Short-Term Rental Compliance
3-4-1: SHORT-TERM RENTAL COMPLIANCE:
A short-term rental is defined in
3-1-3.
   A.   In order to operate a short-term rental in the Town of Ennis, the owner
is required to abide by all applicable sections of Town Code in addition to
applying for and obtaining a business license with the Town before beginning
operations. Accompanied with the annual business license application must be:
      1.   Completed Town of Ennis Short-Term Rental Property Inspection
Checklist; and
      2.   Any applicable State, County or other licenses, inspections or
required documents.
   B.   On each short-term rental property, a visible sign must be posted with
clear instruction for contacting the property owner or manager, with the
following information:
      1.   Business Name; and
      2.   Area code and telephone number where assistance is available twenty-
four (24) hours a day, three hundred and sixty-five (365) days a year. (Ord.
passed 7-14-2022)
CHAPTER 5
GUEST REGISTERS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Guest Register
3-5-3: Failure To Sign; False Entries
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
 
       Any person who shall resort to a hotel, motel or short term rental
GUEST: within the Town limits for refreshment or lodging for any period of time
       during the day or night. (Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
 
3-5-2: GUEST REGISTER:
   A.   Required; Inspection: Every hotel/short-term rental in the Town shall
keep and maintain a register to which each guest shall enter his name and
address upon the day of arrival. Such register shall be available for
inspection by law enforcement officers at all times.
   B.   Required; Emergency Contact: Every hotel/short-term rental in the Town
shall provide a local emergency contact name, with phone number, to the Town to
keep on record in case of need for emergency notification.
   C.   Failure To Provide Or Maintain: Failure to provide or maintain such a
resister, or failure to require any guest to enter his name and address therein
on the day of arrival, or to knowingly enter or permit such guest to enter a
false or fictitious name or address in such register as the name and address of
such guest shall be a violation of this chapter. (Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
3-5-3: FAILURE TO SIGN; FALSE ENTRIES:
Any guest who fails or refuses to enter his name and address in the register
provided upon his arrival, or who shall enter a false or fictitious name or
address as his own in such register shall be deemed guilty of a violation of
this chapter. (Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
CHAPTER 6
MARIJUANA
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: Business License Required
3-6-3: Location Restrictions
3-6-4: Visibility And Property Requirements
3-6-5: Commercial Marijuana Business Security
3-6-6: No Open Use Or Display
3-6-7: Enforcement
3-6-8: Notice Of Violation, Penalties And Prohibitions
3-6-9: Conflicts And Interpretation
3-6-10: Severability
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used herein, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them
below. The general definition rules of § 1-2-105, MCA, apply to this chapter.
All terms not specifically defined herein are to be defined according to their
common usage at the time of the effective date of this chapter.
              Full compliance with all the provisions of this chapter, Town Code, Town Zoning
COMPLIANCE:   Code, Town Business License regulations in general, and any and all other
              applicable local, state and county rules, regulations, laws, codes or ordinances
              that may be applicable.
CONDITIONAL   The Conditional Use Permit approval, review, process and permit described in the
USE PERMIT:   Ennis Town Zoning Code and any amendments thereto.
              Any marijuana dispensary, marijuana manufacturer, marijuana testing laboratory, or
COMMERCIAL    other premises at which commercial activity related to the sale, production,
MARIJUANA     promotion, manufacture, distribution or consumption of THC products or related
PREMISES:     paraphernalia occurs. A retail marijuana business shall not be considered a
              commercial marijuana business, unless a substantial portion, more than fifty
              percent (50%) of annual or gross revenue is commercial in nature.
CONTINUOUS    Open for business no less than twenty (20)-hours per week within regular business
OPERATION:    hours of eight o’clock (8:00) a.m. to five o’clock (5:00) p.m. for no less than
              fifty (50) continuous weeks prior to November 21, 2021.
DETECTABLE:   That a qualified K9 or drug sniffing dog alerts or otherwise indicates the
              presence of marijuana odor or presence of marijuana.
              When computing the distance between a marijuana business and any school, library,
              public park, public pool, residence or any other location that requires a location
DISTANCE      measurement, the distance shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight
MEASUREMENT:  line from the nearest legal parcel line of the land used for the school, library,
              public park, public pool, residence or other location to the nearest external
              portion of the building or premises where the marijuana business is located.
              All plant material from the genus Cannabis containing tetrahydrocannabinol (THC)
              or seeds of the genus capable of germination. The term does not include hemp,
              including any part of that plant, including the seeds and all derivatives,
MARIJUANA:    extracts, cannabinoids, isomers, acids, salts, and salts of isomers, whether
              growing or not, with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of not more than
              three-tenths of one percent on a dry weight basis, or commodities or products
              manufactured with hemp, or any other ingredient combined with marijuana to prepare
              topical or oral administrations, food, drink, or other products.
              Means and includes without limitation any storefront, premises, business,
              operation, facility or location where there are any activities regarding the sale,
              distribution, supply, transportation, growth, testing, dispensary, provider,
              manufacture or production of any marijuana derivative, marijuana infused product,
              medical marijuana, marijuana plants or THC product or related products, goods or
MARIJUANA     services. No marijuana business shall be allowed or permitted and in the Town of
BUSINESS:     Ennis without a business license from the Town of Ennis and without showing
              compliance with all requirements of this Ordinance, the Town Zoning Code, Town
              Business License regulations generally, and other applicable local, state and / or
              county laws, rules, regulations or ordinances. No person shall be permitted to
              engage in Marijuana Business without a first obtaining a Marijuana Business
              license or permit from the Town of Ennis identifying the location of the Marijuana
              Business and showing compliance with all applicable provisions of this chapter.
MARIJUANA     Any mixture or preparation of the dried leaves, flowers, resin, or byproducts of
DERIVATIVE:   the marijuana plant, including but not limited to marijuana concentrates and
              marijuana-infused products.
              Any premises from which THC products are available for commercial sale to general
MARIJUANA     consumers and/or to medical marijuana cardholders. A hospital, clinic, pharmacy,
DISPENSARY:   or doctor's office shall not be considered a marijuana dispensary merely because
              they may prescribe or dispense medical marijuana, unless prescribing or dispensing
              medical marijuana is the location's primary source of revenue.
MARIJUANA-    A product that contains marijuana and is intended for use by a means other than
INFUSED       smoking. The term includes but is not limited to edible products, ointments, and
PRODUCT:      tinctures.
MARIJUANA     Includes any business, location, premises or facility where marijuana is grown or
MANUFACTURER: THC products are made, prepared, produced or developed for commercial purposes,
              distribution or sales.
              A person licensed by the Department of Revenue to manufacture and provide
MARIJUANA     marijuana-infused products for consumers and/or licensed by the Department of
PROVIDER:     Health and Human Services to manufacture and provide medical marijuana to
              cardholders.
              A building, location, premise or facility which provides through the use of
MARIJUANA     equipment and testing processes or analysis generates information or determines
TESTING       the chemical composition, potency, presence of molds, pesticides or contaminants
LABORATORY:   or other quantitative analysis regarding marijuana or THC products or samples
              thereof.
              Any individual, company, limited liability company, partnership, association,
              association, employee, manager, member-manager or other entity with ownership,
PERSON:       control, management or employment with the marijuana business. Person or persons,
              plural and singular shall apply throughout whenever necessary or reasonably
              required to give meaning and effect to the provisions.
              Includes any playground or outdoor sports area or facility that is open to the
PUBLIC PARK:  general public. The term does not include fishing accesses, State or National
              forests, campgrounds or BLM land.
              Includes any private premise where a person lives such as a private dwelling, a
              place of habitation, a house, a multi-dwelling unit for residential occupants, or
RESIDENCE:    an apartment unit, regardless of whether said premise is occupied seasonally or
              year-round, as well as any building which is publicly available for sale for
              residential purposes. No marijuana business shall be permitted or allowed in any
              residence, and no homes business shall be operated as a marijuana business.
              Any platted subdivision that is primarily residential in character, includes ten
RESIDENTIAL   or more residences, and is not within a town site. No commercial or marijuana
SUBDIVISION:  business shall be permitted in any residential subdivision, residential zone or
              home business.
              For purposes of determining compliance with Distance Measurement or Location of
              any marijuana business as required the word "school" includes without limitation
SCHOOL:       any home school, preschool, daycare center, elementary school, middle school, high
              school, or other building or premises used for adult education or other learning
              center.
              Includes marijuana, marijuana concentrate, marijuana derivatives, and marijuana-
              infused products, and any other naturally occurring or synthetic product which
              contains THC and which is advertised or intended for the medicinal and/or
THC PRODUCTS: recreational uses commonly associated with marijuana. The term does not include
              CBD or hemp products with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of not more
              than three-tenths of one percent on a dry weight basis. (Ord. 134, 11-5-2010; amd.
              Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
 
3-6-2: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Compliance: A Marijuana Business license applicant must show compliance
with state and county laws, rules, regulations and ordinances. No business
license shall be issued until applicant shows compliance with any and all
state, county or other Town laws, rules, ordinances or regulations.
   B.   Conditional Use Permit: No Marijuana Business license shall issue
without a Conditional Use Permit issued by the Town Commission. The Town
Commission shall have broad discretionary authority to require any reasonable
conditions that would promote public health, safety, welfare, security or
otherwise accomplish the provisions of Chapter 6, Marijuana Business and / or
serve or promote the Intent and Purpose, Design Parameters, or other provisions
of the Traditional Neighborhood District Overlay
11-3F-1. (Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
3-6-3: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Location: No Marijuana Business may be located within five hundred
(500) feet of a school or two hundred and fifty (250) feet of a library, public
park, or public pool, or in a residential zone or subdivision.
   B.   Exceptions: The location restrictions
3-6-3(A) shall not apply to any marijuana business which can show that it has
been in continuous operations at the same location since November 21, 2021.
   C.   Subsequent Development: No Marijuana Business shall be made non-
compliant by subsequent development of any school, library, public park, public
pool or approved residential subdivision by annexation, development or
otherwise.
   D.   Zoning Districts Prohibited: No marijuana business shall be a Permitted
Use in any Zoning District or a Conditional Use in any Residential Districts
11-3B-1 through
11-3B-4, R-RD, R-LD, R-MD, R-TD and Local Commercial Residential District
11-3C-1.
   E.   Zoning Districts Conditional Use: Marijuana Business shall be allowed
only as a Conditional Use in the Zoning Districts: Core Commercial Residential
11-3C-2, Highway Commercial
11-3D-1, Commercial Industrial
11-3D-2, Planned Industrial District
11-3E-1, and Agricultural Districts
11-3A-3. (Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
3-6-4: VISIBILITY AND PROPERTY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Visibility: Commercial Marijuana premises are responsible to ensure
that THC products are not plainly visible from any residence, public property,
or public roadway.
   B.   Grow Lights: Marijuana Business that use grow lights are required to
ensure that grow lighting is not plainly visible from any residence, public
property, or public roadway during night hours.
   C.   Hours Of Operation: Commercial Marijuana premises which are located
within five hundred (500) feet of any residence may not be open to the public
or require employees to be present between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00)
p.m. and six o’clock (6:00) a.m. and shall not have more than seven employees
working at the premises at any single time.
   D.   Odor Containment: Commercial Marijuana premises must ensure that they
do not generate any marijuana odors which are detectable or discernible within
the interior of any residence, other business, or public building, or at any
outdoor location more than one hundred (100) feet from their property during
normal weather. Marijuana manufacturers which are located within one thousand
(1,000) feet of any residence must install carbon or charcoal filters or
similar devices sufficient to prevent marijuana or other chemical smells from
being immediately discernible on any other person's property during normal
weather. The Town of Ennis is given discretion to resolve any disputes
regarding the adequacy of a given manufacturer's filtration system.
   E.   Environmental: Prior to beginning operations and obtaining a business
license in the Town of Ennis, any marijuana manufacturer or marijuana testing
laboratory must provide the Town of Ennis with a written plan for disposal of
any chemicals, runoff, fertilizer, marijuana plant waste, or other substances
which are regulated by the County or Town; State Department of Environmental
Quality, or U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or which otherwise could
plausibly create a public health hazard exceeding the hazards created by
ordinary household trash or waste. (Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
3-6-5: COMMERCIAL MARIJUANA BUSINESS SECURITY:
   A.   Security: Commercial Marijuana premises are responsible to ensure that
any buildings containing THC products are secured and locked at all times. THC
products may not be stored or grown outdoors, except temporarily during
transportation.
   B.   Audio And Video Surveillance: Commercial Marijuana premises are
responsible to ensure that any building which regularly stores THC products or
is used in any marijuana business operations must have security audio and video
motion-activated cameras with minimum full color HD "high definition" image
quality or better which cover all entrances, exits and areas where THC products
are located or stored and which are in good operating condition and repair at
all times. Any and all captured audio and video must be stored and backed up no
less than thirty (30)-days from time of capture and made available on demand to
the Ennis Town Zoning Administrator of Ennis Police Department.
   C.   Employees: Commercial Marijuana premises may not employ, or subcontract
with, any person who is under eighteen (18) years of age, and may not knowingly
permit any person who is under eighteen (18) years of age to be present on the
premises unless that person is a medical marijuana cardholder and/or is in the
immediate presence of a parent or guardian.
   D.   Hours Of Operation: Commercial Marijuana premises may not sell, give,
or otherwise transfer THC products to the general public between the hours of
nine o’clock (9:00) p.m. and seven o’clock (7:00) a.m. (Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
3-6-6: NO OPEN USE OR DISPLAY:
   A.   No person shall use, smoke, consume or display in an open and visible
manner any marijuana or THC products in any place in the Town of Ennis that is
commonly used by the public. Violation of this provision shall be punishable
and enforceable as per the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Possession of a medical marijuana license or prescription for use of
marijuana or THC products shall be no defense to the prohibition against open
display or use. (Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
3-6-7: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Ennis: The Ennis Police Department is hereby vested with the power and
authority to enforce all portions of this chapter. Such authority includes, but
is not limited to, the authority to investigate alleged or suspected violations
of the chapter, to issue complaints, to issue notices of violations, to post
notice of violations at a commercial marijuana premises found to be in
violation, and, where necessary to obtain compliance with a suspension issued
under this chapter, to lock or otherwise physically block access to a
commercial marijuana facility.
   B.   Madison County: Madison County Sanitarian's office and its designated
representatives are also hereby vested concurrent jurisdiction and authority to
enforce Section 6 of this chapter. Such authority includes, but is not limited
to, the authority to investigate alleged or suspected violations of the
chapter, to issue complaints, to issue notices of violations, and to post
notice of violations at a commercial marijuana premises alleged to be in
violation.
   C.   Owners or operators of commercial marijuana premises are responsible to
make the premises available for inspection by the Town of Ennis Zoning
Administrator and/or Ennis Police Department at any time during their regular
business hours, and at other times if reasonable advance notice is given, for
the purposes of confirming that they are complying with this chapter.
   D.   Concurrent Jurisdiction: Nothing in this chapter is intended to limit
the authority of the Department of Revenue, Department of Public Health and
Human Service, or any other state or federal agency to enforce relevant laws
and regulations in the Town of Ennis. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed as limiting the authority of a state or county to regulate marijuana
business within their jurisdiction which are more restrictive than those in
this chapter.
   E.   No Defense: Prescription for medical purposes, medical marijuana
license or any other permit, approval or license by any board, department,
agency or governing body by the state or county shall not be a defense to any
violation of this chapter. MCA 16-12-301 provides authority for the Town of
Ennis to adopt local regulations more restrictive than the state or county.
(Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
3-6-8: NOTICE OF VIOLATION, PENALTIES AND PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Whenever there is probable cause to believe that a
violation of this chapter has occurred or is occurring, the Town of Ennis
Zoning Administrator or Ennis Police Department may serve a Notice of Violation
on any person or persons suspected to have violated or be in violation any
provision, section or requirement of this chapter. Service of the Notice of
Violation shall be considered sufficient if it is:
      1.   Delivered to or posted at the location of the commercial marijuana
business and mailed to the address which the marijuana provider has provided to
the Town of Ennis on its business license application or to the agent for
service of process on file with the Montana Secretary of State;
      2.   Served personally to the person or persons;
      3.   Served by any other lawful means provided by Montana Criminal
Procedure law for the service of any misdemeanor complaint; or (4) served by
any other lawful means provided by Montana Rules of Civil Procedure.
   B.   Fines And Penalties: Fines upon conviction of violating any part,
requirement or section of this chapter: First Conviction one hundred dollars
($100.00); Second Conviction three hundred dollars ($300.00); Third Conviction
five hundred dollars ($500.00). Upon a First conviction the business and /or
person may be suspended from doing business for a period of thirty (30)-days.
For purposes of penalties and mandatory suspension or relation of other crimes
the look back period is lifelong.
   C.   Mandatory Suspension: Second conviction the business and/or person
shall be suspended from doing business no less than thirty (30)-days and no
more than one hundred and eighty (180)-days. Third conviction all business
license privileges or ability to work in the Town of Ennis in the marijuana
business shall be permanently suspended. Purposely or knowingly operating or
working in a marijuana business in the Town of Ennis during a period of
suspension shall be punishable as provided under
3-6-7(B) - (C) with each day punishable as a separate violation
   D.   Relation To Other Crimes: No person convicted of possession of
dangerous drugs or distribution of dangerous drugs shall be licensed, permitted
or allowed to operate, manage, own any interest, work on serve as any employee
in any marijuana business in the Town of Ennis.
   E.   Jurisdiction And Forfeiture: Violations of this chapter shall be
prosecuted in the Ennis City Court subject to all local court rules and
procedures. The Court shall have the authority in any enforcement proceeding to
Order forfeiture of any goods, supplies, profits, funds, marijuana or THC
product that the Court may deem just and proper under the circumstances. (Ord.
passed 7-14-2022)
3-6-9: CONFLICTS AND INTERPRETATION:
Wherever any provision of this chapter may conflict with other provisions of
the Town Code or Zoning Code, the provisions of this chapter shall control and
the Town Code or Zoning Code shall be deemed amended accordingly. The Town
Zoning Administrator shall have the power and authority to issue administrative
determinations regarding any part or parts of this chapter subject to appeal to
the Zoning Board of Adjustment. (Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
3-6-10: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter is held to be invalid, such invalidity shall
not affect any other provisions or applications of this chapter which can be
given effect without the invalid provision. (Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
CHAPTER 7
FEE SCHEDULE
SECTION:
3-7-1: Business License Fee Schedule
3-7-1: BUSINESS LICENSE FEE SCHEDULE:
The following fee schedule may be updated by resolution of the Town Commission.
Basic business license fee                     $50
Any establishment selling liquor               $250
Any establishment selling beer & wine          $175
Campgrounds & rv parks                         Basic fee plus $1 per unit/space
Communications & technology                    $100
Expositions and events (does not apply to not- $25 per vendor
for-profits)
Lodging                                        Basic fee plus $3 per unit
Short-term rental                              $150
Transferred business licesnse                  $25
Marijuana storefront                           Basic fee plus $250
Marijuana delivery                             Basic fee plus $250
Marijuana growing                              Basic fee plus $250
Marijuana processing                           Basic fee plus $250
Marijuana testing facility                     Basic fee plus $250
 
(Ord. passed 7-14-2022)
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND WELFARE
CHAPTER 1
SOLID WASTE
SECTION:
4-1-1: Unsanitary Deposits
4-1-2: Prohibited Use Of Containers Or Dumpsters
4-1-3: Offensive Material
4-1-4: Disposal Site
4-1-1: UNSANITARY DEPOSITS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited, in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town or any jurisdiction of the town any garbage or other objectionable waste
or refuse. Such person shall be assessed a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Prior Code § 7.07.060; amd. 2003 Code)
4-1-2: PROHIBITED USE OF CONTAINERS OR DUMPSTERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited their garbage into containers or dumpsters designated and provided
for the use of commercial businesses, residences, schools, parks, or the town.
Such persons shall be assessed a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Prior Code § 7.07.060; amd. 2003 Code)
4-1-3: OFFENSIVE MATERIAL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to store, accumulate, or place offensive
material upon one's own property or the public right of way. This is not meant
to include compost piles from material that is generated by the occupant upon
the occupant's property, but is meant to include, but not be limited to, brush
and slash from land clearing, nonfunctional vehicles and parts therefrom,
accumulation of trash and garbage sacks, rubble and debris from demolition,
dead animals, discarded lumber and building materials. Items for disposal must
be properly containerized. Failure to remove materials at the earliest possible
date may result in a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, plus a cleanup fee for each offense. (Prior Code §
7.07.060; amd. 2003 Code)
4-1-4: DISPOSAL SITE:
It shall be unlawful for a customer to allow trash to accumulate and create an
unsightly, unsanitary condition around their dumpster or garbage site. It is
the responsibility of each and every customer to maintain a neat and clean
disposal site. In the case of shared sites, the responsibility for cleanup
shall be equally assumed. Failure to do so will cost the customer cleanup fees,
plus a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Prior Code § 7.07.060; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
WEED CONTROL 1
SECTION:
4-2-1: Control Required
4-2-2: Fire Hazard
4-2-3: Penalty
 
Notes
  1. See also subsection
1 11-4-5Q of this code (18 inch height).
   
4-2-1: CONTROL REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for the owner of property to allow the growth of noxious
weeds on their land.
   A.   Owner To Exterminate: It shall be the responsibility of the owner of
property to exterminate or remove noxious weeds from their premises and the
one-half (1/2) of the street laying next to the land or boulevard abutting
their land.
   B.   Failure Of Owner To Remove: In the event the owner of any of premises
neglects to exterminate or remove the noxious weeds therefrom within ten (10)
days after being notified by the town for such removal, a special levy will be
assessed for the cost of such extermination or removal as a special tax against
the property. (Prior Code § 7.15.010)
4-2-2: FIRE HAZARD:
It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow the noncontrollable growth of
vegetation on occupied or unoccupied lots in the town that will represent a
fire hazard.
   A.   Owner To Maintain Property: It shall be the responsibility of the owner
of property to remove or exterminate vegetation that creates a fire hazard.
   B.   Failure Of Owner To Remove: In the event the owner of any premises
fails to control vegetation on their property within ten (10) days after being
notified by the town that it is a fire hazard, a special levy will be assessed
for the cost of such extermination or removal as a special tax against the
property. (Prior Code § 7.15.020)
4-2-3: PENALTY:
Any person who is found in violation of this chapter shall receive a fine as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code above the cost for the removal of the weeds. (Prior Code §
7.15.030; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
OUTHOUSES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Discharge Prohibited
4-3-2: Declared Nuisance
4-3-3: Penalty
4-3-1: DISCHARGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful and a nuisance and a violation of this chapter for anyone
within this town to discharge sewage or human wastes into any septic tank,
cesspool or other sewage system other than the sewage collection lines, outfall
lines and treatment facilities of the town. (Prior Code § 7.11.010)
4-3-2: DECLARED NUISANCE:
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter and will hereafter be
declared a nuisance to maintain and use within the town limits any outhouse,
outdoor toilet or outdoor facility for the disposal of human wastes. (Prior
Code § 7.11.020)
4-3-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code; provided, however, that the town and its officers may, in
addition to enforcement of this chapter by prosecution under this provision,
obtain an injunction against the individual or firm violating the provisions
hereof as an injunction against a nuisance. (Prior Code § 5.11.030; amd. 2003
Code)
TITLE 5
ANIMALS
CHAPTER 1
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Definitions Of Words And Phrases
5-1-1: DEFINITIONS OF WORDS AND PHRASES:
Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the following definitions apply
to the provisions of this title:
ANIMAL: Any living vertebrate creature, other than human beings, whether wild
or domestic including, but not limited to, all livestock and any domestic pets.
ANIMAL CONTROL SHELTER: Any premises provided by either town or county local
government independently or jointly for the purpose of impounding and
temporarily caring for dogs and other animals.
AT LARGE: An animal "off leash" and off the premises of the owner.
ATTRACTANT(S): Any substance, including, but not limited to, food, garbage, or
salt lick, which draws wildlife to a particular location.
BITE: A wound, laceration or puncture inflicted on a person or animal by the
teeth of an animal, or an impression or bruise on the skin made by the closure
of an animal's teeth, or a seizure made by the teeth of an animal.
DOG: Any commonly domesticated canine animal that is a member of the species
Canis familiaris, and includes both the male and female sex of the species.
DOG PARK: An area specially designated for dogs to run off leash.
DOMESTIC ANIMAL: Any animal that is tame by nature and includes, but is not
limited to, dogs, cats, rabbits and livestock.
EXOTIC ANIMAL: Any wild or other animal which is not tame by nature and
includes, but is not limited to, raccoon, fox, skunk, beaver, otter, wolf, wolf
hybrid, bear, raptor, alligator, crocodile, poisonous snake, monkey, swine,
member of the feline species other than domestic cat Felis domesticus, member
of the canine species other than domestic dog Canis familiaris, or any other
animal that would require a standard of care, and control greater than that
required for customary household pets, sold by pet shops, or domestic farm
animals. The term exotic animal does not include farm animals, rodents,
domesticated ferret, and captive bred species of fish and common cage birds.
FEED: A substance composed of grain, mineral, salt, fruit, vegetable, hay, or
any other food material or combination of these materials, whether natural or
manufactured, that may attract wildlife.
FEEDING: The depositing, distributing, or tending of feed in an area frequented
by wildlife.
KENNEL: A commercial facility prepared to house, board, breed, handle or
otherwise keep or care for dogs.
LEASH: Any common leash, cord, rope, chain or other similar devices no longer
than six feet (6') in length and of sufficient strength to restrain and control
the dog to which it is attached. Also acceptable as a leash are retractable
devices whose length does not exceed twenty six feet (26').
LIVESTOCK: Cattle, sheep, swine, hogs, poultry, ostriches, emus, bees, goats,
horses, mules, asses and llamas.
MUZZLE: A humane device securely fastened over the mouth of an animal to
prevent its biting.
NUISANCE DOG: Any dog that commits the following acts:
   A.   Steal or damage either private or public property;
   B.   Defecate on private land without permission of the landowner, or is
allowed to defecate on public land without cleaning up and disposing of the
waste immediately;
   C.   Chase after persons not trespassing on the property of the owner, or
injuring or attempting to injure, the person, family or property of the owner,
or injuring or attempting to injure, the person, family or property of the
owner;
   D.   Chase vehicles, bicycles, skateboarders, etc., in public streets,
alleys, parks or public ways;
   E.   Cause annoyance to any person by prolonged barking, howling, yelping or
other means during the times provided in subsection
5-2-7A of this title;
   F.   Rummage through or scatter garbage or rubbish;
   G.   Repeatedly run at large;
   H.   Run at large and is an unneutered male.
OFF LEASH: A dog off the premises of the owner, keeper, or custodian of the dog
not under physical restraint on a "leash" as defined herein even though the
owner, keeper, or guardian is accompanying the dog.
OFFICER: All peace officers as that term is defined in Montana state law as
well as all duly appointed animal control officers and animal control
supervisors appointed by either the town or county to carry out and enforce
each entity's respective animal control ordinances.
ON LEASH: A dog which is under physical restraint on a leash not more than six
feet (6') in length.
OWNER: Any person or custodian possessing, harboring, keeping or having control
or custody of a dog or any person having any financial interest, right, or
property in the dog and also includes any person who permits a dog to remain on
or about any premises occupied by that person.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, firm or corporation, trust, association or
other legal entity.
POTBELLIED PIG: Any domestic pig kept as a pet.
PROVOCATION: Any teasing, abusing or assaulting of a dog.
QUARANTINE: Confined in strict isolation inside a secure locked building, cage,
kennel or pen on account of suspected contagion of communicable disease.
Isolation shall be required so that contact between the confined animal and any
person or other animal is not possible, and so that it can be observed daily
under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian or local law enforcement
officer.
RABIES VACCINATION: The inoculation of an animal with antirabies vaccine that
has been approved for that species, having an effective immunity of at least
one year, and administered by a licensed veterinarian in accordance with the
current edition of the "Compendium Of Animal Rabies Control", published by the
National Association Of State Public Health Veterinarians, Inc.
RESTRAINT: Attached to and controlled by a leash, not to exceed six feet (6')
in length, where a person is personally present and physically capable of
restraining the dog and is in fact holding the leash to control the dog or
within a motor vehicle with the permission of the owner.
SERIOUS OR SEVERE INJURY: Any physical injury that results in lacerations or
wounds requiring either surgery or one or more stitches, or broken bones, or
results in any death to person or animal including, but not limited to, putting
another animal to death as a result of injuries received.
UNPROVOKED: Action by a dog not in response to the dog being teased, abused or
assaulted by any person, or not in response to pain or injury suffered by the
dog.
VICIOUS DOG: Any dog that has:
   A.   Caused death or serious or severe injury to a person engaged in a
lawful activity; or
   B.   Attacked or bitten without provocation a person engaged in a lawful
activity; or
   C.   While off the property of its owner and without provocation, killed or
seriously injured another animal; or
   D.   Ever been trained for dogfighting or has ever been owned, kept or
harbored for the purpose of dogfighting.
WILDLIFE: Skunks, foxes, raccoons, bats, wolves, wolf hybrids, bobcats, bears,
mountain lions, deer, elk, and any other species of normally nondomesticated
animals. (Ord. 135, 11-5-2010; amd. Ord. 137, 12-8-2011; Ord. 141, 1-12-2017)
CHAPTER 2
DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Dog Licensing
5-2-2: License Issuance And Revocation
5-2-3: License Liability; Transfer Of License
5-2-4: Number Of Dogs
5-2-5: Running At Large, Upon Premises Of Another
5-2-6: Cleaning Up After Animals
5-2-7: Dogs Constituting A Nuisance
5-2-8: Dogs In Vehicles
5-2-9: Impoundment
5-2-10: Notice To Owner And Redemption
5-2-11: Cats
5-2-12: Rabies Prevention Requirements; Certificate
5-2-13: Quarantine For Dogs Biting Persons
5-2-14: Kennel License Requirements
5-2-1: DOG LICENSING:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor, or have custody
of any dog over the age of six (6) months within the town of Ennis without
obtaining a license as herein provided; only exemption being a nonresident
keeping a dog within the town limits for a period not in excess of thirty (30)
days. Montana Code Annotated 7-23-101.
   B.   Any dog found off the owner's premises without a license shall be
deemed unlicensed even though a license has been issued for that dog.
   C.   A written application for a license which shall include the name,
street address and post office box of the applicant, description of the dog,
current rabies certificate issued by a licensed veterinarian, dog's regular
veterinarian contact information, and if applicable sterilization certificate
issued by a licensed veterinarian or sterilization clinic, shall be submitted
to town clerk.
   D.   Payment must accompany the license application.
   E.   Upon approval of the licensing application and fee, the clerk shall
issue a tag stamped with an identification number and the issuing year. Tags
must be made to fasten to a collar or harness.
   F.   All dogs must wear identification tags on collars or harnesses at all
times when off the premises of owner.
   G.   The clerk shall maintain a record of the identifying numbers of all
tags issued and shall make this record available to the public at all times.
   H.   The licensing period shall begin January 1 and end December 31 each
year.
   I.   Any person failing to obtain a license by January 31 or within thirty
(30) days of the date that the dog is acquired or reaches six (6) months of age
shall be deemed delinquent. A delinquency fee of five dollars ($5.00) per month
shall be assessed in addition to the application license fee.
   J.   A duplicate license may be obtained upon payment of a two dollar
($2.00) replacement fee.
   K.   No person may use any license for any animal other than the dog for
which it was issued.
   L.   Upon change of ownership of a licensed dog, the new owner must apply
for a new license.
   M.   License fees shall be established from time to time by resolution of
the town commission. (Ord. 135, 11-5-2010)
5-2-2: LICENSE ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION:
   A.   If the person holding the license issued pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter refuses or fails to comply with the provisions of this chapter,
the regulation set by the town of Ennis, or any law governing the protection
and keeping of such a dog, the mayor may revoke the license subject to the
opportunity of the licensee to contest the revocation at a hearing before the
city judge.
   B.   If the applicant has withheld or falsified any information on the
license application, the town clerk may refuse to issue the license. If after
such license has been issued it is subsequently discovered that the applicant
has withheld or provided false information of the license application, the
mayor may revoke the license.
   C.   Any dog whose license is revoked shall, within ten (10) working days
thereafter, be removed. The dog may not reenter the town of Ennis. (Ord. 135,
11-5-2010)
5-2-3: LICENSE LIABILITY; TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
In all prosecutions for violations of this chapter the person who applied for,
and obtained the license for the dog in question shall be deemed the person
responsible for the violation, unless there has been a transfer of ownership
prior to the violation. Any transfer of ownership must be evidenced by a
transfer notification. The notification must include the name and address of
the transferee to the town clerk. Notification of the animal's death will
eliminate receipt of a license renewal reminder. (Ord. 135, 11-5-2010)
5-2-4: NUMBER OF DOGS:
It is unlawful for any person, family or household to keep, harbor or maintain
more than three (3) dogs over six (6) months of age in or on any premises
unless a variance 1  is applied for and granted. (Ord. 135, 11-5-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 6 of this title.
5-2-5: RUNNING AT LARGE, UPON PREMISES OF ANOTHER:
   A.   No dog shall be allowed to run at large or upon the premises of one
other than the owner without the landowner's permission, and the presence of
the owner, caretaker, or keeper of the animal.
   B.   Any dog in areas open to the public must be under leash control.
   C.   Dogs are allowed to run off leash in any park designated dog park,
however the dog must still be under control of the owner. (Ord. 135, 11-5-2010)
5-2-6: CLEANING UP AFTER ANIMALS:
Any person owning, keeping, possessing, or harboring any dog, cat, or other
animal shall promptly remove and properly dispose of all feces left by the dog,
cat, or animal on any public property, and on any private property not owned by
such person, or lawfully occupied by such person. Any person failing to perform
such an act is in violation.
All yards, kennels, or enclosures of any kind, must be kept in a manner that
will not disturb the use, or enjoyment of neighboring lots due to odor, or
other adverse impact. (Ord. 135, 11-5-2010)
5-2-7: DOGS CONSTITUTING A NUISANCE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep any dog that becomes a
nuisance in the community. Acts of nuisance shall include, but are expressly
not restricted to, the following:
   A.   Barking: Frequent barking between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00)
P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., or frequent barking for continuous periods of
ten (10) minutes or more at any time, or both.
   B.   Viciousness: As used in this subsection "viciousness" means posing a
physical threat to other animals or to human beings.
   C.   Destruction Of Property: Frequent digging into, breaking or otherwise
injuring shrubbery, trees, or lawn not exclusively owned by the dog owner.
   D.   Prohibited Excreta: Frequent or habitual depositing of excreta on
property not belonging to the owner of the dog. (Ord. 135, 11-5-2010)
5-2-8: DOGS IN VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful to leave any dog in the back of a truck or any vehicle
with an open box unless all dogs are enclosed within the vehicle or tethered in
such a manner that the dog does not extend beyond the edge of vehicle. (Ord.
135, 11-5-2010)
5-2-9: IMPOUNDMENT:
It shall be the duty of every officer to apprehend any dog found running at
large, and to impound such dog in a suitable place. The officer, upon taking
possession of any dog, shall make a complete registry, entering the breed,
color, and sex of such dog, and whether licensed. If licensed, he shall enter
the name and address of the owner and the number of the license tag. (Ord. 135,
11-5-2010)
5-2-10: NOTICE TO OWNER AND REDEMPTION:
Upon taking possession of any dog, the officer, shall take all steps to notify
the owner, or if the owner is unknown, written notice shall be posted for three
(3) days upon the bulletin board at the town clerk's office in the town hall,
describing the dog, the place, and time of taking. The owner of any dog so
impounded may reclaim such dog upon the payment of the license fee, if unpaid,
and of all costs and charges incurred by the town for impounding and
maintenance of such dog, as follows:
   A.   For impounding any unlicensed dog, fifty dollars ($50.00);
   B.   For impounding a licensed dog, fifteen dollars ($15.00) for the first
offense; thirty five dollars ($35.00) for the second offense; and seventy
dollars ($70.00) for the third offense or any subsequent offenses, provided
that such second and subsequent offenses occur within the same license year.
These fees are in addition to all boarding fees;
   C.   For transporting a dog to the animal shelter, one hundred twenty five
dollars ($125.00). (Ord. 135, 11-5-2010)
5-2-11: CATS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep any cat that becomes
a nuisance in the community. Acts of nuisance shall include, but are expressly
not restricted to, the following:
      1.   Disturbances: Frequent raising of any disturbance at late or early
hours or at long intervals, or both.
      2.   Viciousness: As used in this subsection "viciousness" means posing a
physical threat to other animals or to human beings.
      3.   Destruction Of Property: Frequent digging into, breaking or
otherwise injuring shrubbery, trees, or lawn not under sole possession of cat
owner.
      4.   Prohibited Excreta: Frequent or habitual depositing of excreta, or
spraying of urine on property not belonging to the owner of the cat.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person, family or household to keep, harbor or
maintain more than three (3) cats over six (6) months of age in or on any
premises without obtaining a multiple animal permit.
   C.   Proof that the cat is up to date on its rabies vaccine must be provided
upon request. (Ord. 135, 11-5-2010)
5-2-12: RABIES PREVENTION REQUIREMENTS; CERTIFICATE:
All dogs and cats between the ages of four (4) to six (6) months within the
town of Ennis shall be vaccinated against the disease known as "rabies". Upon
vaccination of such dogs and/or cats the veterinarian shall issue to the owner
or owners of said animal a certificate showing the inoculation thereof and
shall keep a duplicate of such certificate. (Ord. 135, 11-5-2010)
5-2-13: QUARANTINE FOR DOGS BITING PERSONS:
Every animal which bites a person shall be promptly reported to the Ennis
police department. Any dog or other animal which has bitten any person may be
kept under quarantine under the direction and authority of the local law
enforcement, unless proof of vaccine can be given. Such quarantine shall be for
a period of ten (10) days. If the owner of the animal has not appeared to claim
the animal within ninety six (96) hours of the beginning of such quarantine the
animal may be destroyed and examined for rabies. If during the quarantine
period the animal is adjudged as having rabies the animal shall be destroyed
and appropriate health authorities notified. If after completion of the
quarantine period the animal is adjudged free of rabies the animal shall be
released to its owner upon written permission of the local law enforcement, and
all vaccines have been brought up to date. Quarantine and associated costs
including any costs of destruction shall be at the owner's expense. No person
shall fail or refuse to surrender any animal for quarantine or destruction as
required herein when demand is made by any law enforcement officer. Montana
Code Annotated 50-23-103. (Ord. 135, 11-5-2010)
5-2-14: KENNEL LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   As an alternative to the required licensing for individual animals in
town, a kennel license may be applied for and issued when an applicant breeds,
harbors, or keeps more than three (3) dogs for a commercial use with an
associated town business license. The following conditions must be met before
the permit will be issued:
      1.   A current and associated town business license must have been issued
to the applicant.
      2.   A written application for a kennel license shall be submitted by the
applicant to the town clerk, and the application shall include, but is not
limited to, the name, street address and mailing address of the applicant, the
number of dogs currently at the facility and the maximum number of dogs the
facility is anticipating;
      3.   Proof of current rabies vaccines for all animals currently at the
applicant's facility shall be submitted with the application;
      4.   A completed adjacent neighbor notification form must be submitted by
the applicant, one time only, to the town clerk to be kept on file, and this
step may be exempted for a kennel license renewal; and
      5.   Payment of fifty dollars ($50.00) must accompany the kennel license
application to the town clerk.
   B.   Failure to comply with this section may result in the kennel license
being revoked after a properly noticed and lawful due process hearing before
the Ennis town commission. (Ord. 137, 12-8-2011)
CHAPTER 3
WILDLIFE, EXOTIC ANIMALS AND POTBELLIED PIGS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Feeding Of Certain Wildlife Prohibited
5-3-2: Exotic, Wild Animals And Potbellied Pigs
5-3-3: Exotic Animals And Potbellied Pigs At Large
5-3-1: FEEDING OF CERTAIN WILDLIFE PROHIBITED:
Citizens of Ennis value wildlife and want to maintain healthy and wild
populations of deer, bear, and other wildlife that are not dependent upon or
hazardous to humans. Feeding deer, bear, and other wildlife results in
artificially high concentrations of animals, increases human-wildlife
conflicts, and compromises the health and safety of humans and wildlife.
   A.   Attractants: It is unlawful to feed, provide feed or other attractants,
excluding ornamental plants, vegetable gardens and properly hung feeders, to
wildlife within the town limits.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   It is legal to feed birds, other than waterfowl and upland game
birds, utilizing a bird feeder that can be accessed only by birds. Bird feeders
that are accessed by other animals other than birds or squirrels are in
violation.
      2.   This section is not intended to prohibit feeding livestock in normal
agricultural operations. (Ord. 135, 11-5-2010)
5-3-2: EXOTIC, WILD ANIMALS AND POTBELLIED PIGS:
   A.   It is unlawful for anyone to own, harbor, keep, or permit at large any
exotic animal, wild animal or potbellied pig. This provision is in addition to
conditions and restrictions in the administrative rules of Montana 12.6.2201 -
2230, the Montana Code Annotated 87.5.7, and all applicable state of Montana
control and management plans. (Ord. 141, 1-12-2017)
5-3-3: EXOTIC ANIMALS AND POTBELLIED PIGS AT LARGE:
   A.   No exotic animals shall be allowed to run at large or upon the premises
of one other than the owner without the landowner's permission, and the
presence of the owner, caretaker, or keeper of the animal. (Ord. 141, 1-12-
2017)
CHAPTER 4
LIVESTOCK
SECTION:
5-4-1: Unlawful To Pasture Or Keep Stock
5-4-2: Livestock At Large
5-4-1: UNLAWFUL TO PASTURE OR KEEP STOCK:
It is unlawful to graze, pasture, keep or house in any manner whatsoever,
horses, cattle, goats, hogs, swine, llamas, or livestock of any kind within the
town unless the property has been used for such purposes prior to September 1,
1993. Upon sale of the property, or abandonment of such nonconforming use, for
a period in excess of one year, such nonconforming use shall cease immediately.
An exception being made for controlled herds passing through town. (Ord. 141,
1-12-2017)
5-4-2: LIVESTOCK AT LARGE:
   A.   No livestock shall be allowed to run at large or upon the premises of
one other than the owner without the landowner's permission, and the presence
of the owner, caretaker, or keeper of the animal. (Ord. 141, 1-12-2017)
CHAPTER 5
CHICKENS AND OTHER FOWL
SECTION:
5-5-1:Number And Type Of Chickens Allowed
5-5-2:Location
5-5-3:Enclosures
5-5-4:Predators, Rodents, Insects, And Parasites
5-5-5:Waste Storage And Removal
5-5-1: NUMBER AND TYPE OF CHICKENS ALLOWED:
   A.   The maximum number of chickens over nine (9) months of age allowed is
six (6) per lot.
   B.   No male chickens over the age of three (3) months. There is no
restriction on chicken species. (Ord. 135, 11-5-2010)
5-5-2: LOCATION:
Chickens may be kept in the following locations:
   A.   Single-household parcel(s);
   B.   Parcel(s) under unitary ownership with more than one dwelling on site;
and
   C.   Residential parcels under common ownership. (Ord. 135, 11-5-2010)
5-5-3: ENCLOSURES:
   A.   Enclosures And Fences: Chickens must be kept in an enclosure or fenced
area at all times. During daylight hours, chickens may be allowed outside of
their chicken pens in a securely fenced yard.
   B.   Cleanliness Required: All yards, or enclosure of any kind, must be kept
in a manner that will not disturb the use, or enjoyment of neighboring lots due
to odor, or other adverse impact.
   C.   Impermeable To Predators: The henhouse and chicken pen must be
impermeable to predators, including dogs.
   D.   Henhouses:
      1.   A henhouse shall be provided.
      2.   Henhouses shall not be placed in the front yard.
      3.   No henhouse shall be located closer than twenty feet (20') to any
structure inhabited by someone other than the owner, custodian, or keeper, and
not closer than five feet (5') to any property line. Henhouses may be movable
but must comply with all standards of this section. (Ord. 135, 11-5-2010)
5-5-4: PREDATORS, RODENTS, INSECTS, AND PARASITES:
The property owner shall take necessary action to reduce the attraction of
predators and rodents and the potential infestation of insects and parasites.
(Ord. 135, 11-5-2010)
5-5-5: WASTE STORAGE AND REMOVAL:
Provision must be made for the storage, or removal of chicken manure. All eggs
shall be removed in a timely manner. (Ord. 135, 11-5-2010)
CHAPTER 6
VARIANCES
SECTION:
5-6-1: Application And Cause Required
5-6-1: APPLICATION AND CAUSE REQUIRED:
In order to obtain a variance a person must complete an application and come
before the town commission and give reasons why a variance is needed and how
they plan to mitigate any adverse impact the variance might have on the town of
Ennis and/or neighbors. The variance only has to be applied for once, but the
commission can ask for more information and table the issuance of the variance
until all questions have been answered and all necessary documentation is
reviewed. A notification form should be provided to each residence adjacent,
including those across a public right of way. This notification shall indicate
that the applicant intends to apply for a variance and the circumstance in
which the variance is applied for. If a neighbor refuses to sign the
notification, the applicant shall so state on the application. In the event a
neighbor cannot be reached, a registered letter should be sent to the
neighbor's primary address.
In the event that a complaint is received, or an offense occurs, the animal
owner will get a chance to come into compliance with this title. In the event
that multiple offenses occur, or failure to come into compliance with this
title, may result in the removal of the animals, and/or the variance being
revoked.
Where the party seeking a variance is not the fee owner of the property the
applicant shall obtain the property owner's consent in writing for the variance
as described on the application. The owner's consent shall be submitted with
the permit application. For the purpose of this section, when a party seeks to
apply for a variance on a property owned as condominium, the consent of the
property owners' association must be obtained. An officer of the association
may sign as the landowner. (Ord. 135, 11-5-2010)
CHAPTER 7
ANIMAL RIGHTS
SECTION:
5-7-1: Freeing Confined Animals
5-7-2: Provoking Animals
5-7-3: Cruelty To Animals
5-7-1: FREEING CONFINED ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for any person to open gates or doors or otherwise cause or
permit animals to escape confinement against the wishes of the owner,
custodian, or keeper. (Ord. 135, 11-5-2010)
5-7-2: PROVOKING ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for any person to tease, abuse, assault, or in any way disturb a
dog or other animal with the intent to cause it to bark or attack any person.
(Ord. 135, 11-5-2010)
5-7-3: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
   A.   A person commits the offense of cruelty to animals if that person
knowingly, negligently or purposely subjects an animal to mistreatment or
neglect by:
      1.   Overworking, beating, tormenting, injuring, or killing any animal;
or
      2.   Carrying or confining any animal in a cruel manner; or
      3.   Failing to provide an animal in the person's custody with proper
food, drink, or shelter; or
      4.   Failing to provide an animal in the person's custody, in cases of
immediate, obvious, serious illness or injury, licensed veterinary or other
appropriate medical care; or
      5.   Abandoning any helpless animal or abandoning any animal on any
highway, railroad, or in any other place where it may suffer injury, hunger, or
exposure or become a public charge; or
      6.   Laying out or exposing any poison for the purpose of killing,
sickening, or crippling any dog, cat, domestic pet or livestock, or aiding and
abetting any person doing so.
   B.   If, after performing an investigation, the officer feels that an animal
is being subjected to any one of these violations, the officer shall have the
power to immediately impound the animal to ensure that it receives proper care
and/or veterinary attention at the owner's expense. In accordance with state
statute Montana Code Annotated 45-8-211. (Ord. 135, 11-5-2010)
CHAPTER 8
VIOLATION; PENALTY
SECTION:
5-8-1: Penalty
5-8-2: Absolute Liability
5-8-1: PENALTY:
The following penalties shall apply to any person who is convicted of an
offense under this title:
   A.   General: The general penalty shall apply to all violations unless
otherwise specified in this section.
      1.   First offense: Fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00)
and not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      2.   Second offense: Fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not
more than two hundred dollars ($200.00). The court may also suspend a person's
privilege to license and keep a dog within town limits for up to one year.
      3.   Third or subsequent offense: Fine of not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) and not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00). The court
may also revoke a person's privilege to license and keep a dog within town
limits for up to five (5) years. A third or subsequent offense shall require a
mandatory appearance in court by the defendant.
   B.   Vicious Dog: A person issued a notice to appear for a vicious dog
violation shall be required to have a mandatory appearance in city court.
      1.   First offense: Fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
and not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00), plus a suspension of the
defendant's privilege to license and keep a dog within town limits for up to
one year, and confinement in the county jail for not more than seventy two (72)
hours.
      2.   Second offense: Fine of not less than three hundred dollars
($300.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), plus a revocation
of the defendant's privilege to license and keep a dog within town limits for
up to five (5) years, and confinement in the county jail for not more than
thirty (30) days.
      3.   Third or subsequent offense: Fine of not less than five hundred
dollars ($500.00), permanent revocation of the person's privilege to license
and keep a dog within town limits, and confinement in the county jail for not
more than ninety (90) days.
   C.   Keeping Or Harboring A Dog In Town While License Is Suspended Or
Revoked:
      1.   It is unlawful and punishable as follows for any person to keep,
harbor, maintain, or have care, custody, or control over any dog within town
limits while their privilege to license or keep dogs is suspended or revoked.
         a.   A fine of not less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) and no
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00),
         b.   A revocation of the person's privilege to license or keep a dog
within town limits for not less than five (5) years up to a permanent
revocation, and
         c.   Confinement in the county jail of not less than seventy two (72)
hours and not more than ninety (90) days.
         d.   Enhanced penalty for dog causing injury, property damage, or
death.
      2.   In addition to the penalties listed in the previous subsections, the
city court may apply the following additional sanctions or orders in the event
the dog causes injury or death to any person or causes damage to any property.
         a.   In the event of property damage or injury to a person, the court
may order restitution for the damaged property and medical expenses related to
the injury, and/or
         b.   In the event of injury or death to any person, the court may
order the destruction of the animal. (Ord. 135, 11-5-2010)
5-8-2: ABSOLUTE LIABILITY:
This chapter shall impose absolute liability for the conduct described in this
title. (Ord. 135, 11-5-2010)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC PEACE, SAFETY AND MORALS
CHAPTER 1
BB GUNS OR COMPRESSED AIR GUNS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Prohibited
6-1-2: Confiscation
6-1-3: Penalty
6-1-1: PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any juvenile to shoot, use, encourage the use or to
permit the use of, within the boundaries of the town, any BB or other character
of compressed air gun. (Prior Code § 9.04.010; amd. 2003 Code)
6-1-2: CONFISCATION:
Any peace officer or town marshal shall, upon apprehending any juvenile
shooting, using or employing a BB or other character of compressed air gun,
immediately confiscate the same and shall hold the same as evidence until any
criminal action in relation thereto is completed; and provided further, that
the same shall not be redelivered to a person under the age of eighteen (18)
years but only to the parent or guardian of such person under eighteen (18)
years of age. (Prior Code § 9.04.030; amd. 2003 Code)
6-1-3: PENALTY:
Every person who shall, within the boundaries of the town, shoot, use,
encourage the use of or permit the use of any bb or other character of
compressed air gun shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Prior Code § 9.04.020; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
CONCEALED WEAPONS 1
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: State Law
6-2-3: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 45-8-316.
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
OTHER PERSONAL WEAPON: Includes any folding knife having a blade of more than
four inches (4") in length.
SIDEARM: Includes any handgun or firearm having a barrel of sixteen inches
(16") or less. (Prior Code § 9.06.010; amd. 2003 Code)
6-2-2: STATE LAW:
This chapter shall in no way limit or affect the criminal laws of the state
dealing with the carrying of concealed weapons upon the person, which shall
remain in all respects in full force and effect. (Prior Code § 9.06.040)
6-2-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating this chapter shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Prior Code § 9.06.050; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
CURFEW 1
SECTION:
6-3-1: Hours Of Curfew
6-3-2: Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-32-2302.
   
6-3-1: HOURS OF CURFEW:
It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years to be alone on the streets of the town or in a vehicle in
the town not accompanied by parent or person in loco parentis during the hours
from ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. to five o'clock (5:00) A.M. the following
morning on weekdays and twelve thirty o'clock (12:30) A.M. to five thirty
o'clock (5:30) A.M. on Friday and Saturday mornings. (Prior Code § 9.08.010;
amd. 2003 Code)
6-3-2: RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN:
Any person under the age of eighteen (18) years found at large or outside his
home during the above hours may be taken into custody by any law enforcement
officer and forthwith returned to his residence, and, if not residing within
the town the person under the age of eighteen (18) years shall be held in
custody and the parents or guardian of such person shall be forthwith notified
and the said person under eighteen (18) years of age shall be held in custody
until custody may be delivered to said parent or guardian. (Prior Code §
9.08.020)
CHAPTER 4
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Prohibited; Exception
6-4-2: Notice To Purchasers
6-4-3: Penalty
6-4-1: PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION:
   A.   It shall be a violation of this chapter to ignite, explode, or fire off
any rockets, firecrackers, Roman candles, torpedoes, or any substance of an
explosive nature within the Town limits on any day of the year; however, upon
application to the Town Commission, duly approved by the Commission and the
Mayor, bona fide persons and organizations may obtain a permit for the use of
fireworks in connection with celebrations or other occasions of public
interest.
   B.   Provided, however, that the prohibition set forth in this section shall
not apply to the discharge of fireworks on July 3rd through 4th, and on
December 31st through January 1st, and as set forth below. Such discharge and
use shall be allowed upon the following conditions:
      1.   There shall be no discharge of fireworks from or into any State
recreation area, local park, school, or State highway.
      2.   There shall be no discharge of fireworks within one hundred feet
(100') of a church or medical facility; or within seventy five feet (75') of
any business location.
      3.   There shall be no discharge of fireworks from or toward a motor
vehicle.
      4.   There shall be no discharge of fireworks within or on East Main
Street, West Main Street, or North Main Street.
      5.   There shall be no discharge of fireworks:
Before 12:00 noon July 3rd
After 12:30 A.M.  July 4th
Before 12:00 noon July 4th
After 12:30 A.M.  July 5th
Before 5:00 P.M.  December 31st
After 12:30 A.M.  January 1st
 
      6.   There shall be no discharge of fireworks in the vicinity of or
toward another person or group of people, or in the vicinity of or toward any
animal, in such manner to expose such person, persons or animal to the risk of
injury or harm.
      7.   There shall be no discharge of any fireworks within two hundred feet
(200') of any business dispensing any flammable fuel or compressed gas product.
      8.   There shall be no possession or use of any firework by a person less
than eighteen (18) years old, unless such person is under the direct
supervision of a responsible person eighteen (18) years of age or older.
      9.   Any person discharging, or supervising the discharge of, fireworks
as provided in this section shall promptly clean and remove any litter, garbage
or debris resulting from such discharge, and shall responsibly dispose of such
litter, garbage or debris.
      10.   The use of fireworks, as permitted by this section, shall be
suspended when fire danger reaches a designation of "high" as determined by the
United States Forest Service, or may be suspended at any time by declaration of
the Mayor of Ennis, in his or her discretion, as follows: upon the
recommendation of the Fire Chief of Madison Valley Rural Fire District, or the
Chief of the Ennis Police Department, or for other legitimate reasons. In the
event of such declaration, the Madison Valley Rural Fire District and the Ennis
Police Department shall be immediately notified of the declaration. (Ord. 142,
6-9-2017)
6-4-2: NOTICE TO PURCHASERS:
Any person, business establishment, or organization selling firecrackers, Roman
candles, rockets, torpedoes, or any other substance of an explosive nature must
post a notice in a conspicuous place stating that it is illegal to ignite,
explode, or fire off any rockets, firecrackers, Roman candles, torpedoes, or
any other substance of an explosive nature within the Town limits except as
provided in section
6-4-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 142, 6-9-2017)
6-4-3: PENALTY:
Violations of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 142, 6-9-2017)
CHAPTER 5
OPEN FIRES 1
SECTION:
6-5-1: Prohibited
6-5-2: Exceptions
6-5-3: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-33-4206.
6-5-1: PROHIBITED 1 :
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person or persons
to start a bonfire, open pit fire or any other type of fire in an open and
unprotected manner that might endanger the property of others or create a
hazardous fire condition. (Prior Code § 9.12.010)
 
Notes
1 2. See also subsection
  11-4-5E of this code.
6-5-2: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Bonfires: This chapter does not prohibit the use of bonfires for school
rallies, games, skating or for any other celebration, provided permission is
given by the rural fire chief; and provided the fires are supervised and are at
a safe distance from buildings. (Prior Code § 9.12.020; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Fireplaces And Grills: This chapter does not prohibit the construction
of outdoor fireplaces or the use of charcoal or gas grills. Outdoor fireplaces
must be constructed of brick, stone or concrete provided with a metal grill and
chimney, and must be approved by the rural fire chief. (Prior Code § 9.12.030;
amd. 2003 Code)
6-5-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating this chapter shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Prior Code § 9.12.050; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 6
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT
SECTION:
6-6-1: Separate Premises
6-6-2: Performers To Remain On Platform
6-6-3: Topless, Bottomless Prohibited
6-6-4: Nuisance
6-6-5: Revocation Of License
6-6-6: Penalty
6-6-1: SEPARATE PREMISES:
There shall be no door or other entrance leading from an establishment serving
alcoholic beverages for on premises consumption into another room, building,
premises or place wherein or whereon any entertainment prohibited by section
6-6-2 of this chapter is permitted; it being further provided that the owner,
proprietor or person in charge of any bar or cocktail lounge shall not operate
or conduct or be interested in operating or conducting any room, building,
premises or place wherein or whereon any such entertainment is permitted, which
room, building, premises or place of the entertainment is within three hundred
feet (300') of the establishment that serves alcoholic beverages. (Ord. 125, 8-
8-1996; amd. 2003 Code)
6-6-2: PERFORMERS TO REMAIN ON PLATFORM:
The owner or proprietor of any establishment may permit in the establishment
instrumental and/or vocal music or entertainment and/or radio and television
entertainment, whether such entertainment is provided by paid or voluntary live
male or female entertainers or performers, or by mechanical, electrical,
electronic or other comparable device or equipment; provided, that all live
entertainment as herein specified shall be performed on a platform or other
exclusive area provided for such purpose, and no entertainer or performer
whether male or female shall be permitted to leave such platform or area while
entertaining or performing. (Ord. 125, 8-8-1996)
6-6-3: TOPLESS, BOTTOMLESS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Topless:
      1.   Owner, Proprietor Or Person In Charge: Any owner, proprietor or
person in charge of an establishment who knowingly permits any female person to
appear with breast or breasts uncovered is guilty of a misdemeanor.
      2.   Female: Any female who intentionally appears with breast or breasts
uncovered in an establishment as provided in subsection A of this section,
whether she be employed by the establishment or not, is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
      3.   Uncovered Defined: A breast shall be considered "uncovered" under
the prohibitions of this section, when any portion of the nipple or areola is
not covered by a fully opaque material or is so thinly covered as to appear
uncovered.
   B.   Bottomless:
      1.   Owner, Proprietor Or Person In Charge: Any owner, proprietor or
person in charge of an establishment who knowingly permits any person to appear
clothed, costumed, unclothed or uncostumed in such a manner that the lower part
of his/her torso, consisting of the private parts, or genitalia, or anal cleft,
or cleavage of the buttocks, is not covered by a fully opaque material, or is
so thinly covered as to appear uncovered, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
      2.   Person Appearing Uncovered: Any person who intentionally appears
with private parts uncovered in an establishment as in subsection B1 of this
section, whether employed by the establishment or not, is guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 125, 8-8-1996)
6-6-4: NUISANCE:
Any owner, proprietor or person in charge of any establishment who permits any
entertainment of any species or kind other than as provided in this chapter or
permits any person to promenade or exhibit himself or herself for gain, drink
or hire, or to solicit orders for beer or other drinks is guilty of committing
a nuisance and shall be punished as provided in section
6-6-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 125, 8-8-1996)
6-6-5: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
In the construction and interpretation of this chapter, the revocation of a
license or permit shall not be considered as a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced. (Ord. 125, 8-8-1996)
6-6-6: PENALTY:
   A.   Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each such offense.
   B.   Separate Offense: Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such
hereunder. (Ord. 125, 8-8-1996)
CHAPTER 7
PUBLIC USE AND DISPLAY OF MEDICAL MARIJUANA
SECTION:
6-7-1: Purpose And Intent
6-7-2: State Law Superseded And Applicable
6-7-3: Prohibited
6-7-4: Violation And Penalty
6-7-5: No Private Right Of Action
6-7-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to identify acts regarding the medical use of
medical marijuana within the town of Ennis that are not authorized to be
conducted in a manner open or visible to the general public. In addition, the
purpose of this chapter is to identify acts related to smoking, consuming, or
displaying medical marijuana in certain public areas are to be punished as
civil acts and as such shall be subject to civil penalties. The purpose of
establishing these acts where the use is further limited by the town of Ennis
as civil is to protect the public's health, safety, and general welfare.
It is the intent of this chapter to limit the visible or open display, smoking,
or consumption of medical marijuana where a likelihood another person would not
be involuntarily or illegally exposed to medical marijuana. (Ord. 134, 11-5-
2010)
6-7-2: STATE LAW SUPERSEDED AND APPLICABLE:
The provisions of this chapter shall supersede title 50, chapter 46, Montana
Code Annotated, only insofar as this chapter expands the limitations on the use
of medical marijuana. All other provisions of state law related to medical
marijuana or marijuana shall be applicable. (Ord. 134, 11-5-2010)
6-7-3: PROHIBITED:
No person authorized by title 50, chapter 46, Montana Code Annotated to
acquire, possess, cultivate, manufacture, deliver, transfer, or transport
medical marijuana may, on the ways of the town of Ennis open to the public,
display, smoke, or consume medical marijuana in an open and visible manner.
"Ways of the town of Ennis open to the public" means anywhere within the town
of Ennis that is commonly used by the public. (Ord. 134, 11-5-2010)
6-7-4: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of a violation of any offense under this chapter shall
be penalized by a fine not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), or no more
than three hundred dollars ($300.00), or if the infraction is a repeat offense,
a penalty not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each repeat
violation. (Ord. 134, 11-5-2010)
6-7-5: NO PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to create a private right of action
regarding the acquisition, possession, cultivation, manufacture, delivery,
transfer, or transport of either medical marijuana or marijuana. (Ord. 134, 11-
5-2010)
CHAPTER 8
NOISE
SECTION:
6-8-1: Noise Control
6-8-1: NOISE CONTROL:
To protect, preserve, and promote the health, safety, welfare, peace, and quiet
of the citizens through the reduction, control, and prevention of raucous (a
disturbingly loud or harsh noise) noise, or any noise which unreasonably
disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, or safety
of reasonable persons of ordinary sensitivity.
   A.   Loud and raucous noise degrades the environment of the city to a degree
that:
      1.   It may be harmful to the health, welfare, and safety of its
inhabitants and visitors;
      2.   It may interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life and property
reasonably expected in an urban environment;
      3.   It may cause or aggravate health problems.
   B.   Both the effective control and the elimination of loud or raucous noise
are essential to the health and welfare of the citizens and visitors of the
city as well as to the conduct of the normal pursuits of life, including
recreation, work and communication.
   C.   The use of sound amplification equipment creates loud and raucous noise
that may, in a particular manner and at a particular time and place,
substantially and unreasonably invade the privacy, peace, and freedom of the
citizens of and visitors to the city.
   D.   Certain short-term easing of noise restrictions is essential to allow
the construction and maintenance of structures, infrastructure, and other
elements necessary for the physical and commercial vitality of the city.
   E.   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article,
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
 
EMERGENCY: Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or imminent physical trauma
           or property damage which demands immediate attention.
           Any work:
              1.   Performed for the purpose of preventing or alleviating physical trauma or
EMERGENCY  property damage;
WORK:         2.   Restoring property to a safe condition following a public calamity;
              3.   By private or public utilities when restoring utility service; or
              4.   Performed to protect persons or property from exposure to danger or
           potential danger.
HEALTH:    An optimal state of physical, mental and emotional well-being and not merely the
           absence of disease.
PERSON:    Any individual, firm, association, partnership, joint venture, corporation or public
           entity, including but not limited to federal, state or city government.
PUBLIC     Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, sidewalk, alley, or similar place which is
RIGHT-OF-  normally accessible to the public which is owned or controlled by a government
WAY:       entity.
           Any real property or structure on real property, owned by the government and
PUBLIC     normally accessible to the public, including but not limited to parks and other
SPACE:     recreational areas. For the purposes of this article, public space will also include
           any property, whether publicly or privately owned, used by members of the general
           public as a method of ingress, egress or for parking.
 
   F.   It is unlawful to perform any of the following acts anywhere within the
Town's jurisdictional limits:
      1.   Yelling and shouting. Yelling, shouting, hooting, or whistling on
public rights-of-way at any time as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or
repose of any normally sensitive and reasonable person.
      2.   Defect in vehicle or load. Operating any truck, trailer, automobile,
motorcycle, or vehicle so out of repair or so loaded in such a manner as to
create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noises.
      3.   Loudspeakers, amplifiers, public address systems. Except as
authorized by the Town the use or operation of any loudspeaker, amplifier,
public address system or any similar instrument or equipment whose purpose is
to amplify or make sound louder in a fixed or movable position or mounted upon
any sound truck for the purpose of giving instructions, directions, talks,
addresses, lectures, or transmitting music to any person or assemblages, in or
on any public right-of-way within city areas in such a manner as to disturb the
quiet, comfort or repose of any normally sensitive and reasonable person.
      4.   Loud or unusual noises. Making or causing to be made any excessive
or unusually loud noise or any noise which is so harsh, prolonged, unnatural,
or unusual in time and place as to annoy, disturb, injure, or endanger the
comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of any reasonable person of normal
sensitivity within the limits of the city.
   G.   The following activities will be authorized as follows:
      1.   Non-emergency signaling devices. The sounding or permitting of any
amplified signals from any bell, chime, siren, whistle or similar device
intended primarily for non-emergency purposes, including but not limited to
back-up beepers, will be authorized at any time between the hours of six
o’clock (6:00) a.m. and ten o’clock (10:00) p.m. from October 1 through March
31 and between six o’clock (6:00) a.m. and eleven o’clock (11:00) p.m. from
April 1 through September 30.
      2.   Construction projects. Operating equipment or performing any
construction or repair work will be authorized between the hours of six o’clock
(6:00) a.m. and eight o’clock (8:00) p.m. from October 1 through March 31 and
between six o’clock (6:00) a.m. and ten o’clock (10:00) p.m. from April 1
through September 30. The Director of Public Works may authorize temporary
relief from this section upon application and a showing of extraordinary need
for the use of this equipment beyond or outside these hours. Such authorization
will clearly set forth the dates and hours of the authorized use as well as any
special conditions needed to mitigate potential negative noise impacts.
      3.   Loading, unloading or opening containers. The loading, unloading,
opening or other handling of boxes, crates, containers, solid waste containers
or other similar objects, including but not limited to the collection of solid
waste, recyclables or compostable materials by either the city or a private
contractor duly licensed by the Montana Public Service Commission for the
collection and transportation of solid waste will be authorized provided the
parties obtain and comply with any permits required. Should a permit not be
required, this activity is authorized between the hours of five o’clock (5:00)
a.m. and eight o’clock (8:00) p.m. from October 1 through March 31 and between
five o’clock (5:00) a.m. and ten o’clock (10:00) p.m. from April 1 through
September 30.
      4.   Snow blowers, leaf blowers or similar devices. The operation of any
equipment as defined above will be authorized between the hours of six o’clock
(6:00) a.m. and ten o’clock (10:00) p.m.
      5.   Outdoor and indoor events, including sound amplifying equipment. Any
outdoor or indoor gatherings, public dances, shows, sporting events, and other
similar events indoor or outdoor will be authorized provided the parties obtain
any permits required the Town. Should the event not require a permit, the
gathering will be authorized between the hours of six o’clock (6:00) a.m. and
ten o’clock (10:00) p.m. from October 1 through March 31 and between six
o’clock (6:00) a.m. and eleven o’clock (11:00) p.m. from April 1 through
September 30.
      6.   Outdoor activities. Activities conducted on public playgrounds and
public or private school grounds, which are conducted in accordance with the
manner in which such spaces are generally used, including but not limited to
the use of a city-owned park, swimming pool, skate park, ball fields, school
athletic or school entertainment events.
      7.   Public work. Noise created in the performance of any work in the
public right-of-way or on public space as defined herein which is reasonably
necessary for the public benefit, welfare, convenience or safety, including but
not limited to the maintenance of streets, parking lots, water and wastewater
lines but excluding solid waste activities.
   H.   Nothing in this section will be construed to allow activity which is
prohibited by Montana Code or Ordinance
   I.   Any of which are performed for emergency work for the safety, welfare,
and public health of the citizens of the city are exempted from the provisions
of this article.
   J.   Penalty: A violation of this chapter is punishable by a fine as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 145, 5-12-2022)
CHAPTER 9
SNOW REMOVAL
SECTION:
6-9-1: Snow Removal
6-9-1: SNOW REMOVAL:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any property owner or other person, business
or corporation to shovel, plow or place snow removed from private property on
public streets, highways, alleys, rights-of-way or sidewalks.
   B.   In no case may snow be piled or placed in such a manner that it impedes
the vision of a driver of a vehicle approaching a street, alley or driveway
intersection with another vehicle traveled area.
   C.   Penalty: A violation of this chapter is punishable by a fine as
provided in section
1-4-1  of this code. (Ord. 157-2023, 7-27-2023)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
MOTOR VEHICLE CODE 1
SECTION:
7-1-1: Adoption
7-1-2: Penalty
7-1-3: Designated Offenses
7-1-4: Owner Responsible
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-14-4103; title 61.
7-1-1: ADOPTION:
The Motor Vehicle Code of the State, being that certain Act known as the
Uniform Act Regulating Traffic On Highways, be and the same is adopted by
reference as the chapter for regulation of motor vehicle traffic upon the
streets and alleys of this Town. (Prior Code § 10.02.010)
7-1-2: PENALTY:
In addition to those Vehicle Code sections specifically identified as Municipal
infractions, violations of the following Vehicle Code sections are hereby
designated as Municipal infractions and subject to civil penalties as specified
in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 137, 12-8-2011)
7-1-3: DESIGNATED OFFENSES:
The following title 61, Montana Code Annotated offenses adopted and
incorporated by reference into this Code are hereby designated a Municipal
infraction:
   A.   All violations of title 61, chapter 3, Montana Code Annotated known as
vehicle registration shall be assessed the following fines:
      1.   The penalty for a violation shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) unless
otherwise specified.
      2.   The penalty for a violation shall be reduced to twenty five dollars
($25.00) if the offender brings proof of compliance into Ennis City Court that
he or she has corrected the violation and is now in compliance with State law.
      3.   Violations of Montana Code Annotated 61-3-603, 61-3-604, and 61-3-
607, which are designated as felony offenses by State Statute, will be
prosecuted as State Statute violations and not a Municipal infraction.
   B.   All violations of title 61, chapter 4, Montana Code Annotated known as
vehicle dealer licensing shall be assessed the following fines:
      1.   The penalty for a violation shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00).
      2.   Violations of Montana Code Annotated 61-4-403 is designated as a
felony by State Statute and shall be prosecuted as a State Statute violation
and not a Municipal infraction.
   C.   All violations of title 61, chapter 5, Montana Code Annotated known as
driver licensing shall be assessed the following fines:
      1.   The penalty for a violation of title 61, chapter 5, Montana Code
Annotated and Montana Code Annotated 61-2-302 violations of restrictions
imposed on probationary licenses shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) unless
otherwise specified.
      2.   The penalty for a violation of title 61, chapter 5, Montana Code
Annotated shall be reduced to twenty five dollars ($25.00) if the offender
brings proof of compliance into Ennis City Court that he or she has corrected
the violation and is now in compliance with State law.
      3.   Violations of Montana Code Annotated 61-5-210, 61-5-212, and 61-11-
213 will be prosecuted as a violation of State Statute and not as a Municipal
infraction.
      4.   Violations of Montana Code Annotated 61-5-133 and 61-5-134 shall be
charged and prosecuted as a State Statute violation.
   D.   All violations of title 61, chapter 6, Montana Code Annotated known as
financial responsibility (insurance) shall be prosecuted as a State Statute
violation.
   E.   All violations of title 61, chapter 7, Montana Code Annotated known as
crash/accident reporting shall be prosecuted as a State Statute violation.
   F.   All violations of title 61, chapter 8, Montana Code Annotated known as
traffic regulations shall be assessed the following fines:
      1.   The penalty for a violation shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) unless
otherwise specified.
      2.   The following violations of the Montana Code Annotated shall be
charged and prosecuted as a state statute violation:
61-8-301    Reckless driving
61-8-302(2) Careless driving involving death or serious bodily injury
61-8-308    Holding or engaging in a speed contest
61-8-316    Flee from or eluding a peace officer
61-8-401    DUI
61-8-406    DUI per se
61-8-410    Under 21 years of age operating a motor vehicle with a BAC of 0.02%
            or greater
61-8-422    Transfer/sell/encumber vehicle that is to be seized
61-8-713    Tamper/damage/interfere with traffic control device
61-8-812    Commercial motor vehicle out of service violations
 
      3.   The penalty for a violation of Montana Code Annotated 61-8-303, 61-
8-309, 61-8-310, 61-8-312, 61-8-314, otherwise known as exceeding the speed
limit, shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) plus three dollars ($3.00) for
every mile per hour over the speed limit.
         a.   Whenever any police officer engaged in the enforcement of the
motor vehicle laws of this town uses an electronic, electrical, mechanical, or
other device used to determine the speed of a motor vehicle on any highway,
road, street, or other public way, such device shall be of a type approved by
the police department and shall have been tested to determine that it is
operating accurately. Tests for this purpose shall be made not less than once
each twelve (12) months, according to procedures and at regular intervals of
time prescribed by the department.
         b.   Any police officer, upon receiving information relayed to him or
her from a fellow officer stationed on the ground or in the air operating such
a device that a driver of a vehicle has violated the speed laws may arrest the
driver for violation of said laws where reasonable and proper identification of
the vehicle and the speed of same has been communicated to the arresting
officer.
         c.   A witness otherwise qualified to testify shall be competent to
give testimony against an accused violator of the traffic laws when such
testimony is derived from the use of such an electronic, electrical,
mechanical, or other device used in the calculation of speed, upon showing that
the speed calculating device which was used had been tested. However, the
operator of any visual average speed computer device shall first be certified
as a competent operator of such device by the department.
         d.   Upon the production of a certificate, signed and witnessed,
showing that such device was tested within the time period specified and that
such device was working properly, a presumption is established to that effect
unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
         e.   Any person accused pursuant to the provisions of this subsection
shall be entitled to have the officer actually operating the device appear in
court and testify upon oral or written motion.
      4.   The penalty for a violation of Montana Code Annotated 61-8-351 or
61-8-352 shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00).
   G.   All violations of title 61, chapter 9, Montana Code Annotated known as
vehicle equipment shall be assessed the following fines:
      1.   The penalty for a violation shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) unless
otherwise specified.
      2.   The penalty for a violation shall be reduced to twenty five dollars
($25.00) if the offender brings proof of compliance into Ennis city court that
he or she has corrected the equipment violation and is now in compliance with
state law.
      3.   All violations of Montana Code Annotated 61-9-420, known as the
child restraint violations, shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   H.   All violations of title 61, chapter 10, Montana Code Annotated known as
gross vehicle weight and size and title 69, motor carriers shall be one hundred
dollars ($100.00) with the following exceptions:
      1.   The penalty for a violation of Montana Code Annotated 61-10-124,
triple vehicle combinations, shall be three hundred dollars ($300.00).
   I.   All violations of Montana Code Annotated 61-13-103, known as seat belt
violations, shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00).
   J.   All violations of 49 CFR, known as the Federal Motor Carrier
Regulations shall apply to all commercial motor vehicles operated within the
Town limits of Ennis. Police officers with the Ennis Police Department are
authorized to enforce violations of 49 CFR. For the purposes of enforcing this
chapter, violations are considered Municipal infractions. The fine for a
violation is one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 137, 12-8-2011)
7-1-4: OWNER RESPONSIBLE:
If any vehicle is found upon a street, alley or highway in violation of this
title, and the identity of the operator cannot be determined, the owner or
person in whose name the vehicle is registered, shall be prima facia
responsible for such violation. (Ord. 144, 1-11-2018)
CHAPTER 2
VEHICLES AND DRIVING REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definition
7-2-2: Driver's License
7-2-3: Driving Regulations
7-2-4: Engine Brakes Prohibited
7-2-5: Handling Of Offenders After Arrest
7-2-6: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. MCA §§ 7-14-4103 and 61-12-101.
7-2-1: DEFINITION:
A "vehicle" is every device in, upon, or by which any person or property may be
transported or drawn upon a public highway, except devices moved by animal
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (Prior Code §
10.04.010; amd. 2003 Code)
7-2-2: DRIVER'S LICENSE:
The driver of any motor vehicle within the town must present to an officer on
demand, a driver's license valid under the laws of the state. However, no
person charged with violating this section shall be convicted if he produces in
court a license issued to him and valid at the time of his arrest. (Prior Code
§ 10.04.020)
7-2-3: DRIVING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Entering Street From Private Road Or Driveway: Vehicles entering a
street from a private road or driveway must stop and yield the right of way to
all vehicles.
   B.   Emerging From Alley, Driveway Or Building: Drivers emerging from an
alley, driveway, or building must stop and yield the right of way to all
pedestrians and vehicles.
   C.   Following Fire Apparatus:
      1.   Too Close: Vehicles shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in
response to an alarm closer than five hundred feet (500') or drive or park
within a block where the fire equipment has stopped.
      2.   Protect Hose: It is unlawful to drive over an unprotected fire hose
at a fire or any other place where the hose is in use without consent of the
fire department official in command. (Prior Code § 10.04.030)
   D.   Stopping, Standing Or Parking: No person shall stop or park a vehicle,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with the traffic or in compliance with
the law, in any of the following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk.
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway.
      3.   Within an intersection 1 .
      4.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
      5.   On a crosswalk.
      6.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
      7.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway.
      8.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless the local authorities indicate a different length by signs or markings.
      9.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of said entrance when property signposted.
      10.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic.
      11.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street.
      12.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel.
      13.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping. (Prior Code §
10.04.030; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Prohibited Deposits: No person shall put or leave upon any street or
alley any glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans, or any substance likely to injure
any person, animal, or vehicle.
   F.   Radar: The use of radar shall be legal within the town limits.
   G.   Speed Limit: The maximum speed within the town limits shall be twenty
five (25) miles per hour. (Prior Code § 10.04.030)
   H.   Left Turns; U-Turns: No vehicle shall be permitted to make a left turn
between street intersections on Main Street, except for the purpose of entering
a driveway on the opposite side of the street. U-turns are allowed at street
intersections or at designated places only 2 . (Prior Code § 10.04.030; amd.
2003 Code)
   I.   Snowmobiles: No snowmobiles shall be ridden on town streets.
   J.   Motorbikes:
      1.   Equipment: No motorbikes shall be allowed to be ridden within the
town limits unless they are properly equipped per state code.
      2.   Restriction: The riding of motorbikes shall be restricted to the
streets and alleyways of the town. (Prior Code § 10.04.030)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  7-7-6B of this title.
2 1. See chapter 4 of this title.
7-2-4: ENGINE BRAKES PROHIBITED:
   A.   As used in this section, "trucks" mean motor vehicles with four (4) or
more wheels, the principal use of which is for the transportation or storage of
goods on public highways on a commercial basis; provided, however, that
"trucks" shall not include pickup trucks or standard size vans. As used in this
section, "engine brakes" means jake brakes or other switches or devices
operated by the operator of a truck to use the braking system and the
compression of the truck's engine to slow the truck.
   B.   The use of engine brakes by trucks within the town limits is
prohibited, and it is unlawful for truck to use such devices. (Ord. 129, 8-9-
2001)
7-2-5: HANDLING OF OFFENDERS AFTER ARREST:
The law enforcement officer, upon making an arrest for a highway and driving
violation, shall either deliver the offender to the city judge during office
hours or to the county jail or, in lieu thereof, deliver the offender a form of
summons describing the nature of the offense with instructions thereon for the
offender to report to the city judge, or in lieu of reporting to the city judge
and during such hours as the city judge is not available and in the case of a
nonresident of the town, the law enforcement officer has the right to set and
accept a deposit for appearance justifiable for the offense charged. In the
event the law enforcement officer sets and accepts bail, he shall give a signed
receipt to the offender setting forth the amount received. The law enforcement
officer shall then deliver the bail money to the city judge and the city judge
shall give a receipt to the officer therefor. After filing of the complaint and
appearance of the defendant, the city judge shall assume jurisdiction and may
set, fix and accept further appearance bond as he shall see fit. (Prior Code §
10.04.070)
7-2-6: PENALTY:
It shall be deemed a misdemeanor for any person to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless such violation is declared to be a felony.
Every person convicted of a misdemeanor for a violation of this chapter for
which another penalty is not provided shall be subject to penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
BACKING OF MOTOR VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-3-1: Restrictions
7-3-2: Penalty
7-3-1: RESTRICTIONS:
No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon the streets of the town in the
following manner:
   A.   Backing From Curb: No person shall back a motor vehicle from the curb
at which it is parked in such a manner as to back through one lane of traffic
going in the direction the vehicle was originally headed and into a second lane
of traffic going in the direction opposite to that in which the vehicle was
originally headed.
   B.   Change Direction: No person shall change direction that he is headed
with a motor vehicle by pulling to one side of a street and backing the said
vehicle into the opposing lane of traffic. (Prior Code § 10.06.010)
7-3-2: PENALTY:
Any person violating this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Prior Code § 10.06.020; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
U-TURNS
SECTION:
7-4-1: U-Turns Restricted
7-4-2: Penalty
7-4-1: U-TURNS RESTRICTED:
No motor vehicle operator shall cause his or her vehicle to make a U-turn at
any intersection on East or West Main Street of the town, also referred to as
U.S. Highway 287. U-turns may be made at all other intersections of streets
within the town. (Ord. 107, 7-8-1993)
7-4-2: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of the terms of this chapter shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Prior Code § 10.08.020; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 5
YIELD AND STOP STREETS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Complete Stop Required
7-5-2: Stop Signs
7-5-3: Pedestrian Right Of Way
7-5-4: Yield Right Of Way
7-5-5: Yield Signs
7-5-6: Penalty
7-5-1: COMPLETE STOP REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any individual driving
a motor vehicle within the town to enter into any intersection upon which a
stop sign is erected facing the individual without coming to a complete stop
before entering the intersection, except when directed to proceed by a police
officer or highway patrolman or traffic control light. (Prior Code § 10.12.010)
7-5-2: STOP SIGNS:
Stop streets at which stop signs shall be erected are those streets which are
designated and on file in the office of the town clerk-treasurer. (Prior Code §
10.12.020)
7-5-3: PEDESTRIAN RIGHT OF WAY:
It shall hereafter be unlawful and a violation of this section for any
individual driving a motor vehicle within the town to emerge into a street,
road or highway within the town from any alley, private driveway or building
without stopping said vehicle immediately prior to driving into a sidewalk or
sidewalk area and yielding the right of way to any pedestrian as may be
necessary to avoid collision and upon entering the roadway, yielding right of
way to all vehicles approaching on such roadway. (Prior Code § 10.12.030)
7-5-4: YIELD RIGHT OF WAY:
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any individual driving
a motor vehicle within the town to enter into any intersection upon which a
yield sign is erected facing the individual without yielding the right of way
to any motor vehicle upon the intersected street, except when directed to
proceed by a police officer or highway patrolman or traffic control light.
(Prior Code § 10.12.040)
7-5-5: YIELD SIGNS:
Yield streets at which yield signs shall be erected are those streets which are
so designated and on file in the office of the town clerk-treasurer. (Prior
Code § 10.12.050)
7-5-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Prior Code § 10.12.060; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 6
ONE-WAY STREETS
SECTION:
7-6-1: Power To Designate
7-6-2: Markings
7-6-3: Obedience To Signs
7-6-4: Penalty
7-6-1: POWER TO DESIGNATE:
The town commission may designate any street as a one-way street if it finds
such a designation is necessary for the public safety. (Ord. 94, 12-14-1990)
7-6-2: MARKINGS:
All one-way streets shall be plainly marked by appropriate signs. (Ord. 94, 12-
14-1990)
7-6-3: OBEDIENCE TO SIGNS:
It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle on a one-way street
other than in the designated direction of traffic flow. (Ord. 94, 12-14-1990)
7-6-4: PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter is punishable by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 94, 12-14-1990; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 7
PARKING
SECTION:
7-7-1: Definitions
7-7-2: Main And North Second Street
7-7-3: Method Of Parking
7-7-4: Signs
7-7-5: Pedestrians
7-7-6: Restrictions
7-7-7: Truck Parking (Rep. by Ord. 144, 1-11-2018)
7-7-8: Penalty
7-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CAMPING: To sleep or live within, whether permanent or temporary, a tent,
shelter, mobile home, recreational vehicle, motor home or travel trailer.
PARKING: The standing of a motor vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise
than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property may be
transported or drawn upon a public highway, except devices moved by animal
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (Ord. 124, 6-13-
1996; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 144, 1-11-2018)
7-7-2: MAIN AND NORTH SECOND STREET:
All motor vehicles shall on Main and east side of North Second Street in the
Town be parked on said street so that the right front wheel thereof shall be
not more than two feet (2') from the edge or curb of said street and so that
the angle of the right hand side of said vehicle, facing forward, shall be
toward the edge or curb of the street and shall form an angle of not less than
thirty degrees (30°) or more than sixty degrees (60°) with the edge of the curb
of the street; provided, that if angle parking painted stripes are upon the
street, parking shall be within two (2) adjacent stripes. (Ord. 124, 6-13-1996)
7-7-3: METHOD OF PARKING:
   A.   Parallel: Motor vehicles shall, on all streets within the Town, be
parked parallel with the edge of the curb of said street within two feet (2')
of said edge or curb, except as noted herein.
   B.   Diagonal: Motor vehicles on East Main Street and the South side of the
100 Block West Main Street shall be diagonally parked in accordance with the
markings placed upon those streets by the Town or Montana Department of
Transportation.
   C.   Perpendicular: Motor vehicles on North First Street shall be parked
perpendicular to the curb in accordance with the markings placed upon those
streets by the Town or Montana Department of Transportation. (Ord. 124, 6-13-
1996; Ord. –, 9-19-2019)
7-7-4: SIGNS:
Whenever by this or any other section of this Code any parking restrictions are
imposed, it shall be the duty of the commission to erect or cause to be erected
appropriate signs giving notice thereof. No such regulations shall be effective
unless said signs are erected and in place at the time of the alleged offense.
(Ord. 124, 6-13-1996)
7-7-5: PEDESTRIANS:
Operators of vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians when the
pedestrian is crossing in a marked crossing lane or crossing the street at
intersections. Pedestrians crossing the street at any other point than the
marked crosswalk or at street intersections shall yield the right-of-way to all
vehicles in the street. (Ord. 124, 6-13-1996)
7-7-6: RESTRICTIONS:
Motor vehicles shall not be parked within the Town:
   A.   Crosswalk: Upon a marked crosswalk so designated by painted stripes
upon the street.
   B.   Intersection: Within twenty feet (20') of an intersection between two
(2) streets.
   C.   Fire Hydrant: Within ten feet (10') of a marked and painted fire
hydrant.
   D.   Sidewalk: Within a sidewalk or sidewalk area.
   E.   Alley: Vehicles shall not be parked within an alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic. Vehicles shall
not be parked within an alley in such a position as to block the driveway
entrance to any abutting property.
   F.   Double Parked: Motor vehicles may be double parked only temporarily for
the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading and unloading.
   G.   Time Limitation: Motor vehicles, farm equipment, or any other type of
vehicle or equipment shall not be parked on the streets for a period of time
longer than five (5) days.
   H.   Prohibited Parking: Vehicles or any other equipment shall not be parked
upon any street or alley for the principal purpose of:
      1.   Displaying such vehicle or equipment for sale.
      2.   Washing, greasing, or repairing such vehicle or equipment, except
repairs necessitated by an emergency.
      3.   Parking is prohibited on Otis Avenue through its entire length.
      4.   Parking is prohibited on Laura Lane.
      5.   No parking anytime on Pearl Street north of Clark.
      6.   No parking anytime on Clark.
      7.   No parking anytime on Vujo.
      8.   No parking anytime on Landing Lane.
      9.   Oval and Stephie, one-way street, parking only on east side of the
street.
   I.   Official Signs: Vehicles or equipment shall not be parked at any place
where official signs prohibit parking. (Ord. 124, 6-13-1996; amd. Ord. 144, 1-
11-2018; Ord. –, 9-19-2019; 2003 Code; Ord. 156-2023, 7-13-2023)
7-7-7: TRUCK PARKING:
(Rep. by Ord. 144, 1-11-2018)
7-7-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision or provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 124, 6-13-1996; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 8
SKATEBOARDS AND BICYCLES 1
SECTION:
7-8-1: Definitions
7-8-2: Skateboards
7-8-2-1: Restricted On Sidewalks
7-8-2-2: Right Of Way
7-8-2-3: Rules Of Operation
7-8-3: Bicycles
7-8-3-1: Applicability
7-8-3-2: Traffic Laws
7-8-3-3: Traffic Control Devices
7-8-3-4: Riding On Bicycles
7-8-3-5: Clinging To Vehicles
7-8-3-6: Riding On Roadways
7-8-3-7: Operation Restrictions
7-8-3-8: Carrying Articles
7-8-3-9: Lamps And Other Equipment On Bicycles
7-8-3-10: Bicycles On Sidewalks
7-8-3-11: Bicycle Racing
7-8-4: Parent Responsibility
7-8-5: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 61-8-601 et seq.
7-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BICYCLE: A vehicle having two (2) wheels in a tandem arrangement, of which one
or more wheels is sixteen (16) or more inches in diameter, which is propelled
solely by human power.
SKATEBOARD: A single platform mounted on wheels which is propelled solely by
human power and which has no mechanism or other device with which to steer or
control the movement or direction of the platform. (Ord. 91, 7-14, 1988)
7-8-2: SKATEBOARDS:
7-8-2-1: RESTRICTED ON SIDEWALKS:
Skateboarding shall be prohibited on any sidewalk in any portion of the town
specifically designated as a business district. Skateboarding shall be allowed
on other sidewalks within the town. (Ord. 91, 7-14-1988)
7-8-2-2: RIGHT OF WAY:
Notwithstanding their status as pedestrians, skateboarders shall yield the
right of way to all vehicular and to all other pedestrian (nonskateboard)
traffic. (Ord. 91, 7-14-1988)
7-8-2-3: RULES OF OPERATION:
Skateboard operators shall wear protective coverings for their hands, knees,
elbows and heads when operating a skateboard and shall not operate a skateboard
while barefoot. No more than one person shall ride on or operate a skateboard
at one time. (Ord. 91, 7-14-1988)
7-8-3: BICYCLES:
7-8-3-1: APPLICABILITY:
These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a bicycle is
operated upon any highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles subject to those exceptions stated herein. (2003 Code)
7-8-3-2: TRAFFIC LAWS:
Every person operating a bicycle shall be granted all of the rights and shall
be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of any other vehicle
by Montana Code Annotated title 61 chapters 7, 8 and 9, except as to special
regulations in this chapter 8, part 6, and except as to those provisions of
Montana Code Annotated chapters 7, 8 and 9, which by their very nature can have
no application. (2003 Code)
7-8-3-3: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Obeyance Required: Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the
instructions of official traffic control signals, signs and other control
devices applicable to vehicles unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   Turns: Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right
or left or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any such turn, in which event such person shall obey the regulations
applicable to pedestrians. (Ord. 91, 7-14-1988)
7-8-3-4: RIDING ON BICYCLES:
A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto. (2003 Code)
7-8-3-5: CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, or toy vehicle
shall attach the same or himself to any vehicle upon a roadway, but a bicycle
trailer or bicycle semitrailer may be attached to a bicycle if that trailer or
semitrailer has been designed for such attachment. (2003 Code)
7-8-3-6: RIDING ON ROADWAYS:
   A.   Roadway Defined: As used in this section, "roadway" means that portion
of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel,
including the paved shoulder.
   B.   Speed: A person operating a bicycle upon a roadway at less than the
normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then
existing shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable
except when:
      1.   Overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction;
      2.   Preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road
or driveway; or
      3.   Necessary to avoid a condition that makes it unsafe to continue
along the right side of the roadway, including, but not limited to, a fixed or
moving object, parked or moving vehicle, pedestrian, animal, surface hazard, or
a lane that is too narrow for a bicycle and another vehicle to travel safely
side by side within the lane.
   C.   One-Way Highway: A person operating a bicycle upon a one-way highway
with two (2) or more marked traffic lanes may ride as close to the left side of
the roadway as practicable.
   D.   Single File; Exceptions: Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall
ride in single file except when:
      1.   Riding on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use
of bicycles;
      2.   Overtaking and passing another bicycle;
      3.   Riding on a paved shoulder or in a parking lane, in which case the
persons may ride two (2) abreast; or
      4.   Riding within a single lane on a laned roadway with at least two (2)
lanes in each direction, in which case the persons may ride two (2) abreast if
they do not impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic more than they
would otherwise impede traffic by riding single file, and in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Exceptions: A "bicycle", as defined in Montana Code Annotated
subsection 61-1-123(2), is excluded from the provisions of subsections B and C
of this section. (2003 Code)
7-8-3-7: OPERATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Method Of Riding: A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other
than astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   B.   Number Of Passengers: No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at
one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
   C.   Use Of Roadway: Every person operating a bicycle upon a street or
roadway shall ride as near to the right hand side of the roadway as
practicable, exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or one
proceeding in the same direction.
   D.   Crossing Sidewalk Or Entering Roadway: The operator of a bicycle
emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk
or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, yield the right of way to
all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or sidewalk area, and upon entering
the roadway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
   E.   Riding On Sidewalks: No person shall ride a bicycle upon any sidewalk
within the main business district. (Ord. 94, 12-14-1990; amd. 2003 Code)
7-8-3-8: CARRYING ARTICLES:
No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article which
prevents the driver from keeping at least one hand upon the handle bars. (2003
Code)
7-8-3-9: LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES:
   A.   Lamps: Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a
lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at
least five hundred feet (500') to the front. A lamp emitting a red light
visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear may be used in
addition to rear facing reflectors required by this section.
   B.   Reflectors: Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped
with an essentially colorless front facing reflector, essentially colorless or
amber pedal reflectors, and a red rear facing reflector. Pedal reflectors shall
be mounted on the front and back of each pedal.
   C.   Retroflective Sidewalls Or Spoke Mounted Reflectors: Every bicycle,
when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with either tires with
retroflective sidewalls or reflectors mounted on the spokes of each wheel.
Spoke mounted reflectors shall be within seventy six millimeters (76 mm)(3
inches) of the inside of the rim and shall be visible on each side of the
wheel. The reflectors on the front wheel shall be essentially colorless or
amber and the reflectors on the rear wheel shall be amber or red.
   D.   Type Of Reflectors: Reflectors required by this section shall be of a
type approved by the state.
   E.   Brake: Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable
the operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
   F.   Flag: Every bicycle is encouraged to be equipped with a flag clearly
visible from the rear and suspended not less than six feet (6') above the
roadway when the bicycle is standing upright. The flag shall be fluorescent
orange in color. (2003 Code)
7-8-3-10: BICYCLES ON SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Yield To Pedestrians; Signal: A person operating a bicycle upon and
along a sidewalk or across a roadway upon and along a crosswalk shall yield the
right of way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal before overtaking
and passing any pedestrian.
   B.   Riding Prohibited: A person may not ride a bicycle upon and along a
sidewalk or across a roadway upon and along a crosswalk where the use of a
bicycle is prohibited by official traffic control devices.
   C.   Same Rights And Duties As Pedestrians: Except as provided in
subsections A and B of this section, a person operating a vehicle by human
power upon and along a sidewalk or across a roadway upon and along a crosswalk
has all the rights and duties applicable to a pedestrian under the same
circumstances. (2003 Code)
7-8-3-11: BICYCLE RACING:
   A.   Prohibited: Bicycle racing on a highway is prohibited except as
authorized in this section.
   B.   Racing Events: Bicycle racing on a highway is lawful when a racing
event is approved by state or local authorities on any highway under their
respective jurisdictions. Approval of bicycle highway racing events will be
granted only under conditions that assure reasonable safety for all race
participants, spectators, and other highway users and that prevent unreasonable
interference with traffic flow.
   C.   Exemption From Traffic Laws: By agreement with the approving authority,
participants in an approved bicycle highway racing event may be exempted from
compliance with any traffic laws otherwise applicable if traffic control is
adequate to assure the safety of all highway users. (2003 Code)
7-8-4: PARENT RESPONSIBILITY:
It is a violation of this chapter for the parents or guardian of any child
under the age of sixteen (16) years to authorize or knowingly permit any such
child or ward to violate any provision of this chapter. (Ord. 94, 12-14-1990)
7-8-5: PENALTY:
The violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 94, 12-14-1990; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 9
ABANDONED, WRECKED, OR JUNKED VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-9-1: Prohibited; Exception
7-9-2: Nuisance Declared; Responsibility For Removal
7-9-3: Removal By County; Release Form
7-9-4: Procedure After Receipt Of Complaint
7-9-5: Authority To Take Into Custody
7-9-6: Reclamation; Failure To Reclaim
7-9-1: PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION:
It shall be unlawful to park, store, or leave, or permit parking, storing, or
leaving, any licensed or unlicensed vehicle which is inoperative or abandoned,
within the town limits for more than five (5) days, unless such vehicle(s) is
completely shielded from public view by enclosure within a building, or by
enclosure within a fence meeting town height requirements, or is held by a
business enterprise lawfully licensed, permitted, or sited for such activity.
(2003 Code)
7-9-2: NUISANCE DECLARED; RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL:
The accumulation and storage of such vehicles or parts thereof on public or
private property shall be deemed a nuisance, detrimental to the health, safety,
and welfare of the inhabitants of the town, and it shall be the responsibility
of the registered owner of the vehicle(s), or parts thereof, to remove them
from the town limits, or to have them housed as described in section
7-9-1 of this chapter. (2003 Code)
7-9-3: REMOVAL BY COUNTY; RELEASE FORM:
Madison County will remove junk vehicles free of charge upon the owner's
completion of a release form for removing junk vehicles available from the
Madison County sanitarian. (2003 Code)
7-9-4: PROCEDURE AFTER RECEIPT OF COMPLAINT:
Upon receiving a written complaint of violation of this chapter signed by the
complainant, town officials shall proceed as follows:
   A.   Verify Legitimacy: Verify the legitimacy of the complaint;
   B.   Provide Notice To Owner: Provide written and verbal notification to the
registered owner to comply with this chapter, including confirmation that the
complaint is valid. Allow the property owner up to thirty (30) days to address
the problem by removing or shielding the offending material.
   C.   Noncompliance; Issuance Of Citation: If the problem is not addressed
within the specified time period, a citation shall be issued to the registered
owner. The registered owner shall be required to appear before the town judge,
and if found guilty of the charge, shall be levied a fine of not less than
twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00). The
judge shall set requirements for compliance with this chapter not to exceed
sixty (60) additional days to address the problem.
   D.   Continued Noncompliance; Additional Allowance Of Time: If, after the
court imposed time period has passed the problem has not been rectified, the
registered owner will be cited to appear before the town judge a second time.
If the registered owner is found to be noncompliant, the court shall levy a
fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00). The town judge shall have the discretion to allow
another period of up to sixty (60) days to address the problem.
   E.   Further Noncompliance; Order Of Removal: If, after the second court
imposed time period has passed and the problem has not been rectified, the
registered owner shall be cited into court. If found to be noncompliant, a fine
of five hundred dollars ($500.00) shall be levied and the town judge will issue
an order of removal for the offending materials. Cost of the removal shall be
levied against the registered owner, in addition to all fines imposed. (2003
Code)
7-9-5: AUTHORITY TO TAKE INTO CUSTODY:
Montana Code Annotated section 61-12-401 authorizes law enforcement agencies to
take into custody any motor vehicle found abandoned for a period of forty eight
(48) hours or more on a public highway or for a period of five (5) days or more
on a city street. Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, the town
incorporates Montana Code Annotated titles 61 and 75 to enforce its abandoned
and junk vehicle policy. The town specifically cites Montana Code Annotated
section 61-12-401 and Montana Code Annotated sections 75-10-501, 502, and 505
to affirm its authority. (2003 Code)
7-9-6: RECLAMATION; FAILURE TO RECLAIM:
Vehicles removed from public or private property at the behest of the town
shall be available for reclaiming by the owner, lienholder, or person entitled
to possession of the vehicle within seventy two (72) hours after the town
notifies the such person that the vehicle has been possessed. The owner,
lienholder, or person entitled to possession of the vehicle shall present to
the city police satisfactory proof of ownership or right to possession, and
shall pay the costs and expenses incurred in the removal, storage, and custody
of the vehicle. If the owner, lienholder, or person entitled to possession of
be vehicle has not reclaimed the vehicle within seventy two (72) hours after
notification, said vehicle shall be the property of the agent designated by the
town to remove such vehicles. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 10
MOTORIZED NONSTANDARD VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-10-1: Definitions
7-10-2: Registration Required
7-10-3: Motorized Nonstandard Vehicle Regulations
7-10-4: Penalty
7-10-5: Sunset Clause
7-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
"Motorized nonstandard vehicle" means a vehicle, on or by which a person may be
transported, that is propelled by its own power, using an internal combustion
engine or an electric motor, has a wheelbase of less than forty inches (40")
and an outside wheel diameter of less than ten inches (10"); and does not
display a manufacturer's certification in accordance with 49 CFR, part 567, or
have a 17-character vehicle identification number assigned by the manufacturer
in accordance with 49 CFR, part 565. The term includes but is not limited to a
motorized skateboard. The term does not include a moped as defined in Montana
Code Annotated 61-8-102, an electric personal assistive mobility device, or a
motorized wheelchair or other low-powered, mechanically propelled vehicle
designed specifically for use by a physically disabled person. (Ord. 143, 8-10-
2017)
7-10-2: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
   A.   1. The operator of a motorized nonstandard vehicle shall register each
motorized nonstandard vehicle with the Town of Ennis.
         a.   The operator shall pay a one-time fee for each motorized
nonstandard vehicle to be set by resolution.
         b.   Registration shall include the operator's name, address, phone
number, driver's license number, driver's license state and description of the
motorized nonstandard vehicle.
         c.   The operator shall be provided a registration sticker that shall
be permanently affixed to the motorized nonstandard vehicle. (Ord. 143, 8-10-
2017)
7-10-3: MOTORIZED NONSTANDARD VEHICLE REGULATIONS:
   A.   1. The operator must possess a valid driver's license.
      2.   The operator if under the age of eighteen (18) must wear a helmet.
      3.   The operator must obey all traffic laws and drive with due regard to
pedestrians.
      4.   The operator must stay to the right side of the roadway while
operating.
      5.   The operator shall obey all speed limits.
      6.   Operation prohibited:
         a.   East Main Street (U.S. 287).
         b.   West Main Street (MT 287).
         c.   North Main Street (U.S. 287).
      7.   Only one (1) person permitted.
      8.   Lamps and other equipment required:
         a.   When in use at dawn, dusk, or nighttime must be equipped with:
            (1)   A lamp on the front emitting a white light visible from a
distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the front. In lieu of a lamp
affixed to the motorized nonstandard vehicle an operator may use a lamp with
equal intensity and visibility affixed to the operator's helmet or head and
facing forward;
            (2)   Facing the rear, either a lamp emitting a red light visible
from a distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the rear or a red
reflector visible from a distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the
rear when illuminated by low-beam motor vehicle headlamps; and
            (3)   Reflective material large and reflective enough to be visible
from the left and right sides from a distance of at least five hundred feet
(500') when illuminated by low-beam motor vehicle headlamps.
   (A) Reflective material may include but is not limited to a vest or jacket
meeting the above requirements.
      9.   Brakes:
         a.   Must be equipped with a brake enabling the operator to stop the
motorized nonstandard vehicle within no more than twenty five feet (25') from a
speed of ten (10) miles an hour on dry, level, clean pavement. (Ord. 143, 8-10-
2017)
7-10-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 143, 8-10-2017)
7-10-5: SUNSET CLAUSE:
This chapter will be in effect until October 31, 2018, unless the Town of Ennis
Commission votes to extend it. (Ord. 143, 8-10-2017)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY 1
SECTION:
8-1-1: Title
8-1-2: Scope
8-1-3: Encroachments And Curb Line
8-1-4: Use Of Public Right Of Way; Permit Required
8-1-5: Projection And Clearance
8-1-6: Exceptions
8-1-7: Signs, Minimum Standards
8-1-8: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-14-4102.
8-1-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the ENNIS UNIFORM RIGHT OF WAY ENCROACHMENT
CODE. (Prior Code § 14.02.010)
8-1-2: SCOPE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide standards for the regulation and
control of encroachment and private use of public rights of way within the
incorporated limits of the town. This chapter will ensure full compliance by
this incorporated municipality with all applicable federal, state and local
laws, in the interest of public safety and the free and safe flow of traffic.
(Prior Code § 14.02.020)
8-1-3: ENCROACHMENTS AND CURB LINE:
   A.   Encroachments: Encroachments shall include all private devices placed
upon the public right of way including devices which overhang or underlie the
right of way.
   B.   Curb Line: The curb line shall be the line at the face of the curb
nearest to the street or roadway. In the absence of a curb, the curb shall be
estimated by the town officials. (Prior Code § 14.02.030)
8-1-4: USE OF PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY; PERMIT REQUIRED:
No private signs, eaves, marquees or similar devices will be allowed to
encroach on the public rights of way of the town within the incorporated
limits, except as provided herein and then only by permit issued by the proper
authorities and revocable on ten (10) days' written notice to the permittee. No
gainful private or commercial use of the public right of way will be allowed,
e.g., nonemergency servicing of vehicles, parking or placing of portable
advertising devices on the public right of way. (Prior Code § 14.02.040)
8-1-5: PROJECTION AND CLEARANCE:
The outermost portion of an overhanging device should be at least five feet
(5') behind the face of the curb; or where there is no curb, from the shoulder
of the roadway; and the lowest portion of an overhanging device should be at
least ten feet (10') above the top of the curb, sidewalk or roadway shoulder
elevation. (Prior Code § 14.02.050)
8-1-6: EXCEPTIONS:
Section
8-1-5 of this chapter shall be prospective in operation and shall not be
construed to affect or concern existing construction; provided however, that
this chapter shall apply to structures of any sort presently over and
trespassing upon the traveled portion of the roadway within the curb lines or
lines of shoulder of any street or highway within the town. (Prior Code §
14.02.060)
8-1-7: SIGNS, MINIMUM STANDARDS:
It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to provide minimum standards to
safeguard life, health, property and public welfare by regulating and
controlling the placement of all signs and sign structures within the
incorporated limits so as to prevent the obstruction of view of any official
traffic sign, signal or device. (Prior Code § 14.02.070)
8-1-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be, in addition to
the penalties provided by state law, punished by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Prosecution under this section shall not limit the right of
the town to seek relief by way of injunction for a nuisance. (Prior Code §
14.02.080)
CHAPTER 2
SIDEWALKS 1
SECTION:
8-2-1: Responsibility Of Owner
8-2-2: Specifications
8-2-3: Repairs
8-2-4: Snow And Ice Removal
8-2-5: Excavation
8-2-6: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. MCA §§ 7-14-4109 through 4111; 7-12-4131, 4303, 4327, 4701 through 4704 and
  4711 through 4714.
8-2-1: RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER:
The cost of constructing, repairing and maintaining sidewalks in front of
property is the responsibility of the owner of the property. (Prior Code §
12.02.010)
8-2-2: SPECIFICATIONS:
Sidewalks on Main Street shall be six feet (6') in width; in the residential
district, four feet (4'). The grade to be established by a surveyor where no
sidewalk has been previously located. The concrete mixture to be six to one (6:
1) using good sand and gravel. Concrete to be a sufficient thickness so that a
curb shall be six inches (6") high. (Prior Code § 12.02.020)
8-2-3: REPAIRS:
The commission may order sidewalks repaired where said sidewalks form a
hazardous condition, or require dangerous obstructions removed. The property
owner shall be given thirty (30) days or less in which to do the repairing or
for removing the obstruction. At the end of the specified time the commission
may have the repairing done or the obstruction removed and charge the cost of
same to the property owner. (Prior Code § 12.02.030)
8-2-4: SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL:
All property owners shall keep the walks in good repair in front of their
property. Snow and ice to be removed when necessary. (Prior Code § 12.02.040)
8-2-5: EXCAVATION:
Excavating or digging of any kind in the streets and alleys or on any town
property is prohibited unless a permit has first been secured from the
commission. (Prior Code § 12.02.050)
8-2-6: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating section
8-2-5 of this chapter shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Prior Code § 12.02.060; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
STREET MAINTENANCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-3-1: Definitions
8-3-2: District Created
8-3-3: District Boundaries
8-3-4: Manner Of Providing Maintenance
8-3-5: Costs And Maintenance
8-3-6: Method Of Assessment
8-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ASSESSABLE AREA: The portion of a lot or parcel of land that is benefitted by
the maintenance district. The maintenance area may be less than but may not
exceed the actual area of lot or parcel.
MAINTENANCE: Includes but is not limited to sprinkling, graveling, oiling,
chipsealing, seal coating, overlaying, treating, general cleaning, sweeping,
flushing, snow removal, and leaf and debris removal. (Ord. 100, 9-10-1992)
8-3-2: DISTRICT CREATED:
There shall be created within the town a district for the maintenance of the
streets and avenues of the town, to provide for a method of doing the work and
paying for same under the restrictions and regulations provided in Montana Code
Annotated 7-12-4401 et seq. (Ord. 100, 9-10-1992)
8-3-3: DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
The whole of the town shall be the designated maintenance district. The
district may not be changed during the same calendar year but may be changed by
resolution in any succeeding year following the enactment hereof. (Ord. 100, 9-
10-1992)
8-3-4: MANNER OF PROVIDING MAINTENANCE:
The maintenance in the district so established may be done by contract or by
the employees of the town or both, in any such matter as the commission may
elect. (Ord. 100, 9-10-1992)
8-3-5: COSTS AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Resolution For Assessment: The town commission shall estimate, as near
as practical, the cost of maintenance in each established district annually,
not later than the second Monday in August. The commission shall pass and
finally adopt a resolution specifying the district assessment option and
levying and assessing all the property within the district with an amount equal
to not less that seventy five percent (75%) of the entire cost of said work.
   B.   Parcels Assessed: The resolution levying the assessment to defray the
cost of maintenance shall contain or refer to a list in which shall be
described the lot or parcel of land assessed with the name of the owner
thereof, if known, and the amount levied thereon.
   C.   Filing Of Resolution: Such resolution shall be kept on file in the
office of the town clerk-treasurer. (Ord. 100, 9-10-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
8-3-6: METHOD OF ASSESSMENT:
The town commission shall assess the percentage of the cost of maintenance
established in subsection
 8-3-5A of this chapter against the entire district as follows:
   A.   Each lot or parcel of land within such district may be assessed for
that part of the cost which its assessable area bears to the assessable area of
the entire district, exclusive of streets, avenues, alleys, and public places;
   B.   Each lot or parcel of land within such district abutting upon a street
upon which maintenance is done may be assessed for that part of the cost which
its street frontage bears to the street frontage of the entire district;
   C.   If the town commission determines that the benefits derived from the
maintenance by each lot or parcel are substantially equivalent, the cost may be
assessed equally to each lot or a parcel located within the district without
regard to the assessable area of the lot or parcel;
   D.   Each lot or parcel of land, including the improvements thereon, may be
assessed for that part of the cost of the district which its taxable valuation
bears to the total taxable valuation of the property of the district. (Ord.
100, 9-10-1992)
CHAPTER 4
TREES
SECTION:
8-4-1: Trees To Be Trimmed
8-4-2: Hedges And Shrubbery
8-4-3: Trees On Private Property
8-4-4: Legal Boundary
8-4-5: Injury To Trees Or Shrubbery
8-4-6: Trees Outside Property Line
8-4-7: Tree Protection
8-4-8: Assessment For Care
8-4-1: TREES TO BE TRIMMED:
Any owner or agent of any owner of any real property shall trim on property
owned or possessed by him, trees overhanging the sidewalks, streets or alleys
so that the same will not interfere with pedestrian or public travel as
hereinafter provided. (Ord. 103, 3-18-1993; amd. 2003 Code)
8-4-2: HEDGES AND SHRUBBERY:
   A.   Responsibility To Trim: Any owner or agent of any owner of any real
property shall trim all hedges and shrubbery adjacent to the sidewalks,
improved streets or alleys so that the same will not interfere with pedestrian
or public travel as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Growth: Hedges or shrubbery shall not extend over any part of a public
sidewalk, improved street or alley in the town. All such hedges and shrubbery
shall be trimmed back to the property line regardless of whether the property
line abuts a sidewalk, improved street or alley. It is the intent herein that
no hedge or shrubbery shall be allowed to grow upon or extend over any of the
improved alleys, improved streets or sidewalks within the town limits. (Ord.
103, 3-18-1993; amd. 2003 Code)
8-4-3: TREES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Trimming Required: Trees that grow upon private property in such a way
that the branches thereon extend over any sidewalk, improved street or alley
shall be trimmed so that they do not interfere with pedestrian or motor vehicle
traffic.
   B.   Over Sidewalks: Trees growing over sidewalks shall be trimmed so that
no part thereof shall extend over the sidewalk to a height of eight feet (8').
   C.   Over Streets Or Alleys: Trees shall extend over improved streets or
alleys to a height of fourteen feet (14').
   D.   Planting In Relation To Utilities: No street trees other than small
trees (trees with an adult height of 10 feet or less) shall be planted under or
within ten (10) lateral feet of any overhead utility wire, or within five (5)
lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer line, transmission line or
other utility.
   E.   Clear View Area: The owner or agent of any owner of a corner lot shall
not be permitted to plant any tree, hedge or shrubbery which constitutes a
hazard to the traveling public within the area designated as the "clear view
triangle". This area can be determined by measuring eighty feet (80') from the
center of two (2) intersecting streets along the centerlines of each street,
then connecting the two (2) points with a straight line forming the hypotenuse
of the clear view triangle. The branches of trees within the clear view
triangle shall be removed at the trunk from ground level to a minimum of seven
feet (7') above ground level. Shrubs within the clear view triangle shall be
maintained no higher than three feet (3') above grade elevation of the
centerline of the adjacent street. (Ord. 103, 3-18-1993; amd. 2003 Code)
8-4-4: LEGAL BOUNDARY:
For the purposes of this chapter, the property line shall be deemed the actual
legal boundary of the lot or lots concerned and extend upward at a ninety
degree (90°) angle thereto into space. (Ord. 103, 3-18-1993)
8-4-5: INJURY TO TREES OR SHRUBBERY:
It is hereby declared unlawful for any person, not the owner thereof, or
without lawful authority to do so, to wilfully injure, deface, disfigure or
destroy any fruit, shade, or ornamental tree or shrub, or to injure, destroy,
cut or pick any flower or plant growing, standing, or being either on private
ground or any street, parking, public park, or place within the town. (Ord.
103, 3-18-1993)
8-4-6: TREES OUTSIDE PROPERTY LINE:
The tree board, as constituted in title 2, chapter 2 of this code, is hereby
given full and complete control of all trees growing within the confines of the
town limits which are outside of the property lines at the respective lots,
plots and tracts adjacent to improved streets and alleys. (Ord. 103, 3-18-1993)
8-4-7: TREE PROTECTION:
Upon the discovery of any destructive or communicable disease or other
pestilence which endangers the growth or health of trees, hedges or shrubbery,
or threatens to spread disease or insect infestations, the tree board shall at
once cause written notice to be served upon the owner of the property or his/
her agent upon which such diseased or infested trees, hedge, or shrub is
situated, and the notice shall require such property owner to eradicate, remove
or otherwise control such condition within reasonable time to be specified in
such notice. (Ord. 103, 3-18-1993)
8-4-8: ASSESSMENT FOR CARE:
   A.   Notice To Remove, Prune Or Trim: Whenever the safety or convenience of
the public requires the removal, pruning or trimming of trees, hedges, or
shrubbery extending beyond the property lines and over improved streets and
alleys of the respective lots, plots and tracts within the town limits, any
property owner or his/her agent of said premises shall, upon notification by
the town, through its duly constituted agent, in such a way as to comply with
subsection
8-4-2B and sections
8-4-3 and
8-4-7 of this chapter, remove, trim or prune such trees, hedges, or shrubbery.
   B.   Failure To Comply: In the event the owner or his/her agent of said
premises after due notice by the town, fails or neglects to remove or trim such
trees, hedges or shrubbery, the town is hereby authorized to remove, prune or
trim such trees, hedges or shrubbery, and the commission may levy a special
maintenance assessment upon the property where said trees, hedges or shrubbery
are grown, according to state law, to defray the expenses or repay the agent
for monies expended by the town in doing such work, and such assessment shall
be collected as provided by law, and shall be a lien upon the property so
assessed until paid.
   C.   Appeal: The property owner has the right to appeal any recommendation
of the tree board to the town commission. (Ord. 103, 3-18-1993)
CHAPTER 5
LION'S PARK
SECTION:
8-5-1: Fishing
8-5-2: Overnight Parking And Camping
8-5-1: FISHING:
   A.   Restricted: No person over the age of twelve (12) years will be allowed
to fish in the Lion's Park pond.
   B.   Violation: Anyone found to be fishing in the Lion's Park pond who is
over the age of twelve (12) years will be issued a citation by any law
enforcement agency of the state and brought before the city court. (Ord. 119,
6-8-1995)
   C.   Penalty: Fines for any citation issued for the illegal fishing in the
Lion's Park pond will be one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense,
maximum of three hundred dollars ($300.00) and one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for each subsequent offense, plus a twenty dollar ($20.00) surcharge. (Ord.
127, 7-10-1997)
8-5-2: OVERNIGHT PARKING AND CAMPING:
   A.   Definitions:
   CAMPING: Setting up of any sort of temporary place in which to eat, and/or
sleep.
   PARKING: The standing of a motor vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise
than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading.
   VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, road, street, or alley.
   B.   Prohibited: No vehicles shall be allowed to park overnight anywhere in
the Lion's Park area. Overnight shall be deemed to be any time from eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. until six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following morning. No
individual shall be allowed to camp, either in motor vehicle, tent or sleeping
gear anywhere in the Lion's Park area.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision or provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable by a fine of not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) or more than three hundred dollars
($300.00), plus a twenty dollar ($20.00) surcharge. (Ord. 128, 7-10-1997)
CHAPTER 6
CAMPING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-6-1: Purpose
8-6-2: Definitions
8-6-3: Unlawful Camping Or Storage Of Personal Property In Public Places
8-6-4: Penalty For Violations
8-6-5: Enforcement
8-6-6: Plain Meaning
8-6-7: Conflicts
8-6-8: Montana Code Annotated Crimes And Criminal Procedures
8-6-9: Adoption
8-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to prevent harm to the health or safety of the
public and to promote the public health, safety and general welfare by
prohibiting camping and storage of personal property on public property, which
interferes with the rights of others to use the areas in the manner for which
it is intended. (Ord. 153, 12-8-2022)
8-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions are applicable to this chapter:
                             A public or private shelter, with an available
                             overnight space, open to an individual
AVAILABLE OVERNIGHT SHELTER: experiencing homelessness at no charge. Available
                             overnight shelter also includes a hotel or motel
                             that is made available to an individual
                             experiencing homelessness at no charge.
                             To erect, pitch, use, park, place, install, or
                             occupy camp facilities for the purposes of
CAMP or CAMPING:             habitation, occupancy or dwelling either temporary
                             or permanent as evidenced by the use of camping
                             equipment or paraphernalia or vehicle.
                             Includes, but is not limited to, tents, huts,
                             temporary shelters and vehicles. "Camp facilities"
CAMP or CAMPING FACILITIES:  does not include tents, huts, or temporary
                             shelters or vehicles when used temporarily in a
                             park for recreation or play during daylight hours
                             when the park is open to the public.
                             Includes, but is not limited to, tarpaulins, cots,
                             beds, sleeping bags, blankets, mattresses,
CAMP PARAPHERNALIA:          hammocks or cooking facilities or equipment. Any
                             vehicle used for camping shall be considered
                             camping paraphernalia or camping facilities.
                             A permit issued by the Town of Ennis pursuant to
CAMPING PERMIT:              this chapter that allows, permits or authorizes a
                             person to camp. No camp or camping shall be
                             allowed without a valid camping permit.
                             Any publicly owned area controlled or owned by the
PUBLIC PARK:                 Town of Ennis or other governmental entity for
                             park purposes, including all associated areas,
                             including parking lots, buildings and grounds.
                             Any real property, building, structure, equipment,
                             sign, shelter, vegetation, trail, and public open
PUBLIC PROPERTY:             space, including all associated areas such as
                             parking lots, controlled or owned by the Town of
                             Ennis or any other governmental agency.
                             To put aside or accumulate for use when needed, to
STORE:                       put for safekeeping, to place or leave in a
                             location.
                             Any highway, lane, road, street, right-of-way,
STREET:                      sidewalk, boulevard, alley and every way or place
                             open as a matter of right to public pedestrian and
                             vehicular travel. (Ord. 153, 12-8-2022)
 
8-6-3: UNLAWFUL CAMPING OR STORAGE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY IN PUBLIC PLACES:
No Camp or Camping shall be allowed without a valid Camping Permit or outside
of any designated Camp Grounds.
   A.   Permit Required. Without a valid Camping Permit or Vehicle Camping
provided by this Chapter it shall be a violation for any person to camp or to
store personal property, including camp facilities or camp paraphernalia in any
public park, street, or public property improved or unimproved.
   B.   Camping Permit and Vehicle Permit. The Town Commissioners are hereby
authorized to adopt by Resolution such other and further administrative rules,
regulations, process or procedures to administer this Chapter, including the
authority to issue Camping Permits. Any such rules, regulations, process or
procedures shall comply with the following minimum requirements:
      1.   That Camping Permits are issued free of charge;
      2.   That the Camping Permits must be displayed in a conspicuous manner;
      3.   That the Camping Permits shall require the applicant to provide a
name and valid identification in the form of driver’s license, state issued
identification or other reliable proof of identification;
      4.   That the applicant be advised that any unlawful activity or conduct
shall result in the revocation of any Camping Permit;
      5.   That the Camping Permit shall not be for any period of time
exceeding any forty-eight (48) hour period.
   C.   That Camping is not permitted during the hours of eight o’clock (8:00)
A.M. through ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. Mountain Standard Time; and shall provide
that the applicant receive a copy of this Chapter and the Penalty Section. The
Camping Permit shall show or describe by map or other reasonable means the Camp
Grounds where Camping is permitted.
   D.   Camp Grounds. At the time of the adoption of this Chapter/Ordinance
2022-153 , the Town Commissioners hereby designate the Northern area of vacant
land on which Ennis Town Hall is located as the only allowable Camp Grounds in
the Town of Ennis. The Town shall designate with appropriate signage or other
means the boundaries of the Camp Grounds where Camping by permit shall be
allowed. The Town Commissioners are hereby authorized by Resolution to
designate as deemed reasonable and necessary any Town owned or controlled park
or property as an area for permitted Camping, except Lion’s Park.
   E.   Lion’s Park. Lion’s Park shall not be used for Camping by permit or
otherwise. The Town Commissioners shall have no authority to designate Lion’s
Park as Camp Grounds by Resolution. Use of Lion’s Park as a Camp Ground shall
only be allowed by amendment to this Chapter.
   F.   Open Display of Alcohol or Drugs. Open display, consumption or use of
alcohol, beer, drugs, marijuana, cannabis products, or any controlled
substances shall not be allowed, hereafter “open display.” Open display is a
violation of this Chapter.
   G.   Sanitation. All persons Camping, Storing goods or maintaining a Camp
shall be required to keep the Camp site in a reasonably clean and sanitary
condition, free of unsightly, noxious or odorous refuse, garbage, waste or
debris. Failure to maintain proper sanitation as required is a violation of
this Chapter.
   H.   Vehicle Camping. Vehicle Camping by permit may be allowed subject to
all the conditions of this Chapter, including any Administrative Rules that
shall require that any vehicle used for Vehicle Camping be registered, licensed
and insured.
   I.   Unlawful Conduct. No person or persons Camping by permit or otherwise
shall commit or attempt to commit any crimes or engage in any criminal conduct
as defined by Montana Code Annotated Title 45 Crimes, Chapters 1 - 10.
Commission or attempted commission of any crimes or criminal conduct is a
violation of this Chapter, and may result in separate criminal prosecution in
accordance with MCA. (Ord. 153, 12-8-2022; amd. Ord. 155-2023, 7-27-2023)
8-6-4: PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS:
All violations of this Chapter are civil violations, punishable in accordance
with the following provisions:
   A.   Civil Fine. Failure to strictly comply with any part, provision or
section of this Chapter, any Permit, Camping Permit or Vehicle Permit or any
other rules, regulations, requirements or administrative provisions, process or
procedures adopted by the Town Commissioners shall be considered a civil code
violation punishable by fine as follows:
      1.   First violation a civil fine of no more than one hundred dollars
($100.00);
      2.   Second violation a civil fine of no less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) and no more than two-hundred fifty dollars ($250.00);
      3.   Third and subsequent violation a civil fine of no less than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) per violation.
   B.   Payment Means. Prior to imposing any fine for violation of this
Chapter, the Court shall make an inquiry into a person's ability to pay. In
lieu of any civil fine the Court may order the person to perform community
service. (Ord. 153, 12-8-2022; amd. Ord. 155-2023, 7-27-2023)
8-6-5: ENFORCEMENT:
The Ennis Police Department and any other law enforcement agency in the State
of Montana is authorized to enforce the provisions of this Chapter.
   A.   Camp Grounds or Designate Area. Any person who establishes a Camp or
Vehicle Camp or is Camping outside of any designated Camp Grounds or Designated
Area shall be in violation of this Chapter subject to all penalty provisions
and civil fines. A valid Camping Permit or Vehicle Camping Permit shall be no
defense to any violation if the person’s activity, site, camp, storage, vehicle
camp or other campsite is outside of a Designated Area or or Camp Grounds.
   B.   Homelessness Defense.
      1.   Any person who is homeless and for whom no homeless shelter or space
is available may defend a violation of this Chapter on credible evidence
showing that the person is homeless and that no homeless shelter is available
at the time of the alleged violation. As a condition precedent to the
availability of the defense provided herein, the person must show that the
person was in possession of a valid Camping Permit.
      2.   Any person who does not have a valid Camping Permit or Vehicle
Camping Permit shall not be entitled to assert the Homelessness Defense.
      3.   The Homelessness Defense shall not be available to any person
charged with a violation of the provisions of this Chapter regarding
“Sanitation” “Open Display of Alcohol or Drugs” or “Unlawful Conduct.”
Severability. If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance
should be held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect the validity or
constitutionality of any other section, sentence, clause or phrase of this
Ordinance. (Ord. 153, 12-8-2022; amd. Ord. 155-2023, 7-27-2023)
8-6-6: PLAIN MEANING:
The words, phrases and language used throughout shall be given plain meaning to
allow for reasonable interpretation, to avoid ambiguity and to accomplish the
goals or purposes of this Chapter. (Ord. 155-2023, 7-27-2023)
8-6-7: CONFLICTS:
Conflicts with other parts of the Town Code shall be avoided whenever possible.
If in the event any definitions, parts, sections, words, phrases, language or
Administrative Rules adopted pursuant to this Chapter actually conflict with
any other parts, sections, provisions or definitions in the Town Code, then the
stricter requirement shall apply. (Ord. 155-2023, 7-27-2023)
8-6-8: MONTANA CODE ANNOTATED CRIMES AND CRIMINAL PROCEDURES:
Nothing in this Chapter is intended to conflict with, supersede or otherwise
limit the Ennis Police Department, or any other law enforcement agency with
authority to enforce the provisions of this Chapter, in any manner whatsoever
regarding the enforcement of MCA Title 45. Enforcement of this Town Code Title
8, Chapter 6, shall not subject anyone to double jeopardy and nothing in this
Chapter shall provide a defense to the prosecution of crimes that may be
charged separately in accordance with applicable law. (Ord. 155-2023, 7-27-
2023)
8-6-9: ADOPTION:
This chapter shall be in full force and effect thirty (30) days after second
reading, passage and publication as required by law. (Ord. 153, 12-8-2022; amd.
Ord. 155-2023, 7-27-2023)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLUMBERS 1
SECTION:
9-1-1: Unlicensed Plumbers
9-1-2: Licensed Plumber
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 37-60-102.
9-1-1: UNLICENSED PLUMBERS:
Any person constructing a residence, home, commercial building, or other
structure within the town is authorized to employ such person as he may see fit
in and about the field of plumbing upon such residence, home, commercial
building, or structure, whether or not such person has obtained a license from
the state; providing, that a duly licensed plumber is not reasonably available
to perform such duties. (Prior Code § 15.02.010)
9-1-2: LICENSED PLUMBER:
An unlicensed plumber shall not be permitted to practice in the field of
plumbing within the town limits until he has been duly licensed by the state.
(Prior Code § 15.02.020; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
NUMBERING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Required
9-2-2: Designation Of Numbers
9-2-1: REQUIRED:
All buildings, residential or commercial, fronting on public streets, avenues
and highways in the town shall be numbered in conformity with the following
provisions:
   A.   Odd numbers shall be given to houses on the east and south sides of the
streets, avenues and highways and even numbers on the west and north sides of
the same.
   B.   Numbers increase in increments of two (2) for each twenty five feet
(25').
   C.   Numbering starts at South First Street and North First Street running
east and west therefrom; and East Main Street and West Main Street (State
Highway 287) running north and south therefrom.
   D.   Numbers increase in increments of one hundred (100) for each block or
major division.
   E.   Houses sitting behind another house are assigned a one-half (1/2)
number. If there are multiple residences on a single lot, the primary residence
gets the full number and the remaining residences or apartments are assigned A,
B, C, etc. Unless a single apartment unit is attached to a building, it will be
given its own number. Duplexes or apartments which have their own entrance and
at least twenty five feet (25') of street access will be designated by a full
number. Duplexes or apartments which share a common foyer will be designated A,
B, C, etc. (Prior Code § 15.04.010)
9-2-2: DESIGNATION OF NUMBERS:
The mayor or his designated representative shall designate the numbers of all
buildings in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, allowing one
number for each twenty five feet (25') for each occupied or vacant ground, and
shall assign the owner of each building, now or hereafter built, with its
proper number as soon as completed. When any building is not correctly numbered
or not numbered at all, the mayor or his designated representative shall give
such a building its proper number and require the same to be put on such
building in a conspicuous place next to the street, at the expense of the
owner.
   A.   Size Of Figures: Each figure of the number of the building shall be at
least three inches (3") in length and corresponding width.
   B.   Failure To Comply: In case any owner or occupant, after having been
requested to do so by the mayor or his designated representative, shall refuse
or neglect for ten (10) days to number a building as required, or shall attempt
to number such building otherwise than in conformity with this chapter and the
requirements of said mayor or his designated representative, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Prior Code § 15.04.020; amd. 2003 Code)
TITLE 10
SEWER AND WATER
CHAPTER 1
REGULATION OF SEWER USE 1
SECTION:
10-1-1: Definitions
10-1-2: Use Required; Prohibited Acts
10-1-3: Sanitary Sewers, Building Sewers And Connections
10-1-4: Restrictions On Use Of Public Sewers
10-1-5: Tampering With Facilities
10-1-6: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
10-1-7: Hearing Board
10-1-8: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. MCA §§ 7-13-4201, 7-13-4301, 7-13-4304 et seq.
   
10-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C) expressed in milligrams per
liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge of wastewater and other drainage pipes inside the
wall of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five feet
(5') (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: A sewer intended to receive wastewater.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water is prohibited.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
ENGINEER: The person designated with that title by the town or licensed
professional civil or sanitary engineer authorized by the town commission to
act as the town's engineer.
FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. Wastewater shall not be considered free of floatable fat if it
interferes with the collection system.
GARBAGE: Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparation,
cooking and serving of foods.
HEARING BOARD: That board appointed according to the provisions of section
10-1-7 of this chapter.
INDUSTRIAL USER: A. Any user which discharges more than the equivalent of
twenty five thousand (25,000) gallons per day (gpd) of sanitary wastes and
which is identified in the "Standard Industrial Classifications Manual", 1972,
office of management and budget, as amended and supplemented under one of the
following divisions:
Division A: Agriculture, forestry and fishing
Division B: Mining
Division C: Manufacturing
Division D: Transportation, communications, electric, gas and sanitary services
Division E: Services; or
   B.   Any user which discharges wastewater to the treatment works which
contains toxic pollutants or poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient
quantity either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to contaminate the
sludge of any town system, or to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment
process, or which constitutes a hazard to humans, or animals, creates a public
nuisance, or creates a hazard in or has an adverse effect on the waters
receiving any discharge from the treatment works.
INFILTRATION: Water other than wastewater that enters a sewage system
(including sewer service connections) from the ground through such means as
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manholes. Infiltration does not
include, and is distinguished from, inflow.
INFILTRATION/INFLOW: The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
INFLOW: Water other than wastewater and infiltration that enters a sewage
system.
INTERCEPTOR SEWER: A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport wastewater
from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
LATERAL SEWER: A sewer that discharges into another sewer and has no other
common sewer tributary to it.
MAY: Permissive (see definition of Shall).
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet, including storm sewers and grandfathered combined
sewer overflows into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface
or ground water.
OUTFALL SEWER: A sewer that receives wastewater from a collecting system or
from a treatment plant and carries it to a final discharge point.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogen ion
concentration of 10-7.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewer, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 centimeters) in
any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that carries liquid and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
SEPTIC TANK: Any properly sized watertight receptacle which receives the
discharge of sewage or wastewater and is designed and constructed to retain
solids, digest organic matter through a period of detention and allow liquids
to discharge into the soil outside of the tank through a system of open joint
piping or from a seepage pit meeting the requirements of the uniform plumbing
code is prohibited within the town limits.
SEPTIC TANK WASTES: That portion of the tank contents, including solids,
liquids and combinations thereof, that is periodically pumped and disposed of.
SEWAGE: The spent water of a community. The preferred term is "wastewater".
SEWAGE COLLECTION SYSTEM: Each and all of the common lateral sewers within a
publicly owned treatment system which are primarily installed to receive
wastewater directly from facilities which convey wastewater from individual
structures or from private property and which include service connection
fittings designed for connection with those facilities. The facilities which
convey wastewater from individual structures, from private property to the
public lateral sewer, or its equivalent, are specifically excluded from the
definition, with the exception of pumping units and pressurized lines, for
individual structures or groups of structures when such units are owned and
maintained by the town.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
SHALL: Mandatory (see definition of May).
SLUG: Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any given
constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer
than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average twenty four (24)
hour concentration or flows during normal operations and shall adversely affect
the collection system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
STORM DRAIN OR STORM SEWER: A drain or sewer for conveying water, groundwater,
subsurface water, or unpolluted water from any source.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Total suspended matter (TSS) that either floats on the
surface of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, and
that is removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in "Standard Methods
For The Examination Of Water And Wastewater" and referred to as nonfilterable
residue.
TOWN: The town of Ennis, Montana.
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
WASTEWATER: The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and self-contained motor homes/mobile
trailers and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface water and
stormwater that may be present.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with "waste treatment plant", "wastewater treatment facility", "wastewater
treatment plant", or "water pollution control plant".
WATERCOURSE: A neutral or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-1-2: USE REQUIRED; PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Prohibited Deposits: It shall be unlawful for any person to place,
deposit, or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or
private property within the town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said
town, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or any other objectionable waste.
   B.   Discharge Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural
outlet within the town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any
sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Construction Of Privy, Septic Tank, And Cesspool: Except as herein
provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool, dumping station for transient vehicles, or other
facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   D.   Connection Required: The owner of any house, building, or property used
for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purpose, situated within
the town and abutting on any street, alley, or right of way in which there is
now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the
town, is hereby required at the owner's expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter within thirty
(30) days after date of official notice to do so. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-1-3: SANITARY SEWERS, BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connection with, or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the town's
designated representative(s).
   B.   Classes Of Permit; Application; Fee: There shall be two (2) classes of
building sewer permits: 1) for residential and commercial service, and 2) for
service to establishments producing industrial wastes. In either case, the
owner or agent shall make application on a form furnished by the town. The
permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the director of public
works or town engineer. A permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the town
at the time the application is filed 1 .
   C.   Costs And Expenses; Indemnification: All costs and expenses incidental
to the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the
owner. The owner shall indemnify the town from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
The owner shall be responsible for the sewer line from the main sewer line to
the house, building, structure, etc., that it hooks to.
   D.   Separate Sewer Required: A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every building; except where one building stands at the
rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer. The town does not
and will not assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or
resulting from any such single connection aforementioned.
   E.   Use Of Old House Sewers: Old house sewers, or portions thereof, may be
approved for use by the director of public works. The director of public works
may require that the old sewer be excavated for the purpose of facilitating
inspection. No old cesspool or septic tank shall be connected to any portion of
a house sewer that is also connected to a public sewer. Any and all abandoned
sewer service lines shall be capped by the owner of the real property at the
time the line is disconnected.
   F.   Construction Specifications: The size, slope, alignment, materials of
construction of all sanitary sewers, including building sewers, and the methods
to be used in excavation, placing of pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling
the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing
code or other applicable rules and regulations of the town and the state. In
the absence of suitable code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM
and WPCF manual of practice no. 9 shall apply.
   G.   Elevation: Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to
the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in
which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the building sewer.
   H.   Surface Runoff, Groundwater Prohibited: No person shall make connection
of roof downspouts, foundation drains, areaway drains, cellar sump pumps, or
other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building
drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary
sewer.
   I.   Connection: The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer
shall conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town and the state, or the procedures
set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF manual of
practice no. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight and
verified by proper testing.
   J.   Supervision; Inspection: The applicant for the building sewer permit
shall notify the director of public works when the building sewer is ready for
inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection and testing shall
be made under the supervision of the director of public works or
representative.
   K.   Excavations; Barricades: All excavations for building sewer
installations shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to the town. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-3-6 of this title.
10-1-4: RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   Discharge Prohibited: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any unpolluted waters such as stormwater, surface water,
groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, or cooling water (air
conditioning) to any sewer.
   B.   Unpolluted Drainage: Stormwater and all other drainage shall be
discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to
a natural outlet approved by the appropriate regulatory agencies. Unpolluted
industrial cooling water or process waters may be discharged, on approval of
the state or federal regulatory agency, to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
   C.   Prohibited Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel, oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      2.   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or gases
in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
contaminate the sludge of any municipal system, to injure or interfere with any
sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a
public nuisance, or create any hazard in or have an adverse effect on the
waters receiving any discharge from the treatment works. Any toxic pollutants
which cause an increase in the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge of
the town treatment works shall pay for such incurred costs.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the wastewater works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either
whole or ground by garbage grinders.
      5.   Septic tank wastes.
   D.   Limited Discharges: The following described substances, materials,
waters, or wastes shall be limited in discharge to municipal systems to
concentrations or quantities which will not harm either the sewer, wastewater
treatment process, or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream, or will not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property,
or constitute a nuisance. The department of environmental quality (DEQ) may set
limitations lower than the limitations established in the regulations below if,
in their opinion, such more severe limitations are necessary to meet the above
objectives. In forming the opinion as to the acceptability, the DEQ and/or town
engineer will give consideration to such factors as the quantity of waste in
relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewer, the wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the
wastewater treatment plant, degree of treatability of the waste in the
wastewater treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The limitations or
restrictions on materials or characteristics of waste or wastewater discharged
to the sanitary sewer which shall not be violated without approval of the
director of public works and DEQ are as follows:
      1.   Wastewater having a temperature higher than one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
      2.   Wastewater containing more than twenty five milligrams per liter (25
mg/l) of petroleum oil, biodegradable cutting oils, or products of mineral
origin.
      3.   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fat, or
grease.
      4.   Any "garbage" that has not been properly shredded (see definition in
section
10-1-1 of this chapter). Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers
from homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering
establishments, or similar places where garbage originates from the preparation
of food in kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the premises or when
served by caterers.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing arsenic, iron, chromium, copper,
mercury, zinc and similar objectionable or toxic substances to such a degree
that any such material received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater
treatment works exceeds the limits established by the state or federal
regulatory agency for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing odor producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the state or federal regulatory agency.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the state or federal
regulatory agency in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      8.   Quantities of flow, concentration, or both which constitute a "slug"
as defined in section
10-1-1 of this chapter.
      9.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment processes employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such a
degree that the wastewater treatment plant effluent cannot meet the
requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the
receiving water.
      10.   Any waters or wastes which, by interaction with other waters or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, from suspended
solids which interface with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processed.
      11.   Any waters or wastes containing DDT, PBB, PCB, or other
carcinogenic compounds to such a degree that any such materials received in the
composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment facility exceeds the limits
established by the state or federal regulatory agency for such materials.
   E.   Authority To Reject, Require Pretreatment Or Control Quantity: If any
waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged to the public
sewers, which contain the substances or possess the characteristics enumerated
in subsection D of this section, and in the judgment of the state or federal
regulatory agency may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater facilities,
processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard
to life or constitute a public nuisance, the director of public works may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by the existing taxes or sewer service charges under the
provisions of chapter 4 of this title.
When considering the above alternatives, the director of public works shall
give consideration to the economic impact of each alternative on the
discharger. If the director of public works permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the director of public
works and the Montana department of health and environmental sciences.
   F.   Interceptors:
      1.   Required: Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when,
in the opinion of the director of public works, they are necessary for the
proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive
amounts, as specified in subsection D3 of this section, or any flammable
wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units.
      2.   Type, Capacity, And Location: All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the director of public works and shall be located as
to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. All
interceptors must be reviewed and approved by the Montana department of health
and environmental sciences.
      3.   Maintenance; Records: In the maintaining of interceptors, the owner
shall clean and dispose of collected materials, and shall maintain records of
the dates, and means of disposal which are subject to review by the director of
public works.
      4.   Removal, Hauling Of Collected Material: Any removal and hauling of
the collected material not performed by the owner's personnel must be performed
by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
   G.   Maintenance Of Pretreatment Or Flow Equalizing Facilities: Where
pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided or required for any
waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his expense.
   H.   Control Manhole: When required by the director of public works, the
owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial waste or
excess flows, BOD, or TSS shall install a suitable structure together with such
necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate
observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such structures, when
required, shall be accessible and safely located, and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the director of public works. The structure
shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and shall be maintained by him
so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   I.   Requirement To Provide Information: The director of public works may
require a user of sewer services to provide information needed to determine
compliance with this chapter. These requirements may include:
      1.   Wastewaters discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period.
      2.   Chemical analyses of wastewaters.
      3.   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality.
      4.   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent,
or other material important to sewer use control.
      5.   A plot plan of sewers of the user's property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location.
      6.   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities.
      7.   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the town sewer.
   J.   Measurement Of Water Characteristics: All measurements, tests and
analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made
in this chapter shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of
"Standard Methods For The Examination Of Water And Wastewater", published by
the American Public Health Association. Sampling methods, location, times,
durations and frequencies are to be determined on an individual basis subject
to the approval of the state or federal regulatory agency.
   K.   Special Agreement And/Or Arrangements Authorized: No statement
contained in this section shall be construed as preventing any special
agreement or arrangement between the town and any industrial concern whereby an
industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the town
for treatment. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-1-5: TAMPERING WITH FACILITIES:
No person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which
is a part of the wastewater facilities. Any person violating this provision
shall be subject to a charge of disorderly conduct. (Per motion dated 3-12-
2009)
10-1-6: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   Right Of Entry: The director of public works and other duly authorized
employees of the town shall be permitted to enter all properties for the
purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing
pertinent to discharge to the community system in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Protection Of Trade Secrets: The director of public works or other duly
authorized employees are authorized to obtain information concerning industrial
processes which have a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to a
wastewater collection system. The industry may withhold information considered
confidential. The industry must establish that the revelation to the public of
the information in question might result in an advantage to competitors.
   C.   Safety Rules Observed: While performing the necessary work on private
properties referred to in subsection A of this section, the director of public
works or duly authorized employees of the town shall observe all safety rules
applicable to the premises established by the company.
   D.   Access To Easements: The director of public works and other duly
authorized employees of the town shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within said agreement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said
easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the easement
pertaining to the private property involved. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-1-7: HEARING BOARD:
   A.   Appointment: A hearing board shall be appointed by the mayor, as
needed, for arbitration of differences between the director of public works and
sewer users on matters concerning interpretation and execution of the
provisions of this chapter by the director of public works.
   B.   Membership: Two (2) members of the board shall be members of the town
commission; one member shall be a lawyer; and one member shall be selected at
large for his interest in accomplishing the objectives of this chapter.
   C.   Cost Of Arbitration: The cost of the arbitration will be divided
equally between the town and the sewer user. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-1-8: PENALTY:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be violating any provision of
this chapter, except section
10-1-5 of this chapter, shall be served by the town with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   B.   Failure To Comply; Fine: Any person who shall continue any violation
beyond the time limit provided for in subsection A of this section, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation.
   C.   Separate Offense: Each day in which any violation shall continue shall
be deemed a separate offense.
   D.   Liability: Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall become liable to the town for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the
town by any reason of such violation. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
CHAPTER 2
WATER AND SEWER CHARGES; BILLING
SECTION:
10-2-1: Charges Assessed Owner
10-2-2: Property Owner/Manager To Designate Receiver Of Statement
10-2-3: Designee Deemed Agent
10-2-4: Liability Of Real Property Owner
10-2-1: CHARGES ASSESSED OWNER:
Charges for water and sewer service supplied by the town water and sewer
systems shall be assessed to the owner of the real property benefited and shall
continue to be an obligation of such owner regardless of who may occupy said
property. Accounts which are sixty (60) days past due may become a lien on the
real property and filed with the county recorder. All filing and attorney costs
will be included in the amount to be collected from the real property owner.
(Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-2-2: PROPERTY OWNER/MANAGER TO DESIGNATE RECEIVER OF STATEMENT:
The owner/manager of property shall have authority to designate, in writing, to
the town clerk/utility clerk, the person to whom the water and/or sewer
statement shall be sent for bookkeeping purposes. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-2-3: DESIGNEE DEEMED AGENT:
The designation by owner of a person to whom such statement shall be sent for
bookkeeping purposes shall be deemed appointment of such person as an agent of
the owner for the purpose of determining extent of use of and receipt of
statement of all charges for water and sewer services supplied by the town.
(Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-2-4: LIABILITY OF REAL PROPERTY OWNER:
The designation, in writing, by owner of real property of the person to whom a
water and/or sewer charges statement shall be sent for bookkeeping purposes
shall in no way relieve the said owner from any liability owed to the town for
water and/or sewer services furnished the real property. (Per motion dated 3-
12-2009)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER SPECIFICATIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Supervision
10-3-2: Definition Of Building Or House Sewer
10-3-3: Specific Requirements
10-3-4: Specifications
10-3-5: Inspection
10-3-6: Permit Fee
10-3-7: Enforcement
10-3-1: SUPERVISION:
The director of public works shall be appointed and shall, under the direction
of the town commission, supervise all house sewer connections and excavations
for the purpose of installing or repairing the same. (Per motion dated 3-12-
2009)
10-3-2: DEFINITION OF BUILDING OR HOUSE SEWER:
The part of the horizontal pipe which begins outside of the wall of a building
and connects the house drain with the main public sewer. (Per motion dated 3-
12-2009)
10-3-3: SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Independent System: Each lot will have its own separate sewer line.
Division of a lot or subdivision will require a separate line.
   B.   Bond: Prior to issuing a permit to connect into the sewer and/or water
lines a bond shall be furnished to the town by the property owner to receive
authorization for opening the street or alley. The streets shall be repaired as
soon as possible, weather permitting. The town shall issue a written
instruction sheet to the property owner, upon receipt of the bond, stating the
responsibilities of the town and the property owner in methods for opening and
replacing the street or alley to a suitable condition. Any bond amount not
needed in replacing the street or alley to a suitable condition will be
refunded to the property owner. In the event the bond does not cover the
expenses for replacement of the street or alley the property owner will be
billed the amount exceeding the bond posted for said replacement costs. The
bond amount for street opening will be set by the commission, reviewed annually
and adjusted when necessary. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-3-4: SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Materials: All house sewers shall be constructed of schedule 40 PVC or
any other material approved by the director of public works.
   B.   Joints: Joints will be glued or gaskets will be used.
   C.   Connections: Connections to the main collection sewer shall either be
at established preexisting Ys installed upon construction or at a watertight
saddle connection approved by the director of public works. The contractor
doing the excavation will make the connection to the sewer.
   D.   Size Of Sewer: Any single-family sewer shall not be less than four
inches (4") in diameter. All other structures may require an engineer's
determination of line size.
   E.   Grades For House Sewers: Unless otherwise authorized, all house sewers
shall have a grade of not less than one-eighth inch (1/8") per foot. A grade of
one-fourth inch (1/4") per foot shall be used wherever practical.
   F.   Trenching And Backfilling: All excavations shall be open trench work
unless otherwise authorized by the director of public works. The foundation in
the trench shall be formed to prevent any subsequent settlement of pipes. If
the foundation is good, firm earth, the earth shall be pared or molded to give
full support to the lower one-third (1/3) of each pipe. Bell holes shall be dug
to provide ample space for pouring of joints. Care must be exercised in
backfilling below the centerline of the pipe in order to give it proper
support. Backfill will be compacted in maximum two foot (2') lifts. Backfilling
shall not be done until final inspection is made by the director of public
works.
   G.   Grease Trap: Any businesses which have a large amount of grease,
lubricants, flammable fluids, such as, but not limited to, gas stations, repair
shops, restaurants, must install and keep in effective continual operation a
grease trap which the town has the right to inspect during normal business
hours.
   H.   Notice Prior To Digging: There will be three (3) calendar days' notice
given to the public works department (or designee) prior to digging. (Per
motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-3-5: INSPECTION:
Each and every part of the house sewer shall be inspected and approved by the
director of public works before being concealed or backfilled. (Per motion
dated 3-12-2009)
10-3-6: PERMIT FEE:
At the time of application for a permit to connect to the town sewer, the
property owner/applicant will pay the town clerk- treasurer the fee for hookup
and inspection, which is set by the Ennis town commission and reviewed on an
annual basis. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-3-7: ENFORCEMENT:
Any person doing any acts in violation of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Provided that prosecution for violations of this chapter
shall not limit the right of the town to require compliance with the terms of
this chapter by appropriate injunctive or other relief in equity or in law.
(Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
CHAPTER 4
SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
SECTION:
10-4-1: Purpose
10-4-2: Total Annual Cost
10-4-3: Surcharge System For Users With Excess BOD And TSS
10-4-4: Each User's Wastewater Service Charge
10-4-5: Wastewater Facilities Replacement Fund
10-4-6: Payment Of Wastewater Service Charges And Penalty
10-4-7: Review Of Wastewater Service Charge
10-4-8: Toxic Pollutants; Increased Cost
10-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter shall be to generate sufficient revenue to pay all
costs for debt service, reserves, depreciation and the operation and
maintenance of the complete wastewater system. The costs shall be distributed
to all users of the system in proportion to each user's contribution to the
total loading of the treatment works. Factors such as strength (BOD and TSS),
volume and delivery flow rate characteristics shall be considered and included
as the basis for the user's contribution to ensure a proportional distribution
of operation and maintenance costs to user or user class. (Per motion dated 3-
12-2009)
10-4-2: TOTAL ANNUAL COST:
The town shall determine the total annual costs of debt service, reserves,
depreciation and operation and maintenance of the wastewater system which are
necessary to maintain the capacity and performance. The total annual cost of
operation and maintenance shall include, but need not be limited to, necessary
modifications, power, sampling, laboratory tests and a reasonable contingency
fund. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-4-3: SURCHARGE SYSTEM FOR USERS WITH EXCESS BOD AND TSS:
The town or its engineer will assess a surcharge rate for all nonresidential
users discharging wastes with BOD and TSS strengths greater than the average
residential user. Such users will be assessed a surcharge sufficient to cover
the cost of treating their above normal strength wastes. Normal strength wastes
are considered to be two hundred (200) ppm BOD and two hundred fifty (250) ppm
TSS. The surcharge rate structure for such above normal strength waste
discharges shall be as shown on file in the office of the town. (Per motion
dated 3-12-2009)
10-4-4: EACH USER'S WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE:
The base rate will be determined by the size of water service line that
supplies the building. This will cover any debt service, reserves and
depreciation. The usage rate charges, used to cover O&M, are billed according
to the amount of metered water that is used during the time between reading the
water meter.
   A.   The user's base rate for sewer is figured by using the volume ratio
unit system (VRU). VRU is established by the water service line size.
      Line Size   Multiplier           
   3/4" x 3/4"   =   9/16 =             1.0
   1" x 1"   =   1 x 16/9 =             1.7
   11/4" x 11/4"   =   1.56 x 16/9 =          2.7
   11/2" x 11/2"   =   2.25 x 16/9 =          4.0
   2" x 2"   =   4 x 16/9 =             7.1
   3" = 16.0 4" = 28.4 6" = 64.0 8" = 113.7
(Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-4-5: WASTEWATER FACILITIES REPLACEMENT FUND:
A reserve fund called the wastewater facilities replacement fund is hereby
established within the wastewater utility fund for the purpose of providing
sufficient funds to be expended for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories and appurtenances during the useful life of the wastewater
treatment facilities necessary to maintain the capacity and performance for
which such facilities are designed and constructed. The fund schedule shall be
such as is shown on file in the office of the town clerk- treasurer. The fund
will be reviewed on an annual basis by the town commission. (Per motion dated
3-12-2009)
10-4-6: PAYMENT OF WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES AND PENALTY:
Charges will be billed to users on a monthly basis. Charges that remain due
after thirty (30) days are considered past due and will be assessed a two
percent (2%) penalty charge. After sixty (60) days, if the balance remains due,
the town may stop wastewater and water service to the property. (Per motion
dated 3-12-2009)
10-4-7: REVIEW OF WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE:
The town shall review the total annual cost of operation, maintenance and
indebtedness annually and will revise the system as necessary to assure equity
of the service charge system established herein and to assure that sufficient
funds are obtained to adequately operate and maintain the wastewater treatment
works. If a significant user, such as an industry, has completed in plant
modifications which would change that user's wastewater contribution, the user
can present, at a regularly scheduled meeting of the town commission, such
factual information and the town shall determine if the user's wastewater
charges are to be changed. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-4-8: TOXIC POLLUTANTS; INCREASED COST 1 :
Each user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in the
cost of managing the effluent or the sludge of the town treatment works shall
pay for such increased costs. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 10-1-4 of this title.
CHAPTER 5
SEWER RATES
SECTION:
10-5-1: Rate Structure Defined
10-5-2: New Account Or Change Of Account
10-5-3: Delinquent Charges
10-5-4: Express Consent
10-5-5: Sewer Enterprise Fund
10-5-6: Nonuse Of Premises
10-5-7: Annexation A Prerequisite
10-5-8: Public Hearing For Rate Adjustment
10-5-9: Amendments And Changes By Commission
10-5-1: RATE STRUCTURE DEFINED:
   A.   Basis: The monthly charges for sewer will be based on:
Established base rate x multiplier + water usage = monthly sewer charge
   B.   Water Usage: Water usage, as determined by metering, is charged in one
thousand (1,000) gallon increments. Sewer charges will be determined in the
same manner. Therefore, the amount of water usage that has been metered will be
the amount charged for sewer use.
   C.   Lawn And Garden Sprinkling: During the months that lawn and garden
sprinkling occur, the user's average sewer charges of four (4) months during
nonsprinkling use will be used. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-5-2: NEW ACCOUNT OR CHANGE OF ACCOUNT:
   A.   Transfer Or Setup Fee: Any new account or change to an existing
account, for bookkeeping purposes, will be charged a fee for the transfer or
setup of said account. The fee will be ten dollars ($10.00) for the
aforementioned bookkeeping processes.
   B.   Designated Receiver: In the event that a property owner is designating
the monthly charges to be sent to a designated receiver, the fee must be paid
at the time the written designation is presented to the clerk/utility clerk by
the property owner. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-5-3: DELINQUENT CHARGES:
Any accounts that are sixty (60) days past due are considered delinquent. The
town may suspend water service, file legal action to collect any delinquent
account or file a lien on the property to have the past due amount collected
with the real property owner's taxes. With any action for collection, filing
fees and/or attorney fees will be included in the collection amount sought.
(Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-5-4: EXPRESS CONSENT:
The rules, regulations, and sewer rates of this title shall be considered a
part of the contract with each sewer user who uses the town sewer system. Each
user of the sewer shall be considered to express their consent to be bound by
the rules and regulations. Failure to know the rules shall not excuse anyone
from penalty for infringement. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-5-5: SEWER ENTERPRISE FUND:
There shall be an account kept by the town clerk-treasurer known as the sewer
enterprise fund and all receipts of the town clerk- treasurer arising from the
charges of sewer use, sale of such property or material connected with the
management or operation of the system or any appropriation made by the town
commission for the purpose of maintenance, construction or extension of the
system shall be recorded in this fund. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-5-6: NONUSE OF PREMISES:
Owner or designated receiver will be required to pay the base rate for sewer
during periods of complete nonuse of premises to meet debt obligation. (Per
motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-5-7: ANNEXATION A PREREQUISITE:
An extraterritorial contiguous property owner who desires town sewer service
must agree to annexation of the property as a prerequisite to connection to the
town sewer system. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-5-8: PUBLIC HEARING FOR RATE ADJUSTMENT:
Prior to any sewer rate adjustments by town commission, under resolution, a
public hearing must be conducted. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-5-9: AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES BY COMMISSION:
These rules and regulations may be amended or changed at any time or more may
be added by the commission as the need arises. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
CHAPTER 6
SEWER CHARGES ON STRUCTURES WITH DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Charges For Use Or Availability For Use
10-6-1: CHARGES FOR USE OR AVAILABILITY FOR USE:
The charges for sewer shall be deemed charges for use or charges for
availability for use. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
CHAPTER 7
RULES AND REGULATIONS OF WATER SYSTEM
SECTION:
10-7-1: Cross Connection Prohibited
10-7-2: Wells And Pumps
10-7-3: Plumbing Open To Inspection
10-7-4: Access By Officials
10-7-5: Meters
10-7-6: Payments And Other Charges
10-7-7: Installation
10-7-8: Rate Structure Defined
10-7-9: Responsibility For All Charges
10-7-10: Reselling Prohibited
10-7-11: Purpose
10-7-12: Fees And Charges
10-7-13: Amendments And Changes By Commission
10-7-14: Turning Off Water For Violations
10-7-15: Unlawful Turning On Of Water
10-7-16: Specifications
10-7-17: Inspection
10-7-18: Permit Fee
10-7-19: Enforcement
10-7-1: CROSS CONNECTION PROHIBITED:
There shall not be any cross connections between the individual wells and pumps
and the town water system. The line from the town water supply must be separate
from that of the private well and pump. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-7-2: WELLS AND PUMPS:
Present wells and pumps may be retained for outside water only, lawns, gardens,
etc. All water inside residences, business places, public institutions, or for
any commercial use must be town water.
   A.   Sale Of Property; Connection Required: Any time real property is sold
which is presently using a well for inside water use, the property for sale
must be connected to the town's water system prior to sale.
   B.   New Wells: No new wells may be drilled within the town limits except
for irrigation purposes only. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-7-3: PLUMBING OPEN TO INSPECTION:
Plumbing shall be open to inspection by the director of public works or other
designated officials. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-7-4: ACCESS BY OFFICIALS:
   A.   Right Of Entry: The director of public works or other designated
officials shall have access at all reasonable hours to the premises of the
customer for the purpose of reading or testing of meters, installing, removing,
or replacing the town's property and for other purposes incident to the
supplying of service.
   B.   Access To Easements: The director of public works and other duly
authorized employees of the town shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the water facilities lying
within said agreement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the easement pertaining to
the private property involved. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-7-5: METERS:
   A.   Purchase From Town: Meters are the property of the property owner.
Meters will be purchased from the town at cost.
   B.   Special Fittings For Connecting Meters: Special fittings are required
for connecting meters into the water line. These are a part of the owner's
property. These connections are purchased from the town at cost.
   C.   Damage: The property owner shall be held responsible for damage
resulting from neglect, carelessness, freezing, or tampering with meters. If
the meter is not operating properly, the director of public works should be
notified.
   D.   Placement:
      1.   Unable To Place In Basement: Meters shall be placed in the basement
wherever practical. When this is not possible or not convenient, the meter may
be placed in the bathroom, kitchen, or in any other heated place, or in an
insulated box outside the building. The insulated box is to be provided by the
property owner and constructed according to specifications. The director of
public works should be consulted.
      2.   Placement In Basement: Meters placed in basements must be placed
sufficiently high above the floor so that seepage water will not reach them.
   E.   Tampering: Any person caught tampering with their water meter to alter
the meter reading or disconnecting their meter shall be considered guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   F.   Estimated Usage: The town has the right to estimate the water usage if
a meter is found faulty, the meter has been altered, or the meter/remote is
inaccessible, for any reason, to be read.
   G.   Meter Reading: It shall be the property owner's or resident of the
property's responsibility to read their own meter each month and report the
reading to the utility clerk unless the building has a remote accessible to the
meter reader, then the town will read the meter. The town will read the meter
for business establishments. If a person fails to read their meter and report
it to the town, the town reserves the right to estimate the meter reading. (Per
motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-7-6: PAYMENTS AND OTHER CHARGES:
   A.   Due Date: Water bills will be due on the fifteenth of the month.
   B.   Disconnection:
      1.   Power To Disconnect: Water may be shut off if after sixty (60) days
water charges have not been paid.
      2.   Notice: Seventy two (72) hours' written notice will be given the
customer in addition to the sixty (60) days.
      3.   Reconnection; Fee: Whenever service is disconnected under this rule,
the town will not be required to restore service until full payment has been
made plus a charge of twenty dollars ($20.00) has been paid for turning the
water back on.
   C.   Nonemergency Disconnection At Request Of Owner: After payment of
fifteen dollars ($15.00) from the property owner or designated agent, water may
be turned off on property that will be vacant and the base rate will be charged
while the property is vacant. If the water is not turned off at the main when
the property is vacant, property owner or designated agent will be charged the
base rate. A charge of fifteen dollars ($15.00) will be assessed to restore the
service. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
   D.   Unintentional High Water Usage: Unintentional high water usage may, at
the discretion of the public works director, be adjusted.
There will be a charge for water leaks before the meter. The charge will be
fifty dollars ($50.00) one inch (1") or smaller and one hundred dollars
($100.00) for lines larger than one inch (1"). (Ord. 138, 7-12-2012)
10-7-7: INSTALLATION:
   A.   Location: All water pipes laid in the ground shall not be nearer than
ten feet (10') to any sewer line, septic tank, or cesspool.
   B.   Gate Valve Or Ball Valve: Either a gate or ball valve must be placed
ahead of the meter. Such valve is usually placed where the water line comes
into the building.
   C.   Standards Applicable: AWWA/state standards apply.
   D.   Costs And Expenses; Indemnification: All costs and expenses incidental
to the installation and connection of the building water shall be borne by the
owner. The owner shall indemnify the town from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building water.
The owner shall be responsible for the water line from the main water line to
the house, building, structure, etc., that it hooks to.
   E.   Separate Water Required: A separate and independent water connection
shall be provided for every building; except where one building stands at the
rear of another on an interior lot and no private water line is available or
can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, street,
court, yard or driveway. The water service line from the front building may be
extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one water service.
The town does not and will not assume any obligation or responsibility for
damage caused by or resulting from any such single connection aforementioned.
   F.   Supervision; Inspection: The applicant for the building water permit
shall notify the director of public works when the building water service is
ready for inspection and connection to the public water supply. The connection
and testing shall be made under the supervision of the director of public works
or representative.
   G.   Excavations; Barricades: All excavations for building water line
installations shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to the town.
   H.   Independent System: Each lot will have its own separate water line.
Division of lot or subdivision will require a separate line.
   I.   Bond: Prior to issuing a permit to connect into the water lines a bond
shall be furnished to the town by the property owner to receive authorization
for opening the street or alley. The streets shall be repaired as soon as
possible, weather permitting. The town shall issue a written instruction sheet
to the property owner, upon receipt of the bond, stating the responsibilities
of the town and the property owner in methods for opening and replacing the
street or alley to a suitable condition. Any bond amount not needed in
replacing the street or alley to a suitable condition will be refunded to the
property owner. In the event the bond does not cover the expenses for
replacement of the street or alley the property owner will be billed the amount
exceeding the bond posted for said replacement costs. The bond amount for
street opening will be reviewed and set by the commission annually and may be
adjusted when necessary.
   J.   Annexation A Prerequisite: An extraterritorial contiguous property
owner who desires town water service must agree to annexation of the property
as a prerequisite to connection to the town water system.
   K.   Notice Prior To Digging: There will be three (3) calendar days' notice
given to the public works department (or designee) prior to digging. (Per
motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-7-8: RATE STRUCTURE DEFINED:
   A.   Monthly Charges: The monthly charges for water will be based on:
Established base rate + water usage = monthly water charge
   B.   Base Rate: The base rate for water is established according to the
service line size. The charge for water, according to the monthly meter
reading, is charged at a rate per one thousand (1,000) gallons of water used.
   C.   Annual Review And Adjustment Of Rates And Charges: The base rate and
monthly usage charge will be set by the town commission, reviewed annually and
adjusted when necessary. Any changes in the rates/charges will be done by
resolution.
   D.   Nonuse Of Premises: Owner or designated receiver will be required to
pay the base rate for water during periods of complete nonuse of premises to
meet debt obligation.
   E.   Public Hearing For Rate Adjustment: Prior to any water rate adjustments
by town commission, under resolution, a public hearing must be conducted. (Per
motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-7-9: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ALL CHARGES:
When there are two (2) or more residences owned by the same person, the
property owner shall be responsible for the payment of all charges and for the
payment of all water that passes through that meter. (Per motion dated 3-12-
2009)
10-7-10: RESELLING PROHIBITED:
The reselling of water is prohibited. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-7-11: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter shall be to generate sufficient revenue to pay all
costs for debt service, reserves, depreciation and the operation and
maintenance of the complete water system. The costs shall be distributed to all
users of the system in proportion to each user's contribution to the total
usage of the water system.
   A.   Total Annual Cost: The town shall determine the total annual costs of
debt service, reserves, depreciation and operation and maintenance of the water
system which are necessary to maintain the capacity and performance. The total
annual cost of operation and maintenance shall include, but not be limited to,
necessary modifications, power, sampling, laboratory tests and reasonable
contingency fund.
   B.   Water System Replacement Fund: A reserve fund called the water
facilities replacement fund is hereby established within the water utility fund
for the purpose of providing sufficient funds to be expended for obtaining and
installing equipment, accessories and appurtenances during the useful life of
the water system necessary to maintain the capacity and performance for which
such facilities are designed and constructed. The fund schedule shall be such
as is shown on file in the office of the town clerk-treasurer. The fund will be
reviewed on an annual basis by the town commission.
   C.   Review Of Water Service Charge: The town shall review the total annual
cost of operation, maintenance and indebtedness annually and will revise the
system as necessary to assure equity of the service charge system established
herein and to assure that sufficient funds are obtained to adequately operate
and maintain the water system. If a significant user, such as an industry, has
completed in plant modifications which would change that user's water
contribution, the user can present, at a regularly scheduled meeting of the
town commission, such factual information and the town shall determine if the
user's water charges are to be changed. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-7-12: FEES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Connection And Inspection Charge: There shall be a connection and
inspection charge for each and every new installation of water service within
the town.
   B.   Installation Costs: The owner of the property to which new service is
furnished shall, in addition thereto, contract for and pay for all charges of
installation of the service from the water main to the structure served and
shall in addition pay the town for the meter as required by the town. The
contractor performing such service shall be licensed within the town and shall
complete the construction to the satisfaction of the director of public works
and any other inspector as required by law.
   C.   Owner Responsibility: The owner shall be responsible for water line
from the main line to the structure and maintain working curb stops. Should a
curb stop be found to be defective the owner has sixty (60) days, after
notification from the town, to repair nonworking curb stops. After sixty (60)
days, if the curb stop has not been repaired, the town of Ennis will order
repairs to be done and the property owner will be charged for said repairs.
Water service may be disconnected until any and all outstanding charges are
paid in full or satisfactory arrangements are made for payment prior to
disconnection. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-7-13: AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES BY COMMISSION:
These rules and regulations may be amended or changed at any time or more may
be added by the commission as the need arises. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-7-14: TURNING OFF WATER FOR VIOLATIONS:
Violation of any one or more of the above rules and regulations is sufficient
cause for the water being turned off by the director of public works or order
from the commission until such violation has been corrected. (Per motion dated
3-12-2009)
10-7-15: UNLAWFUL TURNING ON OF WATER:
Any person residing either inside or outside of the corporate limits of the
town, who furnishes water as a public utility, who shall wilfully turn on the
water after the same shall have been shut off by or under the direction of the
town for nonpayment of water charges, or who shall wilfully open and use water
from a fire hydrant without first getting consent from the mayor or director of
public works, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-7-16: SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Materials: All house water services will meet American Waterworks
Association (AWWA) standards.
   B.   Size Of Water Service: Any single-family house water service line shall
not be less than three-fourths inch (3/4") in diameter. Some structures may
require an engineer's determination of line size.
   C.   Trenching And Backfilling: All excavations shall be open trench work
unless otherwise authorized by the director of public works. The foundation in
the trench shall be formed to prevent any subsequent settlement of pipes. If
the foundation is good, firm earth, the earth shall be pared or molded to give
full support to the lower one-third (1/3) of each pipe. Bell holes shall be dug
to provide ample space for pouring of joints. Care must be exercised in
backfilling below centerline of the pipe in order to give it proper support.
Backfill will be compacted in maximum two foot (2') lifts.
   D.   Notice Prior To Digging: Three (3) calendar days' notice is to be given
to the director of public works or designated representative of town prior to
digging. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-7-17: INSPECTION:
Each and every part of the house water service shall be inspected and approved
by the director of public works before being concealed or backfilled. (Per
motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-7-18: PERMIT FEE:
At the time of application for a permit to connect to the town water system,
the property owner/applicant will pay the town clerk-treasurer a fee for hookup
and inspection, which is set by the Ennis town commission and reviewed on an
annual basis. (Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
10-7-19: ENFORCEMENT:
Any person doing any acts in violation of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Provided that prosecution for violations of this chapter
shall not limit the right of the town to require compliance with the terms of
this chapter by appropriate injunctive or other relief in equity or in law.
(Per motion dated 3-12-2009)
CHAPTER 8
PRETREATMENT ORDINANCE
SECTION:
10-8-1: General Provisions
10-8-1-1: Purpose And Policy
10-8-1-2: Administration
10-8-1-3: Abbreviations
10-8-1-4: Definitions
10-8-2: General Sewer Use Requirements
10-8-2-1: Prohibited Discharge Standards
10-8-2-2: National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
10-8-2-3: Site-Specific Limits
10-8-2-4: Best Management Practices (BMPs)
10-8-2-5: Confidential Business Information
10-8-2-6: Dilution
10-8-3: Pretreatment Of Wastewater
10-8-3-1: Pretreatment Facilities
10-8-3-2: Additional Pretreatment And Monitoring Requirements
10-8-4: Notification And Reporting
10-8-4-1: Industrial User Questionnaire
10-8-4-2: Notification Of Change In Discharge
10-8-4-3: Notification Of Hazardous Waste Discharge
10-8-4-4: Report Of Potential Problems
10-8-4-5: Authorized Signature For Reports
10-8-5: Recordkeeping
10-8-6: Slug Discharge Control
10-8-7: Compliance And Enforcement
10-8-7-1: Time For Compliance
10-8-7-2: Additional Information
10-8-7-3: Right Of Entry
10-8-8: Administrative/Judicial Enforcement Remedies
10-8-8-1: Notification Of Violation
10-8-8-2: Suspension Of Service
10-8-8-3: Administrative Order
10-8-8-4: Administrative Penalty
10-8-8-5: Judicial Enforcement Remedies
10-8-9: Trucked And Hauled Waste
10-8-9-1: Hauled Wastewater
10-8-9-2: RV Disposal Stations
10-8-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
10-8-1-1: PURPOSE AND POLICY:
This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for industrial users ("IUs") of
the publicly owned treatment works ("POTW") for the Town of Ennis related to
pretreatment. It is intended to enable the POTW to comply with its Montana
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System ("MPDES") permit from the Montana
Department of Environmental Quality as well as all applicable State and Federal
laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.) and the General
Pretreatment Regulations (40 CFR Part 403). The objectives of this chapter are:
   A.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will
interfere with its operation;
   B.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will pass
through the POTW, inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be
incompatible with the POTW;
   C.   To protect both POTW personnel who may be affected by wastewater and
sludge in the course of their employment and the general public;
   D.   To promote and protect the reuse and recycling of wastewater and sludge
from the POTW; and
   E.   To enable the POTW to comply with its NPDES permit conditions, sludge
use and disposal requirements, and any other Federal or State laws to which the
POTW is subject.
This chapter shall apply to all IUs of the POTW. (Ord. 152, - -2022)
10-8-1-2: ADMINISTRATION:
Except as otherwise provided herein, the POTW shall administer, implement, and
enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to or duties imposed
upon the POTW may be delegated to a duly authorized municipality employee.
(Ord. 152, - -2022)
10-8-1-3: ABBREVIATIONS:
The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
BOD    - Biochemical Oxygen Demand
BMPs   - Best Management Practices
CFR    - Code of Federal Regulations
CIU    - Categorical Industrial User
COD    - Chemical Oxygen Demand
EPA    - U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
gpd    - gallons per day
IU     - Industrial User
mg/l   - milligrams per liter
MPDE S - Montana Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
POTW   - Publicly Owned Treatment Works
SIU    - Significant Industrial User
TSS    - Total Suspended Solids
U.S.C. - United States Code
 
(Ord. 152, - -2022)
10-8-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
Unless a provision explicitly states otherwise, the following terms and
phrases, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings hereinafter
designated.
ACT or THE     The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act, as
ACT:           amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
               An "authorized or duly authorized representative" of an IU may be:
               1.   If the IU is a corporation:
                  a.   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice-president of the corporation
               in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs similar
               policy or decision making functions for the corporations; or
                  b.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or operating
               facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management decisions which
               govern the operation of the regulated facility including having explicit or implicit
               duty of making major capital investment recommendations, and initiate and direct
               other comprehensive measures to assure long-term environmental compliance with
               environmental laws and regulations; can ensure that the necessary systems are
AUTHORIZED     established or actions taken to gather complete and accurate information for control
REPRESENTATIVE mechanism requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned or
OF THE IU:     delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
               2.   If the IU is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general partner or
               proprietor, respectively.
               3.   If the IU is a federal, state, or local government facility: a director or
               highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
               the activities of the governmental facility, or their designee.
               4.   The individuals described in subparagraphs (1) through (3) of this paragraph,
               may designate another authorized representative if the authorization is in writing,
               the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the overall
               operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having overall
               responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the written
               authorization is submitted to the city.
               Schedules of activities, prohibition of practices, maintenance procedures, and other
BEST           management practices to implement the prohibitions listed in 40 CFR Part 403.5(a)(1)
MANAGEMENT     and (b) and section
PRACTICES or   10-8-2-1 of this chapter. BMPs also include treatment requirements, operating
BMPs:          procedures, and practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or
               waste disposal or drainage from raw materials storage or sector control programs to
               control pollutants from certain non-domestic sectors.
BIOCHEMICAL    The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under
OXYGEN DEMAND  standard laboratory procedures for five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade
or BOD:        (20°C), usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/l).
CATEGORICAL
INDUSTRIAL     Any IUs subject to a categorical pretreatment standard or categorical standard.
USER or CIU:
CATEGORICAL    Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
PRETREATMENT   accordance with sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) that apply to
STANDARD or    a specific category of IUs and that appear in 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts
CATEGORICAL    405-471.
STANDARD:
CHEMICAL       A measure of the oxygen required to oxidize all compounds, both organic and
OXYGEN DEMAND  inorganic, in water.
or COD:
               The term refers to the:
CONTROL        1.   The POTW if the POTW's pretreatment program has been submitted and approved in
AUTHORITY:     accordance with the requirements of § 403.11; or
               2.   The EPA if the POTW's pretreatment program has not been approved.
ENVIRONMENTAL  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water
PROTECTION     Management Division Director, the Regional Administrator, or other duly authorized
AGENCY or EPA: official of said agency.
INDIRECT       The introduction of any pollutant into the POTW from any non-domestic source
DISCHARGE or   regulated under Section 307(b), (c) or (d) of the Act.
DISCHARGE:
INDUSTRIAL     A source of indirect discharge.
USER or IU:
               A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other
               sources, both:
               1.   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or operations or its
               sludge processes, use or disposal; and
               2.   Therefore, is a cause of a violation of the Town of Ennis MPDES permit
               (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation) or of the
INTERFERENCE:  prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the following
               statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any more stringent
               State or local regulations: Section 405 of the Act; the Solid Waste Disposal Act,
               including Title II commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery
               Act (RCRA); any State regulations contained in any State sludge management plan
               prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste Disposal Act; the Clean Air Act;
               the Toxic Substances Control Act; and the Marine Protection, Research, and
               Sanctuaries Act.
               Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the POTW upon industrial or
LOCAL LIMIT:   commercial facilities (IUs) to implement the general and specific discharge
               prohibitions listed in 40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and (b) and section
               10-8-2-1 of this chapter.
               Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood products, pathological
MEDICAL WASTE: wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding, surgical wastes, potentially
               contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis wastes.
NONCONTACT     Water used for cooling that does not come into direct contact with any raw material,
COOLING WATER: intermediate product, waste product, or finished product.
               A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United States in quantities or
PASS THROUGH:  concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from
               other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the Town of Ennis
               MPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
               Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company, corporation,
PERSON:        association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental entity, or any other
               legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents, or assigns. This definition
               includes all Federal, State, and local governmental entities.
pH:            A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in standard units.
               Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash, sewage, garbage,
               sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials,
POLLUTANT:     radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar
               dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial wastes, and certain characteristics of
               wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, flow, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity,
               or odor).
               The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of pollutants, or the
               alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater prior to, or in lieu
PRETREATMENT:  of, a discharge of such pollutants into the POTW. This reduction or alteration can
               be obtained by physical, chemical, or biological processes; by process changes; or
               by other means, except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants, unless
               allowed by an applicable pretreatment standard.
PRETREATMENT   Any substantive or procedural requirement related to pretreatment imposed on an IU,
REQUIREMENTS:  other than a pretreatment standard.
PRETREATMENT   Pretreatment standards shall mean prohibited discharge standards, categorical
STANDARDS or   pretreatment standards, and local limits, including BMPs.
STANDARDS:
PROHIBITED
DISCHARGE      Absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain pollutants; these
STANDARDS or   prohibitions appear in section
PROHIBITED     10-8-2-1 of this chapter.
DISCHARGES:
               A treatment works as defined by section 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is
               owned by a State or municipality (as defined by section 502(4) of the Act). This
POTW or        definition includes any devices and systems used in the storage, treatment,
PUBLICLY OWNED recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid
TREATMENT      nature. It also includes sewers, pipes and other conveyances only if they convey
WORKS:         wastewater to a POTW treatment plant. The term also means the municipality as
               defined in section 502(4) of the Act, which has jurisdiction over the indirect
               discharges to and the discharges from such a treatment works.
POTW TREATMENT That portion of the POTW which is designed to provide treatment (including recycling
PLANT:         and reclamation) of municipal sewage and industrial waste.
SEPTIC TANK    Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers,
WASTE:         and septic tanks.
SEWAGE:        Human excrement and gray water (as from showers, dishwashing operations, sinks,
               bathes, or washing machines).
               All IUs subject to Categorical Pretreatment Standards under 40 CFR 403.6 and 40 CFR
               chapter I, subchapter N; and
               1.   Any other IU that:
                  a.   Discharges an average of twenty five thousand (25,000) gallons per day or
SIGNIFICANT    more of process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling water
INDUSTRIAL     and boiler blowdown wastewater);
USER or SIU:      b.   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up five percent (5%) or more
               of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
               plant; or
                  c.   Is designated as such by the control authority on the basis that the IU has
               a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for violating
               any pretreatment standard or requirement (in accordance with 40 CFR 403.8(f)(6)).
               Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration, which could cause a violation of the
               prohibited discharge standards in section
SLUG LOAD or   10-8-2-1 of this chapter. A slug discharge is any discharge of a non-routine,
SLUG           episodic nature, including but not limited to an accidental spill or a non-customary
DISCHARGE:     batch discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass
               through, or in any other way violate the POTW's regulations, local limits or
               pretreatment requirements.
STORM WATER:   Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural precipitation, and
               resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
TOTAL
SUSPENDED      The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water,
SOLIDS,        wastewater, or other liquid, and that is removable by laboratory filtering.
SUSPENDED
SOLIDS or TSS:
               Liquid and water-carried pollutants from residential dwellings, commercial
WASTEWATER:    buildings, industrial and manufacturing facilities, and institutions, whether
               treated or untreated, which are contributed to the POTW. (Ord. 152, - -2022)
 
10-8-2: GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS:
10-8-2-1: PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS:
   A.   General Prohibitions: No IU shall introduce or cause to be introduced
into the POTW any pollutant which causes pass through or interference. These
general prohibitions and the specific prohibitions in subsection B of this
section apply to all IUs of the POTW whether or not they are subject to
categorical pretreatment standards or any other National, State, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements.
   B.   Specific Prohibitions: No IU shall introduce or cause to be introduced
into the POTW the following pollutants:
      1.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) (60°C) using the test
methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
      2.   Wastewater having a pH less than 5.0, or otherwise causing corrosive
structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
      3.   Solid or viscous pollutants in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference. Solid or viscous pollutants
shall not be discharged whole or ground by garbage grinders. This includes, but
is not limited to ashes, cinders, sand, oil and grease from food service
establishments, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, underground garbage, paunch manure, hair and flesh, entrails,
and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc.;
      4.   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause interference
with the POTW;
      5.   Heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW
resulting in Interference, but in no case heat in such quantities that the
temperature at the POTW Treatment Plant exceeds forty degrees Celsius (40°C)
(104°F) unless the approval authority, upon request of the POTW, approves
alternate temperature limits.
      6.   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      7.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      8.   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
by the POTW in accordance with section
10-8-8 of this chapter;
      9.   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
      10.   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the POTW
Treatment Plant, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions, which consequently imparts color to the POTW Treatment Plant's
effluent, thereby violating the Town of Ennis MPDES permit;
      11.   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except in
compliance with applicable State or Federal regulations;
      12.   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the Town of Ennis;
      13.   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      14.   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources, the
POTW Treatment Plant's effluent to fail toxicity tests;
      15.   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other pollutants that might
cause excessive foaming in the POTW or receiving waters:
      16.   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations which could cause a problem to the collection system or the POTW
(e.g., restricted flow in pipes, sewage backups, lift station operation issues,
decreased treatment, etc.);
      17.   Wastewater causing a reading on an explosion hazard meter at the
point of discharge into the POTW, or at any point in the POTW;
   18.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders may
be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants,
hospitals, catering establishment or similar places    where garbage originates
from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the
premises or when served by caterers. However, garbage grinders shall only be
used to grind small amounts of garbage incidental to cleaning of plates,
cookware, etc. and not to dispose of large quantities of waste. Waste must be
scraped into a garbage can prior to cleaning;
      19.   Unusual biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), chemical oxygen demand
(COD), or total suspended solids (TSS) in quantities as to constitute a
significant additional load on the POTW.
      20.   Wastewater containing pollutants which are not amenable to
transport, treatment or reduction in concentration by the POTW and POTW
treatment plant processes employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such a
degree that the POTW treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of
regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over discharge of effluent to the
receiving waters;
      21.   Wastewater which, by interaction with other wastewater in the POTW,
releases obnoxious gases, forms suspended solids which interfere with the
collection system, or creates a condition deleterious to structures and
treatment processes;
      22.   Wastewater causing two (2) readings on an explosion hazard meter at
the point of discharge into the POTW, or at any point in the POTW of more than
five percent (5%) or any single reading over ten percent (10%) of the lower
explosive limit of the meter;
      23.   Liquid wastes from chemical toilets, trailers, campers or other
recreational vehicles which have been collected or held in tanks or other
containers shall not be discharged into the POTW except at locations authorized
by the Town of Ennis to collect such wastes;
      24.   Pollutants, substances, or wastewater prohibited by this subsection
shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged
to the POTW. (Ord. 152, - -2022)
10-8-2-2: NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS:
Categorical industrial users (CIUs) must comply with applicable categorical
pretreatment standards found at 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
In order to facilitate notification from the POTW to the control authority
regarding discharges from CIUs, CIUs shall notify the Town of Ennis at least
ninety (90) days prior to discharge. CIUs also have additional sampling,
reporting, and notification requirements to the control authority. (Ord. 152, -
-2022)
10-8-2-3: SITE-SPECIFIC LIMITS:
The POTW may establish local limits, additional site-specific pollutant limits,
best management practices, or additional pretreatment requirements when, in the
judgment of the Town of Ennis, such limitations are necessary to implement the
provisions of this chapter, including the discharge prohibitions in section
10-8-2-1. These additional limits shall be public noticed prior to
implementation by the Town of Ennis. (Ord. 152, - -2022)
10-8-2-4: BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS):
The POTW may develop BMPs to implement the prohibitions of section
10-8-2-1 of this chapter. BMPs shall be considered pretreatment standards and
local limits for purposes of this chapter and section 307(d) of the Act.
The POTW may establish specific sector control programs for industrial users to
control specific pollutants, as necessary, to meet the objectives of this
chapter. Pollutants subject to these sector control programs will generally be
controlled using BMPs or by permits, as determined by the POTW. These sector
control programs shall not limit the POTW's authority to inspect, sample,
require reports, enforce or otherwise carry out its responsibility under this
chapter.
The specific sector control program BMPs and requirements shall be developed
and documented in a policy, which shall be public noticed. Elements of a BMP-
based sector control program may include, but are not limited to the following:
   A.   Installation of appropriately-sized treatment;
   B.   Requirements for prohibitions on certain practices or discharges;
   C.   Requirements for the operation and maintenance of treatment equipment;
and
   D.   Procedures for compliance certification, reporting and records
retention. (Ord. 152, - -2022)
10-8-2-5: CONFIDENTIAL BUSINESS INFORMATION:
All records, reports, data or other information supplied by any person or
industrial user as a result of any disclosure required by this chapter or
information and data from inspections shall be available for public inspection
except as otherwise provided in this section, 40 CFR Section 403.14 and the
State of Montana. These provisions shall not be applicable to any information
designated as a trade secret by the person supplying such information.
Materials designated as a trade secret may include, but shall not be limited
to: processes, operations, style of work or apparatus or confidential
commercial or statistical data. Any information and data submitted by the
industrial user which is desired to be considered a trade secret shall have the
words, "Confidential Business Information," stamped on each page containing
such information. The industrial user must demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the POTW that the release of such information would divulge information,
processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of
the industrial user.
Information designated as a trade secret pursuant to this subsection shall
remain confidential and shall not be subject to public inspection. Such
information shall be available only to officers, employees or authorized
representatives of the POTW charged with implementing and enforcing the
provisions of this chapter and properly identified representatives of the EPA
and the Montana Department of Environmental Quality. Effluent data from any
industrial user whether obtained by self-monitoring, monitoring by the POTW or
monitoring by any state or federal agency, shall not be considered a trade
secret or otherwise confidential. All such effluent data shall be available for
public inspection. (Ord. 152, - -2022)
10-8-2-6: DILUTION:
No IU shall increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt to dilute
a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment to
achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly authorized by
an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The POTW may impose mass
limitations on IUs who are using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment
standards or requirements, or in other cases when the imposition of mass
limitations is appropriate. (Ord. 152, - -2022)
10-8-3: PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER:
10-8-3-1: PRETREATMENT FACILITIES:
IUs shall provide wastewater treatment, as necessary, to comply with this
chapter and shall achieve compliance prior to discharge. Any facilities
necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the
IU's expense. Detailed plans describing such facilities and operating
procedures shall be submitted to the POTW for review, and shall be acceptable
to the POTW before such facilities are constructed. Acceptance by the POTW of
any such facilities shall not be construed as a guarantee or agreement by the
POTW that such facilities will achieve compliance with this chapter. The review
of such plans and operating procedures shall in no way relieve the IU from the
responsibility of modifying such facilities, as necessary, to produce a
discharge acceptable to the POTW under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
152, - -2022)
10-8-3-2: ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT AND MONITORING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Whenever deemed necessary, the POTW may require an IU to restrict its
discharge, designate that certain wastewater be discharged only into specific
sewers, relocate and/or consolidate points of discharge, separate domestic
wastestreams from nondomestic wastestreams, and impose such other conditions as
may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine the IU's compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   B.   The POTW may require any person discharging into the POTW to install
and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable storage and
flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow.
   C.   The POTW may require any person discharging into the POTW to install at
the owner's or operator's own expense suitable monitoring facilities or
equipment which isolates appropriate wastewater discharges into the wastewater
system and facilitates accurate observation, sampling and measurement of
discharges. The equipment shall be maintained in proper working order and kept
safe and accessible without restriction to POTW personnel at all times. Where
practical, the monitoring equipment shall be located and maintained on the
industrial user's premises outside of the building.
   D.   IUs with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. 152, - -2022)
10-8-4: NOTIFICATION AND REPORTING:
10-8-4-1: INDUSTRIAL USER QUESTIONNAIRE:
If the POTW deems it necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of this
chapter, any IU of the POTW may be required to submit a wastewater discharge
permit application, questionnaire, or other reports and notifications in a
format and timeframe specified by the POTW. In cases where the pretreatment
standard requires compliance with a BMP or pollution prevention alternative,
the industrial user must submit documentation required by the POTW or the
pretreatment standards to determine the compliance status of the industrial
user. Any industrial user subject to this reporting requirement shall submit a
completed report no later than thirty (30) days after receipt of the
notification and appropriate forms. (Ord. 152, - -2022)
10-8-4-2: NOTIFICATION OF CHANGE IN DISCHARGE:
All industrial users shall promptly notify the POTW in advance of any
substantial change in the volume or character of pollutants in their discharge,
including the listed or characteristic hazardous wastes for which the
industrial user has submitted initial notification under 40 CFR section 403.12
(p). Additionally, significant industrial users are required to notify the POTW
immediately of any changes in their facilities affecting potential for a slug
discharge. (Ord. 152, - -2022)
10-8-4-3: NOTIFICATION OF HAZARDOUS WASTE DISCHARGE:
Industrial users shall notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management
Division Director, and the State hazardous waste authorities in writing of any
discharge into the POTW of any substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would
be considered a hazardous waste under 40 CFR section 261. Each industrial user
shall notify the POTW in advance of any substantial change to such discharge.
The specific information required to be reported and the time frames in which
it is to be reported are found at 40 CFR section 403.12(p). (Ord. 152, - -2022)
10-8-4-4: REPORT OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS:
   A.   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to, spills,
accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-
customary batch discharge, a slug discharge or a discharge that may cause
potential problems for the POTW, the industrial user shall immediately
telephone and notify the POTW of the incident. This notification shall include:
      1.   Name of the facility;
      2.   Location of the facility;
      3.   Name of the caller;
      4.   Date and time of the discharge;
      5.   Date and time discharge was halted;
      6.   Location of the discharge;
      7.   Type of waste;
      8.   Estimated volume of the discharge;
      9.   Estimated concentration of pollutants in the discharge;
      10.   Corrective actions taken to halt the discharge; and
      11.   Method of disposal, if applicable.
   B.   Within five (5) working days following such discharge, the industrial
user shall, unless waived by the POTW in writing, submit a detailed written
report describing the cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by
the industrial user to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification
shall not relieve the industrial user of any expense, loss, damage, or other
liability which might be incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, natural
resources, or any other damage to person or property; nor shall such
notification relieve the industrial user of any fines, penalties, or other
liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 152, - -2022)
10-8-4-5: AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE FOR REPORTS:
All reports and questionnaires required to be submitted by the above provisions
shall bear the signature of an authorized representative of the discharging
entity and shall include the following certification statement as set forth in
40 CFR section 403.6(a)(2)(ii):
"I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to ensure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system
or the persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of a fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.”
(Ord. 152, - -2022)
10-8-5: RECORDKEEPING:
All records (including documentation associated with BMPs) shall be retained by
the user for a minimum period of three (3) years, shall be made immediately
available upon request of the POTW at any time during the three (3) year period
or so long as actually retained. (Ord. 152, - -2022)
10-8-6: SLUG DISCHARGE CONTROL:
   A.   Each industrial user shall provide protection from accidental
discharges and slug loads of pollutants regulated under this chapter.
Facilities to prevent the discharge of spills or slug loads shall be provided
and maintained at the industrial user's expense.
   B.   The POTW may evaluate whether each industrial user needs a spill
prevention and control plan or other action to control spills and slug
discharges. The POTW may require an industrial user to develop, submit for
approval, and implement a slug/spill plan or take such other action that may be
necessary to control spills and slug discharges.
   C.   A slug/spill plan shall include, at a minimum, the following:
      1.   Detailed plans (schematics) showing facility layout and plumbing
representative of operating procedures;
      2.   Description of contents and volumes of any process tanks;
      3.   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      4.   Listing of stored chemicals, including location and volumes;
      5.   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of any spill or slug
discharge. It is the responsibility of the industrial user to comply with the
reporting requirements in section
10-8-4.
      6.   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response; and
      7.   Any other information as required by the POTW. (Ord. 152, - -2022)
10-8-7: COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT:
10-8-7-1: TIME FOR COMPLIANCE:
All existing IUs must come into compliance with the terms of this chapter upon
the effective date. (Ord. 152, - -2022)
10-8-7-2: ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
   A.   If the POTW deems it necessary to assure compliance with the provisions
of this chapter, any IU of the POTW may be required to submit a wastewater
discharge permit application, questionnaire, or other reports and notifications
in a format and timeframe specified by the POTW. These requirements may
include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Wastewater discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
      2.   Chemical analysis of wastewater;
      3.   Information on raw materials, processes, and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
      4.   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent,
or other material important to sewer use control;
      5.   A plot plan of sewers on the IU's property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility locations;
      6.   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities;
      7.   Details of system to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the POTW; and
      8.   Signed certification by the authorized representative of the IU.
   B.   The POTW will evaluate the data furnished by the IU and may require
additional information to determine compliance with the provisions of this
Chapter. The POTW may deny the request to discharge non-domestic wastewater to
the POTW or allow discharge under conditions determined by the POTW to protect
against pass through or interference.
   C.   The POTW may require IUs to install monitoring equipment as necessary,
per section
10-8-3 of this chapter. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the IU
at its expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality shall
be calibrated to ensure their accuracy. (Ord. 152, - -2022)
10-8-7-3: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The POTW shall have the right to enter the premises of any IU to determine
whether the IU is complying with all requirements of this chapter. IUs shall
allow the POTW ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of
inspection (including the use of digital photography to gather information),
sampling, records examination and copying, and the performance of any
additional duties. Denial of access shall constitute a violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 152, - -2022)
10-8-8: ADMINISTRATIVE/JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES:
10-8-8-1: NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION:
When the POTW finds that an IU has violated, or continues to violate, any
provision of this chapter or any other pretreatment standard or requirement,
the POTW may serve upon that IU a written notice of violation. Within five (5)
working days of the receipt of such notice, an explanation of the violation and
a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include
specific required actions, shall be submitted by the IU to the Town of Ennis.
Submission of such a plan in no way relieves the IU of liability for any
violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation. If the
plan for correction submitted by the IU is not satisfactory to the Town of
Ennis, the POTW may take further action, including potentially suspending
service as provided for in section
10-8-2.
Nothing in this subsection shall limit the authority of the POTW to take any
action, including emergency actions or any other enforcement action, without
first issuing a notice of violation. (Ord. 152, - -2022)
10-8-8-2: SUSPENSION OF SERVICE:
The POTW may suspend water service and/or wastewater treatment service in order
to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present an
imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons, the
environment, causes pass through or interference, causes the POTW to violate
any condition of its NPDES permit, or for violations of this chapter. Any IU
notified of a suspension of the water service and/or wastewater treatment
service shall immediately stop or eliminate the discharge. In the event of a
failure of the person to comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the POTW
shall take such steps as deemed necessary including immediate physical
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW
system or endangerment to individuals or the environment. (Ord. 152, - -2022)
10-8-8-3: ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER:
When the POTW finds that an industrial user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the POTW may issue an order to the industrial user responsible for
the discharge directing that the industrial user immediately come into
compliance or within a time specified by the POTW.
If the industrial user does not come into compliance within the time provided,
sewer service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities,
devices, or other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated.
Compliance orders also may contain other requirements to address the
noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring and management practices
designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A
compliance order may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a
pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the
industrial user of liability for any violation, including any continuing
violation during the time it takes the industrial user to come into compliance.
Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the industrial user. (Ord. 152, - -2022)
10-8-8-4: ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTY:
   A.   When the POTW finds that an industrial user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the POTW may fine such industrial user in an amount not to exceed
seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500.00) per day per violation. Such
fines shall be assessed on a per-violation, per day basis. In the case of
monthly or other longterm average discharge limits, fines shall be assessed for
each day during the period of violation.
   B.   The POTW may, in addition to fines, collect charges to pay for damage
to the POTW, fines issued to the POTW, and any other costs incurred by the POTW
as a result of the IU's noncompliance.
   C.   A lien against the industrial user's property shall be sought for
unpaid charges, fines, and penalties.
   D.   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the industrial user. (Ord.
152, - -2022)
10-8-8-5: JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES:
   A.   Injunctive Relief: When the POTW finds that an industrial user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, and
individual wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the POTW may petition the Municipal Court
for the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which
restrains or compels the specific performance of the order, or other
requirement imposed by this chapter on activities of the industrial user. The
POTW may also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal and/or
equitable relief, including a requirement for the industrial user to conduct
environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against an industrial
user. (Ord. 152, - -2022)
10-8-9: TRUCKED AND HAULED WASTE:
10-8-9-1: HAULED WASTEWATER:
The POTW may prohibit the discharge of trucked/hauled septic tank waste,
industrial waste, and RV waste to the POTW.
Trucked/hauled waste may be discharged into the POTW only at locations
designated by the POTW, and at such times established by the POTW. Such waste
shall not violate section
10-8-2 of this chapter or any other requirements established by the POTW. The
discharge of hauled waste is subject to all other requirements of this chapter.
The POTW may require the following:
   A.   Septic tank waste haulers to obtain individual wastewater discharge
permits.
   B.   The POTW may collect samples of each hauled load to ensure compliance
with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
   C.   The POTW may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste
analysis of any load prior to discharge.
Any person discharging septic tank waste and industrial waste must provide a
waste-tracking form for every load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the
name and address of the waste hauler (individual person and company), permit
number (if applicable), truck identification, names and addresses of sources of
waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The form shall identify the
type of industry, known or suspected waste constituents, and whether any wastes
are RCRA hazardous wastes. (Ord. 152, - -2022)
10-8-9-2: RV DISPOSAL STATIONS:
The POTW may allow RV disposal sites in its service area if the quality or
quantity of the RV waste does not impact the POTW, including the collection
system. The POTW may/will require RV disposal sites in the service area to
ensure adequate controlled access to its disposal site including locked access,
sign-in records for persons discharging from the RV, record keeping by the RV
disposal site, and other information, as deemed appropriate by the Public Works
Director. (Ord. 152, - -2022)
CHAPTER 9
WATER CONSERVATION RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
10-9-1:    Purpose
10-9-2:    Scope
10-9-3:    Definitions
10-9-4:    General Conservation
10-9-5:    Water Shortages
10-9-6:    Stage Restrictions
10-9-7:    Penalties
10-9-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   To minimize or avoid the effect and hardship of potential water supply
shortages to the greatest extent possible, this title establishes the means and
authority to:
      1.   Reduce water consumption long-term through permanent, outdoor water
use restrictions, and short-term through additional water demand mitigation
actions;
      2.   Enable effective water supply reliability planning;
      3.   Assure reasonable and beneficial use of water;
      4.   Ensure adequate supplies of water are available for essential uses
during times of water shortage; and
      5.   Prevent waste of water and ensure water use efficiency. (Ord. 158-
2023, 7-27-2023)
10-9-2: SCOPE:
This chapter applies to all Municipal water customers of the Town, wherever
situated, to the extent legally permissible. (Ord. 158-2023, 7-27-2023)
10-9-3: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   For the purposes of this title only, the following terms, phrases,
words, and their derivations shall have the meaning given herein.
 
            The use of water necessary for firefighting, health, welfare and safety; water
ESSENTIAL   needed to sustain basic human, aquatic and animal life; and water necessary to
USE:        satisfy federal, state, and local laws for the protection of public health,
            sanitation and safety.
EXCESSIVE   Means use that is not considered reasonable, prudent, or a wise use of water for an
WATER USE:  authorized purpose.
            An area with vegetative groundcover or other natural living plant materials
LANDSCAPE:  including but not limited to: grass, turf, trees, ornamental perennials, shrubs,
            perennial flowers, annual flowers, food gardens, and surrounding landscape design
            elements such as rock mulch and wood mulch.
LOW VOLUME  The application of irrigation water at low pressure through a system of tubing or
DRIP        lateral lines and low volume emitters such as drip, drip lines, and bubblers.
IRRIGATION:
NON-        The use of water not for essential use, which may be curtailed during times of
ESSENTIAL   shortage without compromising public health, sanitation, welfare and safety.
USE:
            The use of water, excluding water which has been used indoors and is being recycled
            for outdoor use, for:
                  a.   Sprinkling or irrigating gardens, lawns or other outdoor vegetation;
                  b.   Washing motorized and non-motorized vehicles, including but not limited
            to automobiles, trucks, vans, buses, motorcycles, boats, bikes and trailers;
OUTDOOR           c.   Washing sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking areas, outside building
WATER USE:  walls, patios, alleys or other outdoor surfaces;
                  d.   Washing any business or industrial equipment machinery;
                  e.   Operating any ornamental fountain or other similar structure not
            employing a recirculating system; and
                  f.   Filling swimming pools, wading pools, hot tubs and spas not employing a
            filter and recirculating system.
 
 
POSITIVE     A nozzle placed on the end of a garden hose and other water
SHUT-OFF     delivery systems to stop any waste of water prior to the user’s
NOZZLE:      need.
SPRAY        The act of applying water to landscape by sprinklers or spray
IRRIGATION:  nozzles that deliver water to the landscape through the air.
TURF:        Grass and the surface layer of earth held together by its roots,
             including but not limited to cool season lawn grasses.
             The intentional or unintentional excessive use of water; allowing
             water to be applied in any manner, rate or quantity such that the
             runoff from the landscaped area being watered is allowed to pool
WATER WASTE: or flow across the ground, into any drainage way, or onto any
             impervious surface; water that has escaped or run to waste; and
             the escape of water through defective plumbing, breaks, leaks, or
             malfunctions in the plumbing or irrigation system.
WATER:       Water from the city's water service utility.
WATER        A required curtailment of specific water uses enacted due to a
RESTRICTION: water restriction declaration.
WATERING     The period, timeframe, or continuous hours of the day(s) in which
WINDOW:      outdoor watering is permitted. (Ord. 158-2023, 7-27-2023)
 
10-9-4: GENERAL CONSERVATION:
   A.   Restrictions: The following general conservation restrictions are
always in effect:
      1.   All outdoor watering is prohibited between the hours of ten o'clock
(10:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M.
      2.   Watering must not result in coverage of pavement areas of result in
excess runoff.
      3.   All hoses shall be equipped with a positive shut-off nozzle.
   B.   Exception: Supervised maintenance of automatic sprinkler systems (such
as adjusting, and replacing spray heads, correcting timers, etc.) are excepted
from the general conservation restrictions. (Ord. 158-2023, 7-27-2023)
10-9-5: WATER SHORTAGES:
   A.   Proclamation: Under the conditions set forth in this chapter, the
Public Works Director, in consultation with the Water Department personnel, may
find, and by proclamation declare, a stage I or stage II water or stage III or
stage IV shortage to prevent depleting the water supply for human consumption
and sanitation and to produce an orderly and equitable reduction of water
consumption.
   B.   Effect: Immediately upon the issuance of such a proclamation, the
regulations and restrictions set forth under this chapter will become effective
and will remain in effect until the proclamation is rescinded.
   C.   Conditions: A proclamation declaring a water shortage is activated by
critical equipment failure, excessive water demand, and/or declaration of
drought in the area.
      1.   Water demand is monitored at the water meter on the line from the
water treatment plant to the water treatment plant reservoir.
      2.   Drought conditions are monitored by reviewing the reports from the
U.S. drought monitor at https://droughtmonitor.unl.edu.
   D.   Trigger Points:
      1.   Water shortage proclamations will be declared based upon the
following criteria:
         a.   Stage I – Supply: Normal.
         b.   Stage II – Supply: Peak daily demand more the eighty percent
(80%) of system capacity or groundwater well pumping issues (low volume pumped,
longer pumping cycles).
         c.   Stage III- Supply: Peak daily demand at or exceeding system
capacity; extended power outage, pump failures or distribution failures (line
pressure).
         d.   Stage IV- Supply: Peak day demand exceeds system capacity within
a twenty-four (24) hour period; catastrophic system failure more than twenty-
four (24) hours; severe drought for more than one week. (Ord. 158-2023, 7-27-
2023)
10-9-6: STAGE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Stage I – Normal daily demand:
      1.   All restrictions set forth in section
10-9-4 , "General Conservation", of this chapter remain in effect.
   B.   Stage II:
      1.   Voluntary restrictions.
      2.   No bulk water sales.
   C.   Stage III:
      1.   Watering is limited to three (3) days per week in accordance with
the following schedule:
         a.   Properties with even number addresses may water on Tuesday-
Thursday-Saturday.
         b.   Properties with odd-numbered addresses may water on Wednesday-
Friday-Sunday.
         c.   Public Parks may water on Monday-Wednesday-Friday.
      2.   No bulk water sales.
      3.   No washing of pavement or other hard surfaces or buildings unless
with bucket water for safety or sanitation purposes.
      4.   Car washing is prohibited except at commercial car wash facilities.
      5.   Exterior water features must be turned off.
   D.   Stage IV - Extreme Water Shortage: If a proclamation declaring a stage
IV water shortage is issued, the following restrictions become effective
immediately:
      1.   All stage III restrictions remain in effect.
      2.   All outdoor watering is prohibited: public or private, for gardens,
lawns, trees, shrubs, plants, parks, golf courses, playing fields, swimming
pools or other recreational areas.
      3.   No new landscaping is permitted.
      4.   New turf planting is prohibited.
      5.   Washing of motor vehicles, boats, trailers, pavement or the exterior
of any building or structure is prohibited.
   E.   Exceptions: The following exceptions apply to both stage III and stage
IV restrictions:
      1.   A commercial outdoor water use permit may be issued by the Public
Works Department to businesses that cannot maintain their operations without
the use of outdoor water.
      2.   Aquatic invasive species (AIS) trailer/boat decontamination.
      3.   New sod or turf and seeding of lawns installed before Stage III
restrictions may be exempt from water restrictions for thirty (30) days.
      4.   Drip irrigation systems for gardens.
      5.   Hand watering with a hose with a positive shut off device (sprayer).
(Ord. 158-2023, 7-27-2023)
10-9-7: PENALTIES:
As outlined in
1-4-1  of Ennis Town Code. (Ord. 158-2023, 7-27-2023)
TITLE 11
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Authority
11-1-3: Intent And Purpose
11-1-4: Jurisdictional Area
11-1-5: Application Of Regulations
11-1-6: Official Zoning Map
11-1-7: Zoning Administrator
11-1-8: Zoning Commission
11-1-9: Zoning Board Of Adjustment (ZBA)
11-1-10: Plan Appeals Procedure
11-1-11: Fees, Charges And Expenses
11-1-12: Violations And Penalties
11-1-13: Text Amendment And Rezoning Changes
11-1-14: Severability
11-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and cited as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN OF
ENNIS, MONTANA. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This zoning ordinance is adopted under the authority of the municipal zoning
enabling act 1 . (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA §§ 76-2-301 through 76-2-328.
11-1-3: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The intent and purpose of this title is to implement applicable goals,
objectives and policies of the 1996 comprehensive plan. The comprehensive
plan's stated policies set forth below are concrete commitments to act. They
are few in number but of overriding importance to the future of the Ennis
community. The operative word in each statement is "shall":
   A.   Stop Suburban Sprawl: All governmental actions, including
infrastructure development, regulatory procedures or administrative practices,
shall be designed and executed to stop "suburban sprawl". For example, enact
regulations and incentives to control the development of lands abutting
existing highways and to concentrate development in existing neighborhoods that
can be more efficiently serviced by community infrastructure and facilities.
   B.   Protect Natural Environment: Measures shall be enacted and enforced to
protect the area's natural environment. Such measures include, for example:
storm water management, wetland and flood susceptibility areas protection and
agricultural land/open space preservation.
   C.   Retain Small Town Character: Measures appropriate and essential to
maintaining the "small town" character and the unique Ennis quality of life
shall be implemented. Such measures include: facilitating affordable housing,
keeping Main Street traffic lanes and parking as they are presently configured
and enacting new zoning and other regulatory provisions providing in town
development incentives balanced by qualitative design requirements.
   D.   Protect Agricultural Lands: Agricultural lands shall be protected from
infringement by urban development. Protective actions include: adopting and
enforcing regulatory codes designed to preserve economically sustainable
agricultural units while affording farmers and ranchers opportunity to market a
limited number of development rights consistent with the other goals,
objectives and policies of this plan; and, by rejecting development proposals
that will result in farm and ranch operational conflicts and higher real estate
and special interest district taxes.
   E.   Promote Basic Sector Jobs: Private and public entities providing basic
sector employment opportunities shall be afforded assistance and reasonable
incentives to locate and expand in the Ennis area provided they do not
adversely impact the "plan's goals, objectives and foregoing policies". (Ord.
131, 3-14-2002)
11-1-4: JURISDICTIONAL AREA:
The zoning jurisdiction of the town shall include the land within the town's
corporate limits and within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction boundaries
established and shown on the "Official Zoning Map, City of Ennis, Montana". The
ordinance provisions and procedures shall be in accordance with this title.
(Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-1-5: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   Compliance Required: Land and structures within the jurisdictional area
may only be used or occupied, and structures or parts thereof may only be
erected, moved, or altered, in accordance with the provisions of this title.
   B.   Responsibility Of Owner: The owner of land or structures shall be
responsible for tenants' compliance with this title.
   C.   Zoning Relationship To Other Codes: The requirements of this zoning
ordinance operate in addition to those requirements established under other
town codes, except that where conflicts with other town codes may occur these
zoning requirements shall govern.
   D.   Zoning Relationship To Covenants: Recorded covenants and restrictions,
more restrictive than these zoning provisions, shall govern provided they are
properly drafted and recorded and are enforceable at law. Zoning requirements
that are more restrictive than covenants and restrictions shall govern. The
town of Ennis shall not be held responsible for the enforcement of private
covenants and restrictions.
   E.   Existing Property Uses Exempt: All regulations adopted by the town
shall pertain to future use of property and not affect the existing use of
property. Any change of land use or structures are subject to the provisions
set forth in this title. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-1-6: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
   A.   Incorporated By Reference: The "Official Zoning Map of Ennis, Montana"
and all notations, references and other information shown on the map are hereby
incorporated by reference and made a part of this title. It shall be the final
authority as to the current status of zoning districts in the town of Ennis
zoning jurisdictional area.
   B.   Maintaining And Revising Map: The official zoning map, prepared on a
stable, reproducible material suitable for revisions and additions, shall be
kept in a secure location. The map shall:
      1.   Signature: Bear the mayor's signature, attested by the town clerk-
treasurer, together with the date the ordinance was adopted.
      2.   Seal: Bear the town of Ennis seal under the following words: "This
shall certify that this is the Ennis, Montana Official Zoning Map referred to
in Section 01.06 of Ordinance # 131 of the Town of Ennis, Montana".
      3.   Revisions: The official zoning map may be amended or revised only in
conformity with the procedures specified in this title. Whenever the town
commission makes any revisions to the zoning districts, the revisions shall be
promptly entered upon the map and a signed and dated certification attached to
the map. No amendment to district boundaries shall become effective until those
revisions have been made and are presented to the town commission by the zoning
administrator.
      4.   Control And Filing: The official zoning map shall be maintained
under the control of the zoning administrator or responsible delegate at all
times. A copy of the official zoning map, duly certified by the zoning
administrator, shall be filed in the office of the town clerk-treasurer. Each
revision to the official zoning map adopted by the town commission, duly
certified by the zoning administrator, shall likewise be filed in the town
clerk-treasurer's office.
   C.   Loss, Damage, Destruction And Replacement: In the event that the
official zoning map is damaged, destroyed, lost or becomes difficult to
interpret, the town commission may, by resolution, adopt a new official zoning
map which shall supersede the prior official zoning map. The new official
zoning map may correct drafting errors or omissions in the prior map, but no
such corrections shall have the effect of amending the original official zoning
map or subsequent amendment thereof. The new map shall be certified in the same
manner as the original zoning map, noting that it supersedes the prior map.
(Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-1-7: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Employment Responsibility: The town commission shall employ the zoning
administrator. The zoning administrator may delegate certain functions but
shall retain final responsibility for administering and enforcing the
regulations under the direction of the town commission.
   B.   Duties: The zoning administrator shall administer the zoning permit
provisions set forth in this title and shall:
      1.   Receive: Receive applications for zoning permit, conditional use
permit, rezoning requests and variance requests.
      2.   Review: Review applications and plans; issue zoning permits; and
inspect premises and properties.
      3.   Notice: Notify, in writing, any person violating this title and
order appropriate corrective action.
      4.   Order Removal: Order illegal use of land, structures, or buildings
to be terminated and illegal buildings or structures; or additions, alterations
or structural changes thereto, to be removed.
      5.   Order Compliance: Order any illegal work being undertaken to
immediately cease; or take any other action authorized by this title to ensure
compliance with its provisions.
      6.   Stop Orders: Assure that stop work orders remain in effect until
advised by the town commission or its authorized representative, in writing,
that the application and/or project has been brought into compliance with these
regulations;
      7.   Advise: Serve as an advisor to the zoning commission, board of
adjustment and town commission on matters relating to administration and
enforcement of this title.
      8.   Prepare Reports: Prepare staff reports as required under this title.
      9.   Record: Prepare and maintain records of all proceedings required or
authorized under this title.
   C.   Right Of Entry: The zoning administrator may enter premises at
reasonable times to conduct necessary inspections to enforce the provisions of
the zoning ordinance. If the zoning administrator has reasonable cause to
believe that there is a condition or ordinance violation which makes a sign or
premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the zoning administrator may enter the
premises at such times to perform the duties imposed by this title. If the
building or premises are occupied, the zoning administrator shall first present
proper credentials and request entry. If the building or premises is
unoccupied, the zoning administrator shall first make a reasonable effort to
locate the owner or other person having charge or control of the building or
premises and request entry. If entry is refused, the zoning administrator or
the authorized representative shall have recourse to the remedies provided by
law to secure entry. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-1-8: ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Established: There is hereby established the "Town of Ennis Zoning
Commission".
   B.   Membership; Terms; Procedures: The town commission shall appoint the
members of the zoning commission. Town planning board members may serve as
members of the zoning commission and, if so appointed, shall serve terms
concurrent with their respective planning board terms. The zoning commission
shall establish orderly procedures for the conduct of business.
   C.   Duties: Pursuant to authority of Montana Statutes, the zoning
commission shall recommend to the town commission, the establishment of various
zoning districts, requirements and enforcement procedures. The commission shall
make a preliminary report setting forth its recommendations and after public
hearing(s), make a final report upon its findings to the town commission. The
town commission shall hold public hearing(s) upon the ordinance and zoning
commission's final report and take such action upon the commission's
recommendations as deemed appropriate. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-1-9: ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT (ZBA):
   A.   Established; Membership; Terms; Removal: The zoning board of adjustment
(ZBA) is hereby established to decide hardship variance applications and to
decide ordinance interpretation appeals. The town commission shall appoint five
(5) members to the zoning board of adjustment, each for three (3) year terms
except that in the initial appointment, one member shall be appointed for a
one-year term, two (2) for two (2) year terms, and two (2) for three (3) year
terms. Members of the zoning board of adjustment may be removed from office by
the town commission for cause upon written charges and after public hearing.
Vacancies on the zoning board of adjustment shall be filled by resolution of
the town commission for the unexpired term of the member affected.
   B.   Powers: The zoning board of adjustment shall have the following powers
unless otherwise reserved by the town commission:
      1.   Grant Variances: Grant variances from the various standards of this
title where the board determines that:
         a.   Granting a variance will not be contrary to the public interest;
         b.   Where owing to circumstances unique to a specific property a
literal enforcement of the provisions of these regulations will result in undue
hardship of the land;
         c.   Where the spirit of the ordinance will be observed and
substantial justice done; and
         d.   The result of such variance will be consistent with goals,
objectives and policies of the comprehensive plan.
      2.   Modify Certain Provisions: Approve, deny or conditionally approve
any variance request to modify the following requirements of this title:
         a.   Setback requirements;
         b.   Yard requirements;
         c.   Area requirements;
         d.   Height and bulk requirements;
         e.   Parking requirements; and
         f.   Loading requirements.
      3.   Rule On Interpretation And Application Appeals: Hear and decide
appeals alleging an administrative official incorrectly interpreted and applied
the provisions of this title. Appeals shall be filed a form provided by the
zoning administrator. A copy of the form is included in chapter 5 of this
title.
   C.   Express Prohibitions: The zoning board of adjustment shall be expressly
prohibited from granting:
      1.   Use Variances: Under no circumstances may the zoning board of
adjustment grant a variance that would allow the use of land or buildings not
permissible under the terms of this title.
      2.   Variances Based Upon Neighboring Uses: Neither the nonconforming use
of neighboring lands, structures or buildings in the same zoning district, nor
the permitted or nonconforming use of lands, structures or buildings in other
zoning districts shall be considered grounds for the issuance of a variance.
   D.   Organization And Proceedings: The zoning board of adjustment shall
organize itself and proceed as follows:
      1.   Organization: The zoning board of adjustment shall select one of its
members as chairman and shall adopt rules necessary to conducts its affairs.
Meetings shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such other times as
the zoning board of adjustment may determine but shall be duly noticed and open
to the public. The chairman, or in his/her absence, the acting chairman, may
administer oaths and may compel the attendance of witnesses.
      2.   Proceedings: The zoning board of adjustment shall keep minutes of
its proceedings, recording the vote of each member upon each question, or if
absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact. Records shall be kept of the
zoning board of adjustment's examinations or other official actions and
immediately filed in the zoning board of adjustment office in the town hall
where they shall be available for public inspection. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-1-10: PLAN APPEALS PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application: Appeals from decisions of the zoning administrator, and
boards and town commission to agencies of town government and the courts are
set forth in various sections of this title. These appeals are permitted under
the provisions of this section in the manner set forth below:
      1.   These appeals procedures shall apply to the decisions brought forth
by the following:
         a.   Zoning administrator.
         b.   Planning board.
         c.   Zoning board of appeals.
         d.   Town commission.
      2.   Appeals from any agency shall follow the following order:
         a.   Zoning administrator to the zoning board of appeals.
         b.   Planning board to the town commission.
         c.   Town commission and zoning board of appeals to the courts.
   B.   Appeal Of Final Decision: Any aggrieved person may appeal the final
decision of any agency to which this appeals procedure applies in the manner
prescribed in this section.
   C.   Filing Notice Of Appeal:
      1.   An appeal must be filed with the zoning administrator within seven
(7) calendar days of the final decision of the agency to which this appeal
applies. Such appeal shall include the following:
         a.   The action of the agency which is the subject of appeal;
         b.   The date of such action;
         c.   The name, address, telephone number and relationship of the
appellant to the subject of the action of the agency;
         d.   The grounds for the appeal, including specific allegations to be
considered on appeal.
   D.   Notice Of Appeal: Notification of appeal procedures shall be included
in the initial posting and notice of the proposal. Once a documented appeal has
been filed, the property in question will be posted and a notice of the appeal
hearing provided to the local newspaper of general circulation.
   E.   Scheduling Of Hearing: The dates, times and locations for hearing
appeal(s) before the appropriate body(s) shall be included in the reposting of
the property in question, and in the notice of the appeal hearing provided to
the local newspaper of general circulation. All such hearings must be held
within thirty (30) days of receiving the appeal.
   F.   Procedure Of Hearing:
      1.   At the hearing on the appeal, the steps enumerated below will be
followed. Only arguments and evidence relevant to the grounds for the appeal
shall be presented. The presentation of arguments on the merits of the appeal
shall be made in the following order, subject to such limitations in time and
scope as may be imposed at the direction of the presiding officer:
         a.   Explanation of the nature of the appeal and presentation by the
zoning administrator;
         b.   Presentation of argument by the appellant and any person in
support of the appellant;
         c.   Presentation of argument by any person who is an opponent of the
appeal; and
         d.   Motion, discussion and vote by the appellate body.
      2.   No person making a presentation shall be subject to cross-
examination, except that members of the appellate body and the town's legal
counsel may inquire of such person for the purpose of eliciting information
presented.
   G.   Actions Available To Appellate Body: The appellate body shall consider
an appeal based upon the record on appeal and relevant provisions of this
title. Only evidence relevant to the grounds for the appeal shall be heard. At
the conclusion of such hearing, the appellate body shall uphold, overturn or
modify the decision of the agency. Appeals will be granted upon finding that
such order, requirement, decision or determination is erroneous or contrary to
this title or of any amendment of this title. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-1-11: FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES 1 :
Fees and charges that may, within reason, be legitimately assessed to the
applicants will offset the cost of administering this title.
   A.   Fee Schedule: The town commission shall, by resolution, establish a
schedule of fees, charges and expenses for permits and actions including, but
not limited to, the items listed below that are required to implement these
regulations. The schedule of fees, charges and expenses may be amended from
time to time. The initial schedule, and any subsequent revisions, shall be
posted in the Ennis town hall.
      1.   Zoning permits.
      2.   Conditional use permits.
      3.   Site plan reviews.
      4.   Mobile home park reviews.
      5.   Recreational vehicle park reviews.
      6.   Traditional neighborhood development reviews.
      7.   Sign permits.
      8.   Floodplain permits.
      9.   Variance requests.
      10.   Zoning map revisions.
      11.   Zoning ordinance amendments.
   B.   Payment Required Prior To Action: No permit shall be issued nor shall
any action be undertaken by any agency, board or commission charged with
administering or enforcing this title unless and until such fees, charges and
expenses, or specified advanced deposits against same, have been paid in full.
(Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 11-5-9 of this title.
11-1-12: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Complaints: Whenever a violation of these regulations occurs, or is
alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written complaint. Such
complaint, stating fully the causes and basis thereof, shall be filed with the
zoning administrator. The zoning administrator shall promptly record such
complaint, immediately investigate and take action thereon as provided by these
regulations.
   B.   Penalties For Violations:
      1.   Penalties: Violations of any of the provisions of this title or
failure to comply with any of its requirements, or any of the requirements or
conditions imposed by an agency, board, commission or the town commission,
shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates these regulations or
fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined not more five hundred dollars ($500.00) or be imprisoned for not more
than six (6) months, or both, and in addition shall pay all costs and expenses
involved in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense and punishable as such.
      2.   Jointly Liable: The owner or tenant of any building, structure,
premises, or part thereof, and an architect, builder, contractor, agent, or
other person who commits, participates in, assists in, or maintains such
violation may each be found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the
penalties herein provided.
   C.   Other Proceedings To Correct Violations: If any structure is
constructed, or altered, or any structure or land is used in violation of this
title the proper authorities of the town may institute any appropriate action
or proceedings to prevent such unlawful action or use. Action may also be taken
to prevent the occupancy of such structure or land and to cause the correction
of such violation. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-1-13: TEXT AMENDMENT AND REZONING CHANGES:
   A.   Initiation:
      1.   Initiation By Town: The town commission may, from time to time,
amend, supplement or change this title and zoning map. An amendment, supplement
or change may be initiated by the town commission, or the planning board.
      2.   Owner Petition: A property owner that desires a reclassification of
his property or change of regulations applicable to the property may file a
petition with the zoning administrator on forms provided for this purpose. The
petition shall be signed by the property owner requesting an amendment or
change of regulations prescribed for the property.
   B.   Investigation: Upon initiation of an amendment, the zoning
administrator shall investigate the facts to assure that the result of each
such petition will be consistent with the intent and purpose of this title,
including but not limited to, finding that the application complies with the
Ennis comprehensive plan.
   C.   Public Hearing Procedures And Requirements:
      1.   Planning Board Hearing: The planning board shall hold a public
hearing on the matters referred to in such initiation or petition at which
parties in interest and citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard. At
least fifteen (15) days' notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be
published in an official paper or a paper of general circulation in the town 1
.
      2.   Additional Area Notice: Notice may also be provided to property
owners in any additional area that may be substantially impacted by the
proposed change or use as determined by the zoning administrator.
      3.   Planning Board: After such hearing or hearings, the planning board
will make reports and recommendations on the petition or initiation to the town
commission.
      4.   Town Commission Action: When the planning board has recommended to
approve or deny an amendment to this title, including a change in the district
boundaries, a public hearing shall be held by the town commission for the
purpose of acting upon the proposed amendment.
      5.   An amendment may not become effective, except upon a favorable vote
of two-thirds (2/3) of the present and voting members of the town commission if
a protest against the amendment is signed by the owners of twenty five percent
(25%) or more of:
         a.   The area of the lots included in the proposed change; or
         b.   Those lots within one hundred fifty feet (150') from a lot
included in the proposed amendment. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 76-2-303.
11-1-14: SEVERABILITY:
Should any section or provision of this title be declared unconstitutional or
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the decision shall not affect the
validity of this title as a whole, or any part thereof other than the part
declared to be unconstitutional or invalid. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Interpretation Of Generic Terms
11-2-2: Definitions
11-2-1: INTERPRETATION OF GENERIC TERMS:
For the purpose of this title the following conditions and interpretations
shall apply.
   A.   Present - Future Tense: Words used in the present tense include the
future tense.
   B.   Singular - Plural Tense: Words used in the singular tense include the
plural; and words used in the plural include the singular, unless natural
construction of the words indicates the otherwise.
   C.   Person Includes: The word "person" includes a firm, association,
corporation, trust, organization, partnership or company, as well as an
individual.
   D.   Lot: The word "lot" includes the words "parcel" or "tract".
   E.   Shall - May: The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is
permissive. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
Words having a more specific meaning than in common usage are defined in this
section. Certain other sections of this title include additional definitions
specifically applying to the content of those sections. Unless indicated
otherwise, the following definitions shall also apply to those sections.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR USE: A use or structure on the same lot with, and
customarily subordinate to, the principal use or structure.
AGGRIEVED PERSON: As applied in the plan appeals procedure section of this
title, a person who has a specific, personal and legal interest in the final
decision of an agency of town government. Such interest shall be distinguished
from a general interest such as the concern of all members of the community and
which interest would be specifically and personally prejudiced by the decision
or benefited by its reversal.
ALTERATION: As applied in the design review section of this title, any act or
process, except "repair" and "light construction" as defined below, that
changes one or more of the architectural features of a structure or site. Such
changes may include, but not be limited to, the erection, construction,
reconstruction, relocation of or addition to a structure.
APPELLANT: As applied in the design review section of this title, an aggrieved
person who has taken an appeal from an agency of town government to another
body designated in the plan appeals procedure section by the filing of a notice
of appeal.
ARCHITECTURAL APPEARANCE: As applied in the design review section of this
title, the architectural character and general composition of a structure. This
may include, but not be limited to, the kind and texture of the building
materials and the type, design and character of the windows, doors, light
fixtures, signs and appurtenant exterior elements. Additionally, interior
architectural detail including, but not limited to, floors, fixtures, hardware,
ornamentation and other elements that contribute to the building's
architectural or historical significance.
AREA: As applied in the design review section of this title, a specific
geographic division of the town of Ennis.
ARTIFICIAL LOT: An area within the building site that is delineated by the
zoning administrator for the sole purpose of satisfying the requirements of
landscaping section.
BASEMENT: The portion of a structure not extending more than four feet (4')
above average grade on any side.
BASIC SECTOR: A business or business type whose major function is to
manufacture, assemble or refine products primarily for distribution to markets
outside of the local area.
BED AND BREAKFAST: A building or buildings, containing seven (7) or fewer
sleeping rooms; to house fourteen (14) or fewer short term guests for
compensation, and where only a general kitchen and dining room may be provided.
BERM: A mound of earth two (2) to six feet (6') high, planted with vegetative
ground cover, with a slope not exceeding one foot (1') of rise for each two
feet (2') of run.
BILLBOARD: A sign structure erected for the purpose of leasing advertising
space to promote an interest other than that of an individual, business,
product or service available on the premises on which the billboard is located.
BLOCK: That property abutting on one side of a street and lying between the two
(2) nearest intersecting streets or other barrier or a separation in the
continuity of development along such street.
BOARDING/LODGING HOUSE: A building equipped for providing boarding and lodging,
or lodging only, for compensation, with a maximum of seven (7) sleeping rooms
to house no more than fourteen (14) occupants.
BUILDING: Any structure erected for support, shelter or enclosure of persons,
animals or property.
BUILDING, AREA: That portion of the lot that can be occupied by structures.
BUILDING, HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the average elevation of
the finished grade around the building to:
   A.   Highest Point: The highest point of the coping of a flat roof;
   B.   Top Of Mansard: The top of a mansard roof; or
   C.   Two-Thirds Of Gable: Two-thirds (2/3) the height of the highest gable
of a pitch or hip roof.
BUSINESS: As applied to the community signage overlay district, all of the
activities carried on by the same legal entity on the same premises and shall
include, but not be limited to, service, commercial and industrial uses and
fraternal, benevolent, educational, governmental and social obligations.
BUSINESS COMPLEX: As applied to the community signage overlay district, a
property ownership with two (2) or more business tenants one of which may be
the property owner.
CALIPER: The diameter of a tree trunk measured six inches (6") above ground
level up to and including four inch (4") caliper size. If a tree is a
multitrunk variety, the caliper of the tree is the average caliper of all of
its trunks.
CAMP GROUND: See definition of Recreational Vehicle Park.
CANOPY: A permanent, unenclosed roofed structure which may be freestanding or
partially attached to a building that is used to provide shelter to patrons on
foot or in automobiles.
CANOPY TREE: A species of tree that normally bears crown foliage no lower than
six feet (6') above ground level upon maturity.
CARETAKER'S RESIDENCE: A dwelling unit located in conjunction with a
residential, commercial or industrial land use.
CENTRAL WATER AND SEWER: Utility systems serving a group of buildings, lots, or
an area.
CHURCH: A building designed and used for public worship by a religious body.
CONDITIONAL USE: A use that is allowed in a zoning district if the use meets
certain requirements described in chapter 4 of this title.
CONSTRUCTION: As applied in the design review section of this title, the act of
adding to an existing structure or erecting a new principal or accessory
structure.
CONSTRUCTION, NEW: As applied in the floodplain management overlay district,
structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the
effective date hereof.
DEMOLITION: Any act or process that destroys, in part or whole, a structure or
archaeological site.
DENSITY, GROSS: The total number of residential units on a tract divided by the
total acreage of the tract (including 1/2 of the area of abutting vehicular
rights of way). (GD = DU's/Ac's)
DEVELOPMENT: As applied in the floodplain management overlay district, any
manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not
limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the area of special
flood hazard.
DISPLAY SURFACE: As applied to the community signage overlay district, the
portion of a sign structure that may be used to display a message.
DISTRICT, ZONING: An area delineated on the zoning map within which the use and
arrangement of land and structures is prescribed in this title.
DRIVE IN: An establishment providing goods or services to persons in their
vehicles or at curbside.
DWELLING: A building designed for human habitation other than transient
facilities such as a bed and breakfast or a hotel/motel/inn.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building designed for use by two (2) or more
families.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building designed for residential occupancy by one
family.
DWELLING UNIT: All or part of a building providing separate cooking, eating and
sleeping facilities for one family.
EAVES: Lowest horizontal line of any roof.
ENHANCED PAVEMENT: Any decorative pavement intended for pedestrian or vehicular
use, including brick or stone pavers, grass paver, exposed aggregate concrete,
and stamped and stained covered pavement.
ERECT: Construct, place, affix or otherwise bring into being.
ESSENTIAL SERVICES: Government, public utility corporation and privately owned
infrastructure and service facilities that serve common neighborhood, community
or regional interests, including, for example, utility lines, fire stations,
storm drainage systems, sewage treatment plants and electric transmission
system towers.
EVERGREEN TREE OR SHRUB: A tree or shrub of a species that normally retains its
leaves/needles throughout the year.
FACADE: Any face of a building.
Primary: The principal facade of the building where its principal entrance is
located and which may or may not face the street of its legal address.
Secondary: Facades other than the primary facade.
FAMILY: A single housekeeping unit made up of no more than three (3) persons
not related by blood or marriage.
FINAL DECISION: As applied in the design review section of this title, the
final action of an agency of town government when no other action is available
before that agency.
FLOOD, BASE: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
FLOOD HAZARD AREA: The land in the floodplain within a community subject to a
one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP OR FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: The official map issued
by the federal emergency management agency indicating where areas of special
flood hazard are designated.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   Overflow: The overflow of waters; and/or
   B.   Accumulation: The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface
waters from any source.
FLOODPLAIN: Area subject to a flood or flooding.
FLOOR AREA: As applied to parking and loading requirements, the term "floor
area" shall mean eighty percent (80%) of the gross floor area measured on the
basis of exterior dimensions of the building or buildings on the site to be
served by the parking and or loading area.
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR): The gross floor area, including usable attic, basement
and accessory building space, divided by the total horizontal area of the lot
(the portion of the property allocated to the use and no other use). One-half
(1/2) of the area of surrounding public rights of way may be included as part
of the lot for the purpose of making this calculation.
FRONTAGE BUILDING: As applied to the community signage overlay district, that
facade of building which faces and is parallel to, or most nearly parallel to,
the public street which provides the primary direct vehicular access to the
building.
FRONTAGE STREET: As applied to the community signage overlay district, a lot
line fronting a public street.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building or portion of a main building on the
same lot and used for the storage of private passenger motor vehicles.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: All or part of a building, except a private garage or a repair
garage, used for the storage of motor vehicles, or where any such vehicles are
kept for remuneration or hire.
GARAGE, REPAIR: A building or space for the repair or maintenance of motor
vehicles, but not including auto wrecking establishments, or junk yards.
GRADE: The point of elevation of the finished ground surface at the exterior
wall of the building.
GROUND COVER: Natural mulch or plants of species which normally reach a height
of less than two feet (2') upon maturity, installed in such a manner so as to
form a continuous cover over the ground.
GROUP HOME: A dwelling facility, licensed by the state of Montana department of
health and human services or department of family services, designed to safely
and adequately house disabled persons, or serve as a halfway house providing
drug or alcohol rehabilitation, adult foster family daycare, or group daycare
services for twelve (12) or fewer children.
HARDSHIP: Hardship of the land refers to circumstances unique to a particular
property that may warrant the issuance of a variance pursuant to subsection
11-1-9B of this title. Financial or economic difficulties, or consequences of
actions of the property owner, are not "hardships" for zoning purposes.
HOME OCCUPATION: The use of a portion of a dwelling unit or accessory building
for occupations meeting the provisions of "home occupations", section
11-4-6 of this title. The occupational activity must be clearly incidental and
subordinate to the use of the building as a dwelling.
HOTEL/MOTEL/INN: A building or buildings containing eight (8) or more rooms
designed for and rented to the traveling public, and where only a general
kitchen and dining room may be provided within the building or in an accessory
building.
KENNEL: A place where three (3) or more dogs or cats are kept whether as pets,
for boarding, or for other commercial purposes.
LANDMARK: As applied in the design review section of this title, a site,
structure or object designated as a "landmark" that is worthy of preservation,
restoration or rehabilitation because of its historic land planning or
architectural significance and officially recognized through listing in the
National Register of Historic Places. A landmark shall be subject to all design
review procedures and requirements.
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT: A person licensed to practice landscape architecture in
the state of Montana.
LANDSCAPING: At least seventy five percent (75%) coverage of an area with
natural grass, vegetative ground cover or other natural living plant materials,
the remainder of which is covered with nonvegetative decorative landscape
elements. Landscaping shall be considered to have the same meaning as the terms
landscape, landscaped, and landscaped area.
LARGE SHRUB: A shrub that normally reaches a height of five feet (5') or more
upon maturity, and usually has five (5) or more canes.
LARGE TREE: A tree of a species that normally reaches a height of twenty five
feet (25') or more upon maturity, and usually has a single trunk.
LIGHT CONSTRUCTION: As applied in the design review section of this title, any
change not construed as an alteration or repair, including:
   A.   Paving of established driving and parking areas;
   B.   Construction of patios not greater than one hundred twenty (120) square
feet in size;
   C.   Construction of sidewalks not wider than three feet (3'); and
   D.   Landscaping (but not including major changes in grading or site surface
drainage).
LIVESTOCK: Horses, sheep, cattle, sheep, goats, swine, donkeys, mules, llamas,
chickens, turkeys or other animals and birds raised and maintained for
breeding, recreation or production purposes.
LOADING SPACE: An off street space conveniently located at a building to allow
service pick ups and deliveries by commercial vehicles.
LOT: A parcel or tract of land shown as an individual unit of ownership on a
certificate of survey, subdivision plat, deed or other instrument of record.
LOT, CORNER: A lot fronting on two (2) or more, intersecting streets.
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: An interior lot having frontage on two (2) parallel or
approximately parallel streets.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot fronting on only one street.
LOT LINES: The lines bounding a "lot" as defined herein.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at right
angles to the lot depth at the established front building lines.
LOT WITH RESIDENTIAL ADJACENCY: Any building lot in a nonresidential zoning
district, if the site abuts or is directly across a public street or alley from
a zoning district permitting residential uses.
LOWEST FLOOR: As applied in the floodplain management overlay district, the
floor of the lowest enclosed area of a structure including the basement used
for living purposes, storage, or recreation and including any floor that could
be converted to such a use.
MAINTAIN: As applied in the floodplain management overlay district, to allow
existing or continuing.
MANUFACTURED HOUSING: A single-family home, built off site or in a factory,
that meets uniform building codes, that is placed on a permanent foundation, is
at least one thousand (1,000) square feet in size, has a pitched roof and
siding and roofing materials that are customarily, as defined by local
regulations, used on site built homes and is in compliance with the applicable
prevailing standards of the United States department of housing and urban
development at the time of production.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: A tract of land providing two (2) or more spaces for
lease, rent or sale to the general public for siting manufactured homes.
NATIONAL REGISTER: The National Register of Historic Places; a list, maintained
by the U.S. department of interior, of sites, properties, objects, and
districts having local, state or national historical, architectural or cultural
significance.
NONCONFORMING USE: Often referred to as a "grandfathered", any lot, use or
structure lawful at the time of adoption hereof or amendment, which does not
conform with the adopted provisions set forth in the "nonconforming lots, uses
and structures" section.
NONPERMEABLE COVERAGE: Coverage with nonpermeable pavement.
NURSING/CONVALESCENT/REST HOME: A building used to house and care for children,
aged, ambulatory patients, or infirm persons under the care and supervision of
a professional staff. Such home does not contain equipment for surgical care or
for treatment of disease or injury.
OFFICE: Buildings or parts of buildings designed to be occupied by business,
administrative or public agency professionals.
PARKING SPACE: A area of not less than one hundred eighty (180) square feet,
exclusive of driveways and aisles, of appropriate shape and dimensions to be
usable for parking a motor vehicle.
PERMEABLE PAVEMENT: A paving material that permits water penetration to a soil
depth of eighteen inches (18") or more. Permeable pavement may consist of
nonporous surface materials collectively comprising less than two-thirds (2/3)
of the total surface area.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV): A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis,
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel and recreational
purposes, and licensed as such.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: A premises used for public camping where persons can
rent space to park individual camping trailers, pickup campers, motor homes,
and travel trailers.
RECYCLING UNITS: Containers designed to be located in easily accessible
locations and used exclusively for the collection of recyclable goods,
including metals, glass, clothing and similar reusable materials.
RELOCATION: As applied in the design review section of this title, any movement
of a structure on the same site or to another site.
REPAIR: As applied in the design review section of this title, any change not
otherwise construed as "light construction" or an "alteration" as defined
above. Such change constitutes, for example, replacing broken, worn or damaged
materials with like, not necessarily identical, materials and is insignificant
to the size and condition of the structure or property. Repainting shall be
included under this definition of "repair".
RESTAURANT: A public eating facility that does not provide drive in automobile
service.
RETAIL SALES: An establishment selling goods, wares, or merchandise directly to
a customer.
ROOFLINE: The line which marks the highest point of the vertical front of a
building in the case of a false front, or the line where the roof is joined to
the vertical front wall of the building in other cases.
SALVAGE YARD: Land or buildings where waste, discarded, recycled or salvaged
materials are brought, sold, stored, exchanged, cleaned, packed, disassembled,
or handled, including, but not limited to, scrap metal, rags, paper, hides,
appliances, rubber products, glass products, lumber products and products
resulting from wrecking of automobiles or other vehicles.
SCREENING: A method of visually shielding or obscuring properties or structures
from other properties and public roadways through the use of densely planted
vegetation, fences, walls and/or berms.
SETBACK: See definition of Yard.
SHOPPING CENTER: One or more buildings containing at least three (3) separate
retail businesses that are planned, developed and managed as a unit.
SIGN: A sign is any object or device or part thereof situated outdoors or
indoors which is used to advertise or identify an object, person, institution,
organization, business, product, service, event or location. Signs do not
include the following:
Flags: Flags of nations or an organization of nations, states, and cities,
fraternal, religious and civic organizations.
Merchandise Displays: Merchandise, pictures, models, products or services in a
window display.
Symbols: National, state, religious, fraternal, professional and civic symbols
or crests.
Time And Temperature: Time and temperature devices not related to a product.
Traffic Direction: Signs that direct traffic movement into or within a vehicle
parking area and not exceeding three (3) square feet in area.
Works Of Art: Works of art that in no way identify a product or imply a
service.
SIGN TYPES: As applied to the community signage overlay district, any of the
following:
Awning: A structure made of cloth, vinyl, metal or similar material with metal
frames attached to a building, projecting over a thoroughfare or entrance.
Banner: A flag, bunting or other flexible sign characteristically hung on a
building, or otherwise suspended down or along its face or across any public
street of the town. The banner may or may not include copy or other graphic
symbols.
Bench: Any sign painted on or otherwise attached to a bench or other seat.
Billboard: A sign structure erected for the purpose of leasing advertising
space to promote an interest other than that of an individual, business,
product or service available on the premises on which the billboard is located.
Directional: An on premises sign designed to be read by a person already on the
premises and used only to identify and locate an office, entrance, exit, motor
vehicle route, telephone or similar place, service or route.
Directory: A sign giving the name, address, number or location of the occupants
of a building or buildings.
Flexible: A windsock, flag, pennant, streamer or banner or similar sign.
Freestanding: A sign supported by one or more uprights or braces not attached
or incidentally attached to any building or structure, but does not include
ground mounted signs.
Ground Mounted: A permanently mounted sign which is not attached to any
structure or building.
Internally Illuminated: A sign that is wholly or partially illuminated by an
internal light source from which source light passes through the display
surface to the exterior of the sign.
Off Site: Any sign off the main business premises.
Outdoor Advertising: A sign which advertises goods, products or services which
are not sold, manufactured or distributed on or from the premises or facilities
on which the sign is located.
Portable: Any sign or other graphic that is designed to be or is capable of
being transported from one place to another.
Projecting: A sign that extends perpendicularly or nearly perpendicularly from
the building face to which it is attached.
Roof: A sign located on or above the roof of any building, not including a
false mansard roof or other fascia.
Sandwich Boards: Moveable, double faced signs not to exceed three feet (3') in
width and four feet (4') in height commonly used on sidewalks in front of
stores to call attention to the business within.
Temporary: A banner, pennant, poster or advertising display constructed of
cloth, canvas, plastic sheet, cardboard, wall board, sheet metal, plywood or
similar materials and intended to be displayed for a limited period of time.
Wall: A sign painted or otherwise affixed to the face of a building, roof
overhang, facade or gable end in a plane parallel to such face.
SMALL TREE: A tree of a species that normally reaches a height of less than
twenty five feet (25') upon maturity.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
other than a basement and the surface of the floor next above it, or, if there
is no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next
above it.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires permanent
location on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent location
on the ground. As applied in the floodplain management overlay district,
"structure" shall include all classes of manufactured homes, modular homes and
recreational vehicles together with aboveground gas or liquid storage tanks.
STREET: A right of way legally or otherwise legally established for public use
as access to abutting property.
Alleys And Ways: Streets designated to provide service vehicle and vehicular
parking access to abutting uses and which shall be designed and physically
constructed to limit vehicular speeds to seven (7) miles per hour, or less.
Arterial: Major thoroughfares (US 287 and SR 287) that collect vehicular
traffic from "collector" and "local access" streets.
Collector: Streets primarily designated to carry vehicular traffic from "local
access" streets to "arterial" streets and be designed and physically
constructed to restrain vehicular speeds to thirty five (35) miles per hour, or
less.
Local Access: Streets designated to provide vehicular access to abutting uses,
discourage through traffic and be designed and physically constructed to limit
vehicular speeds to twenty five (25) miles per hour, or less.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of a building such
as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders, or any change in the building's
exterior dimensions, walls or rooflines.
TRADITIONAL NEIGHBORHOOD DEVELOPMENT (TND): A development pattern that reflects
that which preceded reliance upon private automobiles as the principal means of
commuting between home, school, shopping and work.
USE: The purpose for which land or a building structure thereon is designed,
arranged, intended, or maintained, or for which it is or may be used or
occupied.
VARIANCE: The approved relaxation of certain provisions of these regulations,
where owing to circumstances unique to a specific property, literal enforcement
of the provisions will result in an undue hardship as described in section
11-1-9 of this title.
WATERCOURSE: Any natural watercourse including a stream, river, creek, ravine,
gully or wash in which water flows either continuously or intermittently and
which has a definite channel, bed and banks. Any adjacent area that is subject
to occasional overflow shall be considered part of the watercourse. Watercourse
shall not include a facility constructed exclusively for the conveyance of
irrigation water.
WHOLESALE: The sale of goods and merchandise for resale rather than for use by
the end user.
YARD, CORNER SIDE: The "front, side and/or rear yard" space, lying at the
intersection of streets other than alleys.
YARD, FRONT: A space not permitted for occupancy by building(s), extending
across the front of the lot and lying between the front property line and the
nearest line of the building(s). All yards fronting on streets, other than
alleys, shall be interpreted as front yards.
YARD OR SETBACK: Space on a lot, unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of
the "building area". The minimum horizontal distance between the "lot line(s)"
and "building(s)" measured at right angles to the lot lines, which dimension
shall be used in determining required yard widths and depths. No part of yards
required around building(s) on one lot shall be used to comply with required
yards around building(s) on another lot.
YARD, REAR: A space not permitted for occupancy by building(s), extending
across the rear of the lot and lying between the rear line and nearest line of
the building(s).
YARD, SIDE: A space not permitted for occupancy by building(s) extending across
the sides of the lot and lying between the sidelines and nearest lines of the
building(s).
ZONE: A zoning district established pursuant to this title. (Ord. 131, 3-14-
2002)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS AND OVERLAY DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Consistency With Comprehensive Plan
11-3-2: Zoning Districts Established
11-3-3: District Boundaries
11-3-4: Area, Yard And Height Specifications
11-3-5: Yard And Height Exceptions And Exemptions
11-3-1: CONSISTENCY WITH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
Montana statutes require zoning to be "in accordance" with an adopted master
(comprehensive) plan. The following italicized paragraphs are extracted from
the 1996 Ennis comprehensive plan. They present land use related goals and
objectives, several of which are interchangeable irrespective of type of land
use. These goals and objectives, together with statements discussing the
several land use map classifications, are especially pertinent to the zoning
districts and zoning district overlays. They shall serve as the basis of every
land use and construction project design, review and execution.
II: GOALS AND OBJECTIVES
   The "Goals and Objectives", together with stated policies, form the backbone
of a community comprehensive plan. They outline what Ennis citizens want for
the future of their community - how they want it to look, feel and function -
irrespective of growth rates, economic conditions or other circumstances
largely beyond local government's control...
   The Goals and Objectives were drawn from the 'Likes' and 'Dislikes'
expressed by the citizens at two planning workshops and from planning board and
consultant observations....
   Primary Goals
Preserve and enhance community attractiveness.
Conserve the area's natural environmental quality.
Ensure that future development does not burden current taxpayers.
   Residential
Goal:
Improve the community's total living environment by employing active,
neighborhood based planning and implementation.
Objectives:
Halt "suburban sprawl" and facilitate neighborhood reinvestment.
Determine development suitability and site design acceptability with full
regard for topographic, soil, food and other natural conditions.
Implement flexible regulatory codes to achieve well planned neighborhoods with
varied lot sizes, mixed land uses and safe, efficient site design.
Protect neighborhoods from poorly designed incompatible uses....
Facilitate new and rehabilitated housing that will serve all citizens needs.
Implement incentive based minimum construction standards.
   Commercial
Goal:
Optimize business opportunities consistent with the Primary Goals.
Facilitate small businesses consistent with Ennis' "small town" character.
Preserve downtown as the focal point of business and shopping activity.
Provide incentives to attract and keep business within the core area.
Encourage development of vacant and underutilized spaces in the core area.
Continue to enhance all elements of downtown's appearance, particularly signs
and lights.
Continue downtown's contemporary western theme.
Link commercial, residential and recreational spaces with pedestrian walkways.
Require adequate, properly located well-designed parking.
   Industrial
Goal:
Build a more diversified, year-round economy.
Objectives:
Facilitate the expansion of existing and development of new light industries.
Protect lands suitable for light industry from residential or other low value
uses.
Require proper site design construction and maintenance.
   Community Facilities and Utilities
Goal:
Provide effective, efficient public services.
Objectives:
Require basic utility systems be installed prior to development and
construction.
Install power and communication systems underground.
Require adequate storm water facilities be designed, installed and maintained.
   Parks and Recreation
Goal:
Develop park and recreation facilities that meet the needs of all citizens.
Objectives:
Provide land and recreational facilities commensurate with current and future
needs that do not exceed the community's maintenance capabilities.
Develop year-round facilities that will strengthen the Madison Valley
recreational economy but do not degrade the natural environment.
Develop a park and recreation system along the Madison River linked with other
community recreation spaces.
Preserve and improve parks and open spaces within the core area.
Improve parks acquired in collection with subdivision approvals.
   Transportation
Goal:
Increase the quality, availability and efficiency of transportation facilities.
Objectives:
Restrict access to arterial streets.
   Agriculture
Goal:
Promote the agricultural economy's continued growth and prosperity.
Objectives:
Recognize agriculture's contribution to the community's economic base, the
protection of wildlife resources and maintenance of open space.
Protect agriculture from the adverse effect of subdivision development.
Fully implement land protection measures including floodplain management, weed
infestation controls and soil and water conservation.
   Natural Resources
Goal:
Make effective use of natural resources while protecting environmental quality.
Objectives:
Protect and appropriately manage natural resources.
Implement measures that will minimize air and water pollution.
Protect and preserve Madison Valley's natural character.
   Aesthetic and Environment
Goal:
Protect and enhance the area's built and natural environment.
Objectives:
Protect the area's natural environment.
Design and implement a flexible, design based regulatory system.
Improve community entryway signage and landscaping.
Prevent new incompatible land uses, and mitigate the effect of those that
currently exist, with landscaping or other means of buffering.
Reduce the consumption of water for landscape irrigation.
Land Use Map: The Land Use Map... is intended to be interpreted and applied in
context with but subservient to the document text. Although the number of
dwelling units per acre stipulated for each of the land use classification
areas are intended to be maximum densities, they shall be flexibly interpreted
to accommodate density "bonuses" that may be permitted by zoning provisions
adopted to implement the spirit and intent of the comprehensive plan.
The land uses and development requirements to be implemented by zoning and
other regulatory codes and policies are:
Agricultural Areas: Three (3) classifications of land primarily suited for
grazing or raising crops are designated. Low intensity residential uses may be
permitted depending upon natural development constraints and distance from
town.
a. Agriculture - 1 DU Per 640 Acres: Areas subject to flooding or topographic
constraints that make them unsuitable or virtually unsuitable for any urban
type use but which are suitable for agricultural crops or grazing.
b. Agriculture - I DU Per 160 Acres: Areas subject to severe water table and
other developmental problems causing them to be difficult to develop for urban
purposes but which are suitable for agricultural crops or grazing.
c. Agriculture - I DU Per 80 Acres: Lands with moderate developmental
constraints that lie between the very low developmental density agricultural
lands and the low density residential use areas. These areas are suitable for
grazing and certain other agricultural purposes.
Residential Neighborhoods: Residential neighborhoods will be systematically
improved by paving streets where appropriate, installing sidewalks, providing
adequate storm drainage facilities and planting street trees. Specific areas
adjacent to the downtown area will be enhanced by gradually introducing limited
mixed use development. This gradual "infilling" and reinvestment process will
be undertaken under guidelines and controls designed to protect the livability
and economic viability of the existing residential properties. All new
residential subdivisions will be designed and developed to be efficiently
served by public infrastructure and services.
Residential areas are classified for differing development densities (dwelling
units per acre) based upon their relative suitability for development as
delineated by the soil conservation service (now NRCS) "Soils Survey" and by
their relative distance from the center of town.
a. Residential - 1 DU Per 10 Acres: Tracts suitable for low density, suburban
type development.
b. Residential - 2 DU's Per Acre: Lands within 1  and close to town suitable
for single-family home sites served by "on-lot" water and sewage disposal
systems.
c. Residential - 4 DU's Per Acre: The area currently developed with a mix of
mobile homes, apartments and single-family houses. Four (4) DU's per gross acre
will permit development at an intensity that should not adversely affect
individual home development if proper regulatory requirements are applied.
d. Residential - 8 DU's Per Acre: This development density approximates that
which currently exists throughout the town's older areas. Specific development
regulations must be enacted (and possibly differing zoning classifications) to
assure high quality site design, building rehabilitation and new home
construction.
Local Commercial and Residential: Mixed commercial/residential areas that will
be subject to maximum building and parking limits to ensure services will be
restricted primarily to immediate surrounding neighborhoods.
Core Commercial/Residential Neighborhoods: The downtown "core" area will retain
its position as the primary business and shopping center of the Ennis vicinity.
Expansion into the blocks immediately to the north and south of Main Street
will be facilitated through a carefully controlled mixed-use regulatory
procedure. Downtown's western small town character will be protected by
managing the size, nature and arrangement of buildings, streets, walkways,
parking, open spaces and other development features, both public and private.
Highway Commercial: Concentrated areas of highway oriented business
developments are indicated for three (3) specific areas abutting arterial
routes. Existing commercial enterprise owners will systematically improve the
safety and appearance of their properties as buildings are expanded or uses are
changed. New commercial operations will be required to design, improve and
maintain properties in the manner proscribed for the areas designated "Highway
Commercial".
Commercial/Industrial: This classification will allow a somewhat broader range
of uses and afford greater opportunity for basic sector job opportunities close
to the heart of the community. Existing and new development will be improved in
the manner proscribed for the areas designated "Commercial/Industrial".
Planned Industrial: The area to be reserved for basic sector employment type
uses that will be attracted to Ennis if a suitable environment is assured.
(Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. All properties within the town limits must connect with the town's central
  sewer system.
11-3-2: ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
The Ennis planning and zoning jurisdictional area is divided into the following
zoning districts:
Agricultural Districts
   AG-640   Agricultural - 640
   AG-160   Agricultural - 160
   AG-80   Agricultural - 80
Residential Districts
   R-RD   Residential - rural density
   R-LD   Residential - low density
   R-MD   Residential - medium density
   R-TD   Residential - town density
Mixed Commercial/Residential Districts
   L-CR   Local commercial - residential
   C-CR   Core commercial - residential
Nonresidential Districts
   HC   Highway commercial
   C-I   Commercial/industrial
   P-I   Planned industrial
Zoning Overlay Districts
   TND   Traditional neighborhood development
   FPM   Floodplain management
   CS   Community signage
(Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-3-3: DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
   A.   Interpretation: Mapped zoning district boundaries shall be interpreted
pursuant to the following rules:
      1.   Centerlines: Where boundaries as generally follow the centers of
street or highway rights of way, the centerlines of the streets or rights of
way shall be construed to be such boundaries.
      2.   Lot Lines: Where boundaries generally follow lot lines, such lot
lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
      3.   Parallel Lines: Where boundaries generally parallel the centerlines
of streets or rights of way lines of highways, such boundaries shall be
construed as being parallel to and at a dimension scaled from the zoning map.
      4.   Shorelines: Where district boundaries generally follow shorelines,
such shorelines shall be construed to be such boundaries. If natural change
occurs, such change in the shoreline boundaries shall be construed as moving
with the actual shoreline. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-3-4: AREA, YARD AND HEIGHT SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Purpose And Matrix: Minimum area per dwelling unit, lot area, front
yard, side yard, rear yard and street frontage requirements as well as maximum
height and intensity requirements are established to further the goals,
objectives, policies and land use provisions of the comprehensive plan. These
requirements shall be observed in all circumstances unless modified pursuant to
the provisions set forth within the overlay district or those regarding
"hardship" variances.
 DISTRICT MINIMUMS                                                   MAXIMUMS
          Area/DU Lot Area Front Sd. Yard Rr. Yard St. Frt'ge Height Intensity
                           Yard
 DISTRICT MINIMUMS                                                   MAXIMUMS
          Area/DU  Lot Area Front  Sd. Yard Rr. Yard St.     Height  Intensity
                            Yard                     Frt'ge
 AG-640   640      640      50 ft. 1) 10    1)10 ft. 1,200   2) none 2) none
          acres    acres           ft.               ft.
 AG-160   160      160      50 ft. 1) 10    1)10 ft. 1,200   2) none 2) none
          acres    acres           ft.               ft.
 AG-80    80 acres 80 acres 50 ft. 1) 10    1) 10    1,200   2) none 2) none
                                   ft.      ft.      ft.
 R-RD     10 acres 3 acres  50 ft. 10 ft.   1) 10    250 ft. 35 ft.  none
                                            ft.
 R-LD     1/2 acre 7,500    20 ft. 10 ft.   20 ft.   75 ft.  25 ft.  none
                   sq. ft.
 R-MD     1/4 acre 5,000    20 ft. 10 ft.   10 ft.   50 ft.  25 ft.  none
                   sq. ft.
 R-TD     1/8 acre 4,000    15 ft. 5 ft.    5 ft.    50 ft.  25 ft.  none
                   sq. ft.
 L-CR     3)       3)       3)     3)       3)       3)      35 ft.  4) 0.8
 C-CR     3)       3)       3)     3)       3)       3)      35 ft.  4) 3.0
 HC       -        3)       25 ft. 3)       3)       100 ft. 35 ft.  4) 0.4
 C-1      -        1 acre   50 ft. 25 ft.   25 ft.   100 ft. 35 ft.  4) 0.4
 P-1      3)       3)       50 ft. 25 ft.   3)       3)      35 ft.  4) 0.6
 
1)   This distance shall be equal to the height of buildings within 200 feet
but no less than 10 feet
2)   No maximum height limit is established except as may be required within
airport land zones
3)   All L-CR, C-CR and P-I districts shall be designed in accord with the TND
district requirements (see article 3A of this chapter).
4)   The maximum allowable "floor area ratio (FAR)" as defined in section
11-2-2 of this title.
   B.   Parcels Nonconforming By Size: Parcels nonconforming by size that were
subdivided prior to this title may be used provided the proposed uses are
treated as conditional uses and subject to the conditions set forth for such
uses. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002; amd. Ord. 146, 2-10-2022)
11-3-5: YARD AND HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Purpose: Yard and height exceptions and exemptions to the requirements
specified in the preceding section shall apply pursuant to the following
provisions:
   B.   Yard Exceptions And Exemptions:
      1.   Porches: An open unenclosed porch or paved terrace may project into
a front yard for a distance not exceeding ten feet (10').
      2.   Terraces And Decks: Terraces, uncovered porches, platforms and
ornamental features which do not extend more than four feet (4') above the
floor level of the ground story may project into a required yard provided these
projections be at least five feet (5') from the adjacent side lot lines.
      3.   Accessory Structure Yard Encroachments: Accessory structures may be
built in required rear yard areas but such accessory buildings shall not occupy
more than thirty percent (30%) of a required rear yard and shall not be nearer
than three feet (3') to any side lot line or six feet (6') to any rear lot
line.
      4.   Corner/Side Yards: The required side yard of a corner lot shall be
one-half (1/2) the required front yard on such street provided that no adjacent
structures front on the same street, in which case the entire required front
yard depth must be provided. No accessory building may project beyond the
required front yard on either street.
   C.   Height Exceptions And Exemptions:
      1.   Public Or Quasi-Public Service Facility Structures: Where permitted,
these structures may be erected to a height not exceeding sixty feet (60') or,
in the case of churches, not exceeding seventy five feet (75'). However, in
such cases the front yard and corner side yard depths shall be thirty percent
(30%) in excess of those required, and interior lot side yards shall be twenty
feet (20').
      2.   Towers And Lofts: Except in airport landing zones, chimneys, church
steeples, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers, monuments, stacks,
stage towers, or scenery lofts, links, water towers, ornamental towers, spires,
communication towers, grain elevators, or appropriate decorative or necessary
mechanical appurtenances are exempt from the height limits.
      3.   Cornice, Ornament And Eaves Exceptions: Every part of a required
yard shall be open to the sky, unobstructed by any structure, except for the
projection of sills, cornices, eaves and ornamental features which shall not to
exceed twenty four feet (24'). (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
ARTICLE A. AG-640, AG-160 AND AG-80 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-3A-1: Purpose
11-3A-2: Permitted Uses
11-3A-3: Conditional Uses
11-3A-1: PURPOSE:
To protect agricultural lands suited for the production of ranch and farm
communities and prevent suburban development sprawl in areas relatively remote
from convenient public infrastructure and services. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-3A-2: PERMITTED USES:
In AG agricultural districts, no building or premises shall be used and no
building shall be erected or structurally altered, except for one of the
following purposes:
Accessory structures and uses.
Agriculture, including field crops, horticulture, animal husbandry, poultry
farms and kennels.
Dwellings and normal ranch and farm buildings.
Golf courses and country clubs.
Marijuana grow houses in AG-640 and AG-160.
Riding academies, dude ranches, and farm and ranch related recreational
enterprises. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002; amd. Ord. 134, 11-5-2010; Ord. 154-2023, 7-
27-2023)
11-3A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses are permitted in agricultural districts subject to meeting
the requirements and procedures prescribed for conditional uses:
Airports, provided they meet all state and federal regulations.
Cemeteries, crematories and mausoleums.
Commercial mines, quarries and sand and gravel pits.
Commercial recreation, including golf driving ranges and automotive racetracks.
Essential services.
Home occupations.
Living quarters for persons employed more than half time on the premises but
not exceeding one family unit in addition to the principal occupant/employer.
Nonhighway oriented lodges with cabins.
Temporary (not to exceed 90 days) stands for the sale of products grown
primarily on the premises. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
ARTICLE B. RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-3B-1: R-RD Rural Density District
11-3B-2: R-LD Low Density District
11-3B-3: R-MD Medium Density District
11-3B-4: R-TD Residential Town Density District
11-3B-1: R-RD RURAL DENSITY DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: To provide areas suitable for rural density, suburban
development at a density of no more than one dwelling unit per ten (10) acres
of land.
   B.   Permitted Use: In R-RD districts, no building or premises shall be used
and no building shall be erected or structurally altered except for one of the
following purposes:
Accessory structures and uses.
Churches, libraries, museums, public parks and playgrounds, community centers,
colleges, public golf courses, public and private educational institutions
offering programs that meet state educational standards and similar public or
quasi-public buildings and recreation facilities.
Daycare centers.
Fire and police stations.
Group homes.
Nursing homes and hospitals, provided the state and local health jurisdictions
approve the location.
Single-family dwellings.
   C.   Conditional Uses: The following uses are permitted in R-RD districts
subject to meeting the requirements and procedures prescribed for conditional
uses:
Cemeteries, crematories and mausoleums.
Essential services.
Home occupations.
Living quarters for persons employed more than half time on the premises but
not exceeding one family unit in addition to the principal occupant/employer.
(Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-3B-2: R-LD LOW DENSITY DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: To provide areas suitable for low density development, within
or close to town at a density of no more than one dwelling unit per one-half
(1/2) acre of land (21,780 square feet) 1 .
   B.   Permitted Uses: In R-LD districts, no building or premises shall be
used and no building shall be erected or structurally altered except for one of
the following purposes:
Accessory structures and uses.
Churches, libraries, museums, public parks and playgrounds, community centers,
colleges, public golf courses, public and private educational institutions
offering programs that meet state educational standards and similar public or
quasi-public buildings and recreation facilities.
Daycare centers.
Fire and police stations.
Group homes.
Nursing homes and hospitals, provided the state and local health jurisdictions
approve the location.
Single-family dwellings.
   C.   Conditional Uses: The following uses are permitted in R-LD districts
subject to meeting the requirements and procedures prescribed for conditional
uses:
Essential services.
Home occupations.
Manufactured home parks platted after adoption of this title. (Ord. 131, 3-14-
2002)
 
Notes
1 1. All properties located within the town limits must be connected to the
  town's sewer system.
11-3B-3: R-MD MEDIUM DENSITY DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: To provide areas that are suitable for a mixture of single-
family and multi-family dwellings within the town's infrastructure service area
at a density of no more than one dwelling unit per one-fourth (1/4) acre of
land (10,890 square feet).
   B.   Permitted Uses: In R-MD districts, no building or premises shall be
used and no building shall be erected or structurally altered except for one of
the following purposes:
Accessory structures and uses.
Churches, libraries, museums, public parks and playgrounds, community centers,
colleges, public golf courses, public and private educational institutions
offering programs that meet state educational standards and similar public or
quasi-public buildings and recreation facilities.
Daycare centers.
Fire and police stations.
Group homes.
Nursing homes and hospitals, provided the state and local health jurisdictions
approve the location.
Single- and multiple-family dwellings.
   C.   Conditional Uses: The following uses are permitted in R-MD districts
subject to meeting the requirements and procedures prescribed for conditional
uses:
Bed and breakfasts.
Boarding/lodging houses.
Essential services.
Home occupations.
Hospitals and clinics.
Manufactured home parks platted after adoption of this title. (Ord. 131, 3-14-
2002)
11-3B-4: R-TD RESIDENTIAL TOWN DENSITY DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: To accommodate a mix of homes and apartments close to the
town's core area at a density of no more than one dwelling unit per one-eighth
(1/8) acre (5,445 square feet).
   B.   Permitted Uses: In R-TD districts, no building or premises shall be
used and no building shall be erected or structurally altered except for one of
the following purposes:
Accessory structures and uses.
Bed and breakfasts.
Boarding/lodging houses.
Churches, libraries, museums, public parks and playgrounds, community centers,
colleges, public golf courses, public and private educational institutions
offering programs that meet state educational standards and similar public or
quasi-public buildings and recreation facilities.
Daycare centers.
Group homes.
Hospitals and clinics.
Nursing homes and hospitals, provided the state and local health jurisdictions
approve the location.
Public safety: Fire and police stations.
Single- and multiple-family dwellings.
   C.   Conditional Uses: The following uses are permitted in R-TD districts
subject to meeting the requirements and procedures prescribed for conditional
uses:
Essential services.
Home occupations.
Manufactured home parks platted after adoption of this title. (Ord. 131, 3-14-
2002)
ARTICLE C. MIXED COMMERCIAL/RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-3C-1: L-CR Local Commercial/Residential District
11-3C-2: C-CR Core Commercial/Residential District
11-3C-1: L-CR LOCAL COMMERCIAL/RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: To provide for small commercial shops and services designed in
a manner compatible with residential development and within walking distance of
immediate surrounding residential neighborhoods.
   B.   Permitted Uses: In L-CR districts, no individual nonresidential space
shall exceed one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet in gross area, the
total nonresidential space shall not exceed five thousand (5,000) square feet
in gross area, and the total gross area devoted to parking and vehicle
circulation shall not exceed six thousand (6,000) square feet. No building or
premises shall be used and no building shall be erected or structurally altered
except for one of the following or demonstrably similar purposes:
Accessory structures and uses.
Bed and breakfasts.
Boarding/lodging houses.
Churches, public parks and playgrounds and community centers.
Daycare centers.
Fire and police stations.
Group homes.
Restaurants.
Shops and services that generally serve the day to day needs of nearby
neighborhood residents.
   C.   Conditional Uses: The following uses are permitted in L-CR districts
subject to meeting the requirements and procedures prescribed for conditional
uses:
Automobile service stations.
Essential services.
Home occupations.
Offices, each not exceeding five hundred (500) square feet in gross area.
Single- and multiple-family dwellings. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-3C-2: C-CR CORE COMMERCIAL/RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: To maintain and strengthen the downtown "core" area and
facilitate the continuance of its western, small town character.
   B.   Permitted Uses: In the C-CR district, no building or premises shall be
used and no building shall be hereafter erected or structurally altered, except
for one of the following or demonstrably similar purposes:
Accessory structures and uses.
Assembly halls.
Bars and package liquor stores.
Bed and breakfasts.
Boarding/lodging houses.
Bowling alleys.
Churches, public parks and playgrounds and community centers.
Daycare centers.
Group homes.
Libraries, public parks and playgrounds, fire and police stations and other
public buildings.
Marijuana storefronts.
Membership clubs.
Offices.
Printing shops.
Public and private recreation use.
Restaurants.
Retail stores.
Theaters. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002; amd. Ord. 134, 11-5-2010)
   C.   Conditional Uses: The following uses are permitted in C-CR districts
subject to meeting the requirements and procedures prescribed for conditional
uses:
Bus stations.
Essential services.
Home occupations.
Retail painting, plumbing, upholstering and sign shops (no outdoor storage of
materials).
Single- and multiple-family dwellings.  (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002; amd. Ord. 134,
11-5-2010; Ord. 154-2023, 7-27-2023)
ARTICLE D. NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-3D-1: HC Highway Commercial District
11-3D-2: C-I Commercial-Industrial District
11-3D-1: HC HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: To accommodate concentrations of highway oriented business
development in areas abutting arterial thoroughfares. These areas are intended
to primarily serve automobile oriented trade requiring parking, loading and
storage areas generally incompatible with the downtown core area. The HC
district is not intended to permit uses that are directly competitive with and
destructive to the success of businesses in the core commercial/residential
district.
   B.   Permitted Uses: In the HC district, no building or premises shall be
used and no building shall be erected or structurally altered except for one of
the following or demonstrably similar purposes:
Accessory structures and uses.
Bowling alleys.
Drive-in establishments.
Fire and police stations.
Hotels, motels, restaurants, taverns and package liquor stores.
Marijuana grow houses and storefronts.
Printing shops.
Public and private recreation uses.
Retail stores for the sale of automobile parts and accessories, souvenirs,
curios, film, magazines, and other products customarily sold to meet the needs
of the motoring public, but not including junk, salvage, or automobile wrecking
yards.
Service stations, automobile and truck repair garages.
Tire store sales and service, including vulcanizing, but not involving
manufacturing on the premises.
Tourist information centers and museums.
Truck stops.
   C.   Conditional Uses: The following uses are permitted in HC districts
subject to meeting the requirements and procedures prescribed for conditional
uses:
Bus stations.
Churches.
Contractor's operations or storage yards.
Essential services.
Gasoline, propane and oil bulk stations and distributing plants. Due to the
flammable nature of these products, sites may be located within the highway
commercial district, remote from population concentration provided:
      1.   They meet all local, state and federal regulations.
      2.   Storage tanks shall be a minimum of fifty feet (50') from the
nearest property line.
      3.   The site shall have direct and exclusive access to an arterial
highway and such access shall be at least two hundred feet (200') from any
residential dwelling or any commercial business open to the general public.
      4.   The site shall maintain an acceptable appearance from streets and
adjoining properties by employing approved landscaping and buffering
techniques.
Heavy machinery sales and service.
Lumber or building materials storage yards, builders supply yards, sale of
cement and concrete products and lumber.
Mobile home and trailer sales and services.
Painting, plumbing, upholstering and sign shops.
Single- and multi-family dwellings.
Storage warehouses.  (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002; amd. Ord. 134, 11-5-2010; Ord. 154-
2023, 7-27-2023)
11-3D-2: C-I COMMERCIAL-INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: To accommodate basic sector industrial uses in addition to
concentrations of highway oriented business development in areas abutting
arterial thoroughfares. These areas are intended to provide a broader range of
industrial as well as commercial development, the latter of which primarily
serves automobile oriented trade requiring parking, loading and storage areas
generally incompatible with the downtown core area. The C-I district is not
intended to permit uses that are directly competitive with and destructive to
the success of businesses in the core commercial/residential district.
   B.   Permitted Uses: In the C-I district, no building or premises shall be
used and no building shall be erected or structurally altered except for one of
the following or demonstrably similar purposes:
Accessory structures and uses.
Bowling alleys.
Contractor's operations or storage yards.
Drive-in establishments.
Fire and police stations.
Hotels, motels, restaurants, taverns and package liquor stores.
Lumber or building materials storage yards, builders supply yards, sale of
cement and concrete products and lumber.
Marijuana grow houses and storefronts.
Painting, plumbing, upholstering and sign shops.
Printing shops.
Public and private recreation uses.
Retail stores for the sale of automobile parts and accessories, souvenirs,
curios, film, magazines, and other products customarily sold to meet the needs
of the motoring public, but not including junk, salvage, or automobile wrecking
yards.
Service stations, automobile and truck repair garages.
Tire store sales and service, including vulcanizing, but not involving
manufacturing on the premises.
Tourist information centers and museums.
Truck stops.
   C.   Conditional Uses: The following uses are permitted in C-I districts
subject to meeting the requirements and procedures prescribed for conditional
uses:
Blacksmith, welding, or other metal shops, excluding punch presses over twenty
(20) tons' rated capacity, drop hammers, and the like.
Bottling works.
Bus stations.
Churches.
Dairy processing and distribution plants.
Electrical central power stations.
Essential services.
Grain elevators, or facilities for collection, storage, processing and
marketing of grain and feed products.
Machine, roofing and sheet metal shops.
Manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging of cosmetics, pharmacology,
electronic components and food products, except fish and meat products, and the
reducing and refining of fats and oils.
Mobile home and trailer sales and services.
Printing plants.
Processing and manufacturing of brick, ceramic and other clay products.
Single- and multi-family dwellings.
Storage warehouses. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002; amd. Ord. 134, 11-5-2010; Ord. 154-
2023, 7-27-2023)
ARTICLE E. P-I PLANNED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-3E-1: Purpose
11-3E-2: Permitted Uses
11-3E-3: Conditional Uses
11-3E-1: PURPOSE:
Areas to be reserved for basic sector industrial uses that desire a more
protected, higher quality environment within which to conduct operations. (Ord.
131, 3-14-2002)
11-3E-2: PERMITTED USES:
In the P-I district, no building or premises shall be used and no building
shall be erected or structurally altered, except for one of the following or
demonstrably similar purposes:
Accessory structures and uses.
Basic sector industries and businesses that sell most of the goods or services
produced to buyers from outside Montana.
Marijuana grow houses and storefronts.
Organizations or agencies that serve a broad range of in state as well as out
of state visitors to the Ennis area.
Tourist information centers and museums. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002; amd. Ord. 134,
11-5-2010; Ord. 154-2023, 7-27-2023)
11-3E-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses are permitted in P-I districts subject to meeting the
requirements and procedures prescribed for conditional uses:
Bus stations.
Essential services.
Hotels, motels and restaurants.
Living quarters for persons employed more than half time on premises. (Ord.
131, 3-14-2002)
ARTICLE F. ZONING OVERLAY DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-3F-1: TND Traditional Neighborhood Development Overlay
11-3F-1: TND TRADITIONAL NEIGHBORHOOD DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY:
   A.   Intent And Purpose: Montana statutes state zoning regulations shall be
in accord with a comprehensive plan. The 1996 Ennis comprehensive plan goals
and objectives revealed citizen desire to be involved in community planning and
implementation decisions and to preserve and enhance community attractiveness.
The plan also reflects the citizen's intent to maintain Ennis' small western
town appearance and other features that distinguish it from other communities.
TND provisions offer property owners, developers and builders maximum
flexibility of design consistent with the goals, objectives, policies and
overall intent of the Ennis comprehensive plan and applicable provisions of the
Montana planning and zoning statutes. Design parameters and review procedures
to be used in administering TND provisions are intended to assure full
protection of the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the Ennis
community.
   B.   TND Design Parameters:
      1.   Design Quality: The design quality of site, landscaping and
structures, viewed in context with a proposed project's compatibility with its
immediate surroundings and with the town's unique character, shall be a primary
criteria by which the acceptability of all TND proposals shall be measured.
      2.   Uses: Permitted and conditional uses shall be those specified in the
underlying zoning district; however, reviewers shall flexibly interpret the
appropriateness of proposed uses when determining their consistency with the
uses permitted in the underlying zoning classification.
      3.   Density And Intensity: The maximum permitted residential density,
calculated as the number of dwelling units per acre, and intensity of
nonresidential use, calculated as permitted floor area ratio (FAR), shall not
exceed or be less than that specified for the underlying zoning district by a
factor of more than fifty percent (50%).
      4.   Parking And Loading: Parking and loading areas shall be consistent
with the comprehensive plan and shall be placed behind buildings and screened
from public streets and surrounding properties. The parking and loading
requirements set forth in this title shall serve as review guide for TND
proposals but may be adjusted by a factor up to one hundred percent (100%),
provided:
         a.   Acceptable alternative arrangements are made or actual needs are
less for the specific proposed uses to be served, and
         b.   An equivalent area, suitably located with respect to access, is
landscaped for subsequent conversion to parking or loading if uses are changed.
      5.   Parks, Trails And Common Open Spaces: Parks, trails and common
spaces commensurate with the type, size and location of proposed TNDs shall be
incorporated into the design plans. TND plans shall also include procedures for
constructing and providing for the continued maintenance of these features.
      6.   Community Facilities And Utilities: Community utilities and
facilities commensurate with the type, size and location of proposed TNDs shall
be incorporated into the design plans. TND plans shall also include the means
of transferring ownership and long term responsibility for such improvements or
land.
      7.   Landscaping, Lighting And Street Furniture: Landscaping, lighting
and street furniture shall meet the requirements of this title; however,
proposals of an extraordinary quality and design may be used as mitigating
offsets with respect to other ordinance requirements.
      8.   Signs: The sign requirements set forth in this title shall serve as
review guide for TND proposals but may be adjusted for valid functional and
aesthetic reasons by a factor up to twenty five percent (25%).
      9.   Access And Linkage: Maximum attention shall be given to a feature
that will enhance convenient and safe and attractive pedestrian and bicycle
access, both on and off site.
      10.   Streets, Alleys, And Parking Lots: Vehicular access shall be
designed and constructed to physically constrain maximum vehicular speed on
collector streets to thirty (30) miles per hour, on local access streets to
twenty (20) miles per hour and on alleys and within parking lots to seven (7)
miles per hour. Adequate arrangements shall be incorporated into the design to
accommodate public safety vehicles as well as occasional community service
needs, but these arrangements shall not cause the maximum design speed to
increase.
   C.   Review Procedures:
      1.   Time: Recognizing the TND procedure lessens the predictability of
timing and approval. Project filings deemed by the zoning administrator to be
complete and sufficient for review shall be accorded priority over all other
projects at every step of the review process. All town of Ennis related
personnel and agency reviews shall be expedited to the extent possible
consistent with statutorily determined meeting notification requirements.
      2.   Review Process: A property owner or other person considering a TND
project shall first meet with the zoning administrator to review the nature,
type and location of the proposed project. The zoning administrator shall
provide information and answer questions about the process together with a list
of submission requirements and a tentative schedule of review stages and
procedures consistent with the scale and nature of the applicant's proposed
project. The applicant will provide a draft TND agreement that describes all
facets of the project including the public and private improvements and
schedule for the project. Formal reviews will not be initiated until all
required information has been submitted to the zoning administrator.
      3.   Approval Process: The zoning administrator shall promptly schedule
the proposed TND project for planning board review. The planning board may
conduct a public hearing regarding the proposed project or may review and
recommend approving, conditionally approving or denying the project at any
special or regular board meeting. Before recommending any TND project the
planning board shall make specific findings that document how the project meets
this section's design criteria. The planning board's recommendation and TND
agreement shall be forwarded to the town commission for review and approval.
The agreement will be executed by the developer and the mayor or his designee
and shall be a contract enforceable under Montana law.
   D.   Other TND Provisions:
      1.   Zoning Standards As Guide: The zoning standards and procedures set
forth in other provisions of this title may be used as a guide for TND reviews.
      2.   Interpretation: It is understood and intended that such
determinations will be site specific and likely to vary based upon geographic
location within the town and with changes in materials and technologies in
time.
      3.   Bonding: The town commission may require a performance bond to
ensure that the proposed development is completed as approved and within the
time limits. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Consistency With Comprehensive Plan
11-4-2: Standards For Certain Uses And Structures
11-4-3: Structure And Site Development Provisions
11-4-4: Manufactured Home Parks
11-4-5: Performance Standards
11-4-6: Home Occupations
11-4-7: Nonconforming Uses And Structures
11-4-8: Temporary Use Permits
11-4-9: Landscaping
11-4-10: Parking And Loading Requirements
11-4-11: Floodplain Management 1  (Rep. by Ord. 136, 5-19-2011)
11-4-12: Community Signage
11-4-13: Specific Signs; Regulations
11-4-14: Sign Design Exemptions
11-4-15: Sign Regulations Applying To Joint Occupancy Or Multiple Use
11-4-16: Prohibited Signs
11-4-17: General Sign Provisions
11-4-18: Zoning Permits
11-4-19: Conditional Use Procedure
11-4-20: Plan Review And Approval
11-4-21: Medical Marijuana
 
Notes
1 1. See title 13 of this code.
11-4-1: CONSISTENCY WITH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
Standards applicable in some or all zoning districts are set forth in this
chapter. They are designed and intended to further implementation of the goals,
objectives, policies and other relevant elements of the Ennis comprehensive
plan. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-4-2: STANDARDS FOR CERTAIN USES AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to further describe the
standards and conditions under which certain uses may be permitted as principal
or conditional uses in specific districts. All uses listed in this section
shall be subject to the specific standards described for each use, in addition
to all other applicable standards that may apply. Compliance with all criteria
listed below does not necessarily guarantee approval of a zoning permit.
   B.   Automotive Service Facilities: Automotive service shall include repair,
washing, fueling and similar related activities.
      1.   Arterial Frontage: At least one frontage shall be on a major
arterial street. (US 287 or SR 287)
      2.   Pumps And Canopies: Gas pump and pump island canopies shall be
located no closer than twenty five feet (25') to any side or rear property line
and shall not exceed eighteen feet (18') in height.
      3.   Screening: All on site activities except those normally performed at
fuel pumps shall be performed within a completely enclosed building. Vehicles
awaiting repair or that have been repaired, auto repair activities and
unassembled vehicles shall be fully screened from residential zoning districts.
      4.   Body Work: Painting or body and fender work shall not be conducted
unless permitted in the zoning district.
      5.   Nonautomotive Sales: Temporary sales (as distinguished from
permitted mixed use retail businesses) of nonautomotive related goods and
services; for example, art, food or landscaping materials shall be prohibited.
      6.   Vehicle Sales: No sale, lease or rental of trailers, trucks or
similar vehicles or equipment shall be permitted except as may be specifically
allowed in the zoning district.
      7.   Parking: Interior circulation areas and standing areas at pump
islands shall not be used to meet minimum off street parking requirements.
      8.   Trash And Litter: The site shall be policed to remove trash and
litter and waste containers shall be emptied daily.
   C.   Cemeteries:
      1.   Size: Cemeteries shall be a minimum of forty (40) acres, of which at
least ten (10) acres shall be subdivided and fully developed with roads and
facilities in the initial plat.
      2.   Landscaping: The entire site shall be landscaped and maintained. All
disturbed portions of the site, including any grassed or otherwise planted
areas shall be irrigated with an automatic watering system.
      3.   Accessory Uses: The cemetery may include accessory uses such as a
chapel, a mortuary, office, a mausoleum, equipment storage or maintenance
facilities incidental and essential to the operation of a cemetery.
   D.   Mini Warehouses:
      1.   Circulation And Parking Requirements:
         a.   Exits: Each mini warehouse site shall provide a minimum of two
(2) exits.
         b.   Lane Widths: All one-way driveways shall provide for a twelve
foot (12') travel lane and a ten foot (10') parking lane. Parking lanes may be
eliminated on portions of driveways that do not serve storage units.
      2.   Marking: Traffic flow direction and parking areas shall be clearly
marked.
   E.   Recreational Vehicle Park And Overnight Campgrounds:
      1.   Size: Recreational vehicle park sites shall be a minimum of ten (10)
acres.
      2.   Landscaping: The entire site shall be landscaped and maintained. All
disturbed portions of the site, including any grassed or otherwise planted
areas shall be irrigated with an automatic watering system.
      3.   Screening: Recreational vehicle parks shall be screened with
vegetation from any residential street or zoning district.
      4.   Recreation Area: At least ten percent (10%) of the total
recreational vehicle park area shall be set aside, equipped and maintained for
the recreational needs of those visiting the park.
      5.   Internal Circulation: Internal circulation roads shall be paved with
concrete or asphalt equal to town access street standards.
      6.   Recreational Vehicle Parking Pads: Individual recreational vehicle
parking pads shall be plainly marked and maintained with a dust free surface,
and each pad shall be equipped with approved water and electrical connections.
      7.   Setbacks: Recreational vehicle parking pads shall be set back at
least thirty feet (30') from the park perimeter and any public street right of
way.
      8.   Utilities And Facilities: State approved drinking water, laundry
facilities and sewage and solid waste disposal facilities shall be provided.
   F.   Stable, Commercial:
      1.   Area: Commercial stable sites shall be a minimum of ten (10) acres.
      2.   Landscaping: The entire site shall be landscaped and maintained. All
disturbed portions of the site, including any grassed or otherwise planted
areas but excluding corrals and performance areas, shall be irrigated with an
automatic watering system.
      3.   Adjacent Residential: The proposed site shall not be adjacent to
subdivided single-family residential property unless that residential property
contains an equestrian easement along the contiguous boundary.
      4.   Performance Regulations: Performances or other crowd generating
activities that may generate more traffic than normal to a residential area
shall not be permitted unless the site has direct access from an arterial or
collector street. Permission for such activities shall be obtained from the
town commission. Written notification shall be provided to the zoning officer
at least one month prior to the date of the activity. This notification shall
describe the nature and duration of the activity; toilet and other
accommodations for spectators; traffic control arrangements; and, adequate
parking for cars and trailers.
      5.   Enclosures: All pasture and animal maintenance areas shall be
enclosed with fences or walls a minimum of four and one-half feet (41/2') in
height. The design of these enclosures shall be shown on drawings submitted
with the conditional use application.
      6.   Public Health Requirements: All public health laws and laws
governing appropriate care of animals shall be complied with at all times.
      7.   Dust Control: All activity areas that are not grassed shall be
treated to control dust at all times.
   G.   Tennis, Racquet And Similar Clubs:
      1.   Size: Club sites shall be a minimum of three (3) acres.
      2.   Landscaping: The entire site shall be landscaped and maintained. All
disturbed portions of the site, including any grassed or otherwise planted
areas shall be irrigated with an automatic watering system.
      3.   Compatibility: The use shall be compatible with any adjacent
residential neighborhood and shall not be detrimental to the same due to
substantially increased automobile traffic or excessive noise generated from
within the site.
      4.   Tournaments: Tournaments or other crowd generating activities that
may generate more traffic than normal to a residential area shall not be
permitted unless the site has direct access from an arterial or collector
street. Permission for such activities shall be obtained from the town
commission. Written notification shall be provided to the zoning officer at
least one month prior to the date of the activity. This notification shall
describe the nature and duration of the activity; toilet and other
accommodations for spectators; traffic control arrangements; and, adequate
parking.
      5.   Fencing: Fencing of outdoor courts shall not exceed sixteen feet
(16') in height. Perimeter fencing may also be required.
      6.   Hours Of Operation: The town commission may control hours of
operation. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-4-3: STRUCTURE AND SITE DEVELOPMENT PROVISIONS:
   A.   Accessory Buildings, Uses And Equipment:
      1.   Accessory Building As Principal Building: An accessory building
shall be interpreted to be an integral part of the principal building if it is
connected to the principal building by a covered passageway or is positioned so
that any of its walls are within four feet (4') of the principal structure.
      2.   Accessory Buildings Not Permitted In Front Yards: Accessory
buildings, uses, or equipment shall not be stored or constructed between the
front lot line and required front building line.
      3.   Height Of Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings and garages in
residential districts shall not exceed the height of the principal structure
and shall not be located within a utility easement.
      4.   Detached Structures Setback Requirements:
         a.   Detached structures shall have a minimum three foot (3') side
yard setback from any side property line and a six foot (6') rear yard setback
from the rear property line.
         b.   A detached structure wall shall maintain a minimum four foot (4')
separation from the main structure wall.
         c.   Percentage Of Yard Coverage: Accessory structures may occupy not
more than fifty percent (50%) of any required rear yard.
   B.   Bicycle Provisions:
      1.   Bicycle Lanes May Be Required: Wherever new streets or roads are
developed or wherever existing streets are required to be improved, the
developer may be required to incorporate striped bicycle lanes into the design
and construction or improvement of the streets.
      2.   Bicycle Racks Required: All development proposals subject to minor
or major site plan review shall provide adequate bicycle parking facilities to
accommodate residents, employees and customers of the proposed development.
   C.   Fences, Walls And Hedges:
      1.   Location: Fences, walls and hedges, in any district may be located
on lot lines provided such fences, walls and hedges do not exceed eight feet
(8') in height. Fences or walls exceeding eight feet (8') in height shall be
subject to the minimum setback requirements of the district in which such
fences are located. However, no fences, walls or hedges shall exceed four feet
(4') in any corner lot side setback or front setback.
      2.   Relation To Linear Parks: Fences located in the rear yard setback of
properties adjoining any public park shall have a maximum height of four feet
(4').
      3.   Construction, Maintenance And Height Measurement:
         a.   Construction And Maintenance: Every fence or wall shall be
constructed of substantial, suitable material. No fence or wall shall be
allowed to become and remain in a condition of disrepair, damage, or
unsightliness, or constitute a nuisance, public or private. Any such fence or
wall that is, or has become, dangerous to the public safety, health or welfare,
or has become unsightly through improper maintenance or neglect is a public
nuisance and the zoning administrator shall commence proper abatement
proceedings.
         b.   Barbed Wire And Electric Fences:
            (1)   Barbed wire, electric or similar type fences shall be
prohibited, except in AG districts; except that barbed wire or other similar
type fencing materials may be used on the top of security fences in HC and C-
I districts if the barbed or electrified strands are at least eight feet (8')
above the adjacent ground.
            (2)   When electrically charged fences are used, such fences shall
be posted with warning signs at intervals not to exceed one hundred fifty feet
(150') where such fences are adjacent to public rights of way or residential
zoning districts.
         c.   Fence And Wall Height Measurement: In case of a fence erected on
top of a retaining wall, the height shall be measured from the grade of the
high side of the wall. All other fence height shall be measured as height above
the adjacent grade.
      4.   Screening Walls And Fences: Refer to the performance standards set
forth in this chapter for specific screening provisions.
   D.   Outdoor Sales, Storage And Display:
      1.   Merchandise: Merchandise offered for sale, rental or lease to the
ultimate consumer or user:
         a.   Temporary Display: If not of a type customarily sold outside a
building, may be temporarily displayed and sold outside in a commercial
district, but the area occupied by such display shall not exceed ten percent
(10%) of the ground floor area of the building housing the principal sales
area.
         b.   Permanent Display: If of a type customarily displayed for sale
outdoors, such as automobiles and garden supplies, shall not use in excess of
seventy five percent (75%) of the total lot area and shall be subject to the
screening requirements set forth in the performance standards of this chapter 1
.
         c.   No Use Of Yard: Permanent display activities shall not be
conducted within any required setback space or parking area.
      2.   Vehicles And Equipment:
         a.   Screening: All areas designated for vehicle, equipment and
materials storage shall be screened per the performance standards set forth in
this chapter.
         b.   Surface: Such areas need not be paved but shall be treated to
control dust and shall meet all storm water management requirements.
         c.   No Use Of Yard: Vehicle, equipment and materials storage shall
not be conducted within any required setback space or parking area.
   E.   Recreational Vehicle On Residential Lot: A recreational vehicle shall
not be located on a residential lot outside of any approved mobile home park,
except that:
      1.   Recreational Vehicle Storage: Only one recreational vehicle may be
stored on a single-family homesite. One recreational vehicle per dwelling unit
may be stored on a multi-family homesite but only as approved pursuant to
zoning review. In no event shall living quarters be maintained or any business
practiced in the recreational vehicle while stored.
      2.   Temporary Use Permit: Temporary use permits, not to exceed one year
in duration, may be granted by the town commission for occupying such
recreational vehicle or manufactured home during construction or reconstruction
of a single- or two-family dwelling.
   F.   Setback And Height Encroachments:
      1.   Permitted Setback Encroachments: The following encroachments into
required yards shall be permitted:
         a.   Architectural features such as porches, covered terraces, and
covered decks, chimneys, balconies, stairways, wing walls, bay windows, sills,
pilasters, lintels, cornices, eaves, gutters, awnings, and steps, provided such
architectural features do not extend more than five feet (5') into any required
yard;
         b.   Terraces and patios, uncovered decks and stoops, or similar
features, provided that such features shall not extend above the height of the
ground floor level of the principal structure nor more than five feet (5') into
any required setback;
         c.   Fire escapes may be permitted in required side or rear yards
only;
         d.   Wheelchair ramps may encroach into any required yard, but shall
not be located closer than three feet (3') from any property line; and
         e.   Flagpoles, ornamental features, trees, shrubs, walkways,
nameplate signs, and lights.
      2.   Zero Lot Line Conditions: Where an individual owns two (2) adjoining
lots or where the owners of two (2) adjoining lots make legal written
agreement, a zero lot line concept may be used for single-family dwelling unit
development. This may result in the creation of a two-family residential
structure, only in districts permitting such structure, or the creation of
townhouse clusters in districts permitting such structure. In all cases a
minimum ten foot (10') side yard shall be maintained adjacent to the exterior
side, or nonzero lot line side, of the structure.
      3.   Special Setback Requirements:
         a.   The corner lot side setback for any corner lot not located on an
arterial street shall be equal to the adjacent side yard of the adjacent lot.
         b.   A twenty five foot (25') corner lot side or front setback shall
be provided on all arterial streets.
      4.   Watercourse Setbacks: No newly constructed structure, addition to an
existing structure, parking lot or similar improvements shall be located closer
than fifteen feet (15') to the mean high water mark of a watercourse. For the
purpose of this subsection, the "mean high water mark" shall be defined as the
line that the water marks on the soil by covering it for sufficient periods to
deprive it of vegetation. A minimum of five feet (5') of the required fifteen
foot (15') setback immediately adjacent to the watercourse shall be left in a
natural vegetative state. The foregoing provisions shall in no way invalidate
the provisions set forth in the floodplain overlay district of this title and/
or the minimum setback of five hundred feet (500') from the Madison River
established for all new land subdivisions reviewed under the provisions of the
town subdivision regulations.
      5.   Height Limitation Exceptions:
         a.   Nonspecific Exemptions: No building, or part thereof, or
structure shall be erected, reconstructed, or structurally altered to exceed in
height the limit herein designated for the district in which such building is
located, except as may be specifically authorized as an approved condition of a
traditional neighborhood development. Such approved condition must include the
recommendation of the town fire chief. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
         b.   Specific Exemptions:
            (1)   Height limitations shall not apply to church spires,
belfries; monuments, chimneys; public utility facilities; transmission towers
of commercial and private radio broadcasting stations; television antennas;
parapet walls. Wind turbines/windmills and solar collector panels must be
submitted for conditional use permit. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002; amd. per motion
dated 3-12-2009)
            (2)   Public and semipublic buildings containing auditoriums or
large assembly spaces may exceed height limitations, provided that for each
foot of height such building exceeds the maximum height permitted in the
district, its side and rear setbacks shall be increased by an additional foot
over the setbacks required in the district.
   G.   Street Vision Triangle: The area of unobstructed vision across property
lines outside the rights of way of streets and/or alleys shall be as follows:
      1.   Streets: On corner lots in all districts, no fence, wall or planting
in excess of thirty inches (30") above the street centerline grade shall be
permitted within a triangular area defined as follows: Beginning at the
intersection of the property lines, twenty five feet (25') along one property
line, then diagonally to a point on the intersecting property line a distance
of twenty five feet (25') from the property line intersection, then to the
point of beginning.
      2.   Driveways And Alleys: On corner lots in all districts, no fence,
wall or planting in excess of thirty inches (30") above the street centerline
grades shall be permitted within a triangular area defined as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the projected curb lines of an alley or
driveway with a street, thence fifteen feet (15') along one drive path, thence
diagonally to a point fifteen feet (15') from the point of beginning on the
other drive path, then to the point of beginning.
      3.   Provision For Trees In Street Vision Triangle:
         a.   Single stem canopy trees may be permitted in street vision
triangles as described in this section, provided that mature trees do not
significantly affect safe driving conditions and are maintained such that no
canopy foliage exists below a height of ten feet (10') above centerline of
intersecting streets.
         b.   Trees which are located in the street vision triangle and which
preexisted the adoption of this title may be allowed to remain, provided the
trees are trimmed such that no limbs or foliage exist below a height of ten
feet (10') above centerline grades of intersecting streets.
   H.   Swimming Pools, Public And Private:
      1.   Location: A swimming pool shall not be located in any required front
yard area in any zoning district; however, if not more than two feet (2') in
height above the adjacent grade, a swimming pool may be located within a
required side or rear yard area.
      2.   Security: All swimming pools shall be:
         a.   Entirely enclosed by a childproof fence or wall not less than
forty two inches (42") in height. Gates or doors shall have automatic,
childproof closure and locking mechanisms, or
         b.   Have a secure, locking hard cover.
   I.   Unfinished Structures Use: No cellar, basement, garage, tent, tepee,
recreational vehicle, accessory structure, vehicle or any other type of
structure not meeting acceptable health and sanitation requirements shall at
any time be used as a dwelling unit.
   J.   Water And Sanitary Sewer System Requirements:
      1.   Central Facilities Required: Central water distribution and central
sanitary sewer collection systems shall be provided to all building lots or
building sites created inside the town limits, except for those lying within AG
or R-RD zoning districts. Such systems shall be in place prior to the issuance
of any building permits on such lots or sites. Each building site must utilize
and be connected to both the Ennis central water distribution and central
sanitary sewer collection systems.
      2.   Design Standards: These improvements shall be designed, constructed
and installed according to the standards and criteria adopted by the state of
Montana, Madison County or the town.
   K.   Storm Drainage Design, Criteria: All land development and construction
activities shall comply with the town of Ennis storm drainage design policy.
(Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  11-4-5D of this chapter.
11-4-4: MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS:
   A.   Intent: To cause the design, development, construction and maintenance
of this specialized type of housing to be executed in a manner that will be in
accord with the relevant goals, objectives and policies of the comprehensive
plan.
   B.   Permitted Uses:
Daycare homes, family.
Daycare homes, group.
Manufactured home parks on sites of not less than five (5) acres, with a
minimum of forty (40) spaces.
Public parks.
   C.   Conditional Uses:
Churches.
Daycare centers.
Essential services.
Golf courses.
Public buildings.
Temporary sales and office buildings.
   D.   Accessory Uses:
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental thereto.
Fences.
Home occupations.
Other Structures: Other buildings and structures customarily accessory to
manufactured home development.
Pools, tennis courts, spas and recreational equipment storage areas for park
residents and guests only.
Private garages.
Recreation facilities, including private or jointly owned community center
facilities.
Recreational vehicle and boat storage areas for park residents only.
Temporary buildings and yards incidental to construction work.
Tool sheds, for storage of domestic supplies.
   E.   Additional Buildings And Operation Standards: Development of any parcel
of land as a manufactured home park shall be subject to all applicable
requirements of this title. In addition, manufactured home parks will be
subject to the following general requirements:
      1.   Plumbing And Electrical Requirements: All manufactured home parks
shall comply with Montana state department of health regulations or any
amendments thereto concerning plumbing and electrical requirements.
      2.   Lot Improvements: Every manufactured home space and common area
shall be:
         a.   Connected to central utilities: Permanently connected to electric
power, water supply, sewage disposal, gas and telephone service lines in
compliance with applicable town codes.
         b.   Provided foundations and anchoring to an approved foundation.
         c.   Maintained as follows:
            (1)   There shall be no exposed outdoor storage of furniture
(except lawn furniture), household goods, tools, equipment, or building
materials or supplies.
            (2)   No manufactured home may be parked on a public or private
street for more than twenty four (24) hours.
            (3)   An abandoned, burned or wrecked manufactured home must be
secured against entry as directed by the zoning administrator and may not be
kept on a space for more than forty five (45) days.
            (4)   Each manufactured home must bear an insignia which attests
that the construction of the home meets regulation A119.1 of the American
national standards institute (adopted by the U.S. department of housing and
urban development). Alternatively, each manufactured home must be certified as
meeting the mobile home construction and safety standards of the U.S.
department of housing and urban development.
            (5)   Standard manufactured home skirting must be provided around
the entire perimeter of the mobile home between the bottom of the body of the
mobile home and the ground, except where the running gear has been removed and
the home itself is attached directly to a permanent perimeter foundation.
            (6)   All exterior yard spaces shall be fully landscaped, irrigated
and appropriately maintained.
            (7)   All private, commonly owned recreation areas not devoted to
buildings, structures, surfaced courts, sandboxes, etc. shall be landscaped and
irrigated.
      3.   Subject To Permitting And Inspection As Follows:
         a.   Move In Permit Required: All manufactured homes moved into the
zoning jurisdiction must receive a move in permit, pursuant to this section,
and be inspected by the zoning administrator, prior to gas and electric service
being turned on by the servicing utility. Copies of the original sales contract
shall be available for permit informational purposes.
         b.   Inspection Required:
            (1)   The required inspections for manufactured home parks shall
include on site utilities including gas, electric, sewer and water together
with setback, landscaping and off street parking requirements.
            (2)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or agency to
turn on, or allow to be turned on, any gas or electric service without an
inspection and clearance from the zoning administrator.
         c.   Nonmanufactured Home Improvements Subject To State Of Montana
Commercial Construction: Zoning permits must be obtained for additions,
alterations, canopies, carports, storage areas and detached refrigeration units
that were not included in the original sale of the manufactured home unit.
         d.   Owner's Responsibility: It shall be the responsibility of the
individual property owners or, in the case of a rental manufactured home park,
the managers of rental parks to see that all property complies with applicable
sections of this chapter. This responsibility shall include meeting all
requirements relative to placement of manufactured homes and providing proof
that all required permits have been secured and are current. (Ord. 131, 3-14-
2002)
11-4-5: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Purpose: Performance standards are designed to assure acceptability and
compatibility of business and industrial uses with surrounding properties.
These standards shall apply in the L-CR, C-CR, HC, C-I and P-I zoning
districts. To further the goals and policies established in the Ennis
comprehensive plan, property owners will promote the restoration and
rehabilitation of existing structures, construct new buildings and preserve or
construct other elements that contribute to the small, western town character
of the town's downtown core area and older residential neighborhoods.
   B.   Glare And Lighting:
      1.   Deflection: Any lighting used to illuminate an off street parking
areas, sign, or other structure, shall be arranged so as to deflect light down
and/or away from any adjoining properties and shall not detract from drive
visibility on adjacent streets. In addition, all lighting (except for security
purposes) shall be turned off between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. Exceptions may be granted to those businesses that are
operating during these hours.
      2.   Light Standards: Lighting standards used to illuminate off street
parking areas shall not exceed twenty feet (20') or the height of the tallest
building on the lot, whichever is lower. All light standards and light heads
shall be equipped with cut off light deflectors or other equipment that directs
the light downward and inhibits lateral glare.
   C.   Surface Water Ponding: Natural ponding areas shall be retained as much
as possible or, if necessary, enlarged or modified as directed by the zoning
administrator to restrict the off site runoff, subject to city or county
subdivision requirements for storm water runoff control and the town's storm
water drainage requirements.
   D.   Screening:
      1.   Material, Height And Visibility: Screening, when required by this
title, shall be accomplished by a one hundred percent (100%) opaque wall or
fence or by a dense conifer hedge not less than six feet (6') tall. All
portions of areas subject to the screening requirements of this chapter shall
be effectively screened from view from neighboring properties and/or public
rights of way within one thousand feet (1,000') of the screened area.
      2.   Wall Or Fence: If a wall or fence is to be used it must be
constructed of durable material and maintained in good condition at all times.
Trees, shrubs or other forms of intermittent landscaping, served by automatic
irrigation systems, shall be placed in front of the fence or wall and
maintained in good condition at all times.
      3.   Vegetative Screening: Vegetative screening, served by automatic
irrigation systems, shall be composed of conifer plant materials that shall
effectively form, within two (2) seasons after planting, an opaque screen not
less than six feet (6') tall. Vegetative screening shall be maintained in good
condition at all times.
   E.   Trash, Garbage Or Yard Waste Incineration And Enclosures:
      1.   Incineration: No exterior incineration of trash, yard waste or
garbage is permissible 1 .
      2.   Trash Enclosures: A permanent enclosure for temporary storage of
garbage, refuse and other waste materials shall be provided for every use,
other than single-family dwellings or duplexes, in every zoning district. Trash
enclosures shall be constructed so that contents are not visible from a height
of five feet (5') above grade from any abutting street or property. Trash
enclosures shall comply with the following regulations:
         a.   Location: Trash enclosures, surrounding standard steel bins
(dumpsters), shall be located on the site for convenient pick up service, and
the location shall be shown on required site plans. Trash enclosures shall not
be located in required front yards, and shall be conveniently situated in order
that the containers can readily lifted by sanitation vehicle equipment. The
location of all trash enclosures shall be subject to review and approval by the
zoning administrator.
         b.   Construction: Trash enclosures shall be constructed of solid or
ornamental pierced masonry walls or other appropriate materials, with a solid
concrete floor sloped for drainage and maintenance of sanitary conditions.
Enclosures shall be architecturally compatible with the principle structure.
Enclosures shall be of sufficient height to conceal contents, including
containers, but in no case shall be less than four feet (4') in height above
grade.
   F.   Smoke, Dust And Other Particulate Matter: The emission of smoke, from
any point source shall not exceed a density greater than that described in
number 2 ring of the Ringelmann chart as published by the U.S. bureau of mines.
Dirt, dust, fly ash and other forms of particulate matter shall not be emitted
beyond the property lines of the use creating the particulate matter.
   G.   Bulk Storage (Liquid): All uses associated with bulk storage of all
gasoline, liquid fertilizer, chemicals, flammable and similar liquids shall
comply with uniform building and fire code requirements and any county or state
regulations.
   H.   Water Quality, Hazardous Wastes And Wastewater: Discharge of hazardous
waste, chemicals and wastewater will be subject to Montana department of health
and environmental science standards. But in no case shall any hazardous waste
chemicals or wastewater be discharged into any perennial stream within the town
or its zoning jurisdiction.
   I.   Odors And Toxic Gases:
      1.   Distance Perceptible: The emission of odors shall be controlled such
that objectionable or offensive odors are not perceptible beyond the property
lines of the use creating the odors.
      2.   No Noxious Fumes: No toxic, noxious, or corrosive fumes or gases
shall be emitted beyond the property lines of the use creating such fumes or
gases.
   J.   Vibrations: No ground vibrations, except for those only perceptible
with the use of instruments, shall be permitted beyond the property lines of
the use generating the ground vibrations.
   K.   Electrical Disturbance: No activity shall be permitted which causes
electrical disturbances affecting the operation of any equipment located beyond
the property line of the activity.
   L.   Glare And Heat: Any use producing intense glare or heat shall be
conducted so that the glare is effectively screened from view at any point on
the lot line of the lot in which the use is located. Any heat will be
dissipated so that it is not perceptible without instruments at any point on
the lot line of the lot on which the use is located.
   M.   Fire And Explosive Hazards: Any use or activity involving the use or
storage of combustible, flammable or explosive materials shall be in compliance
with the uniform fire code adopted by the town. Burning of waste materials in
open fires is prohibited.
   N.   Liquid Or Solid Waste: No materials, compounds or chemicals which can
contaminate any water supply, interfere with bacterial processes in sewage
treatment or otherwise cause emissions of elements which are offensive or
hazardous to the public health, safety, welfare or comfort shall be discharged
at any point into any public sewer, private sewage disposal system or stream.
Nor may any such substance be discharged onto or into the ground, except in
accordance with town requirements and standards approved by the Montana state
department of environmental quality or such governmental agency as may have
jurisdiction over such activities.
   O.   Fissionable, Radioactivity Or Electromagnetic Disturbance: No
activities shall be permitted which utilize fissionable or radioactive
materials, if, at any time, their use results in the release or emission of any
fissionable or radioactive material into the atmosphere, ground or sewage
system. No activities or devices shall be permitted which at any time emit
radio frequency energy affecting any activity or the operation of any equipment
beyond the site property line. Radio frequency energy shall be considered as
being electromagnetic energy at any frequency in the radio spectrum between ten
(10) kilocycles and three million (3,000,000) megacycles.
   P.   Trash, Debris And Weed Control: All properties shall be maintained free
of trash and debris and grasses or weeds shall not be permitted to exceed
eighteen inches (18") in height. All properties shall be kept free of noxious
weeds and shall be subject to the requirements of the Madison County weed
control board. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002; amd. Ord. 145, 5-12-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 6, chapter 5 of this code.
11-4-6: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   General: A home occupation is a use that is considered accessory to a
dwelling unit. One or more persons, all but one of who shall reside within the
dwelling unit, may conduct a home occupation. The use shall be clearly
incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residence purposes and
shall not change the character thereof or adversely affect the uses permitted
in the residential district of which it is a part. When a use is a home
occupation, it means that the owner, lessee, or other persons who have a legal
right to the use of the dwelling unit also have the vested right to conduct the
home occupation without securing special permission to do so. However, such
person shall be subject to all conditions set forth in this title and to all
other permits and business licenses and shall obtain a zoning permit before
establishing such home occupation.
   B.   Purpose Of Provisions: It is the intent of this section to eliminate as
home occupations all uses except those that conform to the standards set forth
in this section. In general, a home occupation is an accessory use so located
and conducted that the average neighbor, under normal circumstance, would not
be aware of its existence. The standards for home occupations included in this
section are intended to ensure compatibility with other permitted uses and with
the residential character of the neighborhood. A clearly secondary or
incidental status in relation to the residential use of the main building is
the criteria for determining whether a proposed accessory use qualifies as a
home occupation.
   C.   Necessary Conditions: Home occupations are permitted accessory uses in
residential districts only so long as all the following conditions are
observed:
      1.   One Full Time Employee: No more than one full time employee may be
employed in the residence other than resident and domestic help;
      2.   Percent Of Use: No more than thirty percent (30%) of the gross area
of all structures shall be used for such purpose;
      3.   Limited Alterations: No use shall require internal or external
alterations or involve construction features or the use of electrical or
mechanical equipment that would change the fire rating of the structure;
      4.   Outside Storage: There shall be no outside storage of any kind
related to the home occupation;
      5.   Traffic And Parking: The use may increase vehicular traffic flow and
parking by no more than two (2) additional vehicles at a time and no commercial
trucks larger than a three-fourth (3/4) ton pickup shall be parked overnight;
      6.   Performance Standards: No use shall create noise, dust, vibration,
smell, smoke, glare, electrical interference, fire hazard, or any other hazard
or nuisance to any greater or more frequent extent than that usually
experienced in an average residential occupancy in the district in question
under normal circumstances.
   D.   Complaints: Complaints by abutting residents living within the zoning
jurisdiction may be cause for termination of the home occupation. However,
should such complaint be filed, the operator is entitled to an appeal to the
town commission for a hearing. The town commission shall determine whether or
not the filed complaint identifies sufficient violation of this title to
warrant termination or modification of the home occupation. (Ord. 131, 3-14-
2002)
11-4-7: NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Existing Structures And Uses: Any structure or use lawfully existing
upon the effective date hereof, may be continued at the size and in the manner
of operation existing upon such date.
   B.   Termination: The right to operate and maintain a nonconforming use
shall terminate when the structure or structures housing such use are removed,
razed or damaged to an extent of fifty percent (50%) of the structure's fair
market value, as determined by the last equalized assessment roll of the
county. However, restoration of the damaged structure must meet the following
criteria: electric, plumbing, etc., (state codes). Replacement structures must
not be higher or larger than the original structure. A zoning permit must be
obtained to restore nonconforming structures pursuant to section
11-1-8 of this title.
   C.   Change To A Conforming Use: When any lawful nonconforming use of any
structure or land in any district has been changed to a conforming use, it
shall not thereafter be changed to any nonconforming use.
   D.   Discontinuance For Ninety Days: Whenever a lawful nonconforming use of
a building or structure or land is discontinued for a period of ninety (90)
days, any future use of the building or structure or land shall be in
conformity with the provisions of this title.
   E.   Normal Maintenance Permitted: Normal maintenance of a building or other
structure containing or related to a lawful nonconforming use is permitted,
including necessary structural repairs, provided such structural repairs do not
enlarge or intensify the nonconforming use.
   F.   Change Of Use:
      1.   Change To Another Use: A lawful nonconforming use shall not be
changed except in conformance with the use requirements of the zone in which it
is located. Except, however, a lawful nonconforming use may be changed to
another nonconforming use, provided that a conditional use permit is obtained
from the town commission.
      2.   Change By Conditional Use Permit: To approve the conditional use
permit, the town commission shall determine that the proposed nonconforming use
is more appropriate to the district than the existing nonconforming use, and
that no unsafe or unhealthy conditions are perpetuated. In making such
determination, the commission shall weigh the following criteria:
         a.   The degree of compliance with the adopted comprehensive plan and
this title;
         b.   Traffic impacts, both on site and off site;
         c.   Off street parking and loading requirements;
         d.   The visual impact on the surrounding area;
         e.   The level of conflict with other uses in the surrounding area;
         f.   The presence of other nonconformities in the surrounding area;
         g.   The degree to which any existing unsafe or hazardous conditions
would be mitigated;
         h.   The suitability of the subject structure(s); and
         i.   On site and off site impacts from noise, dust, smoke, surface or
ground water contamination, or other environmental impacts.
   G.   Nonconforming Dwelling Units: The maintenance and reconstruction of
existing nonconforming residential dwelling units is allowed, in compliance
with applicable fire and building codes, including expansion of up to twenty
percent (20%) of the existing dwelling unit, as long as the number of dwelling
units on the lot is not increased.
   H.   Use Of Existing Nonconforming Lots: At the time of the enactment of
this title, if any owner of a plot of land consisting of one or more adjacent
lots in a subdivision of record does not own sufficient land within the lot of
record to:
      1.   Enable him/her to conform to the minimum lot size requirements, or
      2.   Does not have sufficient lot width to conform to the minimum lot
width requirements.
      3.   Such plot of land may nevertheless be used as a building site.
   I.   Expansion Of Nonconforming Use: Only by obtaining a conditional use
permit from the town commission may an owner expand a lawful nonconforming use.
In considering the appropriateness of the conditional use permit application,
the commission shall weigh the criteria set forth in the change of use
provision of this section. In addition, the commission shall consider the
expansion to be reasonable, natural and incidental to the growth and use of an
existing business. In general, proposals to expand nonconforming uses shall not
be approved if the expansion would encompass new land or property that was not
in use at the time of the enactment hereof of zoning or a change in zoning.
(Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-4-8: TEMPORARY USE PERMITS:
   A.   Generally: Uses permitted subject to a special temporary use permit are
those temporary uses which are required for the proper function of the
community or are temporarily required in the process of establishing a
permitted use, or constructing a public facility. Such uses shall be so
conducted that they will not be detrimental in any way to the surrounding
properties or to the community. Uses permitted subject to a special temporary
use permit may include:
      1.   Carnivals, circuses, special events of not over seventy two (72)
consecutive hours;
      2.   Swap meets;
      3.   Tent revival meetings;
      4.   Such other uses as the zoning administrator may deem to be within
the intent and purpose of this section.
   B.   Application And Filing Fee: A property owner or his authorized agent
may make application to the zoning administrator for a special temporary use
permit. The zoning administrator shall collect a filing fee sufficient to cover
each vendor covered by such application, as provided in chapter 1 of this
title. The zoning administrator may also require any information deemed
necessary to support the approval of a special temporary use permit, including
site plans required.
      1.   Decision: Special temporary use permit applications shall be
reviewed, approved, conditionally approved or denied by the zoning
administrator. Approval or conditional approval shall be given only when in the
judgment of the zoning administrator such approval is within the intent and
purposes of this title.
      2.   Conditions: In approving such a permit, the approval shall be made
subject to a time limit and other conditions deemed necessary to assure that
there will be no adverse effect upon adjacent properties. Such conditions may
include the following:
         a.   Regulation of parking;
         b.   Regulation of hours;
         c.   Regulation of noise;
         d.   Regulation of lights;
         e.   Requirement of bonds or other guarantees for cleanup or removal
of structure or equipment;
         f.   Such other conditions deemed necessary to carry out the intent
and purpose of this section. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-4-9: LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: Land development and construction altars the
natural topography and vegetation. It usually creates impervious cover that
accelerates storm water runoff, erosion and sedimentation. These conditions
negatively effect the ecological balance of both the parcel being developed and
the surrounding area. The economic base and quality of life of the Ennis region
is to a large extent dependent upon the condition and appearance of the area's
natural and built environment. It must be protected through preservation and
enhancement. These landscaping provisions are intended to help accomplish this
objective and to serve the following specific purposes:
      1.   Comprehensive Plan: To positively implement the letter and intent of
the goals, objectives, policies and specific relevant provisions of the town's
adopted comprehensive plan.
      2.   Stabilize Ecological Balance: To aid in stabilizing the
environment's ecological balance by contributing to the process of air
purification, oxygen regeneration, ground water recharge and storm water runoff
retardation, while at the same time aiding in noise, glare and heat abatement.
      3.   Provide Visual Buffering: To provide visual buffering between land
uses of differing character.
      4.   Enhance Area Attractiveness: To enhance the attractiveness of the
zoning jurisdiction of the town.
      5.   Protect Character And Stability: To protect the character and
stability of residential, business, institutional and industrial areas.
      6.   Preserve Property Values: To preserve the value of land and
buildings.
      7.   Conserve Energy: To conserve energy.
   B.   Interpretation And Scope:
      1.   Applicability: The provisions of this Section shall apply to a lot
or site within the L-CR, C-CR, HC, C-I and P-I zoning districts when an
application is submitted for site plan approval or a zoning permit:
      2.   Exceptions: Notwithstanding subsection B1 of this section, these
provisions shall not apply to the following:
         a.   Lots or sites within a traditional neighborhood development (TND)
that has been approved with its own landscape plan.
         b.   Lots included in a conditional use permit (CUP) or zoning
variance proceeding approved with its own landscape plan.
   C.   General Landscaping Provisions:
      1.   Landscape Plan Review:
         a.   The applicant shall submit a landscape plan meeting the
requirements set forth in the form in section
11-5-7 of this title to the zoning administrator. The zoning administrator will
review the landscaping plan for completeness and conformance with the
landscaping standards of this section, when the landscaping plan, other
required plans and a zoning permit application have been submitted and conform
to the requirements of this title, a permit for construction shall be issued.
Variances from this landscaping section shall be considered as a code variance
and shall follow variance procedures outlined in chapter 1 of this title.
         b.   All landscape plans must comply with the mandatory landscape
provisions as well as other relevant provisions of this section.
      2.   Mandatory Landscaping Provisions:
         a.   Yard Landscaping Required: For all uses, unless otherwise
provided by specific approval through design review procedures, all front,
side, and rear yards, exclusive of permitted access drives, parking lots, and
accessory structures, shall be landscaped as specified in this section. All
landscaped areas shall be perpetually maintained in a healthy condition.
(1) All development subject to this section shall provide a minimum of ten
percent (10%) of the lot area for landscaping, less the square footage of the
building footprint. At least fifty percent (50%) of this landscaping must be
placed adjacent to the public right of way, excluding alleys. These provisions
are separate, exclusive and in addition to the other standards of this section.
(2) All required landscaping or landscaped areas shall contain at least seventy
five percent (75%) organic, living landscaping material. A maximum of twenty
five percent (25%) of the landscaped area may contain nonliving, decorative
landscaping materials.
(3) Applicants for landscaping plan approval shall consider using berms,
swales, ornamental trees or shrubs to provide contour and relief within the
landscaped area.
         b.   Screening: Screening may be required between existing and/or
future residential and nonresidential uses, nonresidential uses of differing
character and public roads. Screening requirements are set forth in the
performance standards in subsection 11-5-D of this title.
         c.   Parking Lot Landscaping:
(1) For purposes of defining parking lot landscaping requirements, the term
"parking lot" means the area within the perimeter of the paved portion of the
parking lot, including driving aisles but not including access drives.
(2) All surface parking lots on the building site or artificial lot, whichever
is applicable, shall be landscaped in accordance with the following paragraphs
which describe landscaping requirements in addition to the yard landscaping
requirements for the site:
   (A) Parking Lot Screening Required:
(i) All parking lots located on a lot with a residential adjacency must be
screened from that residential adjacency.
(ii) All parking lots located between a principal structure and a public
street, except in HC and C-I districts must be screened from the public street.
(iii) The screening required under paragraphs (i) and (ii) above shall be not
less than eight feet (8') in width and shall be maintained at a height of four
feet (4') to six feet (6'), except as otherwise restricted by fence and hedge
limits within required front yards and sight triangles.
   (B) Additionally, any parking lot providing fifteen (15) or more parking
spaces shall have a minimum of twenty (20) square feet of landscape area within
the parking lot for each off street parking space in the lot provided as
follows:
(i) Wherever possible, the interior parking lot landscaping shall be designed
to facilitate, control and denote proper vehicular circulation patterns.
(ii) Internal parking lot landscaping that shall be proportionately dispersed
so as to define aisles and limit unbroken rows of parking to a maximum of one
hundred feet (100'), with landscaped areas provided in an appropriate scale to
the size of the parking lot.
(iii) The minimum width and/or length of any parking lot landscaped areas shall
be eight feet (8').
         d.   Screening Of Off Street Loading Spaces:
(1) All off street loading spaces on a lot with residential adjacency shall be
screened from that adjacency.
(2) In all districts except C-CR district, all off street loading spaces on a
lot must be screened from all public streets adjacent to that lot.
         e.   Street Median Island Landscaping: All street median islands
approved through a plan review process shall be landscaped according to
requirements determined through the plan review process.
         f.   Protection Of Landscape Areas:
(1) Parking lot curbs or wheel stops shall be installed to protect landscape
areas adjacent to parking lots.
(2) Landscape areas within parking lots (i.e., landscape islands or peninsulas)
must be protected from vehicular traffic through the use of permanent barriers
approved by the zoning administrator.
   D.   Landscaping Of Public Lands: Maintenance of landscaping installed
within the boulevard portion of the public right of way, with the exception of
tree trimming and tree removal, shall be the responsibility of adjacent
property owners. The town will maintain other required landscaping within the
public rights of way or on other public lands installed in accordance with
approved site plans.
   E.   General Maintenance:
      1.   Landscape Maintenance: Landscaping must be maintained in a healthy,
growing condition at all times.
      2.   Utility Line Damage: Any damage to utility lines resulting from the
negligence of the property owner or his agents or employees in the installation
and maintenance of required landscaping in a utility easement is the
responsibility of the property owner. If a public utility disturbs a landscaped
area in a utility easement, it shall make every reasonable effort to preserve
the landscaping materials and return them to their prior locations after work
is completed. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-4-10: PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Intent And Purpose: The intent of this section is to supplement on
street parking, with safe, convenient, properly designed and well landscaped
off street parking that will help fulfill the goals, objectives and policies of
the adopted comprehensive plan. The purpose of these requirements is to set
forth certain minimum requirements that may, pursuant to certain review
procedures set forth in this title, serve as flexible guidelines for
application to specific circumstances.
   B.   Minimum Design And Improvement Standards; Angle Parking:
      1.   Stall, Aisle And Driveway:
         a.   Parking stall dimensions - for sixty (60) or ninety degree (90°)
angle parking:
 
Width:  Standard - 9 ft.  Compact - 8 ft.  Handicapped - 13 ft.
Length: Standard - 20 ft. Compact - 16 ft. Handicapped - 20 ft.
 
         b.   Parking aisle and driveway dimensions:
 
One-way traffic - 16 ft. Two-way traffic - 22 ft.
 
      2.   Backing Into Public Rights Of Way: Backing into the public street
from a private parking lot, other than an alley, is prohibited except in the
case of one-, two- and three-family dwellings and individual townhouse units
fronting on streets not designated as arterial streets in the comprehensive
plan (US 287 and SR 287).
      3.   Surfacing: Except for single-family development on individual lots,
all areas intended to be utilized for permanent parking space and driveways
shall be paved with concrete, asphalt or approved pavers to control dust and
erosion. However, paving shall not be required for permitted and conditional
uses in the AG and R-RD zoning districts when all the following circumstances
exist:
         a.   The use is required to provide fewer than fifteen (15) parking
spaces and no loading spaces under the provisions of this section;
         b.   The lot or tract on which the use is located is not adjacent to a
paved street or road; and
         c.   The applicant shall enter into an improvement agreement with the
town agreeing that the lot shall be paved within nine (9) months of the time an
adjacent roadway is paved.
      4.   Parking Lot Curbing: Except for one-, two- and three-family
dwellings and individual townhouse units, all off street parking areas and
driving accessways shall be enclosed by a six inch by six inch (6" x 6") poured
concrete perimeter curb built according to standards provided by the zoning
administrator. Concrete pindown wheel stops may be permitted as an alternative
to continuous concrete curbing in front of parking spaces that front on the
perimeter of the parking lot. However, continuous concrete curbing as described
above shall be provided in all situations where deemed necessary by the zoning
administrator to assure pedestrian safety, control drainage and prevent
vehicular movement damaging to landscaping. Alternative perimeter treatment may
be permitted adjacent to snow storage areas if approved by the zoning
administrator.
      5.   Striping: Except for one- to three-family dwellings and individual
townhouse units, all parking stalls shall be marked with painted lines not less
than four inches (4") wide.
      6.   Protruding Vehicles: All on site parking stalls which abut property
lines shall be designed and constructed such that parked vehicles shall not
protrude over property lines and/or sidewalks.
      7.   Storm Water Management: All proposed parking area and driveway
improvements require grading, drainage and storm water management plans. Storm
water shall be directed into landscaped detention/retention and water quality
improvement facilities as required by the storm water management ordinance.
      8.   Snow Removal Storage Areas: Snow removal storage areas shall be
provided on site sufficient to store snow accumulation. Such areas shall be
designed and constructed to assure:
         a.   Safe ingress and egress to the parking area;
         b.   Prevent snow from being deposited on public rights of way and
public or private walks, trails and access driveways;
         c.   Protection of all landscaping;
         d.   The resultant storm water runoff will be directed into landscaped
and approved water management facilities.
      9.   Lighting: Any lighting used to illuminate an off street parking area
shall not exceed twenty feet (20') in height and be so arranged and hooded as
to reflect light down and/or away from adjoining property, abutting residential
uses and public rights of way.
      10.   Parking And Stacking For Drive In/Drive Through Facilities:
Required parking and stacking spaces for waiting automobiles shall be
determined by the zoning administrator as a part of site plan review
procedures. Such facilities shall be designed to assure pedestrian and
vehicular safety and to facilitate on site and off site vehicular circulation.
      11.   Stacking Of Off Street Parking Spaces: Required parking spaces
shall be located so as to preclude stacking of off street parking spaces, with
the exception of single-family dwellings and individual townhouse units, and
duplexes with physically separated individual driveways.
      12.   No Parking Permitted In Required Front Or Side Yards: Parking
spaces shall not be located in any required front or side yard, except that
detached single-family dwellings and duplexes may have one space located within
a driveway area in the required side yard behind the front yard building line.
      13.   Ownership/Leasehold: Required parking lots shall be owned or leased
by the owner or lessee of the building or use being served by such parking.
Such parking lots shall be maintained as a parking lot so long as the building
and/or use served is in operation or until another approved parking area is
established for such building or use.
      14.   Maintenance: It shall be the joint and separate responsibility of
the lessee and owner of the principal use, uses or building to maintain in a
neat and adequate manner, the parking space, accessways, striping, landscaping
and required fences or screening.
      15.   Use Of Required Parking Areas for Parking Only: Required off street
parking spaces in any district shall not be utilized for open storage, sale or
rental of goods, storage of inoperable vehicles, except where permitted as a
temporary use or if designed as part of an approved traditional neighborhood
development.
      16.   Number Of Spaces: The following number of off street, paved parking
spaces shall be provided and maintained by ownership, easement and/or lease for
and during the life of the respective uses. Mixed uses, for example motel/
restaurant/meeting room facilities, shall provide space to accommodate each
use, less effective multiple use, of allocated parking stalls. All site plans
submitted for permit purposes shall identify parking space allocations.
         a.   Residential Uses (Including Driveway And Garage Spaces):
 
Bed and breakfast              (+1.00/guest room)             2.00/res. mgr.
Efficiency units                                              1.25/unit
Group homes                    (+1.00/emp.+0.25/resident) and 2.00/res. mgr.
Lodging house                                                 1.25/unit
Manufactured and modular homes                                2.00/unit
Multi-family residence                                        1.50/unit
One- and two-family and                                       2.00/unit
individual townhouse units
 
         b.   Nonresidential Uses:
Auto sales                (+1.00/10 vehicle display  1.00/200 sq. ft. gross
                          spaces)                    floor area
Auto service              (minimum of 4.00 spaces)   2.00/service bay
Auto wash                 (+ stacking space)         2.00/stall
Bank or financial         1.00/300 sq. ft. gross floor area
institution
Bowling alley             (+1.00/5 gallery seats)    4.00/alley
Church                    (+1.00/200 sq. ft. of      1.00/4 seats in auditorium
                          meeting                    rooms)areas
Community or recreation                              1.00/200 sq. ft. gross
                                                     floor area
Court clubs               (+3.00/court)              1.00/200 sq. ft. gross
                                                     floor area
Daycare center                                       1.00/200 sq. ft. gross
                                                     floor area
Furniture stores over     1.00/1,000 sq. ft. gross   area
20,000 sq. ft.            floor
Golf courses              (4.00/green)               1.00/200 sq. ft. gross
                                                     floor area
Hospitals                                            1.00/bed
                                                     1.00/1,000 sq. ft. gross
Industrial uses                                      floor
                                                     area
Medical offices           (+1.00/FTE)                4.00/FT doctor or dentist
Motels and hotels         (+1.00/FTE on maximum      1.10/guest room
                          shift)
Nursing homes             (+1.00/FTE on maximum      1.00/patient bed
                          shift)
Offices                                              1.00/250 sq. ft. gross
                                                     floor area
Outdoor sales and rental                             1.00/500 sq. ft. gross
                                                     floor area
                          (+1.00/100 sq. ft. outdoor 1.00/50 sq. ft. gross
Restaurants and bars      sales)                     floor area
                                                     area
Retail sales and services                            1.00/300 sq. ft. gross
                                                     floor area
Schools                                              Calculate by facility use
Theater or auditorium                                1.00/4 seats
Warehousing and storage                              1.00/1,000 sq. ft.
 
         c.   Disabled Accessible Spaces:
(1) Disabled parking spaces shall be provided subject to federal standards
enumerated in the Americans with disabilities act (ADA) dated January 26, 1992,
and federal standard 795, (uniform federal accessibility standards) dated April
1, 1988, chapter 4 (accessible elements and spaces: scope and technical
requirements).
(2) All parking facilities shall be subject to current uniform building code
guidelines for accessibility and shall contain a minimum number of disabled
accessible parking spaces as set forth in the table below:
Total Spaces In Lot Minimum Accessible Spaces
Total Spaces In Lot Minimum Accessible Spaces
1 to 25             1
26 to 50            2
51 to 75            3
76 to 100           4
101 to 150          5
151 to 200          6
 
(3) One in every eight (8) accessible spaces shall have an aisle eight feet
(8') wide (rather than 5 feet) and shall be signed "van accessible". Accessible
spaces shall be located as near as practical to a primary entrance(s) and shall
be designated as those spaces closest to the primary entrance(s) to a facility.
Parking spaces and access aisles shall be level, with slopes not exceeding 1:50
in all directions, and shall be maintained in an ice and snow free condition.
(4) All accessible parking spaces shall be designated as reserved for disabled
persons by a sign showing the symbol of accessibility at each space. A vehicle
parking in the space shall not obscure such signs. Signs and symbols painted on
the pavement, as the only means of identification, do not meet this
requirement. Raised signs shall be located at a distance no greater than five
feet (5') from the front of each accessible space and shall be subject to
review and approval by the zoning administrator.
(5) Provision of an accessible path of travel from each disabled accessible
parking space to the entrance of the facility shall include ramped access where
necessary and an unencumbered minimum three foot (3') wide walk, sidewalk or
ramps. The accessible path of travel shall be paved, smooth surface, free of
defects or design features that would restrict, inhibit or unreasonably impede
the movement of a physically disabled individual. The least possible slope
shall be used for any ramp. The maximum slope of a ramp in new construction
shall be 1:12, cross slope shall not exceed one-fourth inch (1/4") per foot.
The maximum rise for any run shall be thirty inches (30") (760 millimeters).
(6) Exceptions: Residences containing three (3) or less dwelling units or
congregate residences accommodating ten (10) persons or less.
      17.   C-CR District Parking: In accordance with the goals, objectives and
policies of the comprehensive plan, off street parking requirements for uses
located in the core commercial/residential (C-CR) district shall be one-half
(1/2) those required of the same uses in the other zoning districts. In
addition, a property owner applicant may satisfy parking needs for a proposed
facility by acquiring and developing the required number of spaces elsewhere in
the C-CR district.
      18.   Joint Use Of Parking Facilities:
         a.   Up to thirty percent (30%) of the parking facilities required for
a church or for an auditorium incidental to a public or parochial school may be
supplied by the off street parking facilities of commercial and industrial
daytime uses.
         b.   Other joint use of parking by adjacent commercial uses to reduce
total parking spaces may be allowed with an approved parking study prepared by
a registered professional.
         c.   Conditions Required For Joint Use: Any off site parking that is
used to meet the requirements of this section shall be reviewed by the zoning
administrator for compliance with this title and shall be subject to the
conditions listed below:
(1) The building or use for which application is being made to utilize the off
street parking facilities provided by another building or use shall be located
adjacent to such parking facilities. In the core commercial/residential
district the two (2) uses need not be adjacent but shall be within seven
hundred feet (700').
(2) The applicant shall show that there is a comparatively minor conflict in
the operating hours of the two (2) buildings or uses for which joint use of off
street parking facilities is proposed.
(3) Off site parking shall be developed and maintained in compliance with all
requirements and standards of this title.
(4) Convenient, safe pedestrian access from off street parking facilities to
the use being served shall be available.
(5) A properly drawn legal instrument, executed by the parties concerned, for
joint use of off street parking facilities, duly approved as to form and manner
of execution by the town legal counsel, shall be filed with the zoning
administrator and recorded with the Madison County clerk and recorder.
      19.   Improvement Schedule: All parking area improvements, to include
surfacing, drainage, walkways, lighting, landscaping, screening, traffic
control, etc., shall be installed according to the provisions of chapter 1 of
this title.
   C.   Off Street Loading Requirements; Exception:
      1.   Spaces Required: Every establishment or use that has an aggregate
gross floor area of fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet or more and ships or
takes delivery by large commercial carrier van shall provide off street loading
or unloading berths in accordance with the following table. The core
commercial/residential district shall be exempt from this requirement.
 
Square Feet Of Aggregate Gross Floor Area           Number Of Berths
15,000 sq. ft. up to and including 40,000 sq. ft.   1
40,001 sq. ft. up to and including 100,000 sq. ft.  2
100,001 sq. ft. up to and including 160,000 sq. ft. 3
 
      2.   Standards For Off Street Loading Facilities: All off street loading
facilities shall conform to the following standards:
         a.   The first loading berth shall be at least seventy feet (70') in
length. Additional berths required shall be at least forty five feet (45') in
length unless certified by the applicant in writing that additional loading
activity will take place exclusively with small delivery vans, in which case
the berth(s) shall be at least twenty five feet (25') in length.
         b.   All loading berths shall be at least twelve feet (12') in width
and fourteen feet (14') in height, exclusive of aisle and maneuvering space.
         c.   Such space may occupy all or any part of any required yard space,
except front yard space. However, in no event shall a loading berth be located
closer than fifty feet (50') to any lot in any residential zone unless
separated from such zone by screening meeting the provisions set forth in the
performance standards section of this title.
         d.   Sufficient room for turning and maneuvering vehicles shall be
provided on site.
         e.   Each loading berth shall be accessible from a street or alley or
from an aisle or drive connecting with a street or alley, without traversing a
residential district.
         f.   The loading area, aisles and access drives shall be paved so as
to provide a durable, dust free surface and shall be so graded and drained so
as to dispose of surface water into an approved stormwater management system
and without damage to private or public properties, streets or alleys.
         g.   Bumper rails shall be provided at locations where needed for
safety or to protect property.
         h.   If the loading area is illuminated, lighting standard shall be a
maximum of twenty feet (20') in height and shall be deflected down and/or away
from abutting properties and residential districts so as to cause no annoying
glare.
         i.   No regular repair work or servicing of vehicles shall be
conducted in a loading area.
         j.   Off street loading facilities shall be located on the same site
with the use for which the berths are required.
         k.   If more than one use is located on a site, the number of loading
berths provided shall be equal to the sum of the requirements prescribed in
subsection C1 of this section for each use. If more than one use is located on
a site the gross floor area of the combined uses shall be used basis for
calculating the number of berths that shall be provided.
         l.   Off street loading facilities for a single use shall not be
considered as providing required off street loading facilities for any other
use.
         m.   At the time of initial occupancy, major alterations or
enlargements of a site, or of completion of construction of a structure or of a
major alteration or enlargement of a structure, off street loading berths shall
be provided meeting these requirements. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-4-11: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT 1 :
(Rep. by Ord. 136, 5-19-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 13 of this code.
11-4-12: COMMUNITY SIGNAGE:
   A.   Title: These regulations shall be known as the TOWN OF ENNIS SIGN CODE
and shall be referred to as the "sign code".
   B.   Scope And Purpose: The purpose of this sign code is to provide
guidelines for sign design, location, material type, size and all other
relative factors pertaining to signs within the town and its zoning
jurisdiction. The intent is to allow such signs that will not by their size,
location, design, construction or manner of display endanger the public health
and safety of individuals, confuse or obstruct the view of or interfere with
official traffic devices, signs and signals, or otherwise endanger public
health, safety, etc. Ennis' mountain location and western style theme have been
recognized as a viable method of promoting economic stability. These assets,
theme and location enhance a high level of tourism and related economic
activity. Therefore, it is imperative that signs in the town complement the
town's western theme and be in accord with the Ennis comprehensive plan.
   C.   Application: All new moved, expanded or structurally altered signs
within residential and commercial zones shall be permitted, provided that they
meet all standards and provisions of this title.
   D.   Basis For Design: The basis for design shall be the small town, western
theme discussed and pictorially illustrated in the comprehensive plan.
   E.   Nonconforming, Illegal And Abandoned Signs:
      1.   Nonconforming Signs: Nonconforming signs are signs which do not meet
the physical criteria, that in other ways violate this title and which legally
existed on or before this title's date of adoption. The following provisions
shall govern procedures for bringing nonconforming signs into compliance:
         a.   Nonconforming signs shall be brought into compliance when the
building or premises housing the entity being advertised is moved, expanded or
structurally altered.
         b.   Nonconforming signs which are structurally altered, relocated or
replaced shall immediately conform to the requirements of this section except
that:
(1) Signs may be removed from their supporting structures for the purpose of
repair or maintenance.
(2) Signs may be structurally altered where such alteration is necessary for
public safety.
(3) Signs may be reinstalled if they are moved for construction or repairs of
public works or public facilities and such reinstallation is completed within
one year.
(4) Signs may be repaired and reinstalled if they are damaged by an act of God
or by an accident, provided:
   (A) Such damage does not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the cost of
reconstruction; and
   (B) Provided that such sign is reconstructed within one hundred eighty (180)
days of the date the sign is damaged.
      2.   Illegal And Abandoned Signs: "Illegal signs" are signs constructed
or altered after the date of sign code adoption or were constructed or
maintained illegally before the date of sign code adoption and which do not
comply with its provisions, including proper maintenance. "Abandoned signs" are
those that advertise entities that have been abandoned for any length of time
or vacated for a period in excess of one year. The following provisions shall
govern procedures for bringing illegal and abandoned signs into compliance:
         a.   Illegal signs, including signs that are in disrepair, are
deteriorated or are unsafe, shall be removed within thirty (30) days after
notification by the zoning administrator by the owner or lessee of the premises
upon which the sign is located.
         b.   Abandoned signs shall be removed within thirty (30) days after
notification by the zoning administrator by the owner or lessee of the premises
upon which the sign is located when the advertised business is no longer
conducted on the premises.
   F.   Enforcement:
      1.   Authority: The zoning administrator is authorized and directed to
enforce the provisions of the sign code. For these purposes the zoning
administrator shall have the power of a law enforcement officer.
      2.   Removal By Town: The town of Ennis, following thirty (30) days
notice to the property owner, may remove illegal and abandoned signs. The
property owner will be assessed the cost of the sign removal if the owner fails
to remove the offending sign.
   G.   Permits, Fees And Inspections:
      1.   Permits Required: A sign shall not hereafter be erected, reerected,
constructed, altered or maintained, except as provided by this section, and
after a permit has been issued by the zoning administrator. A separate permit
shall be required for a sign or signs for each business entity.
      2.   Application For Permit: Applications for a sign permit shall be made
in writing on the form shown in section
11-5-6 of this title and submitted to the zoning administrator for appropriate
action. The zoning administrator may require other pertinent information if
such information is necessary to determine compliance with the provisions of
this section.
      3.   Approval: The zoning administrator shall issue a permit for a sign
covered by application duly made unless the sign violates provisions of the
sign code. The sign permit identification number shall be permanently attached
to the sign in a position clearly visible for inspection. Approved signs shall
be installed within six (6) months of permit issuance.
      4.   Revoking Of Permit: The zoning administrator may revoke a sign
permit if it is found that there was a material and misleading false statement
or fact in the application for the permit or if the approved sign is not
installed within six (6) months.
      5.   Fees: Sign permit fees shall be paid in accordance with the schedule
established by the Ennis town commission.
      6.   Inspections: Signs for which a permit is required shall be subject
to inspection by the zoning administrator.
   H.   Design, Construction And Safety Standards:
      1.   Design:
         a.   Force Transmission: All bracing systems shall be designed and
constructed to transfer lateral forces to the foundations. For signs on
buildings, the dead and lateral loads shall be transmitted through the
structural frame of the building to the ground in such a manner as not to over
stress any of the elements thereof.
         b.   Turning Movement: The overturning movement produced from lateral
forces shall in no case exceed two-thirds (2/3) of the dead load resisting
movement. Uplift due to overturning shall be adequately resisted by proper
anchorage to the ground or to the structural frame of the building. The weight
of the earth superimposed over footings may be used in determining the dead
load resisting movement. Such earth shall be carefully placed and thoroughly
compacted.
         c.   Wind And Seismic Loads: Wind loads and seismic loads on signs
shall be designed and constructed to withstand wind load and seismic forces as
specified in chapter 23 of the uniform building codes. Wind and seismic loads
need not be combined in the design of signs, and only that load producing the
larger stress need be used. Vertical design loads, except roofline loads, shall
be assumed to be acting simultaneously with the wind and seismic loads.
         d.   Uniform Building Codes Requirements: The design of wood, wrought
iron and concrete members shall conform to the requirements of chapters 25, 26,
27, and 28 of the uniform building codes. Loads, both vertical and horizontal,
exerted on the soil shall not produce stresses exceeding those specified in
chapter 29 of the uniform building codes.
         e.   Wire Rope And Fastenings: The working stresses of wire rope and
its fastenings shall not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the ultimate
strength of the rope or fasteners.
         f.   Bracing: Members supporting unbraced signs shall be so
proportioned that the bearing loads imposed on the soil in any direction,
horizontal or vertical, shall not exceed safe values. Braced ground signs shall
be anchored to resist the specified wind or seismic load acting in any
direction. Anchors and supports shall be designed for safe bearing loads on the
soil, and for an effective resistance to pull out, amounting to a force of
twenty five percent (25%) greater than the required resistance to overturning.
Anchors and supports shall penetrate to a depth belowground greater than the
frost line.
      2.   Construction:
         a.   Supports: Supports for signs or sign structures shall be placed
in or upon private property and shall be securely built, constructed and
erected in conformance with the requirements of this section. Signs attached to
masonry, concrete or steel shall be safely and securely fastened thereto by
means of metal anchors, bolts or approved expansion c/screws of sufficient size
and anchorage to support safely the loads applied.
         b.   Parapet Wall Supports: Unless a wall is designed in accordance
with the requirements specified in the uniform building code, no anchor or
support of any sign or wall facade for signs shall be connected to or supported
by an unbraced parapet wall.
      3.   Safety:
         a.   Proximity To Electrical Conductors: Signs shall be located not
less than eight feet (8') horizontally and twelve feet (12') vertically from
overhead electrical conductors which are energized in excess of standard
service loads as determined by the utility company providing the service. The
term "overhead conductors" as used in this subsection means any electrical
conductor, either bare or insulated, installed above the ground, except such
conductors as are enclosed in iron pipe or other material covering of equal
strength.
         b.   Wiring: All electrical equipment used in connection with such
signs shall be installed in accordance with the national electrical code.
         c.   Access: No sign or sign structure shall be erected in such a
manner that any portion of its surface or supports will interfere in any way
with the free use of any fire escape, exit or stairs.
         d.   Maintenance: All signs, together with all their supports, braces,
guys and anchors, shall be kept in good repair and be maintained in a safe
condition. All signs and the site on which they are located shall be maintained
in a neat, clean and attractive condition. Signs shall be kept free from
deterioration. The display surfaces, trims, frames and supports of all signs
shall be kept neatly painted or otherwise neatly maintained as applicable.
Substances used for painting or affixing a message to the display surface of a
sign and any waste materials generated in erecting a sign shall be removed from
public or private property.
   I.   Projection And Clearance: The outermost portion of the overhanging
sign, device or structure shall be no more than eight feet (8') beyond the face
of the building or beyond the curb line, whichever distance is less. The lowest
portion of the overhanging sign device or structure shall be at least eight
feet (8') above the top of the curb or sidewalk elevation.
   J.   Sign Measurement:
      1.   Area: The area of a sign is the space within any perimeter that
encloses the limits of any writing, representation, emblem, figure or
character. The area of a sign with no such perimeter or the area of a sign with
irregular shape, shall be computed by enclosing the surface area within a known
geometric size or shape. The area of all signs in existence at the time of the
enactment of this title, whether conforming or nonconforming, shall be counted
in establishing the permitted sign and of all new signs to be allowed for an
individual business or premises. Where a sign is of three-dimensional or round
or irregular size shape, the largest cross section shall be as though it were a
flat surface to determine area.
      2.   Facade Area: When the area of the front building facade is used to
determine sign area, said area shall be computed by multiplying the width of
the building frontage or portion thereof by the height of the building or
portion thereof which is devoted to the particular business. False front and
mansard roof may be included when calculating the area of the building facade.
   K.   Permitted Materials; Exceptions: Materials for construction of signs
and sign structures shall be the quality and grade as specified for building in
the uniform building code. In all sign and sign structures, the material and
detail of construction shall, in absence of specified requirements, be
constructed of wood or iron only. The design review board, providing such
materials are consistent with the western theme, may approve other materials.
   L.   Signing Techniques:
      1.   Western Theme: Signing techniques shall be in conformance with the
western design theme, including:
         a.   Painting the sign directly on the facade of the building.
         b.   Painting of a sign on a finished material or signboard that is
subsequently affixed to the building.
         c.   Affixing raised block letters directly on the facade of the
building.
      2.   Lettering Techniques: Lettering techniques shall be in conformance
with the western design theme and permitted as follows:
         a.   Ornamental lettering.
         b.   Shaded block or shaded ornamental lettering painted on
contrasting colors on flat surfaces.
         c.   Raised or routed block letters.
      3.   Logos: Logos that are registered or filed with a state or federal
agency may be used as part of a sign, but such logo shall comply with
provisions regarding permitted materials and signing techniques set forth in
this subsection.
      4.   Hazardous Conditions Prohibited: No sign shall be erected or
maintained which, by use of lights or illumination, creates an unduly
distracting and hazardous condition to a motorist, pedestrian, or the general
public, including, but not limited to, the following:
         a.   No exposed reflective type bulb or incandescent lamp shall be
exposed to direct view from a public street or highway but may be used for
indirect light illumination of a sign display surface.
         b.   No neon tubing sign or decoration will be allowed except as
otherwise provided in this section.
         c.   No colored lights shall be used at any location or in any manner
so as to be confused with or construed as traffic control devices.
         d.   No sign may be erected or maintained if it contains, includes or
is illuminated by any flashing, intermittent, revolving, rotating or moving
light(s), or which moves, or which has any animated or moving parts. Strings of
lights are permitted only between November 1 and January 15.
      5.   Floodlights: Signs may be indirectly illuminated by floodlights or
other lighting, located on the ground, wall or roof area adjacent to the sign
intended to be illuminated.
      6.   Height Restrictions: No indirect illumination devices shall be
allowed to exceed the building height requirements of the zoning district.
      7.   Neon And Fluorescent Light Colors: Neon and fluorescent colors and
lighting may be used only for highlighting a sign face or lettering and must
conform to the western theme restrictions and other regulations. (Ord. 131, 3-
14-2002)
   M.   Message And Images:
      1.   Medical Marijuana: No signage can contain the words "weed", "joint",
"pot", or other slang terms for medical marijuana. Whenever used in signage,
the word "marijuana" or "cannabis" must be preceded by the word "medical".
Images of smoking cigarettes or images of a medical marijuana leaf are
prohibited. All exterior signage must comply with the provisions of the
community signage regulations of this section. (Ord. 134, 11-5-2010)
11-4-13: SPECIFIC SIGNS; REGULATIONS:
   A.   Wall Signs: The following criteria shall be applicable for a wall sign:
      1.   Pinned Wall Signs: "Painted on" wall signs or cut out letters may be
pinned away from the building.
      2.   Maximum Projections: Wall signs may not stand more than twelve
inches (12") away from the wall.
      3.   Maximum Area: Total wall signage shall not exceed twenty percent
(20%) of the wall area in square feet of each facade. A wall sign shall not
exceed one hundred (100) square feet in area.
   B.   Projecting And Hanging Signs: The following criteria shall be
applicable for both projecting and hanging signs:
      1.   Maximum Area: The sign area of both projecting and hanging signs may
not exceed six (6) square feet in area per face.
      2.   Projection And Clearance: The outermost portion of the overhanging
sign, device or structure shall be no more than eight feet (8') beyond the face
of the building or beyond the curb line, whichever distance is less. The lowest
portion of the overhanging sign device or structure shall be at least eight
feet (8') above the top of the curb or sidewalk elevation.
   C.   Flexible Signs And Banners: A flexible sign must clear sidewalks by at
least eight feet (8') and shall not interfere with public use of the sidewalk,
street or right of way, or obstruct or restrict clear vision for traffic or
pedestrian safety. Banners are permitted only for commercial, institutional or
civic activities and may be located only in areas approved by the zoning
administrator.
      1.   Street Banner Approval: Banners across state highways require the
written approval of the Montana state department of transportation.
      2.   Minimum Wire Height: The lowest point must not be below the legal
limit for wires crossing the street, eighteen feet (18').
      3.   Banners Temporary: All types of banners on buildings or other
support structures shall be considered temporary and will be allowed to remain
up to seven (7) days or less, and shall be subject to the same height
restrictions as flexible signs.
   D.   Ground Mounted Signs: The following criteria shall be applicable for
ground mounted signs:
      1.   Noninterference: A ground mounted sign shall not be located within
ten feet (10') of any other sign within any street right of way (stop sign,
etc.) or within any area which requires clear vision for traffic or pedestrian
safety.
      2.   Maximum Number: No more than one ground mounted sign shall be
permitted for each street frontage in all zones with the exception of the HC
and C-I zones where two (2) ground mounted signs are allowed for each street
frontage providing they are three hundred feet (300') apart.
      3.   Maximum Height: Sign height shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') from
ground level.
      4.   Maximum Area And Width: Ground mounted signs shall not exceed thirty
two (32) square feet. Width shall not exceed ten feet (10').
      5.   Sign Supports: Sign supports shall be compatible with the design
requirements and intent of the western design theme.
   E.   Awning Signs: Awning signs shall be permitted subject to the following
requirements:
      1.   Copy: Copy shall be limited to the name or logo of the owner,
business or industry conducted within the premises, address of the building or
the building name and shall cover no more than fifteen percent (15%) of the
horizontal projected area of the awning.
      2.   Area Deducted: The area of a sign on an awning or canopy shall be
deducted from the wall sign area permitted.
      3.   Supports: Supports, posts or columns beyond the property line will
not be permitted.
      4.   Permanently Affixed: Lettering shall be painted or otherwise
permanently placed.
      5.   Minimum Height: The lowest point of the awning must be at least
eight feet (8') above the sidewalk.
      6.   Translucent Awnings: Backlighted, transparent or luminescent awnings
shall be prohibited.
   F.   Permanent Window Sign: The area of a permanent window sign is to be
considered part of the total area permitted for wall signs.
   G.   Temporary Exterior Window Sign: Temporary exterior window signs are
those that are left in place for no more than four (4) weeks in any three (3)
month period. They are permitted in all activities. They may not exceed thirty
percent (30%) of the window area in which they are displayed.
   H.   Neon Window Sign: Two (2) neon window signs per business are allowed,
provided the maximum size is two hundred eighty (280) square inches per sign.
   I.   Real Estate Sign: Real estate signs shall not exceed a total area of
twelve (12) square feet. Such signs shall be removed no later than seven (7)
days after the sale or lease of or expiration of the listing for such property.
   J.   Political Campaign Signs: Political campaign signs may be placed on
private property no more than forty five (45) days prior to a primary or
general election, and shall be removed not later than seven (7) days after the
closing of the polls. No sign may exceed thirty two (32) square feet in area.
   K.   Temporary Sales Signs: Garage, yard or patio sale signs or other
similar sale signs of a temporary nature. Such signs shall be removed no later
than forty eight (48) hours after the related activity ceases.
   L.   Service Signs: Service signs, such as those identifying bank or credit
cards, shall not be attached to an approved sign. If such services are to be
advertised, the sign shall be integrated into the overall sign design and are
subject to all requirements of this title.
   M.   Construction Signs: Construction signs shall be limited to a maximum
area of sixteen (16) square feet for each firm and may be erected or placed
only during the construction period. Construction signs shall be confined to
the construction site and shall be removed not later than seven (7) days after
the completion of the project.
   N.   Residential Signs: The total area of any sign located in a residential
zone shall not exceed two (2) square feet and is limited to wall mount only.
   O.   Roof Signs: Roof signs are permitted subject to the following
limitations:
      1.   Number: One roof sign shall be permitted for a building as long as
it is architecturally incorporated into the whole scheme of the building.
      2.   Area: Roof signage shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the wall
area in square feet on each facade. The total area of a roof sign and a wall
sign combined shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the wall area in square
feet, on each facade.
      3.   Height: Roof signs may not exceed six feet (6') above the roof or
twenty five feet (25') from the curb line.
      4.   Supports: All supports, bracing, angle iron, guy wires, etc., shall
appear to be an architectural and integral part of the building. (Ord. 131, 3-
14-2002)
11-4-14: SIGN DESIGN EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Exemptions: The following activities and signs are not subject to the
design provisions of this title, but must meet size, area and length of time
requirements:
      1.   Maintenance: Repainting, cleaning or other normal maintenance or
repair of a sign or sign structure for which a design approval has been given,
so long as the sign design, color, material, content, etc., is not modified in
such a way as to conflict with the intent of this chapter.
      2.   Changing Copy: Changing the advertising copy or message on an awning
or canopy.
      3.   Temporary Signs: Construction, real estate, political campaign,
garage, yard, patio or other similar sale signs of a temporary nature.
      4.   Window Signs: Temporary window signs.
      5.   Directional: Traffic directional signs onto or within premises.
      6.   Governmental: Governmental or official notices, flags, emblems or
insignia.
      7.   Religious: Religious or holiday decorations.
      8.   Machines: Internally lit soda machines and telephone booths.
      9.   Other: Any other signs that are state or federally regulated and are
not required to comply with local sign requirements.
      10.   Plaques: Dedication or historical plaques.
      11.   Special Events: Temporary, nonprofit organizations' special events.
(Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-4-15: SIGN REGULATIONS APPLYING TO JOINT OCCUPANCY OR MULTIPLE USE:
   A.   Multiple Use: The sign size restrictions set forth in this chapter
apply to each building. Where a single occupant carries on more than one
activity within a building, the occupant may allocate the available ground or
wall sign area in any manner between the various activities. However, the total
area so allocated may not exceed the maximum area available to that occupant
were he carrying on only a single activity.
   B.   Joint Occupancy: In like manner, where a building is occupied by more
than one tenant, the owner may allocate available ground or wall sign area
among the various tenants. However, the total area so allocated may not exceed
the maximum area available to a single tenant occupying the entire building.
(Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-4-16: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
The following signs are prohibited:
   A.   Vehicles Used As Signs: Signs that are placed on, affixed to or painted
on a motor vehicle or trailer and placed on public or private property for the
primary purpose of providing a sign not otherwise permitted by this title.
Signs on vehicles used in the normal course of business shall not be subject to
this provision.
   B.   Traffic Hazards: Signs or sign structures that create a hazard by
obstructing a clear view or pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   C.   Pornographic: Pornographic signs or any language on a sign that could
be considered offensive.
   D.   Street Furniture: Signs painted on or attached to benches, street
fixtures or other street objects. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-4-17: GENERAL SIGN PROVISIONS:
The following general provisions shall apply:
   A.   Public Spaces: No sign or other graphic display other than a town or
other public agency sign shall be allowed to be erected, installed, replaced or
maintained in, over or on any public property, including parkways, except as
provided in this title.
   B.   Interpretation: Any sign or other graphic display which is supported by
more than one means and, therefore, cannot be clearly defined as ground, wall,
roof, projecting or other sign shall be administratively assigned to the sign
category most logically applicable and the appropriate standards applied.
   C.   Design Character: Signing shall be in proportion with and visually
related to the architectural character of the building, restrained in size and
be in conformance with generally accepted principles of good design and
architecture.
   D.   Context: Signing for a business within a commercial or industrial
center shall be in harmony with the signing of the entire complex. The signing
for any new or remodeled commercial or industrial center shall be approved
concurrent with the architectural review of the project in the form of a
signing program.
   E.   Permit: The sign permit must be obtained and the permit fee paid prior
to the actual erection of the approved sign.
   F.   Compatibility: This title outlines maximum requirements; however, signs
must be appropriate to the nature to which they pertain and compatible with
their surroundings.
   G.   Supersedes: This chapter supersedes any other ordinance that pertains
to signage. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-4-18: ZONING PERMITS:
A zoning permit shall be obtained before any land or building may be used or
occupied, or before any building or structure may be erected, placed, moved,
expanded or structurally altered. The permit applicant is required to complete
and submit the application form provided in section
11-5-8 of this title, and a sketch plan or site plan as specified in section
11-4-13 of this chapter. Applicants will strive to meet the intent of the Ennis
comprehensive plan goals, including retaining the western theme as described in
earlier sections and in the comprehensive plan. The zoning administrator may
refer development proposals for large, unusual or complex buildings or land
uses to the planning board for guidance in meeting these goals.
   A.   Actions That May Not Require Zoning Permit: Certain actions may not
require a zoning permit if deemed to be exempt by the zoning administrator.
Such actions may include, for example, painting and minor repairs; landscaping
work not involving structural retaining walls; or other minor improvements or
replacements in kind.
   B.   Permit Issuance: The zoning administrator may issue a zoning permit
when the required application has been completed and the administrator has
found the proposed building, structure, parcel or use will meet the
requirements of this title. The zoning administrator shall first review the
applicant's materials to ensure the information is accurate and complete. If
the materials fail in either regard the application shall be returned. If
accepted, all reviews will be completed and one copy shall be returned to the
applicant, marked and signed indicating approval or disapproval. If
disapproved, the reasons shall be stated in writing. The second copy of
similarly marked materials shall be retained in the town hall.
   C.   Permit Expiration: Zoning permits have a limited duration but may be
extended for cause and as described below. The zoning administrator may grant
comparatively short extensions; however, the town commission upon favorable
recommendation by the zoning administrator may grant additional extensions
subject to the following:
      1.   One Year To Initiate Work: If the work described in any zoning
permit has not been initiated within one year, the approval shall expire.
Written notice of the expiration shall be given to the permit holder. If the
permit holder requests an extension, for cause, in writing, forty five (45)
days in advance of the permit's expiration, an extension of up to sixty (60)
days may be granted by the zoning administrator or up to one year by the town
commission.
      2.   Two Years To Complete: If the work described in any zoning permit
has not been substantially completed within two (2) years of the permit's
issuance (or extension), the permit shall expire and be cancelled by the zoning
administrator. Written notice shall be given to the legal permit holder, forty
five (45) days in advance of the permit's expiration, together with notice that
further work, as described in the cancelled permit, shall not proceed unless
and until a new permit has been obtained.
   D.   Conformity With Permit: Construction and/or use shall conform to the
application.
      1.   Changes: Zoning permits issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the zoning administrator authorize only the use,
arrangement and construction set forth in the approved plans and applications,
and no other use, arrangements, or construction. Any change of planned use,
arrangement or construction shall be submitted to the zoning administrator for
review and approval. Use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this title and punishable as provided
under "violations and penalties".
      2.   Inspection; Stop Work Order; Appeal: The zoning administrator shall
periodically check all use of property or construction activities to determine
conformance with the approved plans and application. If during this procedure
the zoning administrator determines that the actions being undertaken do not
conform with the approvals granted, the administrator shall inform the legal
permit holder of the infraction and shall issue a stop work order. This order
will not be lifted until the permit holder causes the infraction to be
remedied, or the matter has been appealed to the town commission and the
commission has informed the administrator, in writing, that the infraction has
been resolved and the stop work order shall be lifted.
   E.   Conditional Use Permit: A conditional use permit must be obtained
before those uses specified as conditional uses within certain zoning districts
may be established. A conditional use permit may be issued only when an
application has been completed and the town commission has found the proposed
use will meet both the requirements of the particular district involved and the
conditions specified for the use. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-4-19: CONDITIONAL USE PROCEDURE:
   A.   General: Certain uses generally appropriate within a particular zoning
district may require additional scrutiny and approval with conditions. The town
commission may grant a conditional use permit (CUP) when such circumstances
exist. The permit shall be granted for a particular use and not for a
particular person or firm. Periodic review may be required. No conditional use
permit shall be granted for a use that is not specifically designated or is
clearly of like character and intensity as a conditional use listed in this
title.
   B.   Application For Conditional Use Permit:
      1.   Application: The person applying for a conditional use permit shall
submit the appropriate form, with the required fee to the zoning administrator.
The request for a conditional use permit shall follow the procedures and
application requirements of "zoning permits", section
11-4-18 of this title.
      2.   Hearings: In consideration of all conditional use permit
applications a public hearing shall be conducted by the planning board and,
upon receipt of the board's recommendation, a public meeting shall be conducted
by the town commission.
      3.   Notice: Notice of the public hearing shall be placed in the
newspaper of general circulation.
      4.   Rezoning: If a rezoning is required prior to approval of a
conditional use permit (CUP) the application for rezoning and the conditional
use permit may be filed and acted upon simultaneously, however the conditional
use permit shall not be effective until zoning has been approved by town
commission.
   C.   Town Commission Consideration And Findings:
      1.   Findings: The town commission, in approving a conditional use
permit, shall find the proposal complies with all provisions listed on the
checklist in chapter 5 of this title.
      2.   Additional General Conditions: The commission shall, in addition to
all other conditions, impose the following general conditions upon every
conditional use permit granted:
         a.   That the right to a use and occupancy permit shall be contingent
upon the fulfillment of all general or special conditions imposed by the
conditional use permit procedure;
         b.   That all of the special conditions shall constitute restrictions
running with the land use, shall be binding upon the owner of the land, his
successors or assigns, and shall be recorded as such with the Madison County
clerk and recorder's office by the property owner prior to the issuance of any
building permits, final site plan approval or commencement of the conditional
use;
         c.   That all conditions specifically stated under any conditional use
listed in this title shall apply and be adhered to by the owner of the land,
successors or assigns;
      3.   Final Action: Applications for conditional use permits may be
approved, conditionally approved or denied by motion of the town commission and
the applicant shall be notified of the decision in writing. If an applicant is
denied, the denial shall constitute a finding that the applicant has not shown
that the conditions required for approval do exist.
   D.   Modification Of Structures Authorized Under Conditional Use Permit: Any
proposed additions, enlargements or modifications of the structures approved in
any conditional use permit or any proposed extension of the use into areas not
approved in any such permit, shall be subject to the same review, application
and approval procedures. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-4-20: PLAN REVIEW AND APPROVAL:
   A.   Introduction:
      1.   All development proposals within the zoning jurisdictional area of
the town will be subject to plan review and approval. Depending on the
complexity of development, either sketch plans or site plans will be required
as specified in this section. Plans shall be submitted to the zoning
administrator as part of the zoning permit review process.
      2.   Special Development Proposals: Special development proposals (i.e.,
traditional neighborhood developments, conditional use permits, variances,
etc.) require other information to be submitted in conjunction with sketch
plans or site plans and are subject to requirements specific to the type of
proposal. These additional submittal requirements and review procedures are
outlined in this chapter.
   B.   Sketch Plan Review:
      1.   Sketch Plan Submittal Requirements:
         a.   Certain development proposals are required to submit only sketch
plans, drawn to scale and in sufficient detail to demonstrate compliance with
all zoning requirements. Sketch plans shall be oriented with north at the top
of the page and shall also show site boundaries, street and alley frontages
with names and location of all structures with distances to the nearest foot
between buildings and from buildings to property lines.
         b.   Separate construction plans are necessary for building permits
when the proposal requires such permits.
         c.   Examples of projects which qualify for sketch plan review
include: individual single-family and two-family residential units, each on
individual lots; fences; signs in compliance with zoning requirements; special
temporary uses; home occupations; and accessory structures associated with
these uses. Other similar projects may be determined by the zoning
administrator to require only sketch plan review. The zoning administrator
shall determine all submittal requirements.
      2.   Sketch Plan Review Criteria: Sketch plans shall be reviewed for
compliance with all applicable zoning requirements including overlay district
requirements and the cessation of any current violations of this title,
exclusive of any legal nonconforming conditions. Once compliance has been
achieved, the sketch plan and zoning permit will be approved and construction
may begin.
   C.   Site Plan Review:
      1.   Classification Of Site Plans: Site plans will be classified as major
or minor site plans. All developments within the town's zoning jurisdiction,
except, development proposals requiring only sketch plan review, shall be
subject to this subsection.
         a.   Major Site Plan Criteria: A major site plan involves one or more
of the following:
(1) Three (3) or more dwelling units in a multiple-family structure or
structures;
(2) Five thousand (5,000) or more square feet of nonresidential space;
(3) More than one building on one site for permitted office uses, permitted
retail commercial uses, permitted industrial uses or permitted combinations of
uses;
(4) Ten thousand (10,000) or more square feet of exterior storage of materials
or goods;
(5) Parking for more than ten (10) vehicles.
         b.   Minor Site Plan Criteria: Any other site plan, except those that
are part of a traditional neighborhood development or conditional use permit,
will be considered a minor site plan. Conditional use permits and traditional
neighborhood developments shall be reviewed according to their specific
requirements and procedures.
      2.   Review Authority: The zoning administrator and the planning board
have the authority to review and require revisions to any proposed site plans.
      3.   Site Plan Submittal Requirements: Applications for all site plan
approvals shall be submitted to the zoning administrator on forms provided in
chapter 5 of this title. The site plan application shall be accompanied by the
appropriate fee and development plans showing sufficient information for the
zoning administrator or planning board to determine whether the proposed
development will meet the town's development requirements.
      4.   Site Plan Review Procedures:
         a.   Minor Site Plan: Minor site plans shall be processed by the
zoning administrator.
         b.   Major Site Plan: Major site plans shall be initially processed
through the zoning administrator in the manner of a minor site plan; however,
the zoning administrator action shall not be final but rather advisory to the
planning board.
      5.   Site Plan Review Criteria: In considering applications for site plan
approval, the zoning administrator and planning board shall consider the issues
listed in the site plan review checklist contained in section
11-5-5 of this title. If the reviewing agencies determine that the proposed
site plan is in compliance and accord with the listed issues and provisions of
this title, approval shall be granted. (Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-4-21: MEDICAL MARIJUANA:
Any activity involving medical marijuana must meet all requirements of state
law including, but not limited to, the standards of title 50, chapter 46,
Montana Code Annotated, and limits on possession, clean air, and all other
provisions of title 50, chapter 46, and any applicable administrative rules
established by the state. Should such rules or laws change, any medical
marijuana facility shall immediately begin any required process to come into
compliance with the new rules. This includes submittals for review of
applications to the town of Ennis as they may relate to zoning, business
licensing, or other municipal programs. Compliance with town of Ennis zoning
regulations, and other provisions of this title, does not shield any person,
corporation, or other legal entity from the requirements of, or enforcement by,
other governing entities, or from civil liabilities.
   A.   Location: Unless specifically exempted, any person or an existing or
proposed entity intending to conduct activities for the purpose of growing,
processing, distribution, and/or any other activity related to medical
marijuana shall in addition to this section, comply with all other provisions
of this code, and shall not be located within five hundred (500) linear feet of
the exterior property line of:
      1.   All schools or facilities owned or operated by Ennis school district
whether located inside or outside the town of Ennis limits; or
      2.   All private schools, not including home schools, whether located
inside or outside the town of Ennis limits, which provide instruction in the
class range from kindergarten to twelfth grade and which are either subject to
section 20-5-109, Montana Code Annotated, or listed as a kindergarten provider
by the Madison County superintendent of schools.
      3.   For purposes of this section, specified distances will be measured
in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures from the property
line of a school as stated in subsections A1 and A2 of this section, regardless
of whether those schools are located within the jurisdictional limits of the
town of Ennis, to the property line of the business providing medical
marijuana.
   B.   Zoning Districts: Any activities for the purpose of growing,
processing, distribution, and/or any other activity related to medical
marijuana may not be located in any zone other than those stated in chapter 3
of this title.
   C.   Exceptions: The requirements of subsections A and B of this section do
not apply to:
      1.   An individual registered qualifying patient who possesses medical
marijuana in accordance with the limits and requirements of title 50, chapter
46, Montana Code Annotated solely for that qualifying patient's own use; or
      2.   A caregiver providing care to not more than two (2) qualifying
patients who reside within the same dwelling as the caregiver. The caregiver
and qualifying patients shall maintain appropriate state agency qualification
at all times that medical marijuana is present.
   D.   Air Discharge Control: Any medical marijuana growing or processing
operation that contains one or more medical marijuana plants at any one time
shall provide a forced air vent discharge point, with odor abatement, that is
located no closer than thirty feet (30') from an adjacent property line or a
residence.
   E.   DPHHS Approval Of Caregiver: Any person making application for a zoning
approval for a medical marijuana business shall provide evidence of DPHHS
approval as a caregiver at the time of application and shall maintain such
DPHHS approval at all times. Failure to maintain approval immediately suspends
zoning approval to operate a medical marijuana business in the town of Ennis.
   F.   Property Owner Standards: These regulations are for review of
applications to the town of Ennis and do not restrict property owners from
establishing more stringent standards for their properties.
   G.   Medical Marijuana Home Based Business: A home based business for the
purpose of cultivating, processing or distributing of medical marijuana shall
be restricted in the following manner:
      1.   Cultivating and processing and distribution of medical marijuana for
commercial purposes will only be permitted in the designated zoning areas in
the town of Ennis.
      2.   There is no restriction for home based businesses for the purposes
of recordkeeping.
      3.   Dispensing of medical marijuana in a residence must have no more
than three (3) patients. The intent of this is to ensure there is no change in
the makeup of the neighborhood, turning a residential district into a
commercial district. Upon any complaint, the issue will be reviewed by the
commission and that entity may have to come into compliance with the
regulations of this chapter. (Ord. 134, 11-5-2010)
CHAPTER 5
APPLICATIONS; FORMS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Zoning Code Appeal And Variance Application
11-5-2: Conditional Use Permit Application
11-5-3: Zone Change Application
11-5-4: Zoning Code Violation Complaint Or Request For Action
11-5-5: Sketch And Site Plan Requirements And Checklist
11-5-6: Sign Permit Application
11-5-7: Landscaping Plan Requirements And Checklist
11-5-8: Zoning Permit Application
11-5-9: Permit Application Fees
11-5-1: ZONING CODE APPEAL AND VARIANCE APPLICATION:
The town zoning code permits aggrieved persons to appeal the interpretation and
application of the code. The zoning board of adjustment may grant variances
from the code and hear appeals from interpretations of the zoning administrator
in limited circumstances where hardships would result from the code's strict
interpretation, application and enforcement. Variance applications will be
accepted only from the record owner of the property for which the variance is
requested. Any person aggrieved by a zoning administrator decision may appeal
that decision to the board.
The zoning board of adjustment may grant variances from the zoning ordinance
when:
   A.   The variance won't be contrary to the public interest;
   B.   Circumstances unique to the property would cause an undue hardship if
the zoning ordinance is strictly and literally interpreted and applied;
   C.   The spirit and intent of the zoning ordinance will be observed and
substantial justice done; and
   D.   The results of the variance will be consistent with the goals,
objectives and policies of the adopted comprehensive plan/growth policy.
The zoning board of adjustment may not grant use variances that would allow the
use of a property or building that is not allowed by the zoning ordinance in
that zoning classification.
The zoning administrator will review the application for completeness after the
application deadline date and will promptly notify the applicant about any
missing material or information. Incomplete or unacceptable applications may
delay the variance review process by one month or longer. The applicant is
responsible for submitting a complete application.
All applications will be submitted at the Town Hall, 328 West Main Street by
the dates established by the zoning board of adjustment. The application fee
must accompany the application and must be personally delivered to the town
hall. No mailed, electronic mail or tele-facsimile applications will be
accepted.
All questions must be answered fully. Please type or print on the application
and for all other information submitted with the application. You may attach
additional pages or other information, including photographs. All material that
is submitted for the application will be retained as part of the permanent
record.
   APPLICATION FORM
   ZONING ORDINANCE VARIANCE OR APPEAL
Legal description of property:    
Address or other location:    
Zoning classification:                         Size of parcel:    
Variance requested or describe decision being appealed:    
Facts of hardship:    
Owner(s):       
   (Record owner)
   (Address)
   (Phone number and e-mail address)
Agent or appellant:    
   (Name)
   (Address)
   (Phone number and e-mail address)
I understand that the filing fee accompanying this application is not
refundable, that it pays for application processing and does not guarantee that
the appeal or variance will be granted. I attest that the information presented
herein is factual and correct.
Signature:                                            Date:    
(Record owner or appellant)
   ADDITIONAL APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES
      1.   Prepare a written statement addressed to the chairperson of the
zoning board of adjustment. State what is intended to be done with the building
or property, including any new or change in use, and why the variance is being
sought or the appeal is being made.
      2.   Answer the following questions in the statement:
         a.   What unique property conditions prevent you from using the
property in conformance with the zoning ordinance requirements, or in what way
does the zoning administrator's interpretation of the zoning ordinance affect
you or your property?
         b.   What hardship will you experience if you are not granted a
variance or relief from the zoning administrator's decision?
         c.   If a variance or appeal is granted, what goals, objectives and
policies of the comprehensive plan/growth policy will be supported by the
variance or appeal?
      3.   Prepare a dimensioned site plan as follows:
         a.   One site plan at least 11" x 17".
         b.   Scale shall be at least 1 " = 40'.
         c.   North arrow.
         d.   Location and dimension of all vehicular access points and all off
street parking spaces.
         e.   Lot line locations and dimensions.
         f.   Location and dimensions of all proposed and existing buildings,
including any that will be removed.
         g.   Building setbacks from all property lines.
         h.   Names and locations of adjacent streets, alleys and other
properties.
         i.   If a height variance is being sought, a dimensioned elevation
drawing showing the height of all structures.
         j.   Other pertinent information.
      4.   A filing fee must accompany all applications for variances or
appeals. No application will be accepted until the fee is paid in full. The fee
is nonrefundable and does not guarantee a variance or successful appeal.
      5.   A public hearing will be held when the zoning board of adjustment
considers appeals or variances. The property for which the variance or appeal
is sought will be posted with a notice that contains information about the
variance or appeal and the date, time and location of the hearing. A notice of
public hearing will be published in the town's official newspaper or a
newspaper of general circulation in the area at least ten (10) days prior to
the public hearing. The applicant will be notified by mail as to the date, time
and location of the hearing.
      6.   Approval of a variance or appeal requires the concurrence of at
least four (4) voting members of the board.
      7.   All hearings and deliberations by the board are open to the public.
Any person may appear and testify at the hearing. Records of the case, hearing
and decision will be retained by the board and are public records.
      8.   Appeals from the board may be made to a court of record in the state
of Montana.
(Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-5-2: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT APPLICATION:
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT APPLICATION
   Town of Ennis, Montana
The town zoning ordinance allows certain uses that are generally appropriate
within a particular zoning district but which may require additional scrutiny
and approval with conditions. The town commission may grant a conditional use
permit (CUP) under such circumstances.
The conditional use permit application shall be submitted in person at the Town
Hall, 328 West Main Street. No mailed, e-mailed or tele-facsimile applications
will be accepted. The filing fee must accompany the application in order for it
to be accepted. Applications must be signed by the property record owner.
The zoning administrator will review the application for completeness after the
application deadline date and will promptly notify the applicant about any
missing material or information. Incomplete or unacceptable applications may
delay the permit review process by one month or longer. The applicant is
responsible for submitting a complete application.
All questions must be answered fully. All applications or other printed
material must be typed or hand printed. Additional information, including
photographs, may be submitted. All information that is submitted will be
retained as part of the permanent record.
   APPLICATION FORM
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
Conditional use requested:    
Present zoning:    
Legal description of property:    
Address or general location:    
Size or acreage and dimensions of the parcel:    
Present land use:    
Proposed land and/or building use:    
Owner(s):       
   (Record owner)
   (Address)
   (Phone number and e-mail address)
Agent:    
   (Name)
   (Address)
   (Phone number and e-mail address)
I understand that the filing fee accompanying this application is not
refundable, that it pays for application processing and does not guarantee that
a Conditional Use Permit will be approved. I attest that the information
presented herein is factual and correct.
Signature:                                            Date:    
(Record owner)
   ADDITIONAL APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES
      1.   Prepare a written statement addressed to the chairperson of the
planning board that indicates what is intended to be done with the land or
building, including any new or change in use, and why the conditional use
permit is being sought.
      2.   Answer the following questions in the statement:
         a.   What is the intended use for the building or property and why is
this use needed at this location?
         b.   How will the public interest be served if this application is
approved?
         c.   In what ways is the proposal consistent with the goals,
objectives and policies of the comprehensive plan/growth policy?
      3.   Prepare a dimensioned site plan as follows:
         a.   One site plan at least 11" x 11".
         b.   Scale shall be at least 1" = 40'.
         c.   North arrow.
         d.   Location and dimension of all vehicular access points and all off
street parking spaces.
         e.   Lot line locations and dimensions.
         f.   Location and dimensions of all proposed and existing buildings,
including any that will be removed.
         g.   Building setbacks from all property lines.
         h.   Names and locations of adjacent streets, alleys and other
properties.
         i.   If a height variance is being sought, a dimensioned elevation
drawing showing the height of all structures.
         j.   Other pertinent information.
      4.   A filing fee must accompany all conditional use permit applications.
No application will be accepted until the fee is paid in full. The fee is
nonrefundable and does not guarantee that a permit will be approved.
      5.   A public hearing will be held when the planning board considers the
conditional use permit. The property for which the permit is sought will be
posted with a notice that contains information about the proposed use and the
date, time and location of the hearing. A notice of public hearing will be
published in the town's official newspaper or a newspaper of general
circulation in the area at least ten (10) days prior to the date of the
hearing. The applicant will be notified by mail as to the date, time and
location of the hearing. After the hearing is concluded, the board will make a
recommendation to the town commission whether to approve, conditionally approve
or deny the application.
      6.   All hearings and deliberations by the planning board are open to the
public. Any person may appear and testify at the hearing. Records of the
application, hearing, recommendation and decision will be retained by the board
and are public records.
      7.   The town commission will consider the planning board's
recommendation at the next available regular or special town commission
meeting. The commission may approve, conditionally approve or deny the planning
board's recommendation and the application.
      8.   Appeals from the town commission's decision may be made to a court
of record in the state of Montana.
(Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-5-3: ZONE CHANGE APPLICATION:
    ZONE CHANGE APPLICATION
   TOWN OF ENNIS, MONTANA
The town commission may amend the zoning ordinance, after following a procedure
that is outlined in the ordinance and in this application packet. Amendments
can be made to the ordinance text or property zoning classification and zoning
map that are initiated by the town or by a property owner.
The zone change application shall be submitted in person at the Town Hall, 328
West Main Street. No mailed, e-mailed or tele-facsimile applications will be
accepted. The filing fee must accompany the application in order for it to be
accepted. The property owner of record must sign any owner initiated
application.
The zoning administrator will review the application for completeness after the
application deadline date and will promptly notify the applicant about any
missing material or information. Incomplete or unacceptable applications may
delay the permit review process by one month or longer. The applicant is
responsible for submitting a complete application.
All questions must be answered fully. All applications or other printed
material must be typed or hand printed. Additional information, including
photographs, may be submitted. All information that is submitted will be
retained as part of the permanent record.
   APPLICATION FORM
   ZONE or ZONING TEXT CHANGE
Present zoning:    
Proposed zoning:    
Legal description:    
Address:    
Size of property (area and dimensions):    
Present land use:    
Proposed land use:    
Text change requested (if applicable):    
Owner(s):       
   (Record owner)
   (Address)
   (Phone number and e-mail address)
Agent(s):       
   (Name)
   (Address)
   (Phone number and e-mail address)
I understand that the filing fee accompanying this application is not
refundable, that it pays for application processing and does not guarantee that
the zone change or zoning text change will be granted. I attest that the
information presented herein is factual and correct.
Signature:                                           Date:    
(Record owner)
   ADDITIONAL APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES
      1.   Prepare a written statement addressed to the chairperson of the
planning board that explains the need for the intended zone change and why the
property can't be used as desired under the existing zoning.
      2.   Answer the following questions in the statement:
         a.   What is the intended use for the building or property and why is
this use needed at this location?
         b.   What prevents the property from being used as desired under the
present zoning?
         c.   How will the public interest be served if this application is
approved?
         d.   In what ways is the proposal consistent with the goals,
objectives and policies of the comprehensive plan/growth policy?
      3.   A filing fee must accompany all zone change applications. No
application will be accepted until the fee is paid in full. The fee is
nonrefundable and does not guarantee that a zone change will be approved.
      4.   A public hearing will be held when the planning board considers the
zone change. The property for which the permit is sought will be posted with a
notice that contains information about the proposed zone change and the date,
time and location of the hearing. A notice of public hearing will be published
in the town's official newspaper or a newspaper of general circulation in the
area at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the hearing. The applicant
will be notified by mail as to the date, time and location of the hearing.
After the hearing is concluded, the board will make a recommendation to the
town commission whether to approve or deny the zone change application.
      5.   A public hearing will be held when the town commission considers the
zone change. The property for which the permit is sought will be posted with a
notice that contains information about the proposed zone change and the date,
time and location of the hearing. A notice of public hearing will be published
in the town's official newspaper or a newspaper of general circulation in the
area at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the hearing. The applicant
will be notified by mail as to the date, time and location of the hearing. The
town commission will consider the planning board's recommendation at the next
available regular or special town commission meeting. The commission may
approve or deny the planning board's recommendation or it may refer the matter
back to the planning board for further deliberation if the commission
determines that the planning board should consider new information or
reconsider evidence that was introduced at the planning board hearing. At the
conclusion of the town commission's deliberations on the zone change
application, it shall make a final decision to approve or deny the application.
An amendment may not become effective except upon a favorable vote of two-
thirds (2/3) of the present and voting members of the town commission if a
protest against the amendment is signed by the owners of twenty five percent
(25%) or more of:
         a.   The area of the lots included in the proposed change, or
         b.   Those lots within one hundred fifty feet (150') from a lot
included in the proposed amendment.
      6.   Appeals from the town commission's decision may be made to a court
of record in the state of Montana.
      7.   All hearings and deliberations by the planning board and the town
commission are open to the public. Any person may appear and testify at the
hearings. Records of the application, hearings, recommendation and decision
will be retained by the planning board and town commission and are public
records.
(Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-5-4: ZONING CODE VIOLATION COMPLAINT OR REQUEST    FOR ACTION:
   ZONING CODE VIOLATION COMPLAINT
   OR REQUEST FOR ACTION
   Town of Ennis, Montana
Complainant    
Address                                                    Telephone    
Complaint    
Location    
Legal information: Lot(s)               Block(s)             Subdivision    
C/S#                                              Tax ID#    
Owner    
Address                                                   Telephone    
First inspection:
Notice sent to owner/occupant                
Date
Second inspection:
Follow-up:
Complaint disposition:
Dismissed                     Compliance                   Citation    
(Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-5-5: SKETCH AND SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS AND CHECK-    LIST:
   SKETCH AND SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS AND CHECKLIST
   Town of Ennis, Montana
Scaled or dimensioned site plan that includes the following:
   Name of land or building and address        
   Date, north arrow and scale        
   Proposed land or building use        
   Lot or property boundaries        
   Adjacent public right of way locations and names        
   Adjacent properties and zoning classifications        
   Location and dimensions of all buildings        
   Building setbacks from property lines        
   Building setbacks from side street, if applicable        
   Building separation (for multiple bldgs. on property)        
   Building height (from finished grade to highest point
   on the building)        
   Clear vision zone (for corner lots)        
   Lot size, in square feet        
   Lot coverage, in percent        
   Landscaped area        
   Off street parking location and # of spaces        
   Required screening, if applicable        
   Location of streams, lakes and land subject to flooding        
(Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-5-6: SIGN PERMIT APPLICATION:
(Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-5-7:LANDSCAPING PLAN REQUIREMENTS AND CHECKLIST:
   LANDSCAPING PLAN REQUIREMENTS AND CHECKLIST
   Town of Ennis, Montana
Scaled or dimensioned site plan that includes the following:
   Name of land or building and address        
   Date, north arrow and scale        
   Proposed land or building use        
   Lot or property boundaries        
   Adjacent public right of way locations and names        
   Adjacent properties and zoning classifications        
   Location and dimensions of all buildings        
   Building setbacks from property lines        
   Building setbacks from side street, if applicable        
   Building separation (for multiple bldgs. on property)        
   Clear vision zone (for corner lots)        
   Lot size, in square feet        
   Lot coverage, in percent        
   Landscaping, in square feet        
   Type of landscaping materials and locations        
   Off street parking location and # of spaces        
(Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-5-8:ZONING PERMIT APPLICATION:
(Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
11-5-9:PERMIT APPLICATION FEES:
   TOWN OF ENNIS PERMIT APPLICATION FEES
Zone change                      $500.00 plus publication, posting and mailing
                                 costs
Conditional use permit           500.00 plus publication, posting and mailing
                                 costs
Variance                         200.00 plus publication, posting and mailing
                                 costs
Zoning permit                    100.00 for projects requiring sketch plan
                                 review
                                 200.00 for projects requiring site plan review
Sign permit                      1.00/square foot
Fence permit                     25.00
Decks                            25.00
Garage                           75.00
Auxiliary storage (Not attached) 50.00
 
(Ord. 131, 3-14-2002)
CHAPTER 6
COMMUNITY SIGNAGE
SECTION:
11-6-1: Intent
11-6-2: Purpose
11-6-3: Applicability And Scope
11-6-4: Definitions
11-6-5: Sign Type Definitions, Regulations, And Prohibitions
11-6-6: Sign Related Activities Permitted In All Zones
11-6-7: Prohibited Signs
11-6-8: Nonconforming Signs
11-6-9: Design Standards And General Provisions
11-6-10: Procedure For Sign Permit Approval
11-6-11: Construction Specifications And Indemnification
11-6-12: Liability
11-6-13: Violations
11-6-14: Right Of Appeal/Variance
11-6-15: Enforcement, Notice And Penalties
11-6-1: INTENT:
The intent of this chapter is to provide a comprehensive system of reasonable,
effective, consistent, content neutral, and nondiscriminatory sign standards.
(Ord. 139, 5-24-2015)
11-6-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish requirements, and to encourage good
design, that meet the identification and information needs of all land uses and
reflect the special character of Ennis. A basic tenet in adopting and applying
these regulations is that unrestricted signs do not benefit either the private
business owner or the community at large. Toward this end, the town commission
finds that the town of Ennis is a unique historic agricultural community that
depends on a tourist economy. Tourists are attracted to the visual quality and
character of the town. Sign regulations are intended to:
   A.   Recognize that signs are a necessary means of useful communication for
the convenience of the public.
   B.   Maximize the value of signage as a means of locating and identifying
businesses and properties.
   C.   Protect, preserve, and enhance the unique character beauty, and small
town charm of Ennis and its surrounding areas as a place to live, vacation, and
to conduct business that encourages the continued development of tourism.
   D.   Promote signs that are of appropriate scale and integrated with the
surrounding buildings and landscape to further the community's desire for
quality development.
   E.   Promote clear views of the natural surroundings by minimizing visual
clutter, reducing the competition for air space, and encouraging the
construction of signs of natural looking materials, which are compatible with
the historic, cultural and natural surroundings.
   F.   Protect the public from hazardous conditions that can result from signs
that are structurally unsafe, obscure the vision of motorists, create dangers
to pedestrian traffic, or which compete or conflict with necessary traffic
signals and warning signs.
   G.   Eliminate distracting lighting, excessive glare, and light pollution by
reasonably limiting the illumination of signs and buildings to subdued,
adequately shielded, or concealed light sources.
   H.   Impose reasonable time, place, and manner restrictions while not
interfering with the free exercise of rights granted under the first amendment
of the constitution of the United States Of America.
   I.   Meet the identification and information needs of all land uses.
   J.   Reflect the important aspect of signs in our community, while
maintaining our heritage. The lack of signage creates a hardship on merchants
and visitors who rely on effective signing to identify businesses and services.
(Ord. 139, 5-24-2015)
11-6-3: APPLICABILITY AND SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the display, construction,
erection, alteration, use, maintenance, and location of all signs within the
town of Ennis. All signs that are displayed, constructed, erected, or altered
after the date of adoption of this chapter shall conform to the provisions of
these regulations. Any sign not addressed in this chapter shall be addressed
with a conditional use permit.
   A.   Any sign that does not require a permit does not count against a
property's allocation.
   B.   The zoning administrator shall enforce this chapter. The duties
associated with administering and enforcing this chapter may also be combined
with the duties of other existing positions in the town of Ennis.
   C.   Unless specifically exempted, it shall be unlawful to erect, place,
construct, reconstruct, or relocate any sign without first obtaining a sign
permit from the town of Ennis. Exemptions from the necessity of securing a
permit, however, shall not be misconstrued to relieve the owner of the sign
involved from responsibility for its erection and maintenance in a safe manner
and in a manner in accord with all the other provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Before any permit is granted for the erection of a sign or sign
structure requiring such permit, plans and specifications shall be filed at
town hall. Plans must show the dimensions, list materials, and required details
of construction including anchorage, and any other pertinent data. The permit
application shall be accompanied by the written consent of the owner or lessee
of the premises upon which the sign is to be erected. (See section
11-6-10 of this chapter for complete sign permit procedures.)
   E.   No sign shall be enlarged or relocated except in conformity to the
provisions herein, and until a proper permit, if required, has been secured.
   F.   A schedule of permit fees to erect, alter, or relocate a sign shall be
established by resolution of the town commission of the town of Ennis. (Ord.
139, 5-24-2015)
11-6-4: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are applicable:
ALTERNATION OF SIGN: The moving or modification, in any manner, of a sign or
its structure including, but not limited to, height, size, area, shape, or
foundation, but excluding the exchange, replacement, or repainting of the sign
faces of cabinet type signs where there are no changes to the original
structure. The changing of movable parts or components of a sign that is
designed for such changes, or the changing of copy, display and/or graphic
matter, or the content of any sign shall not be deemed an alteration.
AWNING: An architectural projection that provides weather protection, identity,
or decoration and is wholly supported by the building to which it is attached.
An awning is comprised of a lightweight, rigid skeleton over which a covering
is attached.
BEACON: Any light source with one or more beams directed into the atmosphere or
directed at one or more points not on the same lot as the light source; also,
any light with one or more beams that rotate, flash or move.
BLIGHT: The state or result of being deteriorated or ruined.
BUILDING FACADE: That portion of any exterior elevation of a building extending
from grade to the top of the parapet wall or eaves for the entire width of the
building elevation or that portion comprising the exterior elevation of one
business located in a multiple-tenant structure.
BUILDING GRAPHICS: A mosaic, mural, painting, graphic art technique or
combination or grouping thereof, applied or implanted directly onto a building
wall or fence.
CANOPY: A roofed structure that covers an area, especially one that shelters a
passageway between two (2) buildings.
COPY: The graphic content of a sign surface in either permanent or removable
letter, pictographic, symbolic, or alphabetic form.
DILAPIDATED: A sign on which:
   A.   The lettering or background material or any part of the sign has
flaked, broken off, or changed color;
   B.   Structural supports or frame members are visibly corroded, stained,
bent, broken, or dented; or
   C.   Sign supports are twisted, leaning or at angles other than those at
which the sign was originally erected.
HEIGHT OF SIGN: The vertical distance measured from the highest point of the
sign to the adjacent street grade or surface beneath the sign.
LEADING EDGE: The portion of a sign that is closest, in any direction, to the
adjacent property line or right of way line.
MARQUEE: A projecting structure over the entrance to a building or structure,
especially a theater or hotel.
PROPERTY FRONTAGE: A side of a property that borders on a public street.
SECONDARY FRONTAGE: A side of a property that faces a parkway (alleyway) or an
interior park.
SIGN: The means by which anything is made visibly known or used to identify,
advertise or promote an individual, firm, association, corporation,
professional business, commodity, service or product, that can be viewed from
the public right of way. For the purposes of removal, "sign" shall also include
all sign structures.
SPORTS ARENA SIGN: A sign displayed, for advertisement purposes, at outdoor
sporting arenas (examples: baseball and football fields, etc.) on arena
boundary fences, scoreboards or other integral structures of the arena. Sports
arena signs do not require a sign permit. (Ord. 139, 5-24-2015)
11-6-5: SIGN TYPE DEFINITIONS, REGULATIONS, AND PROHIBITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following sign type definitions and
regulations shall apply:
Abandoned/Obsolete Signs:
   A.   Definition: Any sign, including all structural, support and other
componential elements, which advertises a business no longer in operation; a
lessor, owner, product or activity conducted or product available on the
premises that is no longer available where the sign is displayed.
   B.   Prohibition: Abandoned signs are prohibited.
   C.   Removal: Abandoned signs, on or off premises, are hereby declared a
nuisance and the sign owner or property owner shall either remove the sign
structure or replace the obsolete sign face with a blank sign face within
thirty (30) days of receiving notice of violation. Extensions to this deadline
may be granted for reasons, such as weather, provided a time line is submitted
supporting a reasonable removal process. Any sign which is located on a
property which becomes vacant and unoccupied for a period of six (6) months or
more, or any sign which pertains to a time, event, or purpose which no longer
applies, shall be deemed to have been abandoned. Signs associated with a
business temporarily suspended because of sale or lease of the business shall
not be deemed abandoned unless the property remains vacant for a period of six
(6) consecutive months, at which time the sign face shall be replaced with a
noncommercial facing approved by the zoning administrator. Signs of a
historical nature shall not be subject to the provisions of this subsection.
Address Signs:
   A.   Definition: Any sign displaying the name and/or location of the
occupant/tenant of the property, building, or subdivision.
   B.   Allowance: Address signs are allowed.
   C.   Regulations:
      1.   Address signs do not require a sign permit; provided, the area of an
address sign does not exceed two (2) square feet; per sign face, if sign is
double sided.
      2.   Not more than one address sign shall be permitted on a property held
in single and separate ownership unless such property fronts on more than one
street, in which case one address sign shall be permitted on each separate
street frontage.
      3.   Signs displaying the name of an apartment building shall not exceed
thirty two (32) square feet in area; per sign face, if sign is double sided.
Unless otherwise regulated by specific reference herein, freestanding address
signs shall be limited to a height of fifteen feet (15').
      4.   Only one sign advertising a home occupation or avocation shall be
allowed per property.
Animated Sign:
   A.   Definition: A sign or display manifesting either kinetic or illusory
motion occasioned by natural, manual, mechanical, electrical, or other means.
Animated signs shall include signs that incorporate fluttering, undulating,
swinging (noncanopy signs), rotating, or otherwise moving signs, pennants,
balloons, holograms, light beams, or other free flowing decorations into the
sign structure. This shall not include signal lights and other public safety
signs maintained by government.
   B.   Prohibition: Animated signs are prohibited.
Awning Sign:
   A.   Definition: A sign that is generally composed of a skeletal frame
covered in a fabric type material typically open on the bottom side, which
extends along and/or projects beyond the wall of the building and that is
generally designed to provide protection from the weather.
   B.   Allowance: Awning signs require a sign permit.
   C.   Regulations:
      1.   Supports, posts or columns beyond the property line will not be
permitted.
      2.   Awning signs shall maintain a minimum clearance of eight feet (8')
from the top of the sidewalk to the bottom of the sign.
Banner Sign:
   A.   Definition: A nonrigid advertising sign, and is generally made of
vinyl, or fabric.
   B.   Allowance: Banner signs require a sign permit when the signs are
intended to be permanent and must be framed internally or externally by, and
mounted to, a rigid material. (Temporary banner signs are addressed in
"temporary, portable, or special event signs", of this section.)
Beacon Lights And Strobe Lights:
   A.   Definition: Any light source with one or more beams directed into the
atmosphere or directed at one or more points not on the same lot as the light
source; also, any light with one or more beams that rotate, flash, or move.
   B.   Prohibition: Beacon lights and strobe lights are prohibited.
   C.   Removal: Rotating or strobe lights attached to any sign structure,
sign, or building are hereby declared a nuisance and shall be taken down by the
owner within ninety (90) days of adoption of the ordinance codified herein.
Extensions of this deadline may be granted for reasons, such as weather,
provided a time line is submitted supporting a reasonable removal process.
Billboard Signs:
   A.   Definition: An off premises sign that is two hundred fifty (250) square
feet or larger.
   B.   Prohibition: Billboard signs are prohibited.
Canopy Or Marquee Sign:
   A.   Definition: A sign attached to or constructed in or on a canopy or
marquee.
   B.   Allowance: Canopy or marquee signs require a sign permit.
   C.   Regulations:
      1.   Canopy and marquee signs are permitted in the L-CR, C-CR, C-I, HC
and P-I districts.
      2.   Canopy signs shall maintain a minimum clearance of eight feet (8')
from the top of the sidewalk to the bottom of the sign.
Construction/Artisan Signs:
   A.   Definition: Temporary signs of contractors or artisans displayed during
the period which such contractors or artisans are performing work on the
property upon which such signs are displayed.
   B.   Allowance: Construction/artisan signs do not require a permit.
   C.   Regulations:
      1.   Construction/artisan signs are permitted in all zoning districts.
      2.   Construction/artisan signs shall not exceed six (6) square feet; per
sign face, if sign is double sided.
      3.   Such signs shall be limited to one sign per contractor or artisan,
may be put up two (2) weeks prior to commencement of work, and shall be removed
immediately upon completion of the work of the contractor or artisan.
Directional Or Instructional Signs:
   A.   Definition: A permanently erected and incidental sign designed to guide
or direct pedestrian or vehicular traffic. Such signs include those identifying
restrooms, public telephones, public walkways, public entrances, freight
entrances, affiliation with motor clubs, acceptance of designated credit cards,
and other similar signs providing direction or instruction to persons using a
facility.
   B.   Allowance: Directional or instructional signs do not require a sign
permit.
   C.   Regulations:
      1.   Directional or instructional signs are allowed in all zoning
districts.
      2.   Advertising materials of any kind are strictly prohibited on
directional and instructional signs.
      3.   Directional or instructional signs shall not exceed the following
zoning district size limitations:
         a.   R-LD, R-TD, R-RD, and R-MD: Two (2) square feet; per sign face,
if sign is double sided.
         b.   All other zones: Four (4) square feet; per sign face, if sign is
double sided.
Flags:
   A.   Definition: A piece of fabric attached to a staff or cord on one end
and generally used as a symbol of a nation, state, political subdivision, or
organization.
   B.   Allowance: Noncommercial flags do not require a sign permit. Commercial
flags require a sign permit and the square footage of the commercial flag will
count against the owner's allocated signage area.
   C.   Regulations:
      1.   Flags are allowed in all zoning districts.
      2.   The maximum size of any flag shall be restricted to the maximum size
that is safely allowed to fly from the flagpole where it is to be displayed as
determined by the manufacturer's or engineer's specifications.
      3.   A flagpole's maximum height will be equal to or less than the
maximum building height allowed by the town zoning code and all applicable
building codes.
      4.   A flagpole shall not be considered a "tower".
      5.   All flagpoles installed prior to the acceptance of this chapter are
grandfathered.
Freestanding Sign:
   A.   Definition: A sign erected on a freestanding frame, mast or pole, not
attached to a building, and located on the property where the business
advertised on the sign face is located.
   B.   Allowance: Freestanding signs require a sign permit.
   C.   Regulations:
      1.   Freestanding signs are permitted in the L-CR, C-CR, C-I, HC and P-
I districts.
      2.   Freestanding signs and support structures shall not exceed fifteen
feet (15') in height. All freestanding signs installed prior to the acceptance
of this chapter are grandfathered.
      3.   Limit of two (2) freestanding signs for each property's street
frontage.
Garage Sale Sign:
   A.   Definition: A sign used to advertise a nonrecurring garage sale or yard
sale.
   B.   Allowance: Garage sale signs do not require a sign permit.
   C.   Regulations: Garage or yard sale signs shall not be placed more than
five (5) days prior to the sale and must be removed within two (2) days after
the end of sale.
Government Sign:
   A.   Definition: A sign placed or erected by a governmental agency or
nonprofit civic association for a public purpose in the public interest for
control of traffic and for other regulatory purposes; street signs, warning
signs, railroad crossing signs, signs of public service companies indicating
danger; and aids to service and safety which are erected by or for the order of
government.
   B.   Allowance: Government signs do not require a sign permit.
Historic Sign:
   A.   Definition: A sign which has historical or cultural significance to the
town of Ennis or which is listed on the national register of historic places.
   B.   Allowance: Historic signs do not require a sign permit.
   C.   Regulations:
      1.   Signs placed on a historic building identifying the structure as a
property listed on the inventory of the national register of historic places
shall not exceed two (2) square feet in area.
      2.   The sign must be maintained as close to its original form as
possible.
Holiday Decorations:
   A.   Definition: Noncommercial signs or other materials displayed on
traditionally accepted civic, patriotic, and/or religious holidays.
   B.   Allowance: Holiday decorations do not require a sign permit.
   C.   Regulations: Holiday decorations shall be maintained in safe condition
and will not create a fire hazard.
Illuminated Sign:
   A.   Definition: A sign that uses a source of light to make the message
readable, including signs that are either internally or externally lighted and
signs that may be reflecting, glowing, or radiating by virtue of another light
source.
   B.   Allowance: Illuminated signs require a sign permit.
   C.   Regulations:
      1.   Illuminated signs are permitted in the L-CR, C-CR, C-I, HC and P-
I districts.
      2.   All lighting sources shall be electrical in nature. No open flames
are allowed.
      3.   Exterior lighting is permitted; provided, that the following
criteria are satisfied:
         a.   Lights shall be designed, located, shielded, and directed in such
a manner that the light source is fixed.
         b.   A sign's light source shall not be directly visible, or cast
direct light upon any adjacent public right of way, surrounding property,
residential property, or motorist's field of vision.
      4.   Internal lighting is permitted; provided, that the following
criteria are satisfied:
         a.   The proposed light source shall not be visible from the exterior
of the sign, which shall include the back, edges, and sides of the sign.
         b.   Any proposed internally lighted sign application shall submit
plans depicting the location and types of lighting to be used.
      5.   Backlit signs are permitted; provided, that the following criteria
are satisfied:
         a.   Signs shall be lighted from a source mounted on the wall behind
the proposed sign. The light source shall not be visible through the sign.
Lighting shall be visible only along the edges of the sign and light shall not
extend more than twelve inches (12") beyond the sign edges.
         b.   Any proposed backlit lighted sign permit application shall
include plans depicting the location and types of lighting to be used.
Interior Sign:
   A.   Definition: A sign which is fully located within the interior of any
building and not intended for external viewing, or within an enclosed lobby or
courtyard of any building.
   B.   Allowance: Interior signs do not require a sign permit.
Menu Sign:
   A.   Definition: A sign that displays a list of products offered by a
business.
   B.   Allowance: Menu signs do not require a sign permit provided they are
less than two (2) square feet.
Message Center Sign (EMC: Electronic Message Center):
   A.   Definition: A sign containing a display that can be changed by a
manual, mechanical, electrical, electronic, and/or a computerized process.
   B.   Allowance: Message center signs are prohibited.
Neon Sign:
   A.   Definition: Any sign using bent glass tubes for the copy.
   B.   Allowance: Neon signs require a sign permit.
   C.   Regulations:
      1.   Neon signs are not permitted in residential districts.
      2.   Limit of two (2) neon signs per business are allowed, in addition to
an open, vacancy, no vacancy, etc., sign, provided the maximum size is two (2)
square feet; per sign face, if sign is double sided.
      3.   A single neon sign shall not exceed six (6) square feet.
      4.   Neon signs are to stay steadily lit.
Obscene Sign:
   A.   Definition: A sign that contains offensive language, is hate based, is
discriminatory, or on which the dominant theme of material taken as a whole
appeals to a prurient interest in sex, or is patently offensive because it
affronts community standards relating to the description or representation of
sexual matters, and is utterly without redeeming social value.
   B.   Prohibition: Obscene signs are prohibited.
Off Premises Sign:
   A.   Definition: Any sign normally used for promoting an interest other than
that of a business, individual, product, or service available and primarily
located on the premises where the sign is located.
   B.   Prohibition: Off premises signs are prohibited. A variance may be
obtained and approved, with or without special requirements set forth by the
Town Council, etc., to allow for an off premises sign.
   C.   Existing: Off premises signs, in existence prior to this chapter taking
effect, shall, within two (2) years, obtain a variance to continue the use.
Political Sign:
   A.   Definition: A temporary sign intended to advance a political statement,
cause, or candidate for office.
   B.   Allowance: Political signs do not require a sign permit.
   C.   Regulations:
      1.   Political signs are allowed in all zoning districts.
      2.   A political sign relating to the election of a person running for
public office or relating to a matter to be voted upon at an election called by
a public body shall not be erected for more than forty five (45) days prior to
the election date for which the candidate or matter is scheduled to be held.
Such signs shall be removed within ten (10) days following such election or
referendum.
      3.   Political signs may not exceed six (6) square feet in area.
      4.   Political signs shall not be illuminated.
Projecting Sign:
   A.   Definition: A sign that is attached to a structure, building face, or
pole and projects over a public right-of-way.
   B.   Allowance: Projecting signs require a sign permit.
   C.   Regulations:
      1.   Projecting signs are permitted in the L-CR, C-CR, C-I, HC and P-
I Districts.
      2.   Only one projecting sign per property frontage is allowed.
      3.   No projecting sign shall exceed forty eight (48) square feet in
area; per sign face, if sign is double sided.
Public Notices:
   A.   Definition: Official government notices, legal notices, "No
Trespassing" signs, and signs which indicate the private nature of a road,
driveway, or property.
   B.   Allowance: Public notices do not require a sign permit.
   C.   Regulations:
      1.   Public notices are allowed in all zoning districts.
      2.   No public notice shall exceed six (6) square feet in area.
Real Estate Sign:
   A.   Definition: A temporary sign that is used to advertise the fact that a
property is for sale, lease, or rent.
   B.   Allowance: Real estate signs do not require a sign permit.
   C.   Regulations:
      1.   Real estate signs are allowed in all zoning districts subject to the
following size limitations:
         a.   In the residential zoning districts: Six (6) square feet per sign
face, if sign is double sided.
         b.   In all other zoning districts: Twelve (12) square feet per sign
face, if sign is double sided.
      2.   Real estate signs shall be permitted only during the time in which
the property advertised is available for sale, lease, or rent, and must be
removed within ten (10) days after execution of an agreement of sale, lease, or
rental agreement.
      3.   Not more than one real estate sign shall be placed on property held
in single and separate ownership unless:
         a.   The property fronts on more than one street, in which case one
real estate sign shall be permitted on each separate street frontage.
         b.   One real estate sign shall be allowed for every two hundred feet
(200') of frontage.
Residential Business Sign:
   A.   Definition: A sign advertising a home occupation or avocation.
   B.   Allowance: Residential business signs require a permit.
   C.   Regulations:
      1.   One sign advertising a home occupation or avocation is allowed.
      2.   Sign area shall not exceed two (2) square feet; per sign face, if
sign is double sided.
Roof Sign:
   A.   Definition: A sign erected, constructed, and maintained upon, or
connected to, the roof of any building and that uses the roof structure as its
primary means of support.
   B.   Allowance: Roof signs require a sign permit.
   C.   Regulations:
      1.   Roof signs are permitted in the L-CR, C-CR, C-I, HC and P-
I districts.
      2.   Roof signs may not exceed six feet (6') above the roof.
      3.   Roof signs may not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the total allowed
sign area.
      4.   Roof signs shall appear to be an architectural feature and integral
part of the building upon which they are mounted. Supporting columns may be
erected if the bracing that is visible to the public is minimized or covered.
Service Sign:
   A.   Definition: Acceptable sources of payment or membership.
   B.   Allowance: Service signs do not require a permit if less than one
square foot.
   C.   Regulation:
      1.   Service signs may not be attached to a permitted sign.
Sidewalk Sign:
   A.   Definition: A sign placed on the pedestrian public right of way.
   B.   Allowance: Sidewalk signs require a sign permit.
   C.   Regulations:
      1.   Sidewalk signs are permitted in the L-CR, C-CR, C-I, HC and P-
I districts.
      2.   Sidewalk signs may only be utilized when a business is open.
      3.   Sidewalk signs shall be at least three feet (3') tall but no more
than four feet (4') tall and may not exceed two and one-half feet (21/2') in
width.
      4.   The leading edge of a sidewalk sign shall be positioned no more than
thirty six inches (36") from the building property line and are not allowed on
street or town right of way.
      5.   Sidewalk signs shall be placed outside of normal pedestrian traffic.
      6.   Sandwich boards located on property other than the advertising
business will require written permission from the property owner where the sign
is displayed.
Skylights And Searchlights:
   A.   Definition: Lights used to illuminate the sky for the purpose of
drawing attention to a business or event.
   B.   Prohibition: Skylights and searchlights are prohibited.
Sports Arena Sign:
   A.   Definition: Sports arena signs are signs displayed, for advertising
purposes, at outdoor sports arena.
   B.   Allowance: Sports arena signs do not require a sign permit.
   C.   Regulations:
      1.   Sports arena signs are allowed at established sporting arenas that
provide essential nonprofit services to the community.
      2.   Signs must be kept in good physical and aesthetic condition to
provide safety and functionality to athletes and spectators.
      3.   Abandoned/obsolete signs are not allowed and shall be removed upon
request by the zoning administrator.
      4.   Signs are limited to be displayed on actual arena boundary fencing,
scoreboards or other integral arena structures that do not interfere with the
participation of competitors or spectator's field of vision or play.
      5.   Signs must comply with all regulations set forth in this chapter and
all other restrictions set forth throughout the sign ordinance, as a whole.
Temporary, Portable, Or Special Event Signs:
   A.   Definition: Any sign that is designed or intended to be relocated from
time to time, whether or not permanently attached to a building or structure,
or located on the ground. Such signs include, but are not limited to: signs on
wheels or on portable or mobile structures, trailers, skids, tent signs,
airborne signs, banners, and pennants.
   B.   Allowance: Temporary or portable signs do not require a sign permit.
   C.   Regulations:
      1.   Temporary or portable signs do not count against a property's
maximum allowable signage area.
      2.   Unless the length of time a temporary sign may be displayed is
specifically addressed elsewhere in this chapter, no temporary sign shall be
permitted to be displayed for a period in excess of ninety (90) days during a
period of three hundred sixty five (365) days, unless a longer period of
display time is approved by the zoning administrator or his/her designee.
      3.   Unless the size of a temporary sign is specifically addressed
elsewhere in this chapter, the size of any temporary sign shall not exceed the
size limits provided for any permanent sign of like configuration and/or type
in a given district.
      4.   Street banners across the highway require the written approval of
the Montana state department of transportation.
      5.   Temporary signs may not be electrically energized or contain any
electrical device.
      6.   A temporary sign may be illuminated; provided, that such
illumination is in adherence to the guidelines detailed herein.
      7.   Temporary banners advertising "Grand Opening", "Going Out Of
Business", or "New Ownership/Management" events are permitted on a onetime
basis and do not count against a property's maximum allowable signage area.
Banners may be placed on the structure for no more than fifteen (15) days and
shall be wholly located on private property. Only one "Grand Opening" temporary
sign shall be permitted for the life of a business. A subsequent "Grand
Opening" or "Going Out Of Business" banner may be permitted when business
ownership has transferred to a new owner, or when the business moves to a new
location.
      8.   Banners and other temporary signs for townwide expositions and
special events are allowed, provided the following conditions are met:
         a.   The sponsor obtains a user agreement.
         b.   The zoning administrator or his/her designee shall review and
approve proposed placement, size, and time of display of the banner or
temporary sign.
         c.   Such banners and temporary signs shall not count against the
sponsor's maximum signage area.
         d.   Approved banners shall not impede the public right of way.
         e.   Where required, clearance under the sign shall be eight feet
(8').
         f.   Party type balloons shall be permitted in order to attract
attention to an event; provided, that they are removed immediately following
the close of the event.
         g.   No temporary or special event sign shall be displayed for more
than thirty (30) days prior to an event. Such signs shall be removed within
seven (7) days of the end of an event.
      9.   Community signboards for the notification of special events, and
display standards and locations of such signs, shall be provided for review and
approval by the zoning administrator or his/her designee.
Vacancy/Open/Office Sign:
   A.   Definition: Signs that advertise "Vacancy", "No Vacancy", "Open",
"Closed", and "Office".
   B.   Allowance:
      1.   Vacancy/open/office signs do not require a sign permit; provided,
that the proposed sign does not exceed six (6) square feet in area; per sign
face, if sign is double sided.
      2.   Vacancy/open/office signs may be of the neon sign nature but must
remain constantly and unchangingly lit while business is open and operating and
must be turned off while business is closed.
Vehicle Sign:
   A.   Definition: A sign that is attached to or placed in or on a truck, bus,
car, trailer, boat, recreational vehicle, or any other vehicle. Vehicle signs
shall exclude bumper stickers, license plates, and inspection and registration
stickers.
   B.   Allowance: Vehicle signs do not require a permit.
   C.   Regulations:
      1.   A vehicle to which a sign is attached cannot be used for the sole
purpose of advertising. It is the responsibility of the property owners to
provide proof that the vehicle has a legitimate business purpose other than
display of the sign.
      2.   The vehicle signs must be painted upon or applied directly to an
integral part of the vehicle.
Wall Sign:
   A.   Definition: Any sign attached to, painted on, or installed upon a wall
of a building, with the exposed face parallel to the building wall and/or
parapet.
   B.   Allowance: Wall signs require a sign permit.
   C.   Regulations: Wall signs shall count toward maximum allowable signage
area for a structure.
Window Sign:
   A.   Definition: A sign installed inside a building or upon the window
surface for the purpose of viewing from outside.
   B.   Allowance: Window signs require a sign permit.
   C.   Regulations:
      1.   This section shall not apply to window displays, such as clothing,
merchandise, or real estate photographs; provided that they are displayed
inside the window.
      2.   Window signs shall count toward the maximum allowable signage area
for a structure, and should not cover more than forty percent (40%) of total
window space.
      3.   Temporary window posters/signs for nonprofit and citywide events
shall not count against the maximum allowable signage area for a structure.
Works Of Art:
   A.   Definition: Works of art which in no way identify or advertise a
person, product, service, or business; also religious symbols and commemorative
plaques.
   B.   Allowance: Works of art do not require a permit. (Ord. 139, 5-24-2015)
11-6-6: SIGN RELATED ACTIVITIES PERMITTED IN ALL ZONES:
The following sign related activities shall be exempt from obtaining a sign
permit in the R-RD, R-LD, R-MD, R-TD, L-CR, C-CR, HC, P-I and C-I districts.
Exemptions shall not be misconstrued as relieving the applicant and owner of
the sign from the responsibility of complying with all applicable provisions of
this chapter. The exemption shall apply to the requirement for a sign permit
under this section. The regulations below shall not have forbearance in
districts that have covenants wherein the covenants are more restrictive and
shall have forbearance where the covenants are less restrictive. In general,
the more restrictive covenant or ordinance shall apply.
   A.   Preventive Maintenance: The ordinary preventive maintenance of a
lawfully existing sign, which does not involve a change of placement, size,
lighting, color or height. A sign may be temporarily removed for off site
maintenance or repair, provided that it is reinstalled in the original
location.
   B.   Repainting: The repainting of a lawfully existing sign exactly as it
was prior to such activity shall be allowed. (Ord. 139, 5-24-2015)
11-6-7: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
   A.   In addition to any sign not specifically permitted in accordance with
this chapter, the erection, construction, alteration, relocation, or placement
of the following signs is expressly prohibited in the town of Ennis after the
date of the adoption of the ordinance codified herein:
      1.   Signs which move and/or are animated by means of flashing, traveling
or blinking lights, or other means not providing constant illumination, unless
specifically allowed within this chapter.
      2.   Appendages to primary signs which have flashing, blinking, or
traveling lights.
      3.   Any sign which emits sound, odor, or visible matter.
      4.   Any sign erected without a permit, if a permit is required.
      5.   Any sign erected in or over public right of way or other public
property, unless the same is erected by the town, county, state or other
authorized governmental agency, or with the permission of the town, for public
purposes, unless allowed within this chapter.
      6.   Signs which bear or contain statements that demean or otherwise
degrade religions, races, or ethnic groups.
      7.   Signs, including political signs, attached, maintained, painted,
printed or otherwise affixed to any curb, sidewalk, post, pole, hydrant,
bridge, bench, tree or other surface on public property, or over or across any
street or public thoroughfare, except by a duly authorized public employee or
as required or permitted by law. This section shall not apply to signs
advertising garage sales, yard sales, bake sales, lost pets, missing persons,
or other similar purposes.
      8.   Illegal signs are signs constructed or altered after the date of
sign code adoption, without first obtaining an approved sign permit, or were
constructed or maintained illegally before the date of sign code adoption and
which do not comply with its provisions, including proper maintenance.
      9.   Abandoned signs are those that advertise entities that have been
abandoned for any length of time or vacated for a period in excess of one year.
   B.   The following provisions shall govern procedures for bringing illegal
and abandoned signs into compliance:
      1.   Illegal signs, including signs that are in disrepair, are
deteriorated or are unsafe, shall be removed within thirty (30) days after
notification by the zoning administrator by the owner or lessee of the premises
upon which the sign is located.
      2.   Abandoned signs shall be removed within thirty (30) days after
notification by the zoning administrator. Sign shall be removed by the owner or
lessee of the premises, upon which the sign is located when the advertised
business is no longer conducted on the premises. (Ord. 139, 5-24-2015)
11-6-8: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
Nonconforming signs are signs which do not meet the physical criteria, that in
other ways violate this chapter and which legally existed on or before this
chapter's date of adoption. The following provisions shall govern procedures
for bringing nonconforming signs into compliance:
   A.   Nonconforming signs shall be brought into compliance when the building
or premises housing the entity being advertised is moved, expanded or
structurally altered.
   B.   Nonconforming signs which are structurally altered, relocated or
replaced shall immediately conform to the requirements of this chapter except
that:
      1.   Signs may be structurally altered where such alteration is necessary
for public safety.
      2.   Signs may be reinstalled if they are moved for construction or
repairs of public works or public facilities and such reinstallation is
completed within one year.
      3.   Signs may be repaired and reinstalled if they are damaged by an act
of God or by an accident, provided:
         a.   Such damage does not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the cost of
reconstruction; and
         b.   Provided that such sign is reconstructed within one hundred
eighty (180) days of the date the sign is damaged. (Ord. 139, 5-24-2015)
11-6-9: DESIGN STANDARDS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Materials: The town of Ennis encourages the use of natural appearing
materials for sign construction, whenever possible, to blend with the local
historical flavor.
   B.   Measurement Standards For Signs: Each property shall be allowed a
maximum signage area of three and one-half (31/2) square feet per linear foot
of property frontage and one square foot per linear foot of secondary frontage.
All signs shall be measured from the outer edge of the sign and such
measurements shall include all letters, designs, logos, and pictures
incorporated into the sign. Signs consisting of individual letters, elements,
or logos placed on building walls or structures shall be defined by boxes to
calculate the sign area. No more than four (4) boxes may define a sign area.
      1.   All permitted signs shall count toward the total maximum signage
area.
      2.   The area of a two (2) sided sign (faces are 180 degrees from each
other) shall be calculated using one sign face.
      3.   From any point, if multiple faces of a sign are visible, then the
maximum number of faces visible will be used to calculate signage area.
   C.   Property With More Than One Frontage: If a property has more than one
frontage, then the sign allotment for each property frontage will be computed
separately. The sign allotment thus calculated may then be applied to permitted
signs placed on each frontage.
   D.   Display Standards: The display of all signs regulated by the town of
Ennis shall conform to the standards set forth in this section.
      1.   Signs shall not resemble, imitate, or approximate the shape, size,
form or color of traffic signs, signals, or other devices for traffic control.
Signs shall not obstruct or interfere with the effectiveness of traffic signs,
signals, or devices. Signs that impede the clear sight distance or obstruct
traffic control devices will be removed by the town of Ennis and/or the Montana
department of transportation.
      2.   Signs shall not be erected, relocated, or maintained in such a way
that prevents free ingress or egress from any door, window, or fire escape.
      3.   Sign foundations shall not be constructed within the public right of
way; signs placed in the public right of way will be removed by the town of
Ennis and/or the Montana department of transportation.
      4.   Canopy and projecting signs over public walkways may do so only
subject to the projection and clearance limits either defined herein or at a
minimum height of eight feet (8') from grade level to the bottom of the sign.
Signs, architectural projections, or sign structures projecting over vehicular
access areas must conform to the minimum height clearance limitations imposed
by the town for such structures.
      5.   All signs shall be located in such a way that they maintain
horizontal and vertical clearance from all overhead electrical conductors in
accordance with the national electrical safety code and local utility
specifications.
      6.   A sign shall not exceed the maximum building height of the building
code for the zone where it is located.
      7.   No sign shall extend from a building to a point beyond the curb.
   E.   Maintenance:
      1.   All sign supports, braces, guys, and anchors shall be kept in good
repair. Faces of all signs shall be well maintained at all times. The town of
Ennis may notify the sign owner or its agent, in writing, of any sign that is
not in a proper state of repair. If corrective action is not taken within
thirty (30) days of receiving written notice, an official of the town of Ennis
may order the removal of the sign.
      2.   All areas around a sign structure shall be kept litter and weed
free. (Ord. 139, 5-24-2015)
11-6-10: PROCEDURE FOR SIGN PERMIT APPROVAL:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to erect, place, construct,
reconstruct, or relocate any sign without first obtaining a sign permit from
the town of Ennis, unless the sign is specifically exempted from permit
requirements. The applicant shall complete the application and review process
before entering into binding commitments incurring expense of the design,
preparation, or construction of the proposed sign.
   B.   Application: An application for a sign permit shall include the
following information:
      1.   A signature of consent from the owner of the property.
      2.   Proposed location of the sign on the building or property.
      3.   A blueprint or drawing of the plans, specifications, and method of
construction of the sign and its supports. The plans shall include the proposed
sign's dimensions, materials, and colors. If the proposed sign is to be
illuminated then the plans shall include the type, intensity, and design of the
sign's illumination.
      4.   The dimensions, measurements, and calculations of building frontages
and property line frontages on streets and alleys; the dimensions of any other
sign located on the property; and any other information needed to calculate
maximum signage area, height, type, placement, or other requirements of these
regulations.
   C.   Determination Of Compliance: After reviewing the application and
determining whether or not the proposed sign is compliant and consistent with
the purposes, requirements, and standards in this chapter, the zoning
administrator or his/her designee shall approve, approve with conditions, or
deny the application for a sign permit within twenty eight (28) calendar days
of the date of filing. The zoning administrator or his/her designee shall give
written notice by mail or otherwise delivered to the applicant of any
application denied together with a brief written statement of the reasons for
rejection and the steps, if any, necessary to gain approval for said
application. No sign permit application shall be accepted if:
      1.   The applicant has installed any sign in violation of the provisions
of this chapter and, at the time of the submission of the application, such
sign has not been brought into compliance, removed, or included in the
application.
      2.   Any sign under the control of the applicant or property owner was
installed in violation of the provisions of this chapter and, at the time of
submission of the application, such sign has not been approved, removed, or
included in the application.
   D.   Fees Paid In Full: The applicable sign permit fees shall be paid in
full prior to the installation of the approved sign and are not refundable.
   E.   Expiration: New sign permits shall expire one year from the date of
issuance. If the proposed sign has not been erected or altered pursuant to the
issued permit a new application process shall be initiated.
   F.   Unlawful Signs: No permit for a sign issued hereunder shall be deemed
to constitute permission or authorization to maintain an unlawful sign, nor
shall any permit issued hereunder constitute a defense in an action to abate an
unlawful sign.
   G.   Change In Ownership: Whenever there is a change in the sign user, sign
owner, or owner of the property on which the sign is located, the new sign
user, sign owner or property owner shall forthwith notify the zoning
administrator of the change. (No new sign permit is required, unless the sign
is altered.) (Ord. 139, 5-24-2015)
11-6-11: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS AND INDEMNIFICATION:
   A.   Compliance With Code: All signs shall comply with the appropriate
detailed provisions of the building code relating to design, structural
members, and connections. Signs shall also comply with the provisions of the
national electrical code and the additional construction standards hereinafter
set forth in this section.
   B.   Auxiliary Construction Specifications:
      1.   No sign shall be placed or maintained in any manner which will
interfere with any opening required for ventilation.
      2.   A parapet wall or roof must be designed for and have sufficient
strength to support any sign which is attached thereto.
   C.   Maintenance: Every sign shall be maintained in a safe, presentable and
good structural material condition at all times. Such maintenance shall include
repair, replacement of defective parts, painting, repainting, cleaning, and
other acts required for the maintenance of said sign. The zoning administrator
or his/her designee shall have the authority to order the painting, repair,
alteration, or removal of signs which become dilapidated or are abandoned, or
which constitute physical hazard to the public safety.
   D.   Nonliability: The town and its agents shall in no way be liable for
negligence or failure of the owner, or the person responsible, for any damage
caused by defective conditions related to a sign within the town. (Ord. 139, 5-
24-2015)
11-6-12: LIABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter shall not limit the liability of any person who
erects or owns any sign from personal injury or property damage resulting from
the placing of a sign, or resulting from the negligence or wilful acts of such
person or his/her agents, employees or workers, in the construction,
maintenance, repair, or removal of any sign erected in accordance with a permit
issued under the provisions of this chapter. The provisions of this chapter
shall not impose upon the town of Ennis, its officers, employees, or planning
board, any responsibility or liability by reason of the approval of any sign.
(Ord. 139, 5-24-2015)
11-6-13: VIOLATIONS:
The following are violations of this chapter:
   A.   The installation, operation, maintenance, or alteration of any sign
requiring a permit without first obtaining a permit or after a permit has been
revoked.
   B.   The failure to remove a sign that is installed, operated, maintained,
or altered once such notice to remove has been issued by the town of Ennis.
   C.   Any sign that is deemed by the town of Ennis to have been erected,
altered, extended, moved, or otherwise utilized in violation of any provisions
of this chapter.
   D.   Any sign not maintained or kept in good repair, as determined by the
town of Ennis. (Ord. 139, 5-24-2015)
11-6-14: RIGHT OF APPEAL/VARIANCE:
   A.   Any person who is issued a written notice of violation, denied a sign
permit, objects to the conditions attached to a sign permit, or objects to any
interpretation of this chapter may file an appeal or file for a variance with
the town commission.
   B.   Appeals and variance requests shall be handled as set forth in section
11-5-1, "Zoning Code Appeal And Variance Application", of this title. (Ord.
139, 5-24-2015)
11-6-15: ENFORCEMENT, NOTICE AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Enforcement:
      1.   Duties: The zoning administrator shall monitor signage in the town
of Ennis for compliance with town ordinances.
      2.   Noncompliance: When the zoning administrator determines a sign is
not in compliance with town ordinances, the zoning administrator shall:
         a.   Give the property owner, occupant, business operator, or person
in charge/care of the property notice, either verbally or in writing, the
signage is not in compliance, and
         b.   Give the property owner, occupant, business operator, or person
in charge/care of the property thirty (30) days to take corrective action.
         c.   If the zoning administrator determines that exigent circumstances
exist, such as a safety hazard, the zoning administrator may require corrective
action be taken in less than thirty (30) days.
         d.   Prohibited signs specified under section
11-6-7 of this chapter do not require a thirty (30) day compliance notice and
enforcement action may be taken immediately by the police department.
         e.   If the property owner, occupant, business operator, or person in
charge/care of the property fails to bring the sign into compliance in the
required time period, the zoning administrator shall make a written complaint
with the police department requesting enforcement action.
      3.   Failure To Comply:
         a.   The police department upon confirming the violation may issue the
property owner, occupant, business operator, or person in charge/care of the
property a notice to appear and complaint.
         b.   The property owner, occupant, business operator, or person in
charge/care of the property is subject to a separate notice to appear and
complaint each day the violation continues or is not corrected.
         c.   If the property owner, occupant, business operator, or person in
charge/care of the property does not bring the signage in compliance with the
town ordinances, in addition to issuing any notices to appear and complaints,
the town of Ennis may petition the city court for an order authorizing the
removal of the sign. The property owner, occupant, business operator, or person
in charge/care of the property will be assessed the cost of the sign removal.
   B.   Penalty:
      1.   A violation of this chapter is a municipal infraction and subject to
the penalties specified in title 1, chapter 4 of this code.
      2.   A violation of the community signage is an absolute strict liability
offense. (Ord. 139, 5-24-2015)
TITLE 12
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: County Regulations Adopted
12-1-2: Existing Proceedings
12-1-3: Submission Of Plats; Payment Of Fees
12-1-1: COUNTY REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The town council adopts the Madison County subdivision regulations which comply
with the Montana subdivision and platting act, as amended 1995. (Ord. 123, 4-
11-1996)
12-1-2: EXISTING PROCEEDINGS:
This title does not affect proceedings that were begun before the effective
date hereof. (Ord. 123, 4-11-1996)
12-1-3: SUBMISSION OF PLATS; PAYMENT OF FEES:
Upon the enactment of this title, all persons shall be required to submit plats
and pay fees to the Ennis planning board. (Ord. 123, 4-11-1996)
TITLE 13
FLOODPLAIN HAZARD MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE, AUTHORITY AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
13-1-1: Floodplain Hazard Management Regulations
13-1-2: Statutory And Regulatory Authority
13-1-3: Findings Of Fact
13-1-4: Purpose
13-1-5: Methods To Reduce Losses
13-1-6: Regulated Area
13-1-7: Floodplain Administrator
13-1-8: Compliance
13-1-9: Abrogation And Greater Responsibility
13-1-10: Regulation Interpretation
13-1-11: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
13-1-12: Severability
13-1-13: Disclosure Provision
13-1-14: Amendment Of Regulations
13-1-15: Public Records
13-1-16: Subdivision Review
13-1-17: Disaster Recovery
13-1-1: FLOODPLAIN HAZARD MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS:
These regulations are known and may be cited as the FLOODPLAIN HAZARD
MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS; hereinafter referred to as “these regulations.” (Ord.
159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-1-2: STATUTORY AND REGULATORY AUTHORITY:
   A.   Floodplain and Floodway Management is codified at Montana Code
Annotated (MCA) Title 76, Chapter 5 and describes the authority, procedures and
minimum standards for local regulations. Regulation for Floodplain Management
established by the Montana Department of Natural Resources and Conservation
(DNRC) are located in Administrative Rules of Montana (ARM), Chapter 36.15.
   B.   The authority to regulate development in specifically identified flood
hazard areas has been accepted pursuant to 76-5-301, MCA. (Ord. 159-2024, 10-
30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-1-3: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   Flood hazard areas specifically adopted herein as Regulated Flood
Hazard Areas have been delineated and designated by order or determination of
the DNRC pursuant to 76-5-201, MCA et.seq.
   B.   These regulations have been reviewed by Montana Department of Natural
Resources and Conservation and the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The
Montana Department of Natural Resources and Conservation has found the
regulations acceptable in meeting the Department minimum standards. The Federal
Emergency Management Agency finds that these regulations are adequate and
consistent with the comprehensive criteria for land management and use pursuant
to the standards established in 44 CFR 60.3. (76-5-302, MCA, ARM 36.15.202, 44
CFR 60.1(b), 42 USC § 4022) (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-1-4: PURPOSE:
The purpose of these regulations is to promote public health, safety and
general welfare of the residents and minimize public and private losses due to
flood conditions in Regulated Flood Hazard Areas. These Regulations are
intended to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business and public service interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
disruptions; and to
   G.   Ensure compliance with the minimum standards for the continued
participation in the National Flood Insurance Program for the benefit of the
residents. (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-1-5: METHODS TO REDUCE LOSSES:
In accordance with 76-5-102, MCA, these regulations are intended to reduce
flood losses through the following methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flooding or that may cause excessive increases in flood
heights or velocities;
   B.   Require that uses of land vulnerable to floods, including public
facilities, be developed or constructed to at least minimum standards or to
otherwise minimize flood damage;
   C.   Regulate the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are needed to accommodate floodwaters;
   D.   Regulate filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage;
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
impact other land, flood water depth or velocity of floodwaters;
   F.   Distinguish between the land use regulations applied to the floodway
within the Regulated Flood Hazard Area and those applied to that portion of the
Regulated Flood Hazard Area not contained in the floodway;
   G.   Apply more restrictive land use regulations within the floodway of the
Regulated Flood Hazard Area; and
   H.   Ensure that regulations and minimum standards balance the greatest
public good with the least private injury. (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-
14-2024)
13-1-6: REGULATED AREA:
These regulations apply only to the flood hazard areas specifically adopted
herein as Regulated Flood Hazard Areas which are more fully and specifically
described in chapter 13-4. Requirements and approvals for alterations to the
regulated flood hazard area are specified in chapter 13-4. The regulated flood
hazard area includes areas specifically identified, labeled and illustrated on
maps such as Floodplain, Floodway, or Flood Fringe that have differing uses
allowed and minimum building standards that apply. The regulated flood hazard
area is the geographic area inundated by the flood of 100-year frequency
illustrated and depicted in the referenced studies and maps.
The Regulated Flood Hazard Area supporting study and maps illustrating the
regulatory area are based on studies and maps that have been specifically
adopted pursuant to 76-5-201 et seq. The maps and accompanying study become the
Regulated Flood Hazard Area only when formally adopted by DNRC and subsequently
by the political subdivision by these regulations. The original source of
studies and data may be from a Flood Insurance Study by FEMA, or other studies
by Corps of Engineers, Soil Conservation, United States Geological Service or
other federal or state agency. (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-1-7: FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
A Floodplain Administrator is hereby the responsibility of the office of the
Town of Ennis Commissioners. The Floodplain Administrator’s duty is to
administer and implement the provisions of these regulations. The Floodplain
Administrator must serve to meet and maintain the commitments pursuant to 44
CFR 59.22(a) to FEMA to remain eligible for National Flood Insurance for
individuals and business within the political subdivision. ((44 CFR 59.22(b)
(1)) (ARM 36.15.204(2)(h)) (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-1-8: COMPLIANCE:
Development, new construction, alteration or substantial improvement may not
commence without full compliance with the provisions of these regulations.
(Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-1-9: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESPONSIBILITY:
It is not intended by these regulations to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions, zoning or other regulations
in effect. However, where these regulations impose greater restrictions, the
provision of these regulations must prevail. (44 CFR 60.1(d)) (Ord. 159-2024,
10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-1-10: REGULATION INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of these regulations, all provisions
shall be: (1) considered as minimum requirements; (2) liberally construed in
favor of the governing body; and (3) deemed neither to limit nor repeal any
other powers granted under state statute or regulation. (44 CFR 60.1) (Ord.
159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-1-11: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
These regulations do not imply that land outside the Regulated Flood Hazard
Areas or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood
damages. These regulations shall not create liability on the part of the
community or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result
from reliance on these regulations or any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder. (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-1-12: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, clause, sentence, or phrase of these regulations is held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, then said
holding will in no way affect the validity of the remaining portions of these
regulations. (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-1-13: DISCLOSURE PROVISION:
All property owners or their agents in the Regulated Flood Hazard Areas shall
notify potential buyers or their agents that such property, including any
permitted uses transferred, is located within the Regulated Flood Hazard Area
and is subject to regulation and any permitted uses that are transferred.
Information regarding Regulated Flood Hazard Area and the repository for
Floodplain maps is available in the Floodplain Administrator’s office. (ARM
36.15.204(2)(g)) (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-1-14: AMENDMENT OF REGULATIONS:
These regulations may be amended after notice and public hearing in regard to
the amendments to these regulations. The amendments must be found adequate and
acceptable by DNRC and FEMA to be effective and must be submitted for review at
least thirty (30) days prior to official adoption. (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024,
eff. 12-14-2024)
13-1-15: PUBLIC RECORDS:
Records, including permits and applications, elevation and floodproofing
certificates, certificates of compliance, fee receipts, and other matters
relating to these regulations must be maintained by the Floodplain
Administrator and are public records and must be made available for inspection
and for copies upon reasonable request. A reasonable copying cost for copying
documents for members of the public may be charged and may require payments of
the costs before providing the copies. (44 CFR 60.3(b)(5)(iii) and 44 CFR 59.22
(a)(9)(iii)) (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-1-16: SUBDIVISION REVIEW:
The requirements of the Town of Ennis Subdivision Regulations, in addition to
those established in these regulations, apply to subdivisions within the
Regulated Flood Hazard Area, including but not limited to new or expansion of
existing manufactured home parks, must be designed to meet the following
criteria:
   A.   The Base Flood Elevations and boundary of the Regulated Flood Hazard
area must be determined and considered during lot layout and building location
design;
   B.   Locations for future structures and development must be reasonably safe
from flooding; (44CFR 60.3(a)(4))
   C.   Adequate surface water drainage must be provided to reduce exposure to
flood hazards; (44 CFR 60.3 (a)(4)(iii))
   D.   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and
water systems must be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage; and (44 CFR 60.3(a)(4)(ii))
   E.   Floodplain permits must be obtained according to these regulations
before development occurs that is within the Regulated Flood Hazard Area. (44
CFR 60.3( b))
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4e8344193da47f840af24d7eca057a81a1a921dc/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1253.png]
 
(Ord.159-2024, 10-3 0-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-1-17: DISASTER RECOVERY:
In the event of a natural or man-made disaster, the Floodplain Administrator
should participate in the coordination of assistance and provide information to
structure owners concerning Hazard Mitigation and Recovery measures with the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Montana Disaster Emergency Services,
Montana Department of Natural Resources and Conservation, and other state,
local and private emergency service organizations.
Upon completion of cursory street view structure condition survey of the
Regulated Flood Hazard Area, the Floodplain Administrator shall notify property
owners that a permit may be necessary for an alteration or substantial
improvement before repair or reconstruction commences on damaged structures.
These permitting requirements apply even when structures are damaged by natural
or man-made disasters such as floods, earthquakes, fires or winds.
Owners should be advised that structures that have suffered substantial damage
and will undergo substantial improvements require a floodplain application and
permit and must be upgraded to meet the minimum building standards herein
during repair or reconstruction. ((MCA 76-5-404(3)(b) (ARM 36.15.702) (44 CFR
60.3(c)(2) and (3)) (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
13-2-1: Terms Defined
13-2-1: TERMS DEFINED:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in these regulations
shall be interpreted as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and
the most reasonable application. For the purpose of these regulations, the
following definitions are adopted:
100-YEAR FLOOD: One percent (1%) annual chance flood. See BASE FLOOD.
ALTERATION: Any change or addition to an artificial obstruction that either
increases its external dimensions or increases its potential flood hazard. (ARM
36.15.101(2))
APPURTENANT STRUCTURE: A structure in which the use is incidental or accessory
to the use of a principal structure. (44 CFR 59.1).
ARTIFICIAL OBSTRUCTION: Any obstruction which is not natural and includes any
development, dam, diversion, wall, riprap, embankment, levee, dike, pile,
abutment, projection, revetment, excavation, channel rectification, road,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, refuse, automobile body, fill or other
analogous structure or matter in, along, across, or projecting into any
Regulated Flood Hazard Area that may impede, retard, or change the direction of
the flow of water, either in itself or by catching or collecting debris carried
by the water, or that is placed where the natural flow of the water would carry
the same downstream to the damage or detriment of either life or property. See
also DEVELOPMENT. (ARM 36.15.101(3) and MCA 76-5-103(1))
BASE FLOOD (FLOOD OF 100 YEAR FREQUENCY): A flood having a one percent (1%)
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year (ARM 36.15.101(4) & (44
CFR 59.1).
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation above sea level of the Base Flood in
relation to the National Geodic Vertical Datum of 1929 or the North American
Vertical Datum of 1988 or unless otherwise specified. (ARM 36.15.101(5))
BASEMENT: Any area of a building, except a crawl space, as having its Lowest
floor below ground level on all sides. (44 CFR 59.1) (NFIP Insurance Manual,
Rev. May 2013)
BUILDING: A walled and roofed structure, including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home. (44 CFR 59.1)
CHANNEL: The geographical area within either the natural or artificial banks of
a watercourse or drain way. (MCA 76-5-103(2))
CRAWL SPACE: An enclosure that has its interior floor area no more than five
feet (5') below the top of the next highest floor. See ENCLOSURE and SUB GRADE
CRAWLSPACE. (NFIP Insurance Manual, Rev. May 2013)
DEVELOPMENT: Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials. See also ARTIFICIAL OBSTRUCTION. (44 CFR59.1)
DNRC: Montana Department of Natural Resources and Conservation.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A building that has no basement and that has its lowest
elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls,
posts, piers, pilings or columns. A building on a crawlspace may be considered
an elevated building.
ENCLOSURE: That portion below the lowest elevated floor of an elevated building
that is either partially or fully shut in by rigid walls including a
crawlspace, sub grade crawlspace, stairwell, elevator or a garage below or
attached.
ENCROACHMENT: Activities or construction within the Regulated Flood Hazard Area
including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, and other
development.
ENCROACHMENT ANALYSIS: A hydrologic and hydraulic analysis performed by an
engineer to assess the effects of the proposed artificial obstruction or
nonconforming use on Base Flood Elevation, flood flows and flood velocities.
ESTABLISH: To construct, place, insert, or excavate. ((MCA 76-5-103(7) (ARM
36.15.101(9))
EXISTING ARTIFICIAL OBSTRUCTION OR NONCONFORMING USE: An artificial obstruction
or nonconforming use that was established before land use regulations were
adopted pursuant to Section 76-5-301(1), MCA. (MCA 76-5-404(3))
FEMA: Federal Emergency Management Agency.
FLOOD FRINGE: The identified portion of the Floodplain of the Regulated Flood
Hazard Area outside the limits of the Floodway. (ARM 36.15.101(10))
FLOOD OF 100 YEAR FREQUENCY (BASE FLOOD): A flood magnitude expected to recur
on the average of once every 100-years or a flood magnitude that has a one
percent (1%) chance of occurring in any given year. (MCA 76-5-103(9)) (44 CFR
59.1)
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): Official map of a community on which FEMA has
delineated the Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHAs), the Base Flood Elevations
(BFEs), and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): A compilation and presentation of flood risk data
for specific watercourses, lakes, and coastal flood hazard areas within a
community. When a flood study is completed for the NFIP, the information and
maps are assembled into an FIS. The FIS report contains detailed flood
elevation data in flood profiles and data tables.
FLOODPLAIN: The area of the Regulated Flood Hazard Area including and adjoining
the watercourse or drainway that would be covered by the floodwater of a Base
Flood. The area is partitioned into a Flood Fringe and Floodway where
specifically designated. See REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA.
FLOODWAY: The identified portion of the Floodplain of the Regulated Flood
Hazard Area that is the channel and the area adjoining the channel that is
reasonably required to carry the discharge of the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface by more than one half foot. (MCA 76-
5-103(11)) (MCA 76-5-103(5))
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: Community official or representative appointed to
administer and implement the provisions of this ordinance.
FLOODPLAIN PERMIT: The permit issued by the Floodplain Administrator that
confirms a proposed development, new construction, alteration or substantial
improvement in the regulated flood hazard area is designed to comply with the
requirements of these regulations.
FLOOD PROOFING: Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
electrical, plumbing, HVAC systems, structures and their contents. The term
includes wet flood proofing, dry flood proofing and elevation of structures.
(44 CFR 59.1)
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
   (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   (c)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary
of the Interior; or
   (d)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      (1)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or
      (2)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC): An official response from FEMA that amends or
revises the FEMA Special Flood Hazard Area and FEMA Flood Insurance Study for
flood insurance purposes and/or flood risk hazard. FEMA Letters of Map Change
specific to an amendment or revision include:
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): A letter of determination from FEMA issued
in response to a request that a property or structure is not subject to the
mandatory flood insurance requirement because it was inadvertently located in
the effective FEMA Special Flood Hazard Area. The material submitted and
response from FEMA may be considered by the Floodplain Administrator for
determining if a property or structure is within the Regulated Flood Hazard
area and subject to these regulations.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F): A letter of approval from
FEMA removing the mandatory requirement for flood insurance on property based
on placement of fill or an addition. Placement of fill or an addition must be
preceded by a permit pursuant to these regulations. Placement of fill does not
remove the development from the Regulated Flood Hazard Area or these
regulations.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT FLOODWAY (LOMR-FW): A letter of determination from
FEMA issued in response to a request that a property or Structure mapped as
being within the floodway is not subject to the mandatory flood insurance
requirement because it was inadvertently located in the effective FEMA Special
Flood Hazard Area.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): An official FEMA amendment to the currently
effective FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map or FEMA Flood Boundary Map based on a
physical change to the floodplain of the Special Flood Hazard Area. It is
issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations, and elevations on the
FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map or FEMA Flood Boundary Map and may amend the FEMA
Flood Insurance Study. It must be preceded by an approved alteration of the
designated floodplain from DNRC and subsequently an amendment to the Regulated
Flood Hazard Area.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): A FEMA letter of approval for a
proposed physical change that when completed would propose to change the flood
zones, delineation or elevations on the FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map or FEMA
Flood Boundary Map and may amend the FEMA Flood Insurance Study through a
subsequent LOMR. The CLOMR may be considered in an evaluation by DNRC and the
Floodplain Administrator during consideration of a proposed alteration to the
Regulated Flood Hazard Area.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION – BASED ON FILL (CLOMR-F): A FEMA letter
of approval for a proposed physical change that when completed would propose to
change the flood zones, delineation or elevations on the FEMA Flood Insurance
Rate Map or FEMA Flood Boundary Map and may amend the FEMA Flood Insurance
Study through a subsequent LOMR. The CLOMR may be considered in an evaluation
by DNRC and the Floodplain Administrator during consideration of a proposed
alteration to the Regulated Flood Hazard Area.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (CLOMA): A FEMA letter of approval for a
proposed physical change that when completed would propose to change the flood
zones, delineation or elevations on the FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map or FEMA
Flood Boundary Map and may amend the FEMA Flood Insurance Study through a
subsequent LOMR. The CLOMR may be considered in an evaluation by DNRC and the
Floodplain Administrator during consideration of a proposed alteration to the
Regulated Flood Hazard Area.
LOWEST FLOOR: Any unfinished or finished floor of a building which may include
a basement or crawlspace. ((ARM 36.15.101(14)) (44 CFR 59.1))
MAINTENANCE: Any routine or regularly scheduled activity undertaken to repair
or prevent the deterioration, impairment, or failure of any feature, component,
or material referenced in these regulations, so long as the work substantially
conforms to the most recent approved design or regulatory hydraulic model,
whichever is newer. Maintenance does not include expansion, enlargement,
replacement, reconstruction, substantial modification, or substantial
improvement of a building, artificial obstruction, or structure, including
hydraulic structures. Maintenance does not include changing the use of a
property or artificial obstruction.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: Includes the construction of facilities
for servicing the manufactured home lots and at a minimum includes the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads. (44 CFR 59.1)
MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOME: A building that may be residential or non-
residential, is transportable in one or more sections, built on a permanent
chassis, and designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation when
connected to the required utilities and includes park trailers, travel
trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than one
hundred eighty (180) consecutive days. (ARM 36.15.101(15))
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the commencement of clearing, grading,
filling, or excavating to prepare a site for construction occurs on or after
the effective date of these regulations and includes any replacements and
subsequent improvements to such structures. (ARM 36.15.101(20)) (44 CFR 59.1)
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed includes at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads and is completed on or after the
effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community. (44
CFR 59.1)
NONCONFORMING USE: Development, use, or improvements that were lawful prior to
the adoption, revision, or amendment to these regulations, but that fails by
reason of such adoption, revision or amendment to conform to the present
requirements of these regulations.
NON-RESIDENTIAL: Buildings including manufactured homes that are not
residential including commercial, agricultural, industrial buildings and
accessory buildings. See RESIDENTIAL.
OWNER: Any person who has dominion over, control of, or title to an artificial
obstruction. (MCA 76-5-103(13))
PERSON: Includes any individual, or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association or any other entity, including State and local
governments and agencies. (44 CFR 59.1)
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A park trailer, travel trailer, or other similar vehicle
which is (a) built on a single chassis; (b) four hundred (400) square feet or
less when measured at the largest horizontal projections; (c) designed to be
self-propelled or permanently towable by a motorized vehicle; and (d) designed
primarily for use as temporary living quarters for recreation, camping, travel,
or seasonal use, not for use as a permanent dwelling. (44 CFR 59.1)
REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA: A floodplain whose limits have been designated
pursuant to Part 2, Chapter 5 of Title 76, MCA, and is determined to be the
area adjoining the watercourse that would be covered by the floodwater of a
base flood. The regulated flood hazard area consists of the floodway and flood
fringe where specifically designated. (MCA 76-5-103(4)), (MCA 76-5-103(10),
(ARM 36-15-101(11))
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING: A dwelling or building for living purposes or place of
assembly or permanent use by human beings and including any mixed use of
residential and nonresidential use. All other buildings are non-residential.
RIPRAP: Stone, rocks, concrete blocks, or analogous materials that are placed
along the bed or banks of a watercourse or drainway for the purpose of
preventing or alleviating erosion. (ARM 36.15.101(18))
SCOUR DEPTH: The maximum depth of streambed scour caused by erosive forces of
the base flood.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA: Land area which has been specifically identified by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency as the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
It is useful for the purposes of identifying flood hazards by local
subdivisions of government for regulatory purposes as well as use by the
National Flood Insurance Program for establishing risk zones and is used in
helping to establish flood insurance premium rates. The FEMA flood hazard area
zone designation or flood risk potential is as illustrated on FEMA’s Flood
Hazard Boundary Map or Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   Zone A:   No Base Flood Elevations determined.
   Zone AE:   Base Flood Elevations determined.
   Zone AH:   Flood depths of 1 to 3 feet (example areas of ponding); BFE
determined.
   Zone AO:   Flood depths of 1 to 3 feet (usually sheet flow on sloping
terrain); average depths determined. For areas of alluvial fan flooding,
velocities also determined.
   Zone A99:   Area to be protected from 1% annual chance flood by a Federal
flood protection system under construction. No BEFs determined.
   Zone C:   See Zone X Shaded
   Zone X:   Areas of 0.2% annual chance flood; areas of 1% annual chance flood
with average depts of less than 1 foot or with drainage areas less than 1
square mile; and areas protected by levees from 1% annual chance flood.
   Zone X:   Areas determined to be outside the 0.2% annual chance floodplain.
   Zone D:   Areas in which flood hazards are undetermined, but possible.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: For purposes of these rules means the start of any
substantial improvement, replacement of existing structure, or new
construction, or the commencement of clearing, grading, filling or excavation
for the purposes of preparing a site for construction.
STRUCTURE: Any Artificial Obstruction.
SUB GRADE CRAWLSPACE: A crawlspace foundation enclosure that has the lowest
interior floor elevation no more than five feet (5') below the top of the next
higher floor and no more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent grade,
proper flood openings, and constructed with flood resistant materials. A
foundation exceeding either dimension or lacking proper flood openings and not
constructed with flood resistant materials could be considered a basement.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred. (44 CFR 59.1)
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure either before the start of
construction of the improvement, including substantial damage structures
regardless of the actual repair work performed.
   1.   Substantial improvement is considered to occur when the first
construction of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the
building commences;
   2.   For the purpose of substantial improvement, the actual start of
construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimension of the building.
   3.   The term does not include:
      A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      B.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or state inventory of historic places provided that the
property owner(s) submits evidence to the floodplain administrator, for review
and approval, that they have done as much as they can to mitigate the flood
risk and bring the structure into compliance to the maximum extent possible
while maintaining the historic nature and determination of the structure. (ARM
36.15.101(21)) (44 CFR 59.1))
SUITABLE FILL: Fill material which is stable, compacted, well graded, and
pervious, not adversely affected by water and frost, devoid of trash or similar
foreign matter, tree stumps or other organic material; and is fitting for the
purpose of supporting the
intended use and/or permanent structure. (ARM 36.15.101(22))
VARIANCE: A grant or relief from the development requirements of these
regulations which would permit construction in a manner that would be otherwise
prohibited by these regulations. (ARM 36.15.101(23))
VIOLATION: A finding and order pursuant to the regulations against the owner or
responsible party of the failure of a structure or other development to be
fully compliant with these regulations. (44 CFR 59.1) (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-
2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
CHAPTER 3
FORMS AND FEES
SECTION:
13-3-1: Forms
13-3-2: Fees
13-3-1: FORMS:
The following forms may be required by the Floodplain Administrator:
   A.   Floodplain Permit Application Form: The “Joint Application for Proposed
Work in Montana’s Steams, Wetlands, Regulated Flood Hazard Areas, and Other
Water Bodies”, or other designated application form. A completed FEMA MT-1 form
may be required to accompany the application when required by the Floodplain
Administrator.
   B.   Floodplain Permit Compliance Report: A report required to be submitted
by the Applicant to the Floodplain Administrator once the permitted project in
the regulated flood hazard area is completed or within the designated time
stipulated on the floodplain permit. A compliance report including an elevation
and or flood proofing certificate may be required where specified for the
purpose of documenting compliance with the requirements of the permit.
   C.   Floodplain Variance Application Form: An application submitted by the
applicant to the Floodplain Administrator to initiate a proposed variance from
the requirements of these regulations as described in chapter 13-12.
   D.   Floodplain Appeal Notice Form: A form submitted by the Applicant or an
aggrieved party to initiate the appeal process described in chapter 13-13.
   E.   Floodplain Emergency Notification Form: A written notification form
required pursuant to chapter 13-11 of these regulations.
   F.   Official Complaint Form: A form that may be used by any person to
notify the Floodplain Administrator of an activity taking place that appears to
be noncompliant with the requirements of these regulations. (Ord. 159-2024, 10-
30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-3-2: FEES:
A reasonable application fee for processing of permit applications may be
imposed. Fees may be adopted for costs of permit applications, notices,
variances, inspections, certifications or other administrative actions required
by these regulations. (ARM 36.15.204(3)(b)) (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff.
12-14-2024)
CHAPTER 4
REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
SECTION:
13-4-1: Regulated Flood Hazard Areas
13-4-2: Interpretation Of Regulated Flood Hazard Area Boundaries
13-4-3: Alteration Of Regulated Flood Hazard Area
13-4-1: REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:
   A.   The regulated flood hazard areas are the floodplains of the 100-year
floodplain, illustrated and referenced in the FEMA Flood Insurance Study (FIS)
for Madison County, Montana and incorporated areas, including the Town of Ennis
effective December 20, 2024, and the Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) for the
Town of Ennis, Montana also dated December 20, 2024, and identified in Appendix
B, section
13-16-2, of these regulations.
      1.   FEMA approved Letters of Map Change (LOMC) as identified in Appendix
A, section
13-16-1.
   B.   The Regulated Flood Hazard Areas specifically described above have been
delineated, designated and established pursuant to 76-5-201 et seq., MCA.
   C.   The Floodplain Administrator may obtain, review, and reasonably use any
Base Flood Elevation or Floodway data available from a Federal, State, or other
reliable source to administer and enforce these regulations.
      1.   However, when special flood hazard area designations and water
surface elevations have been furnished by the Federal Insurance Administrator,
the more restrictive shall apply.
   D.   Chapters 13-5, 13-6, 13-9, and 13-10 of these regulations establish
allowable uses and requirements for projects depending on the specific location
within the Regulated Flood Hazard Area. (e.g. Floodway, Flood Fringe, etc.)
(Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-4-2: INTERPRETATION OF REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA BOUNDARIES:
   A.   The mapped boundaries of the floodplain illustrated in the referenced
studies and maps in this section are a guide for determining whether property
is within the regulated flood hazard area. Base flood elevations and other
supporting documentation in the flood study, if such documentation exists, take
precedence over any map illustrations. Requirements for determining the exact
boundaries of the regulated flood hazard area and floodway are provided below.
   B.   The regulated flood hazard area boundary is delineated by the base
flood elevation. The physical regulatory boundary of the regulated flood hazard
area is the actual intersection of the applicable study base flood elevation
with the existing adjacent terrain of the watercourse or drainway. (ARM
36.15.501(6))
   C.   The floodway boundary, identified within the regulatory flood hazard
area, is as illustrated on the referenced maps and studies. The location of the
floodway boundary may be physically located by referencing the study data to a
ground feature. The floodplain Administrator’s interpretation of the boundary
and decision may be appealed as set forth in chapter 13-13.
   D.   The Floodplain Administrator may require an applicant to provide
additional information described below to determine whether or not the proposed
development, use, or artificial obstruction is within the regulated flood
hazard area:
      1.   Where base flood elevations exist, the property owner and/or
applicant may provide additional information which may include elevation
information provided by an engineer or land surveyor in order to determine if
the proposed development, use, or artificial obstruction is subject to these
regulations. (ARM 36.15.501(6))
      2.   Where base flood elevations do not exist, the property owner and/or
applicant may provide additional information to be considered to determine the
location of the regulatory boundary or alternatively provide a computed base
flood elevation provided by an engineer.
      3.   The Floodplain Administrator’s interpretation of the boundaries and
decision may be appealed as set forth in chapter 13-13.
      Any owner or lessee of property who believes his property has been
inadvertently included in the regulated flood hazard area including the
floodway or flood fringe may submit scientific and/or technical information to
FEMA in the form of an application for a Letter of Map Change. Scientific or
technical information submitted to FEMA for insurance purposes may be
considered by the Floodplain Administrator, although a determination by the
Floodplain Administrator whether a property is located within the regulated
flood hazard area and subject to these regulations is independent of any
determination made by FEMA.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4e8344193da47f840af24d7eca057a81a1a921dc/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1256.png]
 
(Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-4-3: ALTERATION OF REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA:
   A.   The regulated flood hazard zrea may be altered pursuant to Section 76-
5-201 et seq. MCA and the requirements of these regulations. Alterations to
FEMA studies and maps can only be approved by FEMA through the Letter of Map
Change (LOMC) process.
   B.   Any change to the regulated flood hazard area shall only become
effective upon amendment to subsection
13-4-1A of these regulations.
   C.   Substantial physical change or new technical or scientific flood data
showing that the base flood elevation has or may be changed or was erroneously
established shall be brought to the attention of DNRC and FEMA; (ARM 36.15.505
(1)(a)) (44 CFR 65.3)
   D.   Any floodplain permit application for a proposed development or
artificial obstruction that will result in an increase of 0.5 feet or more to
the base flood elevation of a regulated flood hazard area without a floodway,
or an increase of more than 0.00 feet to the base flood elevation of a
floodway, shall not be approved by the Floodplain Administrator until a
Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) is approved by FEMA.
      1.   Certification that no buildings are located in the areas which would
be impacted by the increased base flood elevation; (44 CFR 65.12(a)(5))
      2.   Evidence of notice to all property and landowners of the proposed
impacts to their properties explaining the proposed impact on their property;
(44 CFR 65.12(a)(3))
      3.   Information that demonstrates that alternatives are not feasible;
(44 CFR 65.12(2))
      4.   The Floodplain Administrator may represent the permit authority for
any necessary applications, approvals or endorsements such as the FEMA
Community Acknowledgment Form to FEMA where affecting the FEMA Special Flood
Hazard Area;
      5.   Any other supporting information and data as needed for approvals. (
(ARM 36.15.505) (44 CFR 60.3(c)(10)) (44 CFR 60.3(d)(3)) (44 CFR 65.7(3)) (44
CFR 65.12))
   E.   The regulated flood hazard areas is not officially altered until a
Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) has been approved by FEMA.
   F.   For regulated flood hazard areas not designated by FEMA, alterations of
the regulated flood hazard area shall meet ARM 36.15.505.
   G.   A determination by the Floodplain Administrator that land areas located
within the regulated flood hazard area are naturally above the base flood
elevation as proven by a certified elevation survey does not constitute or
require an alteration of the regulated flood hazard area and may be maintained
as a public record that more explicitly defines the regulated flood hazard area
boundary. (ARM 36.15.505(2))
   H.   The material submitted and response from FEMA may be considered by the
Floodplain Administrator for determining if a property or structure is within
the regulated flood hazard area and subject to these regulations.
   I.   Elevating with suitable fill as permitted does not alter the regulated
flood hazard area or remove the elevated area from the regulated flood hazard
zrea. (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
CHAPTER 5
USES ALLOWED WITHOUT A PERMIT WITHIN THE REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA
SECTION:
13-5-1: General
13-5-2: Open Space Uses
13-5-1: GENERAL:
Within the regulated flood hazard area established by these regulations, there
are existing artificial obstructions and uses that were lawful prior to the
adoption or amendment of these regulations, but no longer conform to the
present requirements of these regulations. It is the intent of these
regulations to allow such artificial obstructions and nonconforming uses to
remain in the state and location to which they existed at the time of adoption
or amendment of these regulations without need for a permit. However,
alteration or substantial improvement of an existing artificial obstruction or
nonconforming use requires a floodplain permit. (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024,
eff. 12-14-2024)
13-5-2: OPEN SPACE USES:
The following open space uses shall be allowed without a permit in the
regulated flood hazard area, provided that such uses are not prohibited by any
other regulation or statute, do not require structures, do not require a no-
rise if in the floodway, and do not require fill, grading, excavation or
storage of materials or equipment: ((ARM 36.15.601) (ARM 36.15.701)(1) (MCA 76-
5-401) (MCA 76-5-404(3))
   A.   Agricultural uses, not including related structures, such as tilling,
farming, irrigation, ranching, harvesting, grazing, etc; ((ARM 36.15.601(1)(a))
(MCA 76-5-401(1)))
   B.   Accessory uses, not including structures, such as loading and parking
areas, or emergency landing strips associated with industrial or commercial
facilities; ((ARM 36.15.601(1)(b)) (MCA 76-5-401(2)))
   C.   Forestry, including processing of forest products with portable
equipment; ((ARM 36.15.601(1)(d)) (MCA 76-5-401(4)))
   D.   Recreational vehicle use provided that the vehicle is on the site for
fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days and the vehicle is fully
licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system with wheels intact, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has
no permanently attached additions; (44 CFR 60.3(c)(14))
   E.   Residential uses such as lawns, gardens, parking areas, and play areas;
((ARM 36.15.601(1)(e)) (MCA 76-5-401(5)))
   F.   Routine or regularly scheduled maintenance of the existing state of an
existing open space uses including preventive maintenance activities such as
bridge deck rehabilitation and roadway pavement preservation activities if not
in the regulatory floodway. Maintenance cannot increase the external size or
increase the hazard potential of the existing open space use; (MCA 76-5-404(3)
(b))
   G.   Public or private recreational uses not requiring structures such as
picnic grounds, swimming areas, boat ramps, parks, campgrounds, golf courses,
driving ranges, archery ranges, wildlife management and natural areas,
alternative livestock ranches (game farms), fish hatcheries, shooting
preserves, target ranges, trap and skeet ranges, hunting and fishing areas, and
hiking and horseback riding trails; (ARM 36.15.601(a)(c)) (MCA 76-5-401))
   H.   Fences that have a low impact to the flow of water such as barbed wire
fences and wood rail fences, and not including permanent fences crossing
channels. Fences that have the potential to stop or impede flow or debris such
as a chain link or privacy fence requires a floodplain permit and meet the
requirements of section
13-9-11; (ARM 36.15.601(2)(b)) (MCA 76-5-401))
   I.   Addition of highway guard rail, signing and utility poles that have a
low impact to the flow of water along an existing roadway if not located within
a regulatory floodway.
   J.   Irrigation and livestock supply wells, provided that they are located
at least five hundred feet (500') from domestic water supply wells and with the
top of casing eighteen inches (18”) above the base flood elevation. ((ARM
36.15.601(2)(a)) (MCA 76-5-401) (ARM 36.21.647)) (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024,
eff. 12-14-2024)
CHAPTER 6
PROHIBITED USES, ACTIVITIES AND STRUCTURES WITHIN THE REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD
AREA
SECTION:
13-6-1: Floodway
13-6-2: Flood Fringe Or Regulated Flood Hazard Area Without A Floodway
13-6-1: FLOODWAY:
The following artificial obstructions and nonconforming uses are prohibited in
the Floodway of the Regulated Flood Hazard Area, except for those established
before land use regulations pursuant to Section 76-5-301, MCA have been
adopted: (MCA 76-5-404(3))
   A.   A building for residential or non-residential purposes; ((MCA 76-5-403
(1), (ARM 36.15.605) (1a)), (ARM 36.15.605(2b), (ARM 36.15.605(2)(a))
   B.   An artificial obstruction (e.g. structure, fill, etc.), or excavation
that would cause water to be diverted from the floodway, cause erosion,
obstruct the natural flow of waters or reduce the carrying capacity of the
floodway. Notwithstanding these requirements, excavation or fill may be allowed
subject to floodplain permit approval when it is a component to a permitted use
allowed in these regulations and complies with all applicable requirements of
these regulations; (MCA 76-5-403(2))
   C.   The construction or storage of an object (artificial obstruction)
subject to flotation or movement during flood level periods; (MCA 76-5-403(3)
and ARM 36.15.605(1)(c))
   D.   Solid and hazardous waste disposal and individual and multiple family
sewage disposal systems unless the systems meet the local health and sanitation
regulations and when permitted pursuant to these regulations and are designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters and avoid impairment or
contamination; ((ARM 36-15-605(2c)) (44 CFR 60.3(a)(3)))
   E.   Storage of toxic, flammable, hazardous or explosive materials. ((ARM
36.15.605(2d)) (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-6-2: FLOOD FRINGE OR REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA WITHOUT A FLOODWAY:
The following artificial obstructions and nonconforming uses are prohibited in
the flood fringe or regulated flood hazard area without a floodway, except for
those established before land use regulations have been adopted: (MCA 76-5-404
(3))
   A.   Solid and hazardous waste disposal and individual and multiple family
sewage disposal systems unless the systems meet the local health and sanitation
regulations and when permitted pursuant to these regulations and are designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters and avoid impairment or
contamination; ((ARM 36-15-703(1)) (44 CFR 60.3(a)(3)))
   B.   Storage of toxic, flammable, hazardous or explosive materials; (ARM 36-
15-703(2)) (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
CHAPTER 7
FLOODPLAIN PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
13-7-1: General
13-7-2: Required Floodplain Permit Application Information
13-7-1: GENERAL:
   A.   A floodplain permit is required for a person to establish, alter or
substantially improve an artificial obstruction, nonconforming use or
development within the regulated flood hazard area; ((44 CFR 60.1) (MCA 76-5-
404) (ARM 36.15.204(2)(a)))
   B.   A floodplain permit is required for artificial obstructions,
developments and uses not specifically listed in chapters 13-9 and 13-10,
except as allowed without a floodplain permit in chapter 13-5 5, or as
prohibited as specified in chapter 13-6, within the regulated flood hazard
area;
   C.   Artificial obstructions and nonconforming uses in a regulated flood
hazard area are not exempt under chapter 13-5 are public nuisances unless a
floodplain permit has been obtained; (MCA 76-5-404(1))
   D.   A floodplain permit is required for an alteration of an existing
artificial obstruction or nonconforming use that increases the external size or
increases its potential flood hazard and not exempt under chapter 13-5; ((MCA
76-5-404(3)(b)) (ARM 36.15.204(2)(a)))
   E.   A floodplain permit is required to reconstruct or repair an existing
artificial obstruction that has experienced substantial damage and will undergo
substantial improvement; and
   F.   Maintenance of an existing artificial obstruction or use that is a
substantial improvement or an alteration requires a floodplain permit. (MCA 76-
5-404(3)(b)) (Ord. 1599-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-7-2: REQUIRED FLOODPLAIN PERMIT APPLICATION INFORMATION:
A floodplain permit application shall include, but is not limited to the
following:
   A.   A completed and signed floodplain permit application;
   B.   The required review fee;
   C.   Plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and
elevation of the proposed project including landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, and the location of the foregoing in relation to the
regulated flood hazard areas and if applicable the floodway boundary; ((MCA 76-
5-405) (ARM 36.15.216))
   D.   A copy of other applicable permits or pending applications required by
Federal or State law as submitted which may include but are not limited to a
310 permit, SPA 124 permit, Section 404 Permit, 318 Authorization, 401
Certification or a Navigable Rivers Land Use License or Easement for the
proposed project; and the applicant must show that the gloodplain permit
application is not in conflict with the relevant and applicable permits; and
(44 CFR 60.3(a)(2))
   E.   Additional information related to the specific use or activity that
demonstrates the design criteria and construction standards are met or exceeded
as specified in chapters 13-9 and 13-10. ((MCA 76-5-405) (ARM 36.15.216)) (Ord.
159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
CHAPTER 8
APPLICATION EVALUATION
SECTION:
13-8-1: Floodplain Permit Application Review
13-8-2: Notice Requirements For Floodplain Permit Applications
13-8-3: Floodplain Permit Criteria
13-8-4: Decision
13-8-5: Floodplain Permit Conditions And Requirements
13-8-1: FLOODPLAIN PERMIT APPLICATION REVIEW:
   A.   The Floodplain Administrator shall review and evaluate the floodplain
permit application and shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the
application within one hundred eighty (180) days of receipt of a correct and
complete application. (MCA 76-5-405(2))
   B.   The Floodplain Administrator shall determine whether the floodplain
permit application contains the applicable elements required in these
regulations and shall notify the applicant of the Floodplain Administrator's
determination.
   C.   If the floodplain permit application is found to be missing the
required elements and if the applicant corrects the identified deficiencies and
resubmits the floodplain application, the Floodplain Administrator shall notify
the applicant whether the resubmitted floodplain application contains all the
elements required by these regulations, as applicable.
   D.   This process shall be repeated until the applicant submits a completed
floodplain permit application containing all the elements required by these
regulations, or the application is withdrawn.
   E.   If after a reasonable effort the Floodplain Administrator determines
that the floodplain application remains incomplete, the Floodplain
Administrator shall deny the floodplain permit application and notify the
applicant of missing elements. No further action shall be taken on the
floodplain permit application by the Floodplain Administrator until the
floodplain permit application is resubmitted.
   F.   A determination that a floodplain permit application is correct and
complete for review does not ensure that the floodplain permit application will
be approved or conditionally approved and does not limit the ability of the
Floodplain Administrator to request additional information during the review
process. (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-8-2: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS FOR FLOODPLAIN PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Upon receipt of a complete application for a floodplain permit, the
Floodplain Administrator shall prepare a notice containing the facts pertinent
to the floodplain permit application and shall:
      1.   Publish the notice at least once in a newspaper of general
circulation in the area; (ARM 36.15.204(2)(c))
      2.   Serve notice by first-class mail upon adjacent property owners; (ARM
36.15.204(2)(c))
      3.   Serve notice to the State National Flood Insurance Program
Coordinator located in DNRC by the most efficient method. Notice to other
permitting agencies or other impacted property owners may be provided; and
      4.   Prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse in the
regulated flood hazard area, additionally provide notice to FEMA and adjacent
communities. (44 CFR 60.3(b)(6))
   B.   The notice shall provide a reasonable period of time, not less than
fifteen (15) days, for interested parties to submit comments on the proposed
activity. (ARM 36.15.204(2)(c)) (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-8-3: FLOODPLAIN PERMIT CRITERIA:
   A.   Floodplain permit applications shall be approved provided the proposed
new construction, substantial improvement, or alteration of an artificial
obstruction meets the requirements of the minimum standards and criteria in
chapters 13-9 and 13-10 and other requirements of these regulations. ((MCA 76-
5-406) (44 CFR 60.3))
   B.   A flood plain permit application for a development that will cause an
increase of more than 0.00 feet to the base flood elevation of the floodway or
more than 0.50 feet to the base flood elevation of the regulated flood hazard
area without a floodway shall not be approved until approval for an alteration
pursuant to section
13-4-3 has been approved, the regulated flood hazard area is amended and a FEMA
CLOMR where required is issued.
   C.   The Floodplain Administrator shall determine that all necessary permits
have been received from those governmental agencies from which approval is
required by Federal or State law, including section 404 of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act Amendment of 1972, 36 U.S.C. § 1334. (44 CFR 60.3(a)(2).
(Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-8-4: DECISION:
   A.   The Floodplain Administrator shall approve, conditionally approve, or
deny the proposed floodplain permit application. The Floodplain Administrator
shall notify the applicant of his action and the reasons thereof within one
hundred eighty (180) days of receipt of a correct and complete floodplain
permit application unless otherwise specified. A copy of the approved
floodplain permit must be provided to DNRC. ((MCA 76-5-405(2)) (ARM 36.15.204
(2)(e))
   B.   The approval of a floodplain permit application does not affect any
other type of approval required by any other statute or ordinance of the state
or any political subdivision or the United States but is an added requirement.
(MCA 76-5-108) (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-8-5: FLOODPLAIN PERMIT CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
Upon approval or conditional approval of the floodplain permit application, the
Floodplain Administrator shall provide the applicant with a floodplain permit
with applicable specific requirements and conditions including but not limited
to the following:
   A.   The floodplain permit will become valid when all other necessary
permits required by Federal or State law are in place; (44 CFR 60.3(a)(2))
   B.   Completion of the development pursuant to the floodplain permit shall
be completed within one year from the date of floodplain permit issuance or a
time limit commensurate with the project construction timeline for completion
of the project or development. The applicant may request an extension for up to
an additional year. The request must be made at least thirty (30) days prior to
the permitted completion deadline;
   C.   The applicant shall notify subsequent property owners and their agents
and potential buyers of the floodplain development permit issued on the
property and that such property is located within a regulated flood hazard area
and shall record the notice with the Floodplain Administrator; (ARM 36.15.204
(2)(g))
   D.   The applicant shall maintain the artificial obstruction or use to
comply with the conditions and specifications of the permit;
   E.   The applicant shall allow the Floodplain Administrator to perform on
site inspections at select intervals during construction or completion;
   F.   The applicant shall provide periodic engineering oversight and/or
interim reports during the construction period to be submitted to the
Floodplain Administrator to confirm constructed elevations and other project
elements;
   G.   The applicant shall submit a compliance report including certifications
where required and applicable including flood proofing, elevation, surface
drainage, proper enclosure openings and materials to the Floodplain
Administrator within thirty (30) days of completion or other time as specified;
   H.   The applicant shall submit an annual performance and maintenance report
on bank stabilization or other projects utilizing maturing vegetative
components to the Floodplain Administrator for a period of five (5) years or a
time specified in the permit; or
   I.   The applicant shall submit evidence of a submittal of a FEMA Letter of
Map Revision (LOMR) to FEMA and applicable fees within six (6) months of
project completion and proceed with due diligence for acceptance of the
document and necessary supporting materials by FEMA. (44 CFR 65.3) (Ord. 159-
2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
CHAPTER 9
DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS IN THE FLOODWAY
SECTION:
13-9- 1: Uses Requiring Permits
13-9- 2: General Requirements
13-9- 3: Mining Of Material Requiring Excavation From Pits Or Pools
13-9- 4: Railroad, Highway And Street Stream Crossings
13-9- 5: Limited Filling For Road And Railroad Embankments
13-9- 6: Buried Or Suspended Utility Transmission Lines
13-9- 7: Storage Of Materials And Equipment
13-9- 8: Domestic Water Supply Wells
13-9- 9: Buried And Sealed Vaults For Sewage Disposal In Campgrounds And
Recreational Areas
13-9-10: Public And Private Campgrounds
13-9-11: Structures Accessory Or Appurtenant
13-9-12: Construction Of Or Modifications To Surface Water Diversions
13-9-13: Flood Control And Stream Bank Stabilization Measures
13-9-14: Stream And Bank Restoration
13-9-15: Existing Residential And Non-Residential Buildings In The Floodway
13-9-1: USES REQUIRING PERMITS:
Artificial obstructions including alterations and substantial improvements
specifically listed in sections
13-9-3 to
13-9-15 may be allowed by permit within the floodway, provided the general
requirements in section
13-9-2 and the applicable requirements in sections
13-9-3 to
13-9-15 are met. (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-9-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
An application for a permit shall meet the following requirements:
   A.   All projects shall be designed and constructed to ensure that they do
not adversely affect the flood hazard on other properties and are reasonably
safe from flooding;
   B.   All projects shall assure that the carrying capacity of the floodway is
not reduced. All projects in the floodway shall meet the following:
      1.   Demonstrate that the project does not increase the base flood
elevation by conducting an encroachment analysis certified by an engineer. A
minimal or qualitative encroachment analysis may be accepted when the project
or development does not require a structure, alteration of the floodway,
involve fill, grading, excavation or storage of materials or equipment but is
also certified by an engineer to not exceed the allowable encroachment to the
base flood elevation; and
      2.   The allowable encroachment to the base flood elevation is 0.00 feet,
and no significant increase to the velocity or flow of the stream or
watercourse unless approval of an alteration of the regulated flood hazard area
pursuant to section 13-4-3 and an approved FEMA Conditional Letter of Map
Revision occurs before permit issuance. ((ARM 36.15.604) (ARM 36.15.505) (ARM
36.15.605(b)) (44 CFR 60.3(a)(3 and 4)) (44CFR 65.12(a))
   C.   An application for a floodplain permit must also demonstrate the
following factors are considered and incorporated into the design of the use or
artificial obstruction in the floodway:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to backwater or diverted flow
caused by the obstruction or use; ((MCA 76-5-406(1)) (ARM 36.15.216(2)(a)))
      2.   The danger that the obstruction or use may be swept downstream to
the injury of others; ((MCA 76-5-406(2)) (ARM 36.15.216(2)(b)))
      3.   The availability of alternative locations; ((MCA 76-5-406(3)) (ARM
36.15.216(2)(c))
      4.   Construct or alter the obstruction or use in such manner as to
lessen the flooding danger; ((MCA 76-5-406(4)) (ARM 36.15.216(2)(d)))
      5.   The permanence of the obstruction or use and is reasonably safe from
flooding; ((MCA 76-5-406(5) (ARM 36.15.216(2e)))
      6.   The anticipated development in the foreseeable future of the area
which may be affected by the obstruction or use; ((MCA 76-5-406(6)) (ARM
36.15.216(2f)))
      7.   Relevant and related permits for the project have been obtained; (44
CFR 60.3(a)(2))
      8.   Such other factors as are in harmony with the purposes of these
regulations, the Montana Floodplain and Floodway Management Act, and the
accompanying Administrative Rules of Montana. ((MCA 76-5-406(7)) (ARM 36.15.216
(2)(g)).) (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-9-3: MINING OF MATERIAL REQUIRING EXCAVATION FROM PITS OR POOLS:
Mining of material requiring excavation from pits or pools provided, in
addition to the requirements of section
13-9-2, that:
   A.   A buffer strip of undisturbed land of sufficient width as determined by
an engineer to prevent flood flows from channeling into the excavation is left
between the edge of the channel and the edge of the excavation; (ARM 36.15.602
(1)(a))
   B.   The excavation meets all applicable laws and regulations of other local
and state agencies; and (ARM 36.15.602(1)(b))
   C.   Excavated material may be processed on site but is stockpiled outside
the Floodway. (ARM 36.15.602(1)(c)) (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-
2024)
13-9-4: RAILROAD, HIGHWAY AND STREET STREAM CROSSINGS:
Railroad, highway and street stream crossings, including other transportation
related crossings provided, in addition to the requirements of section
13-9-2, that:
   A.   Crossings are designed to offer minimal obstructions to the flood flow;
(ARM 36.15.602(2))
   B.   Where failure or interruption of public transportation facilities would
result in danger to public health or safety and where practicable and in
consideration of FHWA Federal-Aid Policy Guide 23CFR650A:
      1.   Bridge lower chords shall have freeboard to at least two feet (2')
above the Base Flood Elevation to help pass ice flows, the base flood discharge
and any debris associated with the discharge; and
      2.   Culverts shall be designed to pass the base flood discharge and
maintain at least two feet (2') freeboard on the crossing surface;
      3.   Normal overflow channels, if possible are preserved to allow passage
of sediments to prevent aggradations; and
      4.   Mid-stream supports for bridges, if necessary, have footings buried
below the maximum scour depth. (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-9-5: LIMITED FILLING FOR ROAD AND RAILROAD EMBANKMENTS:
Limited filling for road and railroad embankments, including other
transportation related embankments not associated with stream crossings and
bridges provided, in addition to the requirements of section
13-9-2, that:
   A.   The fill is suitable fill;
   B.   Reasonable alternate transportation routes outside the floodway are not
available; and (ARM 36.15.602(3))
   C.   The encroachment is located as far from the stream channel as possible.
(ARM 36.15.602(3)) (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-9-6: BURIED OR SUSPENDED UTILITY TRANSMISSION LINES:
Buried or suspended utility transmission lines provided, in addition to the
requirements of section
13-9-2, that:
   A.   Suspended utility transmission lines are designed such that the lowest
point of the suspended line is at least six feet (6') higher than the base
flood elevation; (ARM 36.15.602(4))
   B.   Towers and other appurtenant structures are designed and placed to
withstand and offer minimal obstruction to flood flows; (ARM 36.15.602(4))
   C.   Alternatives such as alternative routes, directional drilling, and
aerial crossings are considered when technically feasible; and
   D.   Utility transmission lines carrying toxic or flammable materials are
buried to a depth of at least twice the calculated maximum scour depth
determined by an engineer for the base flood. (ARM 36.15.602(4)) (Ord. 159-
2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-9-7: STORAGE OF MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT:
Storage of materials and equipment provided, in addition to the requirements of
section
13-9-2, that:
   A.   The material or equipment is not subject to major damage by flooding
and is properly anchored to prevent flotation or downstream movement; or (ARM
36.15.602(5)(a))
   B.   The material or equipment is readily removable within the limited time
available after flood warning. Storage of flammable, toxic or explosive
materials shall not be permitted. (ARM 36.15.602(5)(b)) (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-
2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-9-8: DOMESTIC WATER SUPPLY WELLS:
Domestic water supply wells provided, in addition to the requirements of
section
13-9-2, that:
   A.   They are driven or drilled wells located on ground higher than
surrounding ground to assure positive drainage from the well; (ARM 36.15.602
(6))
   B.   They require no other structures (e.g. a well house); (ARM 36.15.602
(6))
   C.   Well casings are water tight to a distance of at least twenty five feet
(25') below the ground surface and the well casing height is a minimum of two
feet (2') above the base flood elevation or capped with a watertight seal and
vented two feet (2') above the base flood elevation; ((ARM 36.15.602(6)))
   D.   Water supply lines have a watertight seal where the lines enter the
casing; (ARM 36.15.602(6))
   E.   All pumps and electrical lines and equipment are either of the
submersible type or are adequately flood proofed; and (ARM 36.15.602(6).)
   F.   Check valves are installed on main water lines at wells and at all
building entry locations. ((44 CFR 60.3 (a)(5)) (ARM 36.15.602(6))) (Ord. 159-
2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-9-9: BURIED AND SEALED VAULTS FOR SEWAGE DISPOSAL IN CAMPGROUNDS AND
RECREATIONAL AREAS:
Buried and sealed vaults for sewage disposal in campgrounds and recreational
areas provided, in addition to the requirements of section
13-9-2, demonstrate approval by Montana Department of Environmental Quality and
local health and sanitation permits or approvals. ((44 CFR 60.3(a)(6)) (ARM
36.15.602(7))) (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-9-10: PUBLIC AND PRIVATE CAMPGROUNDS:
Public and private campgrounds provided, in addition to the requirements of
section
13-9-2, that:
   A.   Access roads require only limited fill and do not obstruct or divert
flood waters; (ARM 36.15.602(8))
   B.   The project meets the accessory structures requirements in this
Section;
   C.   No dwellings or permanent mobile homes are allowed; (ARM 36.15.602(8))
   D.   Recreational vehicles and travel trailers are ready for highway use
with wheels intact, with only quick disconnect type utilities and securing
devices, and have no permanently attached additions. (44 CFR 60.3(c)(14)) (Ord.
159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-9-11: STRUCTURES ACCESSORY OR APPURTENANT:
Structures accessory or appurtenant to permitted uses such as boat docks,
loading and parking areas, marinas, sheds, airstrips, permanent fences crossing
channels that may impede or stop flows or debris, picnic shelters and tables
and lavatories, that are incidental to a principal structure or use, provided
in addition to the requirements of section
13-9-2, that:
   A.   The structures are not intended for human habitation or supportive of
human habitation; (ARM 36.15.602(9))
   B.   The structures will have low flood damage potential; (ARM 36.15.602(9))
   C.   The structures will, insofar as possible, be located on ground higher
than the surrounding ground and as far from the channel as possible; (ARM
36.15.602(9))
   D.   The structures will be constructed and placed so as to offer a minimal
obstruction to flood flows; (ARM 36.15.602(9))
   E.   Only those wastewater disposal systems that are approved under health
and sanitation regulations are allowed;
   F.   Service facilities within these structures such as electrical, heating
and plumbing are floodproofed according to the requirements in chapter 13-10;
(ARM 36.15.602(9))
   G.   The structures are firmly anchored to prevent flotation; (ARM 36.15.602
(9))
   H.   The structures do not require fill and/or substantial excavation;
   I.   The structures or use cannot be changed or altered without permit
approval. (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-9-12: CONSTRUCTION OF OR MODIFICATIONS TO SURFACE WATER DIVERSIONS:
Construction of or modifications to surface water diversions provided, in
addition to the requirements of section
13-9-2, that the design is reviewed and approved by an engineer and includes:
   A.   Measures to minimize potential erosion from a base flood; and (ARM
36.15.603(3)(b))
   B.   Designs and plans that demonstrate any permanent structure in the
stream is designed to safely withstand up to the base flood considering the
forces associated with hydrodynamic and hydrostatic pressures including flood
depths, velocities, impact, ice buoyancy, and uplift forces associated with the
base flood. ((ARM 36.15.603(3)(c) ((CFR 60.3(a)(3) (CFR 60.3(d)(3))) (Ord. 159-
2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-9-13: FLOOD CONTROL AND STREAM BANK STABILIZATION MEASURES:
Flood control and stream bank stabilization measures provided, in addition to
the requirements of section
13-9-2, that the design is reviewed and approved by an engineer and constructed
to substantially resist or withstand the forces associated with hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic pressures, including flood depths, velocities, impact, ice,
buoyancy, and uplift associated with the base flood. The design must also show
compliance with the following applicable criteria: ((CFR 60.3(a)(3) (CFR
60.3(d)(3)) (ARM 36.15.606))
   A.   Levee And Floodwall Construction Or Alteration:
      1.   Must be designed and constructed with suitable fill and be designed
to safely convey a Base Flood; (ARM 36.15.606(1)(a))
      2.   Must be constructed at least three feet (3') higher than the
elevation of the base flood unless the levee or floodwall protects agricultural
land only; (ARM 36.15.606(2)(a))
      3.   Must meet state and federal levee engineering and construction
standards and be publicly owned and maintained if it protects structures of
more than one landowner; and (ARM 36.15.505(1)(c)(ii) and (iii))
      4.   For any increase in the elevation of the base flood, an alteration
of the regulated flood hazard area requires approvals pursuant to section
13-4-3.
   B.   Stream Bank Stabilization, Pier And Abutment Protection Projects:
      1.   Must be designed and constructed using methods and materials that
are the least environmentally damaging yet practicable and should be designed
to withstand a base flood once the project’s vegetative components are mature
within a period of up to five (5) years or other time as required by the
Floodplain Administrator. Once vegetation is mature and established it should
not require substantial yearly maintenance after the initial period;
      2.   Materials for the project may be designed to erode over time but not
fail catastrophically and impact others. Erosion, sedimentation, and transport
of the materials may be designed to be at least similar in amount and rate of
existing stable natural stream banks during the base flood;
      3.   Must not increase erosion upstream, downstream, across from or
adjacent to the site in excess of the existing stable natural stream bank
during the base flood; and (ARM 36.15.606(1)(b))
      4.   Materials for the project may include but are not limited to riprap,
root wads, brush mattresses, willow wattles, natural woody debris or
combinations of analogous materials.
   C.   Channelization projects where the excavation and/or construction of a
channel is for the purpose of diverting the entire or a portion of the flow of
a stream from its established course, the project must:
      1.   Not increase the magnitude, velocity, or elevation of the base
flood; and
      2.   Meet the requirements of subsection
13-9-13B. (ARM 36.15.101(7)) (ARM 36.15.606(1)(c))
   D.   Dams:
      1.   The design and construction shall be in accordance with the Montana
Dam Safety Act and applicable safety standards; and
      2.   The project shall not increase flood hazards downstream either
through operational procedures or improper hydrologic/hydraulic design. (ARM
36.15.606(1)(d) (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-9-14: STREAM AND BANK RESTORATION:
Stream and bank restoration projects intended to reestablish the terrestrial
and aquatic attributes of a natural stream and not for protection of a
structure or development provided, in addition to the requirements of section
13-9-2, that:
   A.   The project will not increase velocity or erosion upstream, downstream,
across from or adjacent to the site; (ARM 36.15.606(1)(b))
   B.   Materials may include but are not limited to boulders, rock cobble,
gravel, native stream bed materials, root wads, brush mattresses, willow
wattles, natural woody debris or combinations of analogous materials and that
reasonably replicates the bed and bank of the natural stream;
   C.   Erosion, sedimentation, and transport of the materials are not more
than the amount and rate of existing natural stream banks during the Base
Flood; and
   D.   The project may be designed to allow vegetative materials to mature
within a period up to five (5) years or other time as required by the
Floodplain Administrator. Once vegetation is mature and established it should
not require substantial yearly maintenance after the initial period. (Ord. 159-
2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-9-15: EXISTING RESIDENTIAL AND NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS IN THE FLOODWAY:
Existing residential and non-residential buildings in the floodway any
alteration or substantial improvement to an existing building must meet the
requirements of section
13-9-2 and the applicable requirements in chapter 13-10 for residential or non-
residential buildings. (MCA76-5-404(3)(b)) (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-
14-2024)
CHAPTER 10
DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS IN THE FLOOD FRINGE OR REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA
WITH NO FLOODWAY
SECTION:
13-10-1: Uses Requiring Permits
13-10-2: General Requirements
13-10-3: Residential Building, Exceptions Or Additional Requirements
13-10-4: Non-Residential Building, Exceptions Or Additional Requirements
13-10-1: USES REQUIRING PERMITS:
All uses allowed by permit in the floodway shall also be allowed by permit
within the Flood Fringe or Regulated Flood Hazard Area with no floodway. Such
uses are subject to the requirements in chapter 13-9, with the exception of the
encroachment limit of subsection
13-9-2B. Instead, such uses are subject to the encroachment limits of this
subsection
13-10-2I.
Except for prohibited artificial obstructions in section
13-6-2, all other artificial obstructions including new construction,
substantial improvements, alterations to residential, and nonresidential
structures including manufactured homes, and related suitable fill or
excavation shall be allowed by permit and are subject to the requirements in
this Section and General Requirements of section
13-9-2, with the exception of the encroachment limit of subsection
13-9-2B. (ARM 36.15.701(2)) (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-10-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
An application for a floodplain permit must demonstrate or meet the following
applicable requirements:
   A.   Base Flood Elevation: Where necessary to meet the appropriate elevation
requirement in these regulations, the Base Flood Elevation(s) must be
determined by an engineer and utilized in the design and layout of the project
demonstrating the design and construction criteria herein are met. For
Regulated Flood Hazard Areas that do not have computed and published Base Flood
Elevations in the adopted flood hazard study referenced in chapter 13-4, a Base
Flood Elevation must be determined or obtained from a reliable source,
utilizing appropriate engineering methods and analyses;
   B.   Flood Damage: Structures must be constructed by methods and practices
that minimize flood damage and structures must be reasonably safe from
flooding; ((44 CFR 60.3(a)) (44 CFR 60.3(a)(3)(iii)))
   C.   Surface Drainage: Adequate surface drainage must be provided around
structures;
   D.   Materials: Structures must be constructed with materials resistant to
flood damage; ((44 CFR 60.3(a)) (44 CFR 60.3(a)(3)(ii))
   E.   Artificial Obstructions: Structures, excavation or fill must not be
prohibited by any other statute, regulation, ordinance, or resolution; and must
be compatible with subdivision, zoning and any other land use regulations, if
any; (ARM 36.15.701(3)(a)) ((ARM 36.15.701(3)(b))
   F.   Anchoring: All construction and substantial improvements must be
designed and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy; (44 CFR 60.3(a)(3))
   G.   Certification: Certification by an engineer, architect, land surveyor,
or other qualified person must accompany the application where required
including for an encroachment analysis, adequacy of structural elevations, Base
Flood Elevation determinations, flood-proofing, enclosure flood openings and
design and construction to withstand the hydrodynamic forces and hydrostatic
pressures of flood depths, velocities, impact, buoyancy, uplift forces
associated with the base flood and surface drainage. A certification is not
intended to constitute a warranty or guarantee of performance, expressed or
implied; ((ARM 36.15.606(1) (ARM 36.15.702(2)(c)) (ARM 36.15.801(3)(b)) (44 CFR
60.3(c) (3&4)) (44 CFR 60.3 (d)(3)))
   H.   Encroachment Analysis:
      1.   All applications in the regulated flood hazard area without a
floodway must be supported by an encroachment analysis of the proposed use, a
thorough hydrologic and hydraulic analysis except as provided in following
subsection I4, prepared by an engineer to demonstrate the effect of the
structure on flood flows, velocities and the base flood elevation; ((ARM
36.15.604) (44 CFR 60.3(a)(3))
      2.   The maximum allowable encroachment is certified to be at, or less
than 0.5 feet increase to the base flood elevation unless approval of an
alteration of the regulated flood hazard area pursuant to chapter 13-4 and an
approved FEMA Conditional Letter of Map Revision occurs before permit issuance;
((ARM 36.15.604) (ARM 36.15.505) (44 CFR 60.3(c)(13)))
      3.   An encroachment analysis is not required for any development in the
flood fringe where an accompanying floodway has been designated within the
regulated flood hazard area; and
      4.   Although all other development standards herein apply, a minimal or
qualitative encroachment analysis may be accepted when the project or
development does not require a structure, alteration of the floodplain, involve
fill, grading, excavation or storage of materials or equipment and also is
certified by an engineer to not exceed the allowable encroachment.
   I.   Electrical Systems Flood Proofing: All electrical service materials,
equipment and installation for uses in a regulated flood hazard area must be
certified to meet the following requirements:
      1.   All incoming power service equipment including all metering
equipment, control centers, transformers, distribution and lighting panels and
all other stationary equipment must be located at least two feet (2') above the
base flood elevation; (ARM 36.15.901(1)(a))
      2.   Portable and movable electrical equipment may be placed below the
base flood elevation, provided that the equipment can be disconnected by a
single plug and socket assembly of the submersible type; (ARM 36.15.901(1)(b))
      3.   The main power service lines must have automatically operated
electrical disconnect equipment or manually operated electrical disconnect
equipment located at an accessible remote location outside the regulated flood
hazard area or two feet (2') above the base flood elevation; and (ARM 36.15.901
(1)(c))
      4.   All electrical wiring systems installed below the base flood
elevation must be suitable for continuous submergence and may not contain
fibrous components. (ARM 36.15.901(1)(d))
   J.   Heating And Cooling Systems Flood Proofing: Heating and cooling systems
for uses in a regulated flood hazard area must be certified to meet the
following requirements:
      1.   Float operated automatic control valves must be installed so that
fuel supply is automatically shut off when flood waters reach the floor level
where the heating and cooling systems are located; (ARM36.15.902(1)(a))
      2.   Manually operated gate valves must be installed in gas supply lines.
The gate valves must be operable from a location above the Base Flood
Elevation; (ARM36.15.902(1)(b))
      3.   Electrical systems flood proofing must be met; and (ARM36.15.902(1)
(c))
      4.   Furnaces and cooling units must be installed at least two feet (2')
above the base flood elevation and the ductwork installed above the base flood
elevation.
   K.   Plumbing Systems Flood Proofing: Plumbing systems for uses in the
regulated flood hazard area must be certified to meet the following
requirements:
      1.   Sewer lines, except those to a buried and sealed vault, must have
check valves installed to prevent sewage backup into permitted structures; and
(ARM 36.15.903(1)(a))
      2.   All toilets, stools, sinks, urinals, vaults, and drains must be
located so the lowest point of possible flood water entry is at least two feet
(2') above the base flood elevation. (ARM 36.15.903(1)(b))
   L.   Structural Fill Flood Proofing: Fill used to elevate structures,
including but not limited to residential and non-residential buildings must be
certified to meet the following requirements:
      1.   The filled area must be at or above the base flood elevation and
extend at least fifteen feet (15') beyond the structure in all directions;
      2.   Fill material must be suitable fill, that is stable, compacted, well
graded, and pervious, not adversely affected by water and frost, devoid of
trash or similar foreign matter, tree stumps or other organic material; and is
fitting for the purpose of supporting the intended use and/or permanent
structure. (ARM 36.15.101(22))
      3.   The fill must be compacted to minimize settlement and compacted to
ninety five percent (95%) of the maximum density. Compaction of earthen fill
must be certified by a engineer;
      4.   No portion of the fill is allowed within the floodway;
      5.   The fill slope must not be steeper than 1 ½ horizontal to 1 vertical
unless substantiating data justifying a steeper slope is provided and adequate
erosion protection is provided for fill slopes exposed to floodwaters.
   M.   Wet Flood Proofing: Building designs with an enclosure below the lowest
floor must be certified to meet the following:
      1.   Materials used for walls and floors are resistant to flooding to an
elevation two feet (2') or more above the base flood elevation; (ARM 36.15.702
(2)(a))
      2.   The enclosure must be designed to equalize hydrostatic forces on
walls by allowing for entry and exit of floodwaters. Opening designs must
either be certified by an engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following:
         a.   Automatically allow entry and exit of floodwaters through
screens, louvers, valves, and other coverings or devices;
         b.   Have two (2) or more openings with a total net area of not less
than one (1) square inch for every one (1) square foot of enclosed area below
the lowest floor, except if the enclosure is partially subgrade, a minimum of
two (2) openings may be provided on a single wall; and
         c.   Have the bottom of all openings no higher than one foot (1')
above the higher of the exterior or interior adjacent grade or floor
immediately below the openings. (44 CFR 60.3(c)(5))
   N.   Dry Flood Proofing: Building designs that do not allow internal
flooding must be certified according to these regulations to meet the
following:
      1.   Building use must be for non-residential use only and does not
include mixed residential and non-residential use;
      2.   Be flood proofed to an elevation no lower than two feet (2') above
the base flood elevation;
      3.   Be constructed of impermeable membranes or materials for floors and
walls and have water-tight enclosures for all windows, doors and other
openings; and
      4.   Be designed to withstand the hydrostatic pressures and hydrodynamic
forces resulting from the base flood and the effects of buoyancy. ((ARM
36.15.702(2)(b)) (44 CFR 60.3(c)(3))
   O.   Elevation Of The Lowest Floor: Elevating the lowest floor may be by
either suitable fill, foundation wall enclosure, stem walls, pilings, posts,
piers, columns or other acceptable means; ((MCA 76-5-402(2)(b)) (44 CFR 60.3(b)
(8)) (44 CFR 60.3(c)(6)))
   P.   Crawl Spaces: Crawl space foundation enclosures including sub grade
crawlspace enclosures below the lowest floor must meet the wet flood proofing
requirements and be designed so that the crawl space floor is at or above the
Base Flood Elevation. Crawl space foundations must have an inside dimension of
not more than five feet (5') from the ground to the top of the living floor
level and a sub grade crawlspace must also have the interior ground surface no
more than two feet (2') below the exterior lowest adjacent ground surface on
all sides. A sub grade foundation exceeding either dimension is a basement.
   Q.   Manufactured Home Anchors: For new placement, substantial improvement
or replacement of manufactured homes for residential or nonresidential use
including additions, the chassis must be secure and must resist flotation,
collapse or lateral movement by anchoring with anchoring components capable of
carrying a force of 4,800 pounds and as follows:
      1.   For manufactured homes less than fifty feet (50') long, over-the-top
ties to ground anchors are required at each of the four (4) corners of the
home, with two (2) additional ties per side at intermediate locations; or
      2.   For manufactured homes more than fifty feet (50') long, frame ties
to ground anchors are required at each corner of the home with five (5)
additional ties per side at intermediate points. ((CFR 60.3(b)(8)) CFR 60.3(c)
(6))) (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-10-3: RESIDENTIAL BUILDING, EXCEPTIONS OR ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
New construction, alterations, and substantial improvements of residential
dwellings, manufactured homes, including replacement of manufactured homes,
must be constructed such that:
   A.   Elevation Of The Lowest Floor: The Lowest Floor of the building
including an attached garage or basement must be two feet (2') or more above
the base flood elevation; (ARM 36.15.701(3))
   B.   Enclosure: Enclosures of elevated buildings cannot be dry flood
proofed. Use for an enclosure is limited to facilitating building component
access. The enclosure including a crawlspace must be wet flood proofed and the
enclosure floor must be at or above the base flood elevation. An attached
garage floor must be two (2) or more feet above the base flood elevation; and
   C.   Recreation Vehicles: Recreational vehicles on site for more than one
hundred eight (180) days or not ready for highway use must meet the
requirements for manufactured homes for residential use. (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-
2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-10-4: NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING, EXCEPTIONS OR ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
New construction, alterations, and substantial improvements of nonresidential
including agricultural, commercial and industrial buildings and residential and
non-residential accessory buildings must be constructed such that:
   A.   Elevation Of The Lowest Floor: The lowest floor of the building must be
elevated two feet (2') above the base flood elevation or adequately dry flood
proofed according to subsection
13-10-2N. ((ARM 36.15.702(2) (44 CFR 60.3(c)(3)(ii) (44 CFR 60.3(c)(3) & (4)))
   B.   Enclosure: Enclosures below the lowest floor on elevated buildings must
be wet flood proofed according to subsection 13-10-2M and the use must be
limited to parking, access or storage or must be adequately dry flood proofed
according to this section
13-10-2N;
   C.   Manufactured Homes: Manufactured homes proposed for use as non-
residential buildings cannot be dry flood proofed; and
   D.   Agricultural Structures: The following additional requirements and
exceptions from the requirements of section
13-10-4 apply to agricultural structures not intended to be insurable, used
solely for agricultural purposes, having low flood damage potential, used
exclusively in connection with the production, harvesting, storage, drying, or
raising of agricultural commodities including raising of livestock and animal
confinement facilities, and not intended for human habitation:
      1.   Such structures may be exempted by the Floodplain Administrator from
the lowest flood elevation requirements established in subsection A provided
the lowest floor of the structures is elevated to at least the base flood
elevation or adequately dry floodproofed in conformance with the requirements
of subsection 13-10-2N; and
      2.   Such structures shall comply with the requirements of section
13-9-11. ((ARM 36.15.602(9) (ARM 36.15.701(3)(e))
   E.   Additional Accessory Structures Including Detached Garages: Accessory
structures that are on the same parcel of property as a principal structure,
the use of which is incidental to the use of the principal structure. Accessory
structures must be used for parking or storage, be small and represent a
minimal investment by owners, and have low damage potential. Small structures
referenced in FEMA Technical Bulletin P-2140 means not larger than a one-story
two-car garage.
      1.   Such structures may be exempted by the Floodplain Administrator from
the lowest flood elevation requirements established in subsection A provided
the lowest floor of the structure is elevated to at least the base flood
elevation and adequately wet floodproofed in conformance with requirements of
subsections
13-10-2M1 and M2 or adequately dry floodproofed in conformance with the
requirements of subsection 13-10-20; and
      2.   Such structures shall comply with the requirements of section
13-9-11. (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
CHAPTER 11
EMERGENCIES
SECTION:
13-11-1: General
13-11-2: Emergency Notification And Application Requirements
13-11-1: GENERAL:
   A.   Emergency repair and replacement of severely damaged artificial
obstructions and development in the regulated flood hazard area, including
public transportation facilities, public water and sewer facilities, flood
control works, and private projects are subject to the permitting requirements
of these regulations. (ARM 36.15.217)
   B.   The provisions of these regulations are not intended to affect other
actions that are necessary to safeguard life or structures during periods of
emergency. (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-11-2: EMERGENCY NOTIFICATION AND APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The property owner and or the person responsible for taking emergency
action must notify the Floodplain Administrator prior to initiating any
emergency action in a regulated flood hazard area normally requiring a
floodplain permit. An emergency notification form must be submitted to the
Floodplain Administrator within five (5) days of the action taken as a result
of an emergency.
   B.   Unless otherwise specified by the Floodplain Administrator, within
thirty (30) days of initiating the emergency action, a person who has
undertaken an emergency action must submit a floodplain permit application that
describes what action has taken place during the emergency and describe any
additional work that may be required to bring the project in compliance with
these regulations.
   C.   A person who has undertaken an emergency action may be required to
modify or remove the project in order to meet the permit requirements. (Ord.
159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
CHAPTER 12
VARIANCES
SECTION:
13-12-1: General
13-12-2: Variance Application Requirements
13-12-3: Notice Requirements For Floodplain Variance Application
13-12-4: Evaluation Of Variance Application
13-12-5: Decision
13-12-6: Judicial Review
13-12-1: GENERAL:
A variance from the minimum development standards of these regulations may be
allowed. An approved variance would permit construction in a manner otherwise
as required or prohibited by these regulations. ((44 CFR 59.1) (ARM 36.15.218))
(Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-12-2: VARIANCE APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Prior to any consideration of a variance from any development standard
in these regulations, a completed floodplain permit application and required
supporting material must be submitted.
   B.   Additionally, supporting materials in a variance application specific
to the variance request including facts and information addressing the criteria
in this Section must be submitted.
   C.   If the floodplain permit application and variance application is deemed
not correct and complete, the Floodplain Administrator shall notify the
applicant of deficiencies within a reasonable time not to exceed thirty (30)
days. Under no circumstances should it be assumed that the variance is
automatically granted. (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-12-3: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS FOR FLOODPLAIN VARIANCE APPLICATION:
Public notice of the floodplain permit application and variance application
shall be given pursuant to section
13-8-2. (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-12-4: EVALUATION OF VARIANCE APPLICATION:
   A.   A floodplain permit and variance shall only be issued upon a
determination that the variance is the minimum allowance necessary, considering
the flood hazard, to afford relief from these regulations and provided all of
the following criteria are met:
      1.   There is a good and sufficient cause. Financial hardship is not a
good and sufficient cause; (44 CFR 60.6(a)(3))
      2.   Failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship
to the applicant; (44 CFR 60.3(a)(3)) and ARM 36.15.218(b))
      3.   Residential and nonresidential buildings are not in the floodway
except for alterations or substantial improvement to existing buildings.
Residential dwellings including basements and attached garages do not have the
lowest floor elevation below the base flood elevation;
      4.   Any enclosure including a crawl space must meet the requirements of
subsection
13-10-2N, wet flood proofing if the enclosure interior grade is at or below the
base flood elevation;
      5.   Granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights to
existing buildings, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public
expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or
conflict with other existing local laws or ordinances; (44 CFR 60.6 (a)(3) and
(ARM 36.15.218(a))
      6.   The proposed use is adequately flood proofed; (ARM 36.15.218(c))
      7.   The variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard,
to afford relief; (44 CFR 60.6(a)(4))
      8.   Reasonable alternative locations are not available; (MCA 76-5-406(3)
and ARM 36.15.218(d))
      9.   An encroachment does not cause an increase to the base flood
elevation that is beyond that allowed in these regulations; and (44 CFR 60.6(a)
(1))
      10.   All other criteria for a floodplain permit besides the specific
development standard requested by variance are met.
   B.   An exception to the variance criteria may be allowed as follows:
      1.   For either new construction of a structure outside of the floodway
only or for substantial improvements or an alteration of a structure, on a lot
of one-half acres or less that is contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the base flood elevation; or (44 CFR 60.6
(a))
      2.   For Historic Structures: variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued
designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum relief
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure. The
historic nature of the building must be designated as a preliminary or historic
structure by U.S. Secretary of Interior or an approved state or local
government historic preservation program. (44 CFR 60.6(a)) (Ord. 159-2024, 10-
30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-12-5: DECISION:
   A.   The Town of Ennis Commissioners shall:
      1.   Evaluate the floodplain permit application and variance application
using the criteria in section
13-12-4, and the application requirements and minimum development standards in
chapters 13-9 and 13-10;
      2.   Make findings, and approve, conditionally approve or deny a
floodplain permit and variance within one hundred eighty (180) days of a
complete application.
      3.   If approved, attach conditions to the approval of floodplain permit
and variance including a project completion date and inspections during and
after construction.
      4.   Notify the applicant that the issuance of a floodplain permit and
variance to construct a structure not meeting the minimum building requirements
in these regulations may result in increased premium rates for flood insurance
and that flood insurance premiums are determined by actuarial risk and will not
be modified by the granting of a variance. (44 CFR 60.6(a))
      5.   Submit to the Floodplain Administrator a record of all actions
involving a floodplain permit and variance, including the findings and decision
and send a copy of each variance granted to DNRC. (44 CFR 60.6(a)(6) and MCA
76-5-405) (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-12-6: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any person or persons aggrieved by the floodplain permit and variance decision
may appeal such decision in a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 159-2024,
10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
CHAPTER 13
ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS
SECTION:
13-13-1: General
13-13-2: Appeals Requirements
13-13-3: Notice And Hearing
13-13-4: Decision
13-13-5: Judicial Review
13-13-1: GENERAL:
An administrative appeal may be brought before the Town of Ennis Commissioners
for review of the Floodplain Administrator’s order, decision to grant,
condition or deny a floodplain permit or interpretation of the Regulated Flood
Hazard Area boundary. (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-13-2: APPEALS REQUIREMENTS:
The following provisions apply to administrative appeals:
   A.   An appeal shall include the basis of the appeal and supporting
information including specific findings and conclusions of the Floodplain
Administrator’s decision being appealed;
   B.   An appeal may be submitted by an applicant and/or anyone who may be
aggrieved by the Floodplain Administrator’s decision or order;
   C.   Appeals must be received within thirty (30) days of the date of the
decision or order of the Floodplain Administrator; and
   D.   Additional information specific to the appeal request may be requested
by the review panel. (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-13-3: NOTICE AND HEARING:
   A.   Notice of the pending appeal and hearing shall be provided pursuant to
Section
13-8-2. The Floodplain Administrator may notify DNRC and FEMA of pending
appeals.
   B.   A public hearing on the appeal must be held within thirty (30) days of
the notice unless set otherwise. (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-13-4: DECISION:
A judgment on an appeal shall be made within thirty (30) days of the hearing
unless set otherwise. The decision may affirm, modify, or overturn the
Floodplain Administrator’s decision. A decision on an appeal of a permit cannot
grant or issue a variance. A decision may support, reverse or remand an order
or determination of a boundary of the Regulated Flood Hazard Area by the
Floodplain Administrator. (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-13-5: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision on an administrative appeal may
appeal such decision in a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 159-2024, 10-
30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
CHAPTER 14
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
13-14-1: Investigation Request
13-14-2: Notice To Enter And Investigate Lands Or Waters
13-14-3: Notice To Respond And Order To Take Corrective Action
13-14-4: Administrative Review
13-14-5: Appeal Of Administrative Decision
13-14-6: Failure To Comply With Order To Take Corrective Action
13-14-7: Other Remedies
13-14-1: INVESTIGATION REQUEST:
An investigation to determine compliance with these regulations for an
artificial obstruction or nonconforming use within the regulated flood hazard
area may be made either on the initiative of the Floodplain Administrator or on
the written request of three (3) titleholders of land which may be affected by
the activity. The names and addresses of the persons requesting the
investigation shall be released if requested. (MCA 76-5-105)(2)) (Ord. 159-
2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-14-2: NOTICE TO ENTER AND INVESTIGATE LANDS OR WATERS:
The Floodplain Administrator may make reasonable entry upon any lands and
waters for the purpose of making an investigation, inspection or survey to
verify compliance with these regulations. (MCA 76-5-105(1))
   A.   The Floodplain Administrator shall provide notice of entry by mail,
electronic mail, phone call, or personal delivery to the owner, owner’s agent,
lessee, or lessee’s agent whose lands will be entered.
   B.   If none of these persons can be found, the Floodplain Administrator
shall affix a copy of the notice to one or more conspicuous places on the
property. (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-14-3: NOTICE TO RESPOND AND ORDER TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION:
When the Floodplain Administrator determines that a violation may have
occurred, the Floodplain Administrator may issue written notice to the owner or
an agent of the owner, either personally or by certified mail. Such notice
shall cite the regulatory offense and include an order to take corrective
action within a reasonable time or to respond by requesting an administrative
review by the Floodplain Administrator. (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-
2024)
13-14-4: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW:
The order to take corrective action is final, unless within five (5) working
days or any granted extension, after the order is received, the owner submits a
written request for an administrative review by the Floodplain Administrator. A
request for an administrative review does not stay the order. (Ord. 159-2024,
10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-14-5: APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION:
Within ten (10) working days or any granted extension of receipt of the
Floodplain Administrator’s decision concluding the administrative review, the
property owner or owner’s agent may appeal the decision pursuant to chapter 13-
13. (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-14-6: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION:
If the owner fails to comply with the order for corrective action, remedies may
include administrative or legal actions, or penalties through court. (Ord. 159-
2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-14-7: OTHER REMEDIES:
This section does not prevent efforts to obtain voluntary compliance through
warning, conference, or any other appropriate means. Action under this part
shall not bar enforcement of these regulations by injunction or other
appropriate remedy. (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
CHAPTER 15
PENALTIES
SECTION:
13-15-1: Misdemeanor
13-15-2: Declaration To The Federal Flood Insurance Administrator
13-15-1: MISDEMEANOR:
Violation of the provisions of these regulations or failure to comply with any
of the requirements, including failure to obtain permit approval prior to
development in the regulated flood hazard area except for an emergency, shall
constitute a misdemeanor and may be treated as a public nuisance.
Any person who violates these regulations or fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) or imprisoned for not more than ten (10) days or both. Each
day’s continuance of a violation shall be deemed a separate and distinct
offense. (MCA 76-5-110) (Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-15-2: DECLARATION TO THE FEDERAL FLOOD INSURANCE ADMINISTRATOR:
Upon finding of a violation and failure of the owner to take corrective action
as ordered, the Floodplain Administrator may submit notice and request a 1316
Violation Declaration to the Federal Insurance Administrator. The Federal
Insurance Administrator has the authority to deny new and renewal flood
insurance for a structure upon finding a valid violation declaration. (44 CFR
73.3) The Floodplain Administrator shall provide the Federal Insurance
Administrator the following:
   A.   The name(s) of the property owner(s) and address or legal description
of the property sufficient to confirm its identity and location;
   B.   A clear and unequivocal declaration that the property is in violation
of a cited State or local law, regulation or ordinance;
   C.   A clear statement that the public body making the declaration has
authority to do so and a citation to that authority;
   D.   Evidence that the property owner has been provided notice of the
violation and the prospective denial of insurance; and
   E.   A clear statement that the declaration is being submitted pursuant to
section 1316 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended. (Ord.
159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
CHAPTER 16
APPENDICES
SECTION:
13-16-1: Appendix A: FEMA Approved Letters Of Map Change
13-16-2: Appendix B: Effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps
13-16-1: APPENDIX A: FEMA APPROVED LETTERS OF MAP CHANGE:
FEMA approved Letters of Map Change from 2009 to 2024:
   A.   As amended in conformance with the DNRC and FEMA approval dated
September 11, 2008, and revalidated by FEMA on June 16, 2011, Letter of Map
Amendment (LOMA 08-08-0628A) New Letters of Map Change (LOMC) will be
incorporated into this appendix as they are approved by FEMA.
Note: LOMA’s are for insurance purposes only. The community will need to still
regulate future development for LOMA’s and LOMR-Fs.
(Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
13-16-2: APPENDIX B: EFFECTIVE FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAPS:
Table B1: Effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps:
 
Effective Flood Insurance Issue Date
Rate Maps
30057CIND1A               12/20/2024
30057CIND2A               12/20/2024
30057C1226F               12/20/2024
3005C1227F                12/20/2024
3005C1228F                12/20/2024
 
(Ord. 159-2024, 10-30-2024, eff. 12-14-2024)
 
