FAIRVIEW, MONTANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local Legislation current through Ord. 358, passed 6-12-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Official code
   
10.02   Title
   
10.03   Amending code
   
10.04   Repealing ordinances; effect
   
10.05   Rules of construction generally
   
10.06   Definitions
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 OFFICIAL CODE.
   This compilation, revision and codification of the general ordinances of the
town is hereby declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the Official Code
of General Ordinances of the Town of Fairview, Montana.
(Prior Code, § 1.00.010)
§ 10.02 TITLE.
   This code shall hereafter be known and referred to as the “Official Code of
the Town of Fairview, Montana”, and a copy or copies of such code in printed
form shall be received without further proof as the ordinances of permanent and
general effect in the Town of Fairview, in all courts and administrative
tribunals of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1.00.020)
§ 10.03 AMENDING CODE.
   Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth in full the section or
sections or the code being amended, and this shall constitute sufficient
compliance with any statutory requirement that no ordinance or any section
thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new ordinance sets forth the
revised ordinance or amended section in full.
(Prior Code, § 1.00.030)
§ 10.04 REPEALING ORDINANCES; EFFECT.
   The repeal of ordinances as provided shall not affect any right which has
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred or any action or proceeding as
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinance repealed, or the tenure of office
or any person holding office at the time when they take effect; nor shall the
repeal of any ordinance thereby have the effect of reviving any ordinance
theretofore repealed or superseded.
(Prior Code, § 1.00.040)
§ 10.05 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION GENERALLY.
   In the construction of the official code and all ordinances amendatory
thereof or supplementary thereto, the following rules shall be observed unless
such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the
legislative body or repugnant to the context.
   (A)   Intent to defraud. Whenever, by any of the provisions of the official
code, an intent to defraud is required in order to constitute an offense, it is
sufficient if an intent appears to defraud any person, association or body
politic or any combination of persons.
   (B)   Liability of employers and agents. When the provisions herein
contained prohibit the commission or omission of an act, not only the person
actually doing the prohibited thing or omitting the directed act, but also the
employer and all other persons concerned or aiding or abetting the person shall
be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set forth.
   (C)   Title of sections and divisions. The title of any section or division
of this official code shall be deemed to in no wise restrict, qualify or limit
the effect of the provisions set forth and contained in such section or
division.
   (D)   Effect of constitutionality. Should any portion of this official code
be declared by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or
void, such adjudication shall in no way affect the remaining portion of this
official code.
(Prior Code, § 1.00.050)
§ 10.06 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The singular number includes the plural.
   (B)   Words used in the present include the future.
   (C)   Words used in the masculine gender include, as well, the feminine and
neuter.
   (D)   Words prohibiting anything being done, except in accordance with a
license or permit or authority from a board of officers, shall be construed as
giving such board of officers power to license or permit or authorize such
thing to be done.
   (E)   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      CLERK or TREASURER. The Town Clerk or Town Treasurer, as the case may be
applicable.
      COUNCIL. It shall be construed to mean the Town Council of Fairview,
Montana.
      COUNTY. The County of Richland, Montana.
      DAY. Any 24-hour period from midnight to midnight; and the word MONTH
shall mean a calendar month unless otherwise expressed; and the word QUARTER
shall mean any three-month period, ending with the last day of March, June,
September and December; and the word YEAR shall mean any one calendar year
unless otherwise expressed.
      KNOWINGLY. Imparts a knowledge that the fact exists which brings the act
or omission within the provisions of these ordinances. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
      LAND, REAL ESTATE and REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements,
hereditaments, water rights, possessory rights and claims.
      MAY. The act referred to is discretionary.
      NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE, NEGLIGENT and NEGLIGENTLY. Impart a want of such
attention to the nature or probable consequences of the act or omission as a
prudent person ordinarily bestows in acting in his or her own concern.
      OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION, and the word SWEAR includes the word AFFIRM.
Every mode of oral statement under oath or affirmation is embraced in the term
“depose”.
      OFFICER. Officers and boards in charge of departments and the members of
such boards.
      OFFICIAL TIME. Standard time in the Town of Fairview.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, partnerships, associations
and corporations.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights of action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished, and every right or
interest therein.
      PROPERTY. Includes both real and personal property.
      PUBLIC THOROUGHFARE. Includes streets, alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards,
public ways, public squares, public places and sidewalks.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE. Any name, mark or sign written with the intent to authenticate
any instrument of writing.
      STATE. The State of Montana.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land shall include any
person who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether
alone or with others.
      TOWN. The Town of Fairview, Montana.
      WILLFULLY. When applied to the intent with which an act is done or
omitted, implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make
intent to violate law or to injure another or acquire an advantage.
(Prior Code, § 1.00.060)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty.
      (1)   Whenever in any provision or this code or other ordinance of the
town any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful, a misdemeanor
or an offense or whenever in any such provision or ordinance the doing of any
act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where
no specific penalty is otherwise provided therefor, any person, upon conviction
for the violation of any such provision of this code or ordinances, shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding $500 or by imprisonment not to exceed six
months or by both such fine and imprisonment, for each such offense. Each day
any violation of any provision of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute
a separate offense.
      (2)   In the construction and interpretation of this section, the
revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered as a recovery or
penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
(Prior Code, § 1.08.010)
   (B)   Execution of a fine.
      (1)   If the judgment is for a fine alone, execution may issue thereon as
on a judgment in a civil case.
      (2)   If the judgment is for a fine and imprisonment until the fine be
paid, the defendant must be committed to the custody of the proper officer, and
by him or her detained until the judgment is complied with. The imprisonment
must not exceed one day for every $10 of the fine.
(Prior Code, § 1.08.020)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Ordinances; passage and posting
   
11.02   Elections
   
11.03   Official voting place
§ 11.01 ORDINANCES; PASSAGE AND POSTING.
   (A)   Referred to committee. Whenever an ordinance is introduced and
presented by a member of the Council at any regular meeting thereof or at any
special meeting duly called for such purpose, the Mayor shall then and there
cause such ordinance to be read. After the first reading of said ordinance, the
same shall be referred by the Mayor to some suitable committee which shall take
said ordinance under advisement and consideration until the next regular
meeting of the Council, at which time such committee must report thereon. Such
ordinance shall then be read for the second time and shall thereupon be ready
for final vote upon its adoption.
(Prior Code, § 1.10.010)
   (B)   Passage of ordinances. Any ordinance by unanimous consent of all
members of the Council present may be read by title only. The Council may, by
unanimous consent of all members present, suspend the foregoing rules and cause
any ordinance to be brought up for final consideration and final vote at any
time after its introduction. Any ordinance or resolution passed by the Council
shall not become effective until 30 days after its passage, except general
appropriation providing for the ordinary and current expenses of the
municipality, excepting also emergency measures, and in the case of an
emergency measure, the emergency must be expressed in the preamble or in the
body of the measure, and the measure must receive two-thirds vote of all
members of the Council elected. In emergency ordinances, the resolution shall
include only such measures as are immediately necessary for the preservation of
peace, health and safety, and shall not include a franchise or license to be a
corporation or individual, or any provisions for the sale of real estate, or
any lease or letting for a period exceeding one year, or the purchase or sale
of personal property exceeding $5,000.
(Prior Code, § 1.10.020)
   (C)   Publication of notices.
      (1)   All notices required to be published may be published in either:
         (a)   The Sidney Herald; or
         (b)   The Round Up.
      (2)   The notice must be published a minimum of two times with at least
six days separating each publication. If publication in either of the
newspapers named in division (C)(1) above is not economically or physically
feasible, or in addition to such publication, notice may be given by posting
written notice at the following public places, with such written notice posted
for a minimum of three days:
         (a)   Super Valu;
         (b)   Merchants Bank;
         (c)   The town post office; and
         (d)   The Town Hall.
(Prior Code, § 1.10.030) (Ord. 351, passed 2-8-2023)
§ 11.02 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Elections in accordance with state statutes. All primary and general
elections shall be held in accordance with the statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.010)
   (B)   Qualification of electors. Any person shall be qualified to vote in
any and all town elections; provided, they are a resident of the town or an
area which has been annexed and certified as such by the Clerk and Recorder of
the county.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.020)
§ 11.03 OFFICIAL VOTING PLACE.
   The building known as the Civic Center located in the town is hereby
designated as the official polling or voting place for the holding of all
municipal elections.
(Prior Code, § 1.06.010) (Ord. 190, passed - -)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND COUNCIL
      
31.   OFFICIALS, OFFICERS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   TOWN COURT
      
33.   PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND COUNCIL
Section
Mayor
   
30.01   Qualifications
   
30.02   Chief executive officer
   
30.03   Powers
   
30.04   President of Council
   
30.05   Mayor’s absence
   
30.06   Appointing officers
Council Meetings
   
30.20   Regular meetings
   
30.21   Special meetings
   
30.22   Quorum
   
30.23   Order of business
   
30.24   Expenditures and bills
MAYOR
§ 30.01 QUALIFICATIONS.
   No person shall be eligible for the Office of Mayor unless such person be a
citizen of the United States and a resident of the town or area which has been
annexed by the town for a period of two years next preceding his or her
election. He or she shall reside in the town during his or her term of office.
(Prior Code, § 2.10.010)
§ 30.02 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the town and shall see
that all ordinances of the town are duly respected, observed and enforced
within the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 2.10.020)
§ 30.03 POWERS.
   The Mayor shall have the power:
   (A)   To nominate and, with the consent of the Council, to appoint all non-
elective officers of the town, provided for by the Council, except as provided
herein;
   (B)   To suspend and, with the consent of the Council, to remove any non-
elective officer, stating in the suspension or removal the cause thereof;
   (C)   To cause the ordinances of the town to be executed, and to supervise
the discharge of official duty by all subordinate officers;
   (D)   To communicate to the Council, at the beginning of every session, and
more often if deemed necessary, a statement of the affairs of the town, with
such recommendations as he or she may deem proper;
   (E)   To recommend to the Council such measures connected with the public
health, cleanliness and ornament of the town and the improvement of the
government and finances as he or she deems expedient;
   (F)   To approve all ordinances and resolutions of the Council adopted by it
and, in case the same do not meet his or her approbation, to return the same to
the next regular meeting of the Council, with his or her objections in writing,
and no ordinance or resolution so vetoed by the Mayor must go into effect
unless the same be afterwards passed by a two-thirds vote of the whole number
of members of the Council;
   (G)   To veto any objectionable part of a resolution or ordinance and
approve the other parts. If the Mayor fails to return any resolution or
ordinance as aforesaid, the same takes effect without further action;
   (H)   To call special meetings of the Council and, when so called, he or she
must state by message the object of the meeting and the business of the meeting
must he restricted to the object stated;
   (I)   To cause to be presented, annually, a full and complete statement of
the financial condition of the town;
   (J)   To bid in for the town any property sold at a tax or judicial sale
where the town is a party or interested;
   (K)   To procure and have in his or her custody the seal of the town;
   (L)   To take and administer oaths;
   (M)   To call on every male citizen of the town, over the age of 18 years,
to aid in the enforcement of the laws and ordinances in case of riots; and any
person who docs not obey such call forfeits to the town a fine not exceeding
$25;
   (N)   To require of any of the officers of the town an exhibit of their
books and papers;
   (O)   To grant pardons and remit fines and forfeitures for offenses against
town ordinances when, in his or her judgment, public justice would be thereby
subserved; but he or she must report all pardons granted, with the reasons
therefor, to the next Council; and
   (P)   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed by law or by
resolution or ordinance of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.10.030)
§ 30.04 PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
   He or she shall be present at the meetings of the Council and shall act as
the President thereof and, when there is a tie upon any question before the
Council, he or she shall give the casting vote; he or she shall have power to
veto any resolution or ordinance or any part thereof; he or she shall sign all
warrants on the town treasury and all permits or permissions granted by the
Council, and all contracts made by and on behalf of the town with any other
party.
(Prior Code, § 2.10.040)
§ 30.05 MAYOR’S ABSENCE.
   In the absence of the Mayor from the town or his or her inability from any
cause to discharge the duties of his or her office, the President of the
Council shall exercise all the powers and discharge all the duties of the
Mayor. In case of absence or inability of the Mayor and President of the
Council, the Council may appoint one of its number to act in his or her place.
The President or Member of the Council, while performing the duties of the
Mayor, shall be styled the “Acting Mayor”. Any Acting Mayor performing the
duties of the Mayor shall be entitled to the salary of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 2.10.050)
§ 30.06 APPOINTING OFFICERS.
   He or she shall at the first meeting of the Council after the election each
year, and from time to time thereafter, appoint, subject to confirmation of the
Council, all necessary officers of the town and he or she shall, in like
manner, appoint any other officers whose office is created by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2.10.060)
COUNCIL MEETINGS
§ 30.20 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   Regular meetings of the Council shall be held on the second Wednesday of
each month. Should the regular meeting day be a recognized holiday, the Council
shall, with proper notice, set an alternate day for the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.010) (Ord. 9, passed - -; Ord. 339, passed 12-9-2019)
§ 30.21 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor whenever he
or she may deem such meetings necessary for the transaction of the business of
the town and he or she shall call a special meeting whenever requested to do so
in writing by two Council members, which request shall be filed in the office
of the Town Clerk. All meetings of the Council, whether regular or special, at
which any person not a town officer is admitted, shall be open to the public.
   (B)   The Mayor shall be President of the Council and shall preside at its
meetings, and shall supervise all departments of the town and report and
recommend to the Council for its action, all matters requiring attention in any
department. The Council shall, at its first regular meeting, select one of its
members for Vice President of the Council and, in case of a vacancy in the
Office of Mayor, or the absence or inability of the Mayor, he or she shall
perform the duties of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.020) (Ord. 9, passed - -)
§ 30.22 QUORUM.
   A majority of the members elected shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.030) (Ord. 9, passed - -)
§ 30.23 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Upon the appearance of a quorum, the Council shall be called to order to
proceed with the order of business as follows:
   (A)   Roll call;
   (B)   The reading of the minutes of the proceedings of all regular and other
meetings, unless dispensed with, and their amendment and correction;
   (C)   Reports of town officers;
   (D)   Presentation of petitions, resolutions, communications and ordinances;
   (E)   Appointments and confirmation of town officials;
   (F)   Final reading and passage of ordinances;
   (G)   Allowance or rejection of bills;
   (H)   Unfinished business; and
   (I)   New business.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.040) (Ord. 9, passed - -)
§ 30.24 EXPENDITURES AND BILLS.
   All resolutions relating to the expenditure of any of the funds of the town
shall be read in full to the Town Council when in session. All bills presented
to the Council shall be itemized by the party presenting them and shall be read
at regular meetings before being allowed for payment.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.050) (Ord. 9, passed - -)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICIALS, OFFICERS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Salaries
   
31.02   Bonding officers
   
31.03   Indemnification of officers, employees
   
31.04   Elective and appointive officers
   
31.05   Terms; election
Specific Officers and Officials
   
31.20   Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.21   Town Attorney
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department, see §§
33.20 through
33.30
   Police Commission, see §§
33.01 through
33.07
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 SALARIES.
   The salaries of the officers and employees of the town shall be set annually
by resolution or ordinance of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.02.010)
§ 31.02 BONDING OFFICERS.
   Town officers shall be included in a blanket bond for the faithful
performance of their duties; said bond to be executed by a duly authorized
surety company, the premiums thereon to be paid by the town.
(Prior Code, § 2.02.020)
§ 31.03 INDEMNIFICATION OF OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   In any civil action brought against any public official or employee of
the town alleging a violation of Constitutional Initiative 75, the town shall
defend the action on behalf of the official or employee and indemnify the
official or employee for any liability resulting from the alleged violation of
Constitutional Initiative 75, unless a judicial determination is made that the
conduct upon which the claim is based does not arise out of the course and
scope of the public official or public employee’s employment, the public
official or the public employee compromised or settled the claim without the
consent of the town, or the public official or the public employee failed or
refused to cooperate reasonably in the defense of the case.
   (B)   Upon receipt of service of summons and complaint alleging a violation
of Constitutional Initiative 75, the public official or the public employee
shall give written notice to the Town Clerk requesting that a defense to this
action be provided by the town.
(Prior Code, § 2.02.030)
§ 31.04 ELECTIVE AND APPOINTIVE OFFICERS.
   (A)   (1)   The officers of the town shall consist of elective officers and
appointive officers.
      (2)   (a)   The elective officers shall be: one Mayor and six Council
member(s) from the town at large.
         (b)   The appointive officers shall be: one Town Attorney; one Town
Clerk-Treasurer; one Chief of Police; one Director of Public Works; one Water
Commissioner; and such other officers and boards as the Council may from time
to time create or authorize or as may be allowed by law and authorized by the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.010)
   (B)   All elective and appointive officers shall possess the qualifications
provided by law and the Council shall have the power, at any time, to abolish
any office, the appointment to which is made by the Mayor, with the advice and
consent of the Council, and to discharge, at any time, any officer so appointed
by a majority vote of the Council; and it may consolidate any office, the
appointment to which is made by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the
Council, and may require any elective or appointive officer to perform any
duties of any officer whose office has been abolished, or the duties of any
other office now or hereafter created.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.020)
§ 31.05 TERMS; ELECTION.
   (A)   All terms of office for Mayor, Council member(s) and Town Judge shall
be for four years.
(Prior Code, § 2.06.010)
   (B)   An election shall be held on the first Monday of April every two years
on the odd numbered years; at which time three Council member(s) shall be
elected for a four-year term.
(Prior Code, § 2.06.020)
(Ord. 202, passed - -)
SPECIFIC OFFICERS AND OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   Appointment. The Mayor shall, subject to the advice and consent of the
Council, appoint a Clerk-Treasurer who shall hold office for the duration or
his or her appointment or until his or her successor is appointed and
qualified.
(Prior Code, § 2.12.010)
   (B)   Duties. It shall be the duty of the town’s Clerk-Treasurer:
      (1)   To receive all moneys that come to the town, either from taxation
or otherwise and to pay the same out of the warrant of the Mayor, countersigned
by the Clerk, drawn in accordance with law;
      (2)   To perform such duties in the collection of taxes, licenses or
assessments as are or may be prescribed by law or ordinance;
      (3)   To present at the regular meeting of each month to the Council a
full and detailed statement of the amounts of money belonging to the town,
received by him or her and by him or her disbursed during the preceding month
and the state of each particular fund, which statement must be verified by his
or her oath;
      (4)   To keep the books and accounts of the town in such manner as to
correctly present the condition of the finances thereof which must always be
open to the inspection of the Mayor, Council or any member thereof;
      (5)   To keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation and the
debits and credits thereof;
      (6)   To give every person paying to him or her money as Town Clerk, a
receipt therefor, specifying the date of payment, the amount and for what paid;
      (7)   To render at any time an account to the Council, showing the money
on hand and the condition of the treasury;
      (8)   To keep a register of all warrants paid, which must show the date,
amount and number and the person to whom and the fund from which the same was
paid;
      (9)   To annually make out and submit to the Town Council at its last
meeting prior to May 1, a detailed account of all receipts and expenditures
during the past fiscal year and an abstract thereof must be published in the
official newspaper;
      (10)   To pay out, in the order which they are registered, all warrants
presented for payment when there are funds in the treasury to pay the same;
      (11)   To deposit all public moneys in his or her possession and under
his or her control, excepting such as may be required for current business, in
any solvent bank or banks located in such town, subject to national supervision
or state examination, as the Council shall designate and no other;
      (12)   To attend all meetings of the Council to record and sign the
proceedings thereof and all ordinances, bylaws, resolutions and contracts
passed, adopted or entered into, and to sign, number and keep a record of all
licenses, commissions or permits granted or authorized by the Council;
      (13)   To record all ordinances, resolutions and bylaws passed and
adopted by the Council;
      (14)   To enter in a book kept for that purpose the date, amount, the
person in whose favor and for what purpose warrants are drawn upon the town
treasury;
      (15)   To countersign and cause to be published or posted, as provided by
law, all ordinances, bylaws or resolutions passed and adopted by the Council;
      (16)   To file and keep all records, hooks, papers or property belonging
to the town and to deliver the same to his or her successor when qualified;
      (17)   Prepare and process financial statements as required by state law;
      (18)   Town Clerk to be Treasurer. Any reference to a “Town Treasurer” in
this code shall mean the Town Clerk; and
      (19)   Perform such other duties as the Town Council may prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 2.12.020)
§ 31.21 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Creation of office. There is hereby created the Office of Town
Attorney, to be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Town
Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.14.010)
   (B)   Duties. It shall be the duty of the Town Attorney to prosecute an
defend all suits or actions originating or pending in any court of the state or
United States, in which the town is a party, or in which, in the opinion of the
Council, the interests or the town are brought into controversy, or in which
any of the official acts of any of its officers or agents are involved. When
required to do so, he or she shall furnish his or her opinion in writing upon
any subject submitted to him or her by the Council or any of its committees. He
or she shall draft all ordinances, bonds, contracts, leases, conveyances and
such other instruments as may be required by the business of the town, and
shall perform all such duties and services in the line of his or her profession
connected with the business of the town though not herein specifically
enumerated. He or she shall, when requested to do so by the Mayor, attend the
meetings or the Town Council or of its committees when requested to do so by
the Chairperson thereof. He or she shall prosecute all appeals, writs or
certiorari and take all necessary steps in all cases in which the town is
concerned, which he or she may deem proper. He or she shall report to the Town
Council within 30 days after the adjournment of any term of court of record in
which any suit or proceedings may be pending in which the town is a party or
interested, the disposition thereof and such other information as, in the
opinion of said Attorney, may be of advantage or interest to the town.
(Prior Code, § 2.14.020)
   (C)   Term of office. The Town Attorney shall hold his or her office for a
period of two years unless suspended or removed for the neglect, violation or
disregard of the duties of his or her office as required by the laws of the
state and the ordinances of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2.14.030)
   (D)   Salary set by ordinance. The salary to be paid the Town Attorney shall
be set by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2.14.040)
   (E)   Salary. The Town Attorney shall be paid the sum of $400 per month,
plus the sum of $40 per hour for any hours over ten worked in a month, plus he
or she shall be compensated at the rate of $60 per hour for employment in
special improvement districts and civil cases wherein suit is filed.
(Prior Code, § 2.14.050)
(Ord. 162, passed - -; Ord. 242, passed - -)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN COURT
Section
Town Judge
   
32.01   Town Court; when open
   
32.02   Town Judge to keep docket
   
32.03   Procedure in instituting an action
   
32.04   Issuance of warrant
   
32.05   Duty of officer arresting
   
32.06   Bail
   
32.07   Money deposited in lieu of bond
   
32.08   Receipts made in triplicate
   
32.09   Report filed with Clerk
   
32.10   Conducting trials; manner
Town Court
   
32.25   Establishment
   
32.26   Concurrent jurisdiction
   
32.27   Exclusive jurisdiction
   
32.28   When substitute for Judge called in
TOWN JUDGE
§ 32.01 TOWN COURT; WHEN OPEN.
   The Town Court shall be open daily, Sundays and legal holidays excepted, at
the court room in Town Hall, commencing at such hours as the Town Judge may
designate, whenever there are cases for disposition.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.010)
§ 32.02 TOWN JUDGE TO KEEP DOCKET.
   The Town Judge shall keep a docket of proceedings in said Court, in which
shall be entered daily, as they occur, a synopsis of the proceedings in each
case, from the arrest to final judgment, and an entry of the appeal, if any
appeal be taken.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.020)
§ 32.03 PROCEDURE IN INSTITUTING AN ACTION.
   (A)   Action for the violation of any law of the municipality must be
commenced in one of the following methods.
      (1)   First. When the offense is committed in the presence of the Chief
of Police or any police officer, he or she may arrest the offender without a
warrant and bring him or her forthwith before the Town Judge.
      (2)   Second. In all other cases, a complaint must be filed and verified
by the party making the some, which shall contain the name of the party to be
arrested, if known, and, if not known, the complaint may designate him or her
by any other name.
   (B)   The complaint shall also contain a brief statement of the acts
constituting the offense for which the person is arrested, with the date of the
offense, if known and reference to the title of the chapter or ordinance,
number and section thereof, he or she is charged with violating.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.030)
§ 32.04 ISSUANCE OF WARRANT.
   Upon filing the complaint, the Town Judge shall, if the complaint charges
the violation of any municipal ordinance, issue a warrant to any police officer
and the officer must serve the warrant by taking the defendant into custody and
bringing him or her before the Town Judge.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.040)
§ 32.05 DUTY OF OFFICER ARRESTING.
   The officer making the arrest shall make due return on his or her warrant;
and, if any officer arrests a person without a warrant, said officer shall
forthwith file in the Town Court, a complaint against the person arrested as
provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.050)
§ 32.06 BAIL.
   Any person arrested for a violation of a municipal law may be admitted to
bail by giving bonds with security, to be approved by the Town Judge and, if he
or she cannot act, then the Marshal, in such sum as he, she or either of them
may specify. The bond shall be conditioned that the defendant will appear at
the time named therein before the Town Court and answer to the charge for which
he or she has been arrested. The bond shall be filed in the Town Court and, if
the defendant fails to appear at the time mentioned in the bond, the Town Judge
may declare the bond forfeited.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.060)
§ 32.07 MONEY DEPOSITED IN LIEU OF BOND.
   Any person arrested for the violation of a municipal law, in lieu of the
bond mentioned in §
32.06 of this chapter, may deposit with the Town Judge or Marshal, such sum as
may be specified by either of said officers, who shall give to the person
arrested a receipt for the money so deposited in lieu of jail; if the person
depositing the money appears before the Town Court at the time of the first
setting thereof after the money was so deposited, the said money shall be
returned to the person depositing it; but, if he or she fails to appear, the
Town Judge shall declare the deposit forfeited to the municipality and cause
the same to be paid into the treasury.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.070)
§ 32.08 RECEIPTS MADE IN TRIPLICATE.
   When a fine imposed by the Town Judge for the violation of a municipal law
be paid in money, he or she shall issue a receipt therefor in triplicate on
blanks to be furnished him or her by the Clerk, another to accompany the Town
Judge’s monthly report to the Council and the other to remain in the Town Court
as part of its report.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.080)
§ 32.09 REPORT FILED WITH CLERK.
   The Town Judge shall make out and file in the office of the Clerk, monthly,
a report on the number of cases tried, the person convicted, the fine and cost
imposed and whether the same has been paid, the number of days any person
convicted has been sentenced to confinement in the town jail, by the Town Judge
and, before filing the same, he or she shall pay over to the Treasurer all
moneys received in payment of fines and make a receipt therefor, which receipt
shall be attached to the report filed with the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.090)
§ 32.10 CONDUCTING TRIALS; MANNER.
   All proceedings in the Town Court shall be conducted in the same manner as
are trials in criminal cases before justices of the peace under the laws of the
state and all persons tried before the Town Court shall have the same remedies
and rights or appeal as now are or may hereafter be prescribed by law in
criminal cases before justices of the peace. The Town Judge shall have the same
right and authority to punish for contempt and maintain order in his or her
court that justices of the peace have. But nothing in this section provided
shall be construed as allowing a trial by jury for a violation or any municipal
law. All proceedings for the violation of any municipal law, both civil and
criminal, must be prosecuted in the name of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.100)
TOWN COURT
§ 32.25 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Town Court is established in the town. On judicial days, the Court shall
be open for all business, civil and criminal. On non-judicial days, as defined
in state law, the Court may transact criminal business only.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.010)
§ 32.26 CONCURRENT JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Town Court has concurrent jurisdiction with the justice’s court of all
misdemeanors punishable by a fine not exceeding $500 or by imprisonment not
exceeding six months or by both fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   (1)   Applications for search warrants and complaints charging the
commission of a felony may be filed in the Town Court.
      (2)   When they are filed, the Town Judge has the same jurisdiction and
responsibility as a justice of the peace, including the holding of a
preliminary hearing.
      (3)   The Town Attorney may file an application for a search warrant or a
complaint charging the commission of a felony when the offense was committed
within the town limits.
      (4)   The County Attorney, however, must handle any action after a
defendant is bound over to District Court.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.020)
§ 32.27 EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION.
   The Town Court has exclusive jurisdiction of:
   (A)   Proceedings for the violation of an ordinance of the town, both civil
and criminal;
   (B)   When the amount of the taxes or assessments sought does not exceed
$300, actions for the collection of taxes or assessments levied for any of the
following purposes; except that, no lien on the property taxed or assessed for
the nonpayment of the taxes or assessment may be foreclosed in any such action:
      (1)   Town purposes;
      (2)   The erection or improvement of public buildings;
      (3)   The laying out, opening or improving of a public street, sidewalk,
alley or bridge;
      (4)   The acquisition or improvement of any public ground; and
      (5)   Public improvements made or ordered by the town within its limits.
   (C)   Actions for the collection of money due to the town or from the town
to any person, when the amount sought, exclusive of interest and costs, does
not exceed $300;
   (D)   When the amount claimed, exclusive of costs, does not exceed $300
actions for:
      (1)   The breach of an official bond given by a town officer;
      (2)   The breach of any contract;
      (3)   Damages, when the town is a party or is in any way interested;
      (4)   The enforcement of forfeited recognizance given to, for the benefit
of, or on behalf of the town; and
      (5)   Collection on bonds given upon an appeal taken from the judgment of
the Court in any action mentioned in divisions (D)(1) through (D)(4) above.
   (E)   Actions for the recovery of personal property belonging to the town,
when the value of the property, exclusive of the damages for the taking or
detention, does not exceed $300; and
   (F)   Actions for the collection of a license fee required by an ordinance
of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.030)
§ 32.28 WHEN SUBSTITUTE FOR JUDGE CALLED IN.
   The Town Judge or Mayor may call in a justice of the peace or some qualified
resident of the town to act in the Judge’s place, whenever the Judge is:
   (A)   A party in a case;
   (B)   Interested in a case;
   (C)   Related to either party in a case by consanguinity or affinity within
the sixth degree; or
   (D)   Sick, absent or unable to act.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.040)
CHAPTER 33: PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
Police Commission
   
33.01   Purpose and duties
   
33.02   Appointment
   
33.03   Compensation
   
33.04   Internal administration
   
33.05   Term
   
33.06   Initial appointees
   
33.07   Hearings; hearings on appeal
Fire Department
   
33.20   Organization and supervision
   
33.21   Department personnel
   
33.22   Chief and Assistant Chief
   
33.23   Operator’s and driver’s duties
   
33.24   Firefighters
   
33.25   Appointment of members
   
33.26   Operation, discipline, obedience and conduct
   
33.27   Equipment and apparatus
   
33.28   Building inspections
   
33.29   Records
   
33.30   Rules for Department
POLICE COMMISSION
§ 33.01 PURPOSE AND DUTIES.
   The duty of the Police Commission shall be to examine all applicants for
positions at the town’s Police Department whose applications have been referred
to the Police Commission as to their age, legal, mental, moral and physical
qualifications and their ability to serve as a member of the town’s police
force; to establish rules and regulations regarding examinations of applicants,
subject to approval of the Mayor and not inconsistent with the laws of the
state; and to hear and decide appeals brought by any member or officer of the
town’s Police Department who has been disciplined, suspended, removed or
discharged by an order of the Mayor. The Police Commission shall further have
such other powers, duties and authority as may be set forth in M.C.A. Title 7,
Ch. 32, part 41, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 343, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 33.02 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Mayor shall nominate and, with the approval of the Town Council,
appoint three residents of the town to the Police Commission.
   (B)   Such appointees shall have the qualifications required by law to hold
a municipal office.
(Ord. 343, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 33.03 COMPENSATION.
   Compensation of members of the Police Commission shall be $10 per day when
the Commission convenes and completes work, not to exceed $50 per month for any
month.
(Ord. 343, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 33.04 INTERNAL ADMINISTRATION.
   The Police Commissioners shall appoint a presiding officer of the Police
Commission, who shall preside at all meetings and hearings of the Police
Commission.
(Ord. 343, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 33.05 TERM.
   (A)   With the exception of the initial appointees, appointees to the Police
Commission shall hold office for three years.
   (B)   One member of the Police Commission must be appointed annually at the
first regular meeting of the Town Council in May of each year.
(Ord. 343, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 33.06 INITIAL APPOINTEES.
   (A)   To maintain a staggering basis for appointment in accordance with
M.C.A. § 7-32-4152, one initial appointee shall be appointed for three years.
One initial appointee shall be appointed for two years.
   (B)   One initial appointee shall be appointed for one year. Thereafter, one
new member shall be appointed annually. Initial appointees appointed for less
than the full three-year term may be reappointed for the remainder of his or
her three-year term once his or her initial term expires.
(Ord. 343, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 33.07 HEARINGS; HEARINGS ON APPEAL.
   All hearings must be open to the public. The Police Commission shall, at the
time set for the hearing of an appeal of a police officer, hear and determine
the appeal according to the Montana Rules of Evidence, M.C.A. Title 26, Ch. 10.
(Ord. 343, passed 10-14-2020)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.20 ORGANIZATION AND SUPERVISION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Town Council to have complete supervision
over the Fire Department and require the Chief Engineer to make a complete
annual report concerning the Department in general giving a description of the
condition of the Department, make suggestions and recommendations for major
improvements and tell of the activities during the year.
   (B)   The Chief Engineer shall be directly responsible to this body in his
or her capacity as head of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.010)
§ 33.21 DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL.
   The Fire Department shall consist of a Chief Engineer and an Assistant Chief
Engineer, and 22 firefighters as may be recommended by the Fire Department and
approved by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.020)
§ 33.22 CHIEF AND ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   (A)   The Chief Engineer shall be the chief executive officer of the Fire
Department and shall be invested with the following authorities and duties:
      (1)   To have direct control, management and direction of all officers
and persons of the Fire Department and the power to detail any of them to such
public service as he or she may see fit, looking to the best interests and
efficiency of the Department;
      (2)   To carry out strictly the enforcement of the rules and regulations
of the Department and be able to suspend or remove from service any officer or
firefighter for cause in such manner as is provided in these regulations;
      (3)   To exercise supreme command over the Department at fires and over
all equipment belonging to it;
      (4)   To cause to be extinguished all fires with the least possible
danger to life and property and prevent unnecessary damage by water and
chemicals at fires;
      (5)   To see that the premises on which fires occur are left in such
condition that they will not rekindle and cause further damage to life and
property; and
      (6)   To make a complete investigation of each fire, keeping a record of
and determining the cause, amount of loss to building and contents, amount of
insurance coverage and insurance paid, number and description of each building
destroyed together with names of owners and occupants.
   (B)   (1)   The Assistant Chief shall rank next to the Chief Engineer and
have similar qualifications.
      (2)   He or she shall take complete charge in absence of that officer and
be invested with the same authorities and duties while so acting.
   (C)   Arrangement shall be made so that the Assistant Chief Engineer will
always be present in the absence of the Chief Engineer.
   (D)   In the presence of the Chief Engineer, it shall be his or her duty to
aid the Chief Engineer in every possible manner, to maintain strict discipline
and ensure efficient operation of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.030)
§ 33.23 OPERATOR’S AND DRIVER’S DUTIES.
   (A)   Operators in charge of truck or trailer shall act as drivers thereof,
and shall be held responsible for the management of their apparatus, seeing
that it is left clean, in good order and ready for service at all times.
   (B)   Drivers of other automobile apparatus to which they are assigned shall
be responsible for the management of same and shall see that it is in good
condition for service at all times.
   (C)   All operators and drivers shall start engines at least once weekly and
run them long enough to determine their condition.
   (D)   Operators and drivers shall, at all times, be under the supervision
and direction of the Chief Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.040)
§ 33.24 FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   (1)   In general, all firefighters shall be trained to handle any and
all of the fire apparatus provided; also to act in any desired capacity in
handling first aid fire appliances, hose, chemical engines or doing salvage
work.
      (2)   They shall do everything within their power to get the fire under
control, to remain at their posts of duty unless excused by the commanding
officer and to return with the apparatus from fires, alarms or drills to the
fire station.
   (B)   All firefighters, upon the sounding of the alarm, shall respond
immediately and with all possible speed to the scene of the fire.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.050)
§ 33.25 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   In general, all members shall be appointed with tenure of office
secure. Appointment of new firefighters into the Fire Department shall be made
with the object of improving the operation, efficiency and general excellence
of manpower. Application of new firefighters shall be made, in writing, to the
Fire Department.
   (B)   The minimum age of applicants for the Fire Department is 19 years of
age and the maximum age of applicants for the Fire Department shall be
determined by the Fire Department.
   (C)   Members shall reside within the geographic area for which the Fire
Department is the principal party responsible for firefighting.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.060)
§ 33.26 OPERATION, DISCIPLINE, OBEDIENCE AND CONDUCT.
   (A)   Strict discipline shall at all times be maintained for the purpose of
contributing, as a necessary factor, to the smoothness of operation and
efficiency of the Department. Firefighters shall hereby note that absolute
discipline and the prompt obedience to orders is at all times required. When a
person is detailed to perform the duties of a higher office than that which he
or she officially holds, he or she shall be obeyed and respected accordingly.
   (B)   Any officer or member of the Department who shall refuse or
voluntarily neglect to obey or execute any orders from the officer in charge of
any fire, or who shall violate or willfully neglect or refuse to be controlled,
governed or managed by any of the rules or regulations of the Department, shall
by subject to suspension or expulsion from the Department by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.070)
§ 33.27 EQUIPMENT AND APPARATUS.
   (A)   Officers charged with the care of equipment and apparatus shall see
that regular inspections are made of such equipment and apparatus and shall
make a monthly report to the Chief Engineer regarding same.
   (B)   Each length of hose shall be carefully numbered and a record kept of
the date of purchase, make, when tested, pressure and conditions and the like.
   (C)   Hose on apparatus shall be changed every 30 days if not otherwise
used, and have water run through it every 60 days.
   (D)   All hoses shall be thoroughly washed and dried after use at fires and
drills and no wet or dirty hose shall be placed on apparatus.
   (E)   Hose couplings shall always be kept in first class order. When
necessary, the threads shall be run over with a standard tap and die. Hoses
shall be immediately checked after purchase to see that hose couplings fit the
hydrant.
   (F)   Firefighters at fires or drills shall report to the Chief Engineer all
fire hydrants found frozen, out of order, leaky or that are set in such a
manner to make it difficult to connect thereto.
   (G)   The Chief Engineer shall make a permanent record of all reports of
defective, inoperative or improperly set fire hydrants and shall submit a
report (giving the location of the hydrant or hydrants, the name of the maker
and a specification of the trouble), to the Town Council, which body will see
that the necessary changes are made.
   (H)   Engines shall be tested annually and after extensive repairs,
following the instructions of the National Board of Fire Underwriters. If they
develop less than 90% of their reasonable capacity, an immediate investigation
shall be made to discover the trouble and be remedied as soon as possible.
   (I)   Chemical tanks shall be kept in good operative condition.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.080)
§ 33.28 BUILDING INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Chief Engineer, or any member he or she may so designate, is
hereby authorized, empowered and required to inspect from time to time, but not
less frequently than once yearly, all buildings and premises where
accumulations of combustible materials and other hazardous conditions are
liable to exist, and to order such changes or removal as, in his or her
opinion, are necessary for safety from fire. For the purpose of inspection, he
or she is hereby empowered to enter any and all buildings and premises at any
reasonable hour.
   (B)   Also, in the same districts for the purpose of facilitating
firefighting, building inspections shall be made by the Department officers
from time to time, but not less frequently than quarterly, to determine the
arrangement of buildings with the respect to one another, to familiarize
themselves with the inside of every building and its contents to study the best
method of attacking every building in cases of fire and to note all new
construction.
   (C)   (1)   Records shall be kept of all inspections, including notes an
sketches.
      (2)   These records shall be made a permanent part of the records of the
Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.090)
§ 33.29 RECORDS.
   (A)   The Chief Engineer, through the Department Secretary, is hereby
required to keep and shall devise forms or methods of keeping records or the
following:
      (1)   Date, time and location;
      (2)   Probable origin and cause;
      (3)   Method of extinguishment of fire;
      (4)   Amount of property loss;
      (5)   Valuation of property involved in fires;
      (6)   Amount of insurance carried in buildings and contents;
      (7)   Amount of insurance paid on building and contents;
      (8)   Description of buildings damaged or destroyed and name of owner and
occupant; and
      (9)   Where alarm originated.
   (B)   Complete records shall be kept of the attendance of every officer and
firefighter to fires, drills, schools and meetings.
   (C)   Other records shall consist of all records previously and hereafter
specified and required in these rules and regulations, except those indicated
above.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.100)
§ 33.30 RULES FOR DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   All officers and persons shall wear the badge of the Department while
on duty.
   (B)   Persons not connected with the Department shall not be permitted to
ride on apparatus.
   (C)   Information relative to fires, alarms and Department business shall,
under no conditions, be given out to anybody. Persons making such inquiry shall
be referred to the Chief Engineer.
   (D)   Members of the Department shall at all times be thoroughly familiar
with all ordinances pertaining to Fire Department and to fire prevention.
   (E)   All cars and vehicles operating within the area between the fire hall
and place of fire, other than firefighters’ cars or vehicles, shall pull to the
curb on sounding of fire siren or firefighters’ horn, to avoid interference
with firefighters and apparatus.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.110)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Removal of garbage
   
50.03   Supervision
   
50.04   Hiring and discharging collectors
   
50.05   Contracts
   
50.06   Containers
   
50.07   Disposal of garbage; incineration
   
50.08   Collection; costs; assessment of unplatted premises; taxes
   
50.09   Assessments
   
50.10   Health Officer authorized to promulgate rules and regulations
Conditions; Prohibited Actions
   
50.25   Burning garbage
   
50.26   Depositing garbage in streets
   
50.27   Transporting garbage upon the streets
   
50.28   Building construction wastes
   
50.29   Fee for collecting all other wastes
   
50.30   Ash disposition
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. A person other than the owner, having charge, care or control of any
property within the town.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. Any building or group of buildings in which there are three
or more apartments or cabins used or designed for use as living quarters by
three or more families.
   BOARDING HOUSE. Any place at which meals and/or lodgings are furnished for
four or more persons not living together as a family, but shall not include
restaurants or hotels.
   DEBRIS. Any accumulation of broken and detached lumber scattered about any
premises.
   DWELLING. A building providing living quarters for one family.
   FAMILY. A group of people, whether related or not, living together as a
single housekeeping unit.
   GARBAGE. All refuse, animal and vegetable matter, ashes, store sweepings,
paper and rubbish and other indestructible waste matter; but it shall not be
construed to mean or include manure, basement or lawn excavations, trees or
house wreckage or other like debris.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.010)
   HOTEL. A building more than one story high designed and used to provide
separate rooms with sleeping accommodations for five or more guests.
   MOTEL. A place not more than one story high providing sleeping
accommodations primarily for tourists, with or without food preparation
facilities, in separate or connected cabins.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A building used as living quarters for only one
family and shall include every occupied house trailer not parked in a trailer
court.
   TENANT. A person or family occupying living quarters owned by another.
   TOWN DUMP. The place specified by the Town Council for the final disposition
of garbage, trash, debris and litter.
   TRAILER COURT. Any licensed trailer court.
   TRASH. Any worthless rubbish or refuse matter not covered in the definition
of debris or litter.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.100)
(Ord. 191, passed - -)
§ 50.02 REMOVAL OF GARBAGE.
   All garbage must be removed or disposed of in a manner approved by the Town
Council.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.020) (Ord. 191, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 SUPERVISION.
   (A)   The collection, removal and disposal of garbage shall be done and
performed under the supervision, direction and control of the Town Council and
in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, and with any additional
rules and regulations that may be made from time to time, by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.030)
   (B)   The town shall provide for the disposal of all garbage within the town
and, to that end, shall have the power to contract with some responsible
person, firm or corporation, or other business organization, and/or the Town
Council is hereby authorized and empowered to purchase necessary equipment and
hire personnel for the removal of the garbage and other refuse accumulated
within the town.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.050)
(Ord. 191, passed - -)
§ 50.04 HIRING AND DISCHARGING COLLECTORS.
   The Mayor, with the approval of the Council, shall have the power to hire
and discharge the collectors and such additional labor as is found necessary to
collect and remove all garbage in the proper manner.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.040) (Ord. 191, passed - -)
§ 50.05 CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Before the letting of any contract for the collection and removal of
garbage and other refuse within the town limits, the Council shall advertise
for bids pursuant to the codes of the state.
   (B)   Upon the letting of such contract, the person receiving the same shall
give a bond to the town in such sum as shall be designated by the Council,
which bond shall provide for the faithful performance of such contract.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.060) (Ord. 191, passed - -)
§ 50.06 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner, occupant of a building used for
human habitation or business purposes within the town to provide or cause to be
provided, portable, washable, galvanized metallic containers of not more than
32 gallons’ capacity, and sufficient in number to hold the garbage accumulating
between periods of removal. All such garbage containers shall be water-tight
and provided with handles and tight-fitting metallic covers.
   (B)   The covers shall be kept on the containers at all times, except when
necessarily removed for depositing or removing garbage. This section shall
apply to Class I occupants, only as hereinafter defined. Said containers shall
be kept upon suitable stands not less than 12 inches or more than 24 inches
above the surface of the ground and so placed as to be readily accessible to
the garbage collector at all times.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.070) (Ord. 191, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE; INCINERATION.
   (A)   (1)   All refuse, animal or vegetable matter upon any premises in the
town which is not otherwise disposed of, shall be securely wrapped and
deposited in the cans or containers above mentioned.
      (2)   All ashes, tin cans and other indestructible matter is to be
deposited in the cans or containers above mentioned, and all waste paper to be
removed by the town as garbage shall be placed either in said cans and
containers or in sacks securely tied or baled.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.080)
   (B)   Incineration of any material in a garbage container, or other can, or
outside incinerator is prohibited within the town.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.090)
(Ord. 191, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08 COLLECTION; COSTS; ASSESSMENT OF UNPLATTED PREMISES; TAXES.
   (A)   (1)   The cost of collection of garbage from the town shall, in all
cases, be assessed and taxed against the real estate from which the garbage is
removed. Each lot from which garbage is removed shall, as far as practicable,
bear its share of the expense of collecting and disposal of the garbage in
proportion to the amount of garbage removed therefrom.
      (2)   (a)   The Town Council shall cause to be prepared a list of all
lots or parts of lots in the town upon which there are buildings or other
improvements.
         (b)   Except in the cases or single unit dwellings, such lists shall
show, in connection with each building, the number of rooms therein and the
nature of business or occupation for which the same is used.
         (c)   If used or occupied as a multiple dwelling, the number or
apartments or dwelling units in which it is divided shall be listed.
         (d)   The lists shall also show the number of stories of each
building, other than residences, and the character of business carried on in
such building so far as it is necessary for fixing the rate of taxation
hereinafter set forth.
         (e)   Such lists shall be filed in the office of the Town Clerk and
shall constitute the list of lots upon which garbage tax shall be collected
each year, except as later modified and revised.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the Town Council to have prepared by a
competent person employed for that service, to, on or before April 1 each year,
prepare a list of all lots, fractions of lots or other real estate, in the town
not theretofore taxed, upon which buildings or other improvements have been
erected or constructed necessitating the removal of garbage. Any addition to
building or changes in the use thereof which shall affect the rate of taxation
as hereinafter set forth shall be noted on the aforesaid list to accomplish the
annual revision of the list.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.110)
   (B)   Any area of 25 feet by 150 feet upon any unplatted premises within the
town, upon which is situated a building or part or a building which
necessitates the removal of garbage under this chapter, shall constitute a unit
for the purpose of taxation under this chapter and shall be assessed in the
same proportion and in the same manner as lots or portions of lots upon which
there are buildings or parts of buildings necessitating the removal of garbage
hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.120)
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Council to estimate, as nearly as
practicable, the cost of collecting and disposing of garbage in the town, and
before the second Monday in August of each year, the Council shall pass and
adopt a resolution levying and assessing a basic tax upon all lots or portions
of occupied lots, notwithstanding the fact that the owners of occupants thereof
may privately dispose of their said garbage. All occupied lots shall be
classified according to the use thereof designated as follows:
      (1)   Class I - Single Unit Residence, including individual dwelling
units within a structure housing multiple dwelling units and individual lots in
trailer courts or mobile home parks; and
      (2)   Class II - Business and Property.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.130)
   (D)   Basic tax for Class I occupancies shall be fixed and determined by the
Council by resolution. To fix equitable tax rates for Class II occupancies, it
shall be the duty of the Town Council to fairly appraise the kind and quantity
of garbage and refuse service required by each Class II occupancy. Whereupon,
the Council shall fix the tax rates for each individual Class II occupancy
based upon the service required. Such tax on Class II occupancies, however,
shall not exceed the following amounts:
      (1)   In addition to the basic tax for Class I occupancies, 300% of the
basic tax for restaurants, meat markets, grocery stores, department stores,
saloons, hardware stores, trailer courts, service stations, drug stores,
theaters, elevators, lumber yards, variety stores, implement and automobile
agencies and appliance stores;
      (2)   In addition to the basic tax for Class I occupancies, 200% of the
basic tax for general repair shops, barbershops, banks, dry cleaners,
morticians, plumbing stores, post office, bakeries, shoe repair shops,
newspapers and depots, laundries and pool halls;
      (3)   In addition to the basic tax for Class I occupancies, 25% for each
ten rooms or fractions thereof in hotels and rooming houses and motels; but
this limitation shall not prevent the levy of an additional tax in the event
the hotels and rooming houses also conduct restaurants, stores, bars or other
businesses within the same building or upon the same lot;
      (4)   In addition to the basic tax for Class I occupancies, 25% shall be
added to each building containing offices for each office unit; and
      (5)   In addition to the basic tax for Class 1 occupancies, 25% shall be
added to each building containing apartments, in addition to business units,
for each apartment.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.140)
(Ord. 191, passed - -; Ord. 326, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 50.09 ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   All special assessments made and levied under this chapter shall be
made and levied and collected annually in the same manner, so far as
practicable, as are other special assessments and levies of the town and shall
be made at the same time.
   (B)   Notice thereof and opportunity to be heard shall be given the same as
for other special assessments and levies, all as provided for by the statutes
of the state.
   (C)   Said assessments shall be a lien against the property against which
they are severally assessed and levied until paid and discharged, and shall be
subject to the same penalties for delinquency in payment when due and payable
as are other special assessments and levies made by the town and as authorized
by the laws of the state.
   (D)   All special assessments and levies and all other moneys collected,
received or paid under the provisions of this chapter shall be kept in a
separate fund and shall be paid out only on warrants drawn against such fund
and signed as are other warrants of the town for the disbursement of its funds
and upon claim fully executed, presented ordered and allowed, all as required
by law.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.150) (Ord. 191, passed - -)
§ 50.10 HEALTH OFFICER AUTHORIZED TO PROMULGATE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The town’s Health Officer (who may also be the Chief of Police) shall be and
is hereby authorized to promulgate rules and regulations governing and
controlling the removal and disposal of garbage if he or she deems the same
necessary to promote the sanitary and public health conditions of the town; and
such officer shall have the supervision over containers to be used in the
collection of garbage and over the equipment used in disposing of the same.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.220) (Ord. 191, passed - -)
CONDITIONS; PROHIBITED ACTIONS
§ 50.25 BURNING GARBAGE.
   The burning of garbage, as defined herein, within the corporate limits of
the town, in or out of incinerators, is hereby forbidden and prohibited and any
such burning or disposing shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.160) (Ord. 191, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.26 DEPOSITING GARBAGE IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, scatter or otherwise place or
have or cause to be thrown, scattered or otherwise placed or left, upon or
along any way of the state or town open to the public or other public place or
upon any lot or lots within the town any waste paper, rubbish, refuse, debris
or garbage of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.170) (Ord. 191, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.27 TRANSPORTING GARBAGE UPON THE STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to convey or cause to be conveyed
through the streets, alleys and public places of the town any earth, manure,
mortar, shavings, rubbish, garbage or loose material of any description, except
in tight receptacles, boxes or truck bodies equipped with secure covers which
prevent the escape of any material contained therein.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.180) (Ord. 191, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.28 BUILDING CONSTRUCTION WASTES.
   Building rubbish resulting from new construction or extensive alterations to
buildings or yards or the removal of large trees, or any trade waste condemned
in large quantities, is not garbage under this chapter, and must be disposed of
at the expense of the person responsible for its production.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.190) (Ord. 191, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.29 FEE FOR COLLECTING ALL OTHER WASTES.
   Whenever it becomes necessary for the Garbage Department to haul waste
material or rubbish that does not come under the classification of garbage, as
above described, from any lot or parcel of land where such waste material or
rubbish has been placed at or in the alley adjacent thereto, the cost of such
service shall be assessed as an extra assessment against the lot or property
from which it has been hauled unless paid for direct to the town’s garbage
collector or Town Council at the time of such service.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.200) (Ord. 191, passed - -)
§ 50.30 ASH DISPOSITION.
   (A)   All persons owning or having control of any building wherein stoves,
grates or furnaces are used, shall provide a suitable and safe ash receptacle
wherein all ashes, cinders and clinkers taken from such stoves, grates or
furnaces, must be deposited.
   (B)   Such ash receptacle shall be placed on the rear of the lot or lots
where such building is situated or at some convenient place near the rear of
such lot or lots, but in no instance must the same be placed in any alley or
street of the town, except in such cases as the Town Council may otherwise
provide.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.210) (Ord. 191, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $5 or more
than $100 or be imprisoned in the town jail for not less than two or more than
30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment; and if any fine assessed
against any person is not paid, such person shall be confined in the town jail
one day for each $10 or the fine and each violation under this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.230) (Ord. 191, passed - -)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
Use of Water System
   
51.01   Rules and regulations
   
51.02   Hook-up fee; lien on property
   
51.03   Town water lines separate from private wells and pumps
   
51.04   Wells and pumps for outside water only
   
51.05   Users must contract for water
   
51.06   Application; when water turned off
   
51.07   Meters required
   
51.08   Rules relating to meters
   
51.09   Rates to be charged when water turned on
   
51.10   Property owner responsible for all charges
   
51.11   Turning water off by request
   
51.12   Rates; when due; delinquent
   
51.13   Installation
   
51.14   Water to be turned on by authorized person only
   
51.15   One connection for two or more buildings prohibited; exceptions
   
51.16   When water discontinued
   
51.17   Owner responsible for portion of service pipes; cost
   
51.18   Application from contractors
   
51.19   May shut off water for repairs
   
51.20   Access to buildings
   
51.21   Separate stopcock required
   
51.22   Report of all work
   
51.23   Interfering with property prohibited
   
51.24   Unlawful acts
   
51.25   Hook up to town water system required
   
51.26   Notice of non-compliance
Water Service Pipes
   
51.40   Requirements
   
51.41   License application
   
51.42   Bond
   
51.43   License fee
   
51.44   Compliance with the rules of the Water Department
   
51.45   Permit
   
51.46   Notice requirements
   
51.47   Kind of pipe
   
51.48   Trenches
   
51.49   Excavations in streets or alleys
   
51.50   Barricades and danger signals
   
51.51   Refilling trenches
 
   
51.99   Penalty
USE OF WATER SYSTEM
§ 51.01 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Rules and regulations provided in this subchapter shall constitute a part of
a contract entered into by every consumer of town water and the failure to know
said rules will not excuse anyone from penalty for infringement of such rules.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.010)
§ 51.02 HOOK-UP FEE; LIEN ON PROPERTY.
   (A)   There shall be charged a one-time fee for a new connection of any
building or mobile home to the town water system. Such fee shall be in the sum
of $1,000.
   (B)   The owner of the property to which new service is furnished shall, in
addition thereto, contract for and pay for all charges of installation of the
service from the water main to the structure served.
   (C)   The person performing such service shall complete the construction to
the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works and any other inspector as
required by law.
   (D)   Any hook-up fee not paid by the time of connection to the town water
system shall constitute a lien against the real property benefitting from the
hook-up for the amount thereof, which lien has precedence over any other lien,
claims or other demands, except those of the United States and the state, or
either of them.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.011) (Ord. 327, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 51.03 TOWN WATER LINES SEPARATE FROM PRIVATE WELLS AND PUMPS.
   There shall not be any cross-connections between any individual well and
pump and the town water system. The line from the town water supply must be
separate from that of the private well and pump.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.015)
§ 51.04 WELLS AND PUMPS FOR OUTSIDE WATER ONLY.
   Present wells and pumps may be retained for outside water, lawns, gardens
and the like.
   (A)   No new wells may be drilled within the town limits, except for
irrigation purposes. Only licensed water well drillers may drill wells within
the town limits.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to all improved property not located
within 200 feet of a town water main.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.017) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 USERS MUST CONTRACT FOR WATER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to take, use or allow to be used, water
without having previously contracted from the same.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.020) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 APPLICATION; WHEN WATER TURNED OFF.
   Application for town water to be used for any purpose shall be made at the
Town Hall before the Town Clerk, in writing, which must be signed by the owner
or duly authorized agent of the owner of the property served. When water
service is ordered shut off from any premises, all charges for water supplied
to such premises shall be immediately due and payable to the town.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.030)
§ 51.07 METERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The town shall install five-eights-inch, one-inch or two-inch meters
on the water service pipes of persons using water from the water supply system
of the town. Such meters shall be installed on said service pipes in such
manner and place as may be prescribed by the Director of Public Works or his or
her authorized representative.
   (B)   No meters shall be placed in service nor recognized as standard meters
within the town unless approved by the Public Works Department. The Public
Works Director or his or her representative shall prescribe the size of meter
to by placed on each service pipe, and no person shall place any other meter on
any service pipe, save as prescribed and of the size as prescribed by the
Public Works Department enabling the reading of the meter from the exterior of
the premises served. The Town Council, with approval of the Mayor, is hereby
authorized to establish uniform rates for the installation and rental of such
remote control meter reading devices, such charges to be paid by the owner of
the premises served by such device.
   (C)   No water meter shall be installed save and except by a plumber, duly
licensed under the laws of the state or by the Department of Public Works, and
no person other than one acting under the authority and direction of said
Department shall open, repair or interfere with any water meter. Such meters
are owned by the town and are furnished to consumers and set in place without
charge; provided, proper receptacles are provided for them and the service
pipes are suitably arranged. All meters installed within the town shall be
provided with a cut-off valve on each side of said meter so that any meter may
be removed for the purpose of supplying the consumer with water during the
testing of said meter.
   (D)   Consumers supplied by meter shall take every responsible precaution to
protect the same from injury or damage by frost or otherwise, and shall be
liable for all injury to meters. If from any cause the meter fails to register
correctly, the charge to the consumer shall be at the rate used for the
corresponding period of the month previous, or if for any reason the rate for
corresponding period of the month previous adjusted by the Department of Public
Works. For the testing of each meter at the request of the property owner, if
the meter is found defective no charge will be made. If the meter is in good
working order and registering properly, a service charge of $25 will be made.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.035)
§ 51.08 RULES RELATING TO METERS.
   (A)   Meters are the property of the town.
   (B)   Special fittings are required for connecting meters into the water
line. These are a part of the owner’s property. These connections are furnished
by the town at no cost.
   (C)   If the meter is not operating properly, the Director of Public Works
should be consulted.
   (D)   Meters shall be placed in the basement wherever practical. When this
is not possible or not convenient, the meters may be placed in any other heated
place, or in an insulated box outside the building. The insulated box is to be
provided by the property owner and constructed according to specifications. The
Director of Public Works shall be consulted.
   (E)   The town has the right to estimate the water usage, if a meter or
wiring is found faulty or has been altered.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.036)
§ 51.09 RATES TO BE CHARGED WHEN WATER TURNED ON.
   Water rentals at the established rate will be charged against property that
is required to be part of the town water system. If such sum is not paid to the
town, the Town Clerk shall certify the account with a description of the
premises and shall extend the same to the assessment list of the town as a
special tax on said property. If the land for any reason is exempt from general
taxation, the amount of such charge may.be recovered of the owner in a civil
action.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.040)
§ 51.10 PROPERTY OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL CHARGES.
   When there are two or more residences owned by the same person on the same
lot, the property owner shall be responsible for the payment of all charges and
for the payment of all water that passes through that meter.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.041)
§ 51.11 TURNING WATER OFF BY REQUEST.
   After the payment of $10 from the property owner or designated agent, water
may be turned off on property that will be vacant. If the water is not turned
off at the main, when the property is vacant, the property owner will be
charged the minimum rate. A charge of $10 will be assessed to restore the
service.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.045) (Ord. 332, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 51.12 RATES; WHEN DUE; DELINQUENT.
   (A)   All bills for water are due and payable at the office of the Town
Clerk the twentieth day of each month for all water used the preceding month,
and will become delinquent on the twenty-fifth day of the month. When an
account is or becomes delinquent, a late charge of 10% of the newly delinquent
amount will be added to the balance due. If still delinquent on the thirtieth
day of the month, the water may be shut off without further notice and not
turned on until all bills are paid, including an additional charge of $50 for
turning on the water service. Owners of property served will be held liable for
all water and service charges. Payments will be accepted from tenants, but will
not relieve the owner if the tenant becomes delinquent.
   (B)   The town will charge, effective 11-1-2017, all users of the system
based on the equivalent dwelling unit (EDU) gallons provided system. The EDU
system is based on the size of the water line or meter serving each unit
connection to the system, with the EDU being the projected use per unit based
on the cross-sectional area of the meter or line. A base rate or a multiplier
of one will be established for the size of meter most commonly used by users if
the system, which is currently three-fourths inch (the “standard line”). Users
with lines or meters larger than standard line will be assigned an EDU based on
a ratio of the cross-sectional area of the larger meter to that of the standard
line. This water rate increase will become effective on 11-1-2017, and will be
included in the November billing.
Base Rate by Connection Size
Size Multiplier Base Rate Water in Base Rate
Base Rate by Connection Size
Size     Multiplier Base Rate Water in Base Rate
3/4-inch 1          $24.50    1,000 gallons
1-inch   1.7        $41.65    1,700 gallons
1.5-inch 4          $98       4,000 gallons
2-inch   7.1        $173      7,100 gallons
2.5-inch 11.1       $271.95   11,000 gallons
3-inch   16         $392      16,000 gallons
NOTES TO TABLE:
The new water rate is the applicable base rate plus $2.75 per 1000 gallons
over the base rate.
 
   (C)   The town will charge a rate of $20 each month for fire protection on
all improved property within the town that is neither hooked up to, nor using,
the town water system where available.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.050) (Ord. 332, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 51.13 INSTALLATION.
   Either a gate valve or a stop and waste valve must be placed ahead of the
meter. That is usually placed where the water line comes into the building.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.059)
§ 51.14 WATER TO BE TURNED ON BY AUTHORIZED PERSON ONLY.
   Water may be turned on at the curb cock only by an authorized employee of
the town and, if turned on by any other person, an additional penalty of $100
shall be assessed against the property.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.060)
§ 51.15 ONE CONNECTION FOR TWO OR MORE BUILDINGS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, agent or tenant to supply or permit to
be supplied, any water to two or more buildings through one and the same
connection, except on special contract with the town.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.070) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.16 WHEN WATER DISCONTINUED.
   Violation of any of the rules and regulations of this subchapter is
sufficient cause for the water being turned off without notice and a penalty of
$100 shall be paid to the town before the water is turned on again and, in
addition thereto, the offending persons may be punished as provided by the laws
of the state.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.080)
§ 51.17 OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR PORTION OF SERVICE PIPES; COST.
   (A)   The service pipe within and without the premises and through its
entire length to the curb cock and box must be laid, kept in repair and
protected from freezing at the expense of the owner, who shall be responsible
for all damages resulting from leaks and breaks.
   (B)   No claim shall be made against the town on account of the breaking of
any private service pipe or apparatus or for the failure in supply of water.
   (C)   When there is a leak and it is doubtful whether the water is from a
break in the town main, town service pipe or curb cock and box or from a
private service pipe, employees of the town shall determine which it is from.
   (D)   If the leak is found to be from the main up to and including the curb
cock and box, the town will make all repairs, but if it is from the service
pipe after the curb cock and box the owner of the property or agent will be
notified and must immediately take charge of the excavation, repair the leak,
replace the street if applicable and be responsible for all damages which may
result.
   (E)   In case the agent or owner does not make repairs at once, the town
will proceed, and all bills for labor and material will become a charge against
said property and shall be collected from the owner or agent.
   (F)   At the end of the month, in case the bill is not paid, the enforcement
of payment thereof will be performed in the same manner as for payment of bills
for water rentals.
      (1)   The property owner is responsible for repair of the curb, sidewalk,
street, asphalt or other surfaces (collectively referred to as the “surfaces”)
located on or adjacent to the property as a result of water service pipe
maintenance, repair or replacement. Any patching, curb repair or replacement,
gutter repair or replacement, sidewalk repair or replacement or any other
general repair or replacement to any surface (collectively referred to as the
“surface repair work”) is the responsibility of the property owner. If the
property owner does not hire a licensed contractor to complete such surface
repair work within 90 days of completion of the repairs or replacement to the
water service pipe, the town may, but is not obligated to, hire a licensed
contractor to complete surface repair work on behalf of the property owner. The
Town Council has discretion to determine whether it is in the best interest of
the town to complete the surface repair work on behalf of one or more property
owners and whether the town is financially capable of covering the cost of the
surface repair work until the town is reimbursed in full by the property owner.
      (2)   (a)   If the town elects to undertake the repairs on behalf of the
property owner, the town shall bill the property owner directly for all surface
repair work by providing a written invoice for the cost of repairs attributable
to the property. If the property owner fails to pay the town in full for the
cost of the surface repair work within 90 days of the property owner’s receipt
of the invoice, the unpaid balance shall be added to the property owner’s
property tax bill for the upcoming tax year.
         (b)   If determined by the Town Council to be in the best interest of
the town, the Town Council may consider dividing the cost of the surface repair
work equally over a term not to exceed three tax years following the tax year
in which the surface repair work was completed. The preceding sentence merely
provides an option, and the Town Council is under no obligation to allow the
cost of the surface repair work to be divided over a multi-year period.
      (3)   (a)   The town shall have no responsibility or liability for any
damage caused to the property that may occur during the surface repair work.
Any subsequent surface repair work that may be required on the property for any
reason, including subsequent repairs to the same area where surface repair work
was originally completed, shall remain the responsibility of the property
owner.
         (b)   The town shall make its best efforts to notify the original
contractor, if applicable, of the failure of the original surface repair work
and the need for subsequent surface repair work. In no event shall the town be
responsible for the costs of subsequent repairs required to an area where
surface repair work was previously completed for any reason.
         (c)   If additional charges are required for subsequent surface repair
work, the town has discretion to determine if it is in the town’s best interest
to complete the subsequent surface repair work. Financial responsibility for
subsequent surface repair work shall be governed in the same manner as initial
surface repair work under this section.
      (4)   By utilizing the option outlined under this section, the property
owner agrees to hold harmless, indemnify and defend the town, its agents,
officers, directors, Council members and employees (collectively referred to as
the “indemnitees”) from and against any and all liabilities, losses, damages,
liens, claims, suits, causes of action, costs (including court costs,
attorney’s fees and costs of investigation) and actions of any kind arising out
of, caused by, resulting from or alleged to arise by reason of the surface
repair work. If any action or proceeding shall be brought by or against any
indemnitee in connection with any such liability or claim, the property owner,
on notice from the indemnitee, shall defend such action or proceeding at the
property owner’s sole expense, by or through attorneys reasonably satisfactory
to the indemnitee.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.090) (Ord. 350, passed 12-14-2022)
§ 51.18 APPLICATION FROM CONTRACTORS.
   Contractors, builders or others desiring water for building purposes must
make applications to the town prior to using the same, and the amount to be
paid shall be based upon rates fixed therefor.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.100)
§ 51.19 MAY SHUT OFF WATER FOR REPAIRS.
   The town reserves the right at any time without notice to shut the water off
its mains for the purpose of making repairs or extensions, or for any other
purpose, and no claim shall be made against the town by reason of the breakage
of any service pipe or from any other damage that may result from shutting off
the water.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.110)
§ 51.20 ACCESS TO BUILDINGS.
   The town shall have access at all reasonable times and hours to all parts of
any building or premises in which water is being delivered form the water mains
for the purpose of inspecting the conditions of the pipes and fixtures and the
manner in which the water is being used.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.120)
§ 51.21 SEPARATE STOPCOCK REQUIRED.
   Service pipes must be so arranged that the supply for each separate house or
premises may be controlled by a separate stopcock placed at a point designated
by the town, and owner or agent of said property will be held responsible for
all bills for water used through said service for his, her or their use, or for
the use of others to whom it may be accessible.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.130)
§ 51.22 REPORT OF ALL WORK.
   None but licensed plumbers shall be allowed to do any work in connection
with the service pipes when water may be drawn from the town mains, and all
plumbers must make return to the proper officers of the town a true and correct
account of the work done within 24 hours afer completion; provided, however,
that, the town by its duly authorized employees may do any of said work.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.140) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.23 INTERFERING WITH PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to open, close, turn or interfere with,
or attach to or connect with any fire hydrant, main, curb cock or valves,
without permission from the town or to disturb or damage any pipe, machinery,
tools or other property of the town, or to throw any substance into any
reservoir or water main or to bathe in any reservoir, or to deface or injure
any buildings belonging to or connected with the water system.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.150) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.24 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to purposely or knowingly:
   (A)   Obstruct, alter, injure or prevent the action of any instrument used
to measure or register the quantity of water supplied to a customer of the
town;
   (B)   Make any connection by means of a pipe, or otherwise, with any main or
pipe used for delivery of water to a consumer of the town; or
   (C)   Make any connection or reconnection with such main or pipe, or turn
off or on, or in any manner interfere with any valve, stop cock or other
appliance connected therewith.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.160) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.25 HOOK UP TO TOWN WATER SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   All improved property located within 200 feet of a town water main shall be
required to hook up to the town water system.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.170)
§ 51.26 NOTICE OF NON-COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Notice of non-compliance. If the town determines that a residence is
not in compliance with the terms of this subchapter at §
51.25 of this chapter, notice shall be given to the property owner of record
specifying the date by which he or she must hook up to the town water. Said
notice shall be at least 30 days before the date of compliance.
   (B)   Violation. If the property owner does not comply with this subchapter
and the notice given within 30 days of the date of the notice, the owner shall
be in violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.180)
WATER SERVICE PIPES
§ 51.40 REQUIREMENTS.
   No person, firm or corporation shall run any water service pipe or make any
connection to the water distributing system for any purpose whatsoever who
shall have not first obtained from the Town Council a license for running water
service pipes.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.010) (Ord. 159, passed - -; Ord. 253, passed - -; Ord. 255,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.41 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   The application for license for running water service pipes shall be
endorsed by the Town Engineer, or in the absence of the Town Engineer, by the
Town Attorney, who shall have satisfied himself or herself as to the
responsibility and ability of the applicant or applicants, for doing such work.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.020) (Ord. 159, passed - -; Ord. 253, passed - -; Ord. 255,
passed - -)
§ 51.42 BOND.
   Upon the granting of such license, and before the same shall have been
issued, the licensee shall file with the Town Clerk a bond in the sum of
$1,500, which bond shall be approved by the Mayor and Town Attorney,
conditioned for the protection of the town against all losses or damages which
may occur on account of such license, or the carelessness or negligence of the
licensee or his, her or their employees during the time such license is in
force, it being understood that a new bond shall be required for the issuance
of any renewal license.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.030) (Ord. 159, passed - -; Ord. 253, passed - -; Ord. 255,
passed - -)
§ 51.43 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual fee for this license shall be $25, payable in advance.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.040) (Ord. 159, passed - -; Ord. 253, passed - -; Ord. 255,
passed - -)
§ 51.44 COMPLIANCE WITH THE RULES OF THE WATER DEPARTMENT.
   Every person, firm or corporation laying or repairing water pipes or doing
anything in connection with the water distributing system of the town shall act
in accordance with this subchapter and rules and regulations of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.050) (Ord. 159, passed - -; Ord. 253, passed - -; Ord. 255,
passed - -)
§ 51.45 PERMIT.
   (A)   Before doing any work in connection with the laying, repairing,
extending or otherwise modifying any water service pipe or excavating any
trench for the purpose of laying or repairing any water service pipe, the
licensee shall obtain from the Water Commissioner, a written permit, which will
give the location, nature and purpose of the proposed work.
   (B)   This permit must be on the ground at all times during the progress of
the work, and must be shown to any officer in authority on demand.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.060) (Ord. 159, passed - -; Ord. 253, passed - -; Ord. 255,
passed - -)
§ 51.46 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any person performing any excavation relative to the town’s water
system is required to notify the Director of Public Works prior to the
commencement of said excavation.
   (B)   If any excavation shall take place on any way of the town open to the
public, the Director of Public Works shall be provided with specifications for
compaction of the earth for trench filling prior to excavation.
   (C)   The notice of requirements contained herein are the responsibility of
the person doing the excavating.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.065) (Ord. 159, passed - -; Ord. 253, passed - -; Ord. 255,
passed - -)
§ 51.47 KIND OF PIPE.
   Water service pipes shall be of what is commercially known as copper pipe.
All pipes shall be laid at a sufficient depth to prevent freezing in coldest
prevailing winter weather.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.070) (Ord. 159, passed - -; Ord. 253, passed - -; Ord. 255,
passed - -)
§ 51.48 TRENCHES.
   Trenches for water pipes shall be so excavated as to give an even bed of
solid earth, and no water pipe shall be laid in a sewer trench.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.080) (Ord. 159, passed - -; Ord. 253, passed - -; Ord. 255,
passed - -)
§ 51.49 EXCAVATIONS IN STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   Excavations in public streets or alleys shall be made so as to impede travel
as little as possible. When it is necessary to excavate entirely across the
street, a barricade or distinctly legible sign (“Street Closed”) shall be
placed at each end of the block.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.090) (Ord. 159, passed - -; Ord. 253, passed - -; Ord. 255,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.50 BARRICADES AND DANGER SIGNALS.
   Barricades shall be placed around excavations at all times and red lights
shall be maintained from dark until sunrise.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.100) (Ord. 159, passed - -; Ord. 253, passed - -; Ord. 255,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.51 REFILLING TRENCHES.
   (A)   Trenches within any way of the town open to the public shall be
refilled in a manner that will permit as little settlement of the earth as
possible.
   (B)   The Director of Public Works shall inspect and approve the filling and
impaction of any trench in any way of the town open to the public and he or she
shall inspect and approve the connection to the water system.
   (C)   Any person who fills or impacts any trench on any way of the town open
to the public or connects to the town water system without the approval of the
Director of Public Works shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Surplus material
must be removed and any repairs necessary to keep the trench in a safe and
passable condition for a period of one year shall be done by the excavator.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.110) (Ord. 159, passed - -; Ord. 253, passed - -; Ord. 255,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The penalty for violation of §§
51.01 through
51.26 of this chapter shall be a fine of not less than $100 or more than $300.
In addition, the town may recover the cost of hooking the residence up to town
water by filing a complaint in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.180)
   (C)   Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of §§
51.40 through
51.51 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined in a sum of not less than $25 or more than $100 for
each offense, and a further penalty of not less than $25 will be imposed for
each day such violation is allowed, or suffered to continue, and after the
first fine has been imposed upon any person, firm or corporation, having a
license under §§
51.40 through
51.51 of this chapter, for any of the violations herein, the Town Engineer or
Water Commissioner may suspend and the Town Council may revoke the license of
such person, firm or corporation having such license.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.120)
(Ord. 159, passed - -; Ord. 253, passed - -; Ord. 255, passed - -)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
Sewer Use
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Use of public sewers required
   
52.03   Private wastewater disposal
   
52.04   Sanitary sewers, building sewers and connections
   
52.05   Use of public sewers
   
52.06   Malicious tampering with sewers
   
52.07   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
52.08   Hearing Board
   
52.09   Validity
   
52.10   Surcharge rate schedule for above normal strength wastes
   
52.11   Rate schedule
   
52.12   Wastewater Facilities Replacement Fund schedule
   
52.13   Owner responsible for service pipes; cost
   
52.14   Owner responsible for repairs to surface
Drain Laying
   
52.25   Supervision
   
52.26   License; application
   
52.27   Bond
   
52.28   License fee
   
52.29   Use of license
   
52.30   Permit; application
   
52.31   Notice requirements
   
52.32   Fee for connection
   
52.33   Barricades
   
52.34   Refill trenches
   
52.35   Size of drain
   
52.36   Laying pipe
 
   
52.99   Penalty
SEWER USE
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, wastes and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewers
beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FLOATABLE OIL.
      (1)   Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will separate
by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment facility.
      (2)   A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
   HEARING BOARD. The board appointed according to §
52.08 of this chapter.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade or
business as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch lake or other body of surface or
ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithum of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, as a pH VALUE of 7 and a hydrogen-ion concentration
of 10.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM DRAIN. (Sometimes termed STORM SEWER.) A drain or sewer for conveying
water, ground water, subsurface water or unpolluted water from any source.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Wastewater Facilities, and/or of
wastewater treatment works, and/or water pollution control of the town, or his
or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in water, wastewater or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to as NON- FILTERABLE RESIDUE.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   WASTEWATER.
      (1)   The spent water of a community.
      (2)   From the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the
liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings,
industrial plants and institutions, together with any ground water, surface
water, and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or WATER POLLUTION
CONTROL PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 4.08.010)
§ 52.02 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   (D)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the
town, is hereby required at the owner(s) expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, within 60
days after date of official notice to do so; provided that, said public sewer
is within 200 feet of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 4.08.020) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
52.02(D) of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
wastewater disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system the owner(s) shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the town, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $50 shall be paid to the town at
the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. The Superintendent shall be allowed to inspect the work at any
stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within 24 hours of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the state’s Department
of Health and Environmental Sciences. No permit shall be issued for any private
wastewater disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities
where the area of the lot is less than 7,500 square feet. No septic tank or
cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in division (D) above, a
direct connection shall be made to public sewer within 60 days in compliance
with this subchapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private
wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with
suitable material.
   (F)   The owner(s) shall operate and maintain the wastewater disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 4.08.030)
§ 52.04 SANITARY SEWERS, BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
   (B)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for residential
and commercial service; and for service to establishments producing industrial
wastes. In either case, the owner(s) or his or her agent shall make application
on a special form furnished by the town. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of
$50 for a residential or commercial building sewer permit and $100 for an
industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the town at the time the
application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall indemnify
the town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer, but the town does not and will not
assume any obligation or responsibility or damage caused by or resulting from
any such single connection aforementioned.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of all sanitary
sewers, including building sewers, and the methods to be used in excavating,
placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the trench, shall all
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town and the state. In the absence of
suitable code provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and
procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F.
Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof down spouts, foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer unless such connection is approved by the
Superintendent and the state’s Department of Health and Environmental Sciences
for purposes of disposal of polluted surface drainage.
   (I)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town and the state or the procedures
set forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual
of Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight
and verified by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures
and materials must be approved by the Superintendent before installation.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the
supervision of the Superintendent or his or her representative.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Prior Code, § 4.08.040)
§ 52.05 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted
waters such as storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff,
subsurface drainage or cooling water to any sewer, except storm water runoff
from limited areas, which storm water may be polluted at times, may be
discharged to the sanitary sewer by permission of the Superintendent and the
state’s Department of Health and Environmental Sciences.
   (B)   (1)   Storm water other than that exempted under division (A) above
and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are
specifically designated as combined sewers er storm sewers, or to natural
outlet approved by the Superintendent and the state’s Department of Health and
Environmental Sciences.
      (2)   Unpolluted industrial cooling water or process waters may be
discharged, on approval of the Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer
or natural outlet.
   (C)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described water or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases
in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
contaminate the sludge of any municipal system, to injure or interfere with any
sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a
public nuisance or create any hazard in or have an adverse effect on the waters
receiving any discharge from the treatment works. Each user which discharges
any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in the cost of managing the
effluent or the sludge of the town’s treatment works shall pay for such
increased costs; and
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like with
whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (D)   The following described substances, materials, waters or wastes shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either the sewers, the sludge of any municipal system, the
wastewater treatment process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on
the receiving stream, or will not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public
property or constitute a nuisance. The Superintendent may set limitations lower
than the limitations established in the regulations below if, in his or her
opinion, such more severe limitations are necessary to meet the above
objectives. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability, the
Superintendent will give consideration of such factors as the quantity of
subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, the wastewater treatment process employed, capacity
of the wastewater treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The limitations
or restrictions on materials or characteristics of waste or wastewaters
discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be violated without approval
of the Superintendent are as follows:
      (1)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of
petroleum oil, non- biodegradable cutting oils or product of mineral oil
origin;
      (3)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fat or
grease;
      (4)   (a)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded (see §
52.01 of this chapter for the definition of “properly shredded garbage”).
         (b)   Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes,
hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or
similar places where garbage originates from the preparation of food in
kitchens or the purpose of consumption on the premises or when served by
caterers;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to such a degree that any such
material received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works
exceeds the limits established by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the Superintendent;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Quantities of flow, concentrations or both, which constitute a
“slug”, as defined herein;
      (9)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and
      (10)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
   (E)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (D) above and which, in the judgment
of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater
facilities, processes, equipment or receiving water, or which otherwise create
a hazard of life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of division (K) below. If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and
the state’s Department of Health and Environmental Sciences.
   (F)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts as specified in
division (D)(3) above, or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful
ingredients; except that, such interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the Superintendent and the state’s Plumbing Code, and
shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner(s) shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the
captivated material and shall maintain records of the dates and means of
disposal which are subject to review by the Superintendent. Any removal and
hauling of the collected materials not performed by owner(s) personnel must be
performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
   (G)   Where pretreatment or flow-equalization facilities are provided or
required by any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner(s) at his or her expense.
   (H)   (1)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner(s) of any
property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install
a suitable structure together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes.
      (2)   Such structures, when required, shall be accessibly and safely
located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The structure shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
   (I)   The Superintendent may require a user of sewer services to provide
information needed to determine compliance this subchapter. These requirements
may include:
      (1)   Wastewater’s discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
      (2)   Chemical analyses of wastewaters;
      (3)   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
      (4)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent
or other materials important to sewer use control;
      (5)   A plot plan of sewers of the user’s property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location;
      (6)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and
      (7)   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the municipal sewer.
   (J)   (1)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of
water and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health
Association.
      (2)   Sampling methods, location, times, durations and frequencies are to
be determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Superintendent.
   (K)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby and industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the town for treatment.
(Prior Code, § 4.08.050) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 MALICIOUS TAMPERING WITH SEWERS.
   No person(s) shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the wastewater facilities. Any person(s) violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Prior Code, § 4.08.060) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing pertinent to discharge to the community system in accordance with
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are authorized
to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. The industry may withhold information considered confidential. The
industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the information in
question might result in an advantage to competitors.
   (C)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company, and company shall be held blameless for injury or death to the
town employees, and the town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage
to its property by town employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company growing out of
the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence
or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
52.05(H) of this chapter.
   (D)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 4.08.070)
§ 52.08 HEARING BOARD.
   (A)   A Hearing Board shall be appointed as needed for arbitration of
differences between the Superintendent and sewer users on maters concerning
interpretation and execution of the provisions of this subchapter by the
Superintendent. The cost of the arbitration will be divided equally between the
town and the sewer user.
   (B)   One member of the Board shall be a registered professional engineer;
one member shall be a practicing sanitary engineer; one member shall be a
representative of industry or manufacturing enterprise; one member shall be a
lawyer; and one member shall be selected at large for his or her interest in
accomplishing the objectives of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.08.080)
§ 52.09 VALIDITY.
   (A)   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed.
   (B)   The invalidity of any section, clause, sentence or provision of this
subchapter shall not affect the validity of any other part of this subchapter,
which can be given effect without such valid part or parts.
(Prior Code, § 4.08.100)
§ 52.10 SURCHARGE RATE SCHEDULE FOR ABOVE NORMAL STRENGTH WASTES.
   The town, or its Engineer, has determined that the average total suspended
solids (TSS) and five-day biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) daily loadings for
the average residential user are 200 ppm BOD and 250 ppm TSS. The town, or its
Engineer, has assessed a surcharge rate for all non-residential users
discharging wastes with BOD and TSS strengths greater than the average
residential user. The surcharge will be sufficient to cover the costs of
treating such users’ above normal strength wastes. Such users will pay an
additional service charge of 2.4¢ per 1,000 gallons for each 25 ppm over 200
ppm of BOD and 1.2¢ per 1,000 gallons for each 25 ppm over 250 ppm TSS.
(Prior Code, § 4.08.110)
§ 52.11 RATE SCHEDULE.
 
Size     Multiplier Base Rate EDUs  Gallons Included in Base Rate
3/4-inch 1          $14       460   1,000
1-inch   1.79       $25.06    44.75 1,790
1.5-inch 4          $56       20    4,000
2-inch   7.14       $99.96    28.56 7,140
3-inch   16         $224      0     16,000
4-inch   28.57      $399.98   0     28,570
 
   (A)   (1)   Residential. Rate $14/EDU minimum to include 1,000 gallons and a
residential average of the months of November-March water usage to set the
amount of the minimum. Additional usage to be billed at $0.25/100 gallons over.
      (2)   Commercial. Rate $14/EDU minimum to include 1,000 gallons.
Additional to be billed at $0.25/100 gallons.
      (3)   Unmetered water users. Proposed rate will be the average of
residential usage excluding accounts not using the minimum 1,000 gallons.
   (B)   (1)   When an account is or becomes delinquent, a late charge of 10%
of the new delinquent amount will be added to the balance due.
      (2)   Owners of property served will be held liable for all sewer and
service charges.
      (3)   Payments will be accepted from tenants, but will not relieve the
owner if the tenant becomes delinquent.
(Prior Code, § 4.08.120) (Ord. 336, passed 12-10-2018)
§ 52.12 WASTEWATER FACILITIES REPLACEMENT FUND SCHEDULE.
   The reserve fund called the “Wastewater Facilities Replacement Fund”
established within the Wastewater Utility Fund as an interest-bearing account
shall be funded by a deposit of $800 per year obtained from the Wastewater
Utility Fund at the end of each fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 4.08.130)
§ 52.13 OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR SERVICE PIPES; COST.
   The service drain or pipe within and without the premises and through its
entire length to the town sewer system must be laid and kept in repair at the
expense of the owner, who shall be responsible for all damages resulting from
leaks, breaks and obstructions. No claim shall be made against the town on
account of the breaking of any service, drain or sewer pipe or apparatus or for
the failure in discharge of sewage to the town sewer system. When there is a
leak or obstruction in the street and it is doubtful whether the leak or
obstruction is from a break in the town sewer system or from a private service
pipe, employees of the town shall determine which it is from. If the leak or
obstruction is found to be from the town sewer system, the town will make all
repairs, but if it is from the service pipe the owner of the property or agent
will be notified and must immediately take charge of the excavation, repair the
leak or obstruction, replace the street and be responsible for all the damages
which may result. In case the owner or agent does not make repairs at once, the
town will proceed, and all bills for labor and material will become a charge
against said property and shall be collected from the owner or agent. At the
end of the month, in case the bill is not paid, the enforcement of payment
thereof will be performed in the same manner as for payment of bills for sewer
usage.
(Prior Code, § 4.08.150)
§ 52.14 OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR REPAIRS TO SURFACE.
   The property owner is responsible for repair of the curb, sidewalk, street,
asphalt or other surfaces (collectively referred to as the “surfaces”) located
on or adjacent to the property as a result of sewer service drain or pipe
maintenance, repair or replacement. Any patching, curb repair or replacement,
gutter repair or replacement, sidewalk repair or replacement, or any other
general repair or replacement to any surface (collectively referred to as the
“surface repair work”) is the responsibility of the property owner. If the
property owner does not hire a licensed contractor to complete such surface
repair work within 90 days of completion of the repairs or replacement to the
sewer service drain or pipe, the town may, but is not obligated to, hire a
licensed contractor to complete surface repair work on behalf of the property
owner. The Town Council has discretion to determine whether it is in the best
interest of the town to complete the surface repair work on behalf of one or
more property owners and whether the town is financially capable of covering
the cost of the surface repair work until the town is reimbursed in full by the
property owner.
   (A)   (1)   If the town elects to undertake the repairs on behalf of the
property owner, the town shall bill the property owner directly for all surface
repair work by providing a written invoice for the cost of repairs attributable
to the property.
      (2)   If the property owner fails to pay the town in full for the cost of
the surface repair work within 90 days of the property owner’s receipt of the
invoice, the unpaid balance shall be added to the property owner’s property tax
bill for the upcoming tax year. If determined by the Town Council to be in the
best interest of the town, the Town Council may consider dividing the cost of
the surface repair work equally over a term not to exceed three tax years
following the tax year in which the surface repair work was completed.
      (3)   The last sentence of division (A)(2) above merely provides an
option, and the Town Council is under no obligation to allow the cost of the
surface repair work to be divided over a multi-year period.
   (B)   (1)   The town shall have no responsibility or liability for any
damage caused to the property that may occur during the surface repair work.
      (2)   Any subsequent surface repair work that may be required on the
property for any reason, including subsequent repairs to the same area where
surface repair work was originally completed, shall remain the responsibility
of the property owner.
      (3)   The town shall make its best efforts to notify the original
contractor, if applicable, of the failure of the original surface repair work
and the need for subsequent surface repair work. In no event shall the town be
responsible for the costs of subsequent repairs required to an area where
surface repair work was previously completed for any reason.
      (4)   If additional charges are required for subsequent surface repair
work, the town has discretion to determine if it is in the town’s best interest
to complete the subsequent surface repair work. Financial responsibility for
subsequent surface repair work shall be governed in the same manner as initial
surface repair work under this section.
   (C)   (1)   The property owner agrees to hold harmless, indemnify and defend
the town, its agents, officers, directors, Council member(s) and employees
(collectively referred to as the “indemnitees”) from and against any and all
liabilities, losses, damages, liens, claims, suits, causes of action, costs
(including court costs, attorney’s fees and costs of investigation) and actions
of any kind arising out of, caused by, resulting from or alleged to arise by
reason of the surface repair work.
      (2)   If any action or proceeding shall be brought by or against any
indemnitee in connection with any such liability or claim, the property owner,
on notice from the indemnitee, shall defend such action or proceeding at the
property owner’s sole expense, by or through attorneys reasonably satisfactory
to the indemnitee.
(Ord. 349, passed 12-14-2022)
DRAIN LAYING
§ 52.25 SUPERVISION.
   The construction and maintenance of all sewers, drains, cesspools and the
like, whether public or private, within the limits of the town shall be under
the supervision and direction of the Town Engineer, or such person as the
Council may appoint his or her authorized assistant or duly appointed
inspector.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.010) (Ord. 160, passed - -; Ord. 252, passed - -; Ord. 254,
passed - -)
§ 52.26 LICENSE; APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall excavate for or construct any
sewer, drain or cesspool, or make connection thereto, or modify or repair the
same, without holding the proper license for such work from the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.020)
   (B)   The application to the Town Council or such license shall be endorsed
by the Town Engineer, who shall have first satisfied himself or herself as to
the competency and ability of the applicant to carry on the business of drain
laying.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.030)
(Ord. 160, passed - -; Ord. 252, passed - -; Ord. 254, passed - -)
§ 52.27 BOND.
   Upon the granting of such license and before the same has been issued, the
applicant or applicants shall file with the Town Clerk, a bond in the sum or
$1,000, which bond shall be approved by the Mayor and Town Attorney, and
conditioned for the protection of the town against all loss or damage which may
occur on account of such license, through any carelessness or negligence in
either the execution or protection of his or her work by reason of any
unfaithful or inadequate work done by such person, firm or corporation, or his,
her or their employees and that said licenses as such will also conform to all
the conditions and requirements of the town for his or her or the town
government, or in default thereof, will submit to such penalties as are, or may
be, prescribed by the Town Engineer, the authorized inspector or the Town
Council.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.040) (Ord. 160, passed - -; Ord. 252, passed - -; Ord. 254,
passed - -)
§ 52.28 LICENSE FEE.
   The license fee of a drain layer shall be $25 payable annually in advance. A
record of such license shall be kept in the office of the Town Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.050) (Ord. 160, passed - -; Ord. 252, passed - -; Ord. 254,
passed - -)
§ 52.29 USE OF LICENSE.
   No person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of drain laying, or
sewer connection, shall allow his, her or their name to be used by any person,
directly or indirectly, to obtain a permit or do any work under his, her or
their hand, except the town has a right to hire competent labor for its own
use.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.060) (Ord. 160, passed - -; Ord. 252, passed - -; Ord. 254,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.30 PERMIT; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Before commencing the construction or modification or repair of any
sewer, drain or cesspool, the drain layer shall first obtain a written permit
from the office of the Town Engineer, and such permit be upon the grounds at
all times during the progress of the work, and must be shown to the officer in
authority on demand.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.070)
   (B)   All applications for permits for new connections to sewers must first
give a description of the property to be served, grade as building line and
such other information as may be required by the Town Engineer, for the proper
direction of the work and must be signed by the owner or his or her authorized
agent.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.080)
(Ord. 160, passed - -; Ord. 252, passed - -; Ord. 254, passed - -)
§ 52.31 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person performing any excavation relative to the town sewer system is
required to notify the Director of Public Works prior to the commencement of
the said excavation. If any excavation shall take place on any way of the town
open to the public, the Director of Public Works shall be provided with
specifications for compaction of the earth for trench filling prior to
excavation. The notice requirements contained herein are the responsibility of
the person doing the excavating.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.085) (Ord. 160, passed - -; Ord. 252, passed - -; Ord. 254,
passed - -)
§ 52.32 FEE FOR CONNECTION.
   There shall be charged a one-time fee for a new connection of any building
or mobile home to the town’s sewer system. Such fee shall be the sum of $1,000.
Any hook-up fee not paid by the time of connection to the town’s sewer system
shall constitute a lien against the real property benefitting from the hook-up
for the amount thereof, which lien has precedence over any other lien, claim or
other demands, except those of the United States and the state, or either of
them.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.090) (Ord. 160, passed - -; Ord. 250, passed 12-10-1990;
Ord. 252, passed - -; Ord. 254, passed - -; Ord. 327, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 52.33 BARRICADES.
   Excavations in streets and alleys shall be made in such a manner as to
impede travel as little as possible, and the time that such excavation is open
may be limited by the Town Engineer, his or her assistant or inspector.
Efficient barricades shall be erected by the drain layer.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.100) (Ord. 160, passed - -; Ord. 252, passed - -; Ord. 254,
passed - -)
§ 52.34 REFILL TRENCHES.
   Trenches within any way of the town open to the public shall be refilled in
a manner that will permit as little settlement of the earth as possible. The
Director of Public Works shall inspect and approve the filling and impaction of
any trench in any way of the town open to the public and he or she shall
inspect and approve the connection to the sewer system. Any person who fills or
impacts any trench on any way of the town open to the public or connects to the
town’s sewer system without the approval of the Director of Public Works shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor. Surplus material must be removed and any repairs
necessary to keep the trench in a safe and passable condition for a period of
one year shall be done by the excavator.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.110) (Ord. 160, passed - -; Ord. 252, passed - -; Ord. 254,
passed - -)
§ 52.35 SIZE OF DRAIN.
   No drain or sewer pipe shall be less than four inches internal diameter, and
all drains and sewer must be of a size adequate for its purpose and such as
shall convey and allow freely and entirely to pass whatever enters, or shall
enter the same. If a four-inch pipe is used, it shall be laid to a grade of not
less than 2%.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.120) (Ord. 160, passed - -; Ord. 252, passed - -; Ord. 254,
passed - -)
§ 52.36 LAYING PIPE.
   Sewer connections shall be made of good, sound, salt-glazed vitrified pipe,
laid on a uniform grade not less that three feet below the surface. All changes
in the direction of the sewer shall be made by bends, or other suitable
fittings. No pipe shall be cut, chipped or have its glaze otherwise destroyed,
except by permission of the inspector and done under his or her supervision.
Each pipe must be carefully bedded as laid, the joint filled with cement mortar
(mix), mixed with one part portland cement to three parts sand, except where
wet ground is encountered, when the joint shall be filled with GK Compound or
some equally good asphaltic joining compound, and the earth free from rock,
thoroughly tamped about it to hold it in place. A sack containing a suitable
quantity of sand shall be removed from be removed from the pipe by the drain
layer, up on the completion of the sewer connection. The vitrified pipe shall
not approach within two feet of any building, cellar, vault or areaway from
which point cast iron pipe shall be used. Should soil pipe have been laid at
this point by the plumber, the drain layer shall see that it properly enters
the vitrified pipe and shall connect the two so as to effectively exclude all
foreign material.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.130) (Ord. 160, passed - -; Ord. 252, passed - -; Ord. 254,
passed - -)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found violating any provision of §§
52.01 through
52.13 of this chapter, except §
52.06 of this chapter, shall be served by the town with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (B)(1) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on
conviction thereof, shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $100 for each
violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed
a separate offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
52.01 through
52.13 of this chapter shall become liable to the town for any expense, loss or
damage occasioned the town by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 4.08.090)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING RULES
      
71.   TOY AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC AND PARKING RULES
Section
   
70.01   Uniform Traffic Act adoption
   
70.02   Speed limits
   
70.03   U-turns
   
70.04   Exhibition driving
   
70.05   Traffic on sidewalks
   
70.06   Parking limits; prohibitions; exceptions
   
70.07   Trucks, tractors, trailers and buses
   
70.08   Vehicles approaching yield sign
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 UNIFORM TRAFFIC ACT ADOPTION.
   All ordinances of the town relating to the regulation of traffic within the
town are hereby revised and recodified by the adoption of the Uniform Act
Regulating Traffic on Highways, as set forth in M.C.A. Title 61.
(Prior Code, § 10.02.010)
§ 70.02 SPEED LIMITS.
   All traffic within the town will be governed and regulated by the provisions
of said Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways as so set forth in the state
statutes; provided that, the speed limit within the town limits shall be 25 mph
in the business district or residential districts, except on zones which are
clearly marked for speed limits.
(Prior Code, § 10.02.020) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 U-TURNS.
   (A)   Restricting U-turns. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any
motor vehicle to make a U-turn or to turn across the opposite lane of traffic
to park at the curb anywhere along Montana State Highway No. 200 within the
corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 10.06.010)
   (B)   Intersections. It shall be unlawful to make a U-turn at any controlled
intersection within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 10.06.020)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, EXHIBITION DRIVING
means driving a vehicle in a manner which disturbs the peace by creating or
causing unnecessary engine noise, tire squeal, skid or slide upon acceleration
or braking or driving and executing or attempting one or a series of
unnecessarily abrupt turns.
(Prior Code, § 10.14.010)
   (B)   Exhibition driving unlawful. No person may engage in exhibition
driving of any vehicle on a highway, street, alley, sidewalk or any public or
private parking lot or area, nor may any person engage in any exhibition of
speed or acceleration.
(Prior Code, § 10.14.020)
   (C)   Driving exempted. Nothing in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting drag racing, exhibition driving or similar events when carried out
in an organized manner on a track or other specified area as approved by the
Mayor and Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 10.14.030)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TRAFFIC ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   As used in this section, the term MOTOR VEHICLE means a vehicle
propelled by its own power and designed or used to transport persons or
property upon the highways of the state, but shall not include Fire Department
vehicles and Police Department vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 10.16.010)
   (B)   No person shall operate or park a motor vehicle on any sidewalk or
boulevard within the town.
(Prior Code, § 10.16.020)
(Ord. 335, passed 8-13-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 PARKING LIMITS; PROHIBITIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No vehicle, motor or otherwise, shall be parked at ant time in any
alley within the town for more than 30 minutes unless special permission has
been first obtained from the town’s Police Department to do so.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.030)
   (B)   (1)   A person may not stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance or law with the
directions of a police officer, in any of the following places:
         (a)   On a sidewalk;
         (b)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (e)   On a crosswalk;
         (f)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (g)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop
sign or official traffic- control device located at the side of roadway;
         (h)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone;
         (i)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
         (j)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of the entrance when properly sign posted;
         (k)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic; and/or
         (l)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked on the edge
or curb of a street.
      (2)   As used in this division (B), SAFETY ZONE means the area or space
that is officially set apart within a roadway for the exclusive use of
pedestrians and that is protected or so marked or indicated by adequate signs
as to be plainly visible at all times while set apart as a safety zone.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.005)
(Ord. 317, passed 9-9-2011) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 70.07 TRUCKS, TRACTORS, TRAILERS AND BUSES.
   (A)   Except as here and otherwise expressly provided, it shall be unlawful
for the owner or operator of any truck, bus, tractor, trailer or combination
thereof as described in division (C) below to operate, park or let stand or
permit the same to be operated, parked or let stand on any paved street or
alley within the town. Such vehicles need not be carrying a load to be in
violation of this section.
   (B)   (1)   This section shall not apply to any truck, bus, tractor, trailer
or any combination thereof as described in division (C) below which is being
operated, parked or let stand for the express purpose of loading or unloading
merchandise, property, goods or passengers.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to any vehicle on East Ninth Street
within the town limits.
      (3)   This section shall not apply to any vehicle which is engaged in
providing emergency services for public safety or welfare or providing for the
maintenance and repair of public or private property.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      BUSES. Any motor vehicle equipped for carrying passengers for hire or
transporting school children on its chassis and which is licensed or grossed
for 32,000 pounds GVW or more.
      TRACTOR. Any motor vehicle having motive power designed or used for
pulling or drawing other motor vehicles, including trailers or semi-trailers
and designed or used for pulling or drawing another vehicle while carrying a
portion of its load, or both, and which is licensed or grossed for 32,000
pounds GVW or more either as a single unit or combination thereof.
      TRAILER. Any vehicle without motive power designed or used for carrying
property or persons wholly on its own structure and for being drawn by a
tractor or other motor vehicle, and includes any such vehicle when formed by or
operated as a combination of a tractor, trailer or semi- trailer and a vehicle
of the dolly type, such as that commonly known as a “trailer dolly”, including
home trailers.
      TRUCKS. Any motor vehicle designed for carrying loads on its own chassis
and which is licensed or grossed for 32,000 pounds GVW or more.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.006) (Ord. 318, passed 3-12-2012; Ord. 320, passed 7-9-
2012) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 VEHICLES APPROACHING YIELD SIGN.
   An operator of a vehicle approaching a yield sign is subject to the
following provisions.
   (A)   The operator shall slow to a speed that is reasonable for existing
conditions and, if required for safety, shall stop before entering the
intersection.
   (B)   After slowing or stopping, the operator shall yield the right-of-way
to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching another roadway close enough
to constitute an immediate hazard during the time that the operator is moving
across or within the intersection or junction of roadways.
   (C)   An operator of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians
within crosswalks at the intersection.
   (D)   If an operator of a vehicle, after having driven past a yield sign, is
involved in a collision with another vehicle or junction of roadways or with a
pedestrian in an adjacent crosswalk, the collision is considered prima facie
evidence of the operator’s failure to yield right-of-way.
(Ord. 354, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this traffic
code shall, unless the penalty provisions of division (B) below apply, upon
conviction, be punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10.02.030)
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any speed limit within the town shall,
upon conviction, be punished as follows:
 
mph Over 1st Offense 2nd Offense 3rd or Subsequent
1-10     Up to $80   Up to $160  Up to $240
11-20    Up to $100  Up to $200  Up to $300
21-30    Up to $130  Up to $260  Up to $390
31+      Up to $160  Up to $320  Up to $480
 
(Prior Code, § 10.02.025)
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of §
70.03 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to a fine of not less than $15 or more than $50 or
imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30 days, or both such fine and
imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 10.06.030)
   (D)   Any person who violates §
70.04 of this chapter by engaging in any act defined as exhibition driving may
be assessed a fine of up to $500.
(Prior Code, § 10.14.030)
   (E)   Any person who shall violate §
70.05 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10.16.030)
   (F)   Every person violating the provisions of §
70.06 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Upon a first offense by a fine of not more than $100;
      (2)   Upon a second offense by a fine of not more than $200; and
      (3)   Upon a third or subsequent offense by a fine of not more than $300.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.040)
(Ord. 317, passed 9-19-2011; Ord. 324, passed 7-15-2013; Ord. 330, passed 5-18-
2017; Ord. 331, passed 5-18-2017)
CHAPTER 71: TOY AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
71.01   Bicycle number plates
   
71.02   Golf carts
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 BICYCLE NUMBER PLATES.
   (A)   Unlawful to ride bicycle without plates. It shall be unlawful or any
person, firm, copartnership, association or corporation, to operate, or cause
to be operated, upon any of the streets or alleys within the town or to ride
upon any bicycle, or to permit any member of his or her immediate family living
in his or her home, and being under his or her care and supervision, to ride
any bicycle upon the streets or alleys of the town without having prominently
displayed thereon a number plate bearing a distinctive number assigned to such
bicycle by the Town Clerk and without such bicycle being equipped with Scotch
Light Tape for night driving in accordance with directions furnished by the
state’s Highway Patrol.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.010)
   (B)   Renewal of plates. All number plates shall be renewed annually, and
shall bear a distinctive marking each year and shall be furnished by the town.
Such number plates and Scotch Light Tape shall be issued upon payment to the
Town Clerk of the sum of $0.50 in cash.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.020)
(Ord. 167, passed - -) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   The operation of golf carts is authorized between sunrise and sunset
on the ways of the town open to the public. A GOLF CART means a motor vehicle
that is designed for use on a golf course to carry a person or persons and golf
equipment and that has an average speed of less than 15 mph. Persons operating
a golf cart, as authorized herein, shall obey all traffic laws enacted by the
state or the town, including, but not limited to, holding a valid driver’s
license or low-speed restricted driver’s license issued by the state unless one
of the exemptions contained in M.C.A. § 61-5-104 applies. As to Ellery Avenue,
crossing only is authorized. All golf carts shall display the slow vehicle
triangle sign on the back of the cart, as well as at least one and not more
than two headlamps; at least one taillamp; at least one reflector; stop lamps;
a horn; and a mirror that reflects to the driver view of the highway.
   (B)   Pursuant to M.C.A. § 61-9-420, each motor vehicle passenger who is
under six years of age and weighs less than 60 pounds must be transported and
properly restrained in a child safety restraint. The child safety restraint
must be appropriate for the height and weight of the child as indicated by
manufacturer standards.
(Prior Code, § 10.18.010) (Ord. 355, passed 8-9-2023) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person using or permitting a bicycle to be operated upon the
streets or alleys of the town without having first paid the annual license fee
therefor, and obtained and displayed thereon the number plate as required in §
71.01 of this chapter, and without having said vehicle properly Scotch-taped
for night riding, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than $1 and not more than $10 for
each offense, or by imprisonment in the town jail for not less than one day or
more than five days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 10.10.030)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate §
71.02 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10.18.020)
(Ord. 167, passed - -)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Restricted parking
SCHEDULE I. RESTRICTED PARKING.
   (A)   Parking on Ellery Avenue. It shall be unlawful for the owner or
operator of any bus, tractor or trailer, truck exceeding one ton gross vehicle
weight, motor home or fifth wheeler to park, or permit the same to be parked,
on Ellery Avenue between Second Street and Seventh Street for longer than one
hour. On that part of Ellery Avenue not described herein, all vehicles, motor
or otherwise, shall be parked on the driver’s right-hand side of Ellery Avenue,
lateral thereto and at a distance of not more than 18 inches distant from the
sidewalk, curb or side street and so as to allow a vacant space of not less
than three feet both to the front and rear of the said vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.010)
   (B)   On all streets and avenues within in the town, other than the 370 feet
of Western Avenue immediately south of the intersection of West Seventh Street
and South Western Avenue, all vehicles, motor or otherwise shall be parked on
the driver’s right-hand side of the street or avenue, lateral thereto and at a
distance of not more than 18 inches distant from the sidewalk, curb or side
street and so as to allow a vacant space of not less than three feet both to
the front and rear of the said vehicle. On that part of Western Avenue
described herein, all operators of vehicles, motor or otherwise, desiring to
park the same shall park their vehicles on the right-hand side of said avenue
so that no part thereof extends outside the parking guideline and with the
inside front wheel against the curb.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.020)
   (C)   No vehicle, motor or otherwise, shall be parked at ant time in any
alley within the town for more than 30 minutes unless special permission has
been first obtained from the town’s Police Department to do so.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.030)
   (D)   Every person violating the provisions of this schedule shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Upon a first offense, by a fine of not more than $100;
      (2)   Upon a second offense, by a fine of not more than $200; and
      (3)   Upon a third or subsequent offense, by a fine of not more than
$300.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.040)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
92.   JUNKED AND ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Slaughtering animals
   
90.02   Cruelty to animals
   
90.03   Running at large; impoundment
   
90.04   Livestock and poultry
   
90.05   Cats
Dogs
   
90.20   Definitions
   
90.21   Registration fee; duty of Treasurer
   
90.22   Enforcement; investigation
   
90.23   Counterfeit tags
   
90.24   Muzzling
   
90.25   Rabies
   
90.26   Running at large
   
90.27   Poundmaster
   
90.28   Breaking into pound
   
90.29   Vicious dogs to be killed
   
90.30   Dog kennels
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 SLAUGHTERING ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or conducting a butcher or meat
market, or any other person, to slaughter or prepare for market or personal use
any cow, calf, steer, sheep, swine or other animal within the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful or any person to inhumanely or cruelly beat, injure or
otherwise abuse, overdrive or expose to heat or cold for an unreasonable length
of time any animal ...MISSING TEXT...
(Prior Code, § 8.04.020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 RUNNING AT LARGE; IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit his or her stock,
horses, cattle, sheep, swine or other animals to run at large upon the streets,
alleys or public places within the town limits, excepting as may be necessary
when driving such animals into or through the town.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.030)
   (B)   It is hereby made the duty of the Chief of Police or any resident of
the town finding such animals so running at large to take them up and hold them
until the owner or some other person shall pay the sums and costs accruing by
reason of taking up and keeping of such animals. Any person taking up and
impounding such animals may charge, for the first offense, the sum of $50 per
head for impounding and $10 per head per day for each succeeding day of keeping
same; and for the second or succeeding offenses may charge the sum of $100 per
head for impounding and $10 per head per day for each succeeding day of keeping
same.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.040)
   (C)   (1)   If such animals so taken up shall not be redeemed by the owner
or some person interested therein, by paying such costs and such damages within
three days from the taking up of the same, the Chief of Police shall sell such
animals, after giving public notice thereof by one publication in the town’s
newspaper at least five days prior to the sale, to the highest bidder, and out
of the proceeds shall pay all costs pertaining to the taking and keeping of
such animals; and all surplus of such sale after the above-said expenses are
paid shall revert to said owner.
      (2)   If said owner is not found within six months from time of sale,
such surplus shall be turned over to the Town Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.050)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY.
   (A)   Animals prohibited in town. It shall be unlawful for any person to
keep or allow to be kept any horses, cattle, sheep, swine, goats or poultry
within the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 8.06.010)
   (B)   Animals grazing within town. It shall be unlawful for any person or
persons to stake or picket or in any manner tie or tether any animal for the
purpose of grazing within the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 8.06.020)
   (C)   Animals upon public property. It shall be unlawful or any person or
persons to stake, picket, tie or tether any animal in such manner that such
animal may reach or encroach upon any part of the sidewalks, streets or alleys
within the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 8.06.030)
   (D)   Swine within town; exception. It shall be unlawful for any person or
persons to keep live swine within the area of the town limits, except for
exhibition purposes, and then only during a public fair or exhibition.
(Prior Code, § 8.06.040)
(Ord. 76, passed - -; Ord. 86, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 CATS.
   (A)   Definition of terms. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
      AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the
owner or member of his or her immediate family either by leash, cord, chain or
other restraint attached to the animal and held by the person in control of the
animal.
      CAT. Both male and female.
      OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation, owning,
keeping or harboring a cat.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.010)
   (B)   Registration fee.
      (1)   Each owner or keeper of a cat within the limits of the town shall
cause the same to be registered in the office of the Town Treasurer.
      (2)   Such registration shall be for a period to commence on May 1 of
each year and to expire April 30 of the following year, and such registration
fee must be paid and a registration tag obtained on to before May 1 of each
year or within 30 days of the time a cat is newly brought into the town, as the
case may be.
      (3)   Such owner or keeper shall pay for such registration fee $1 for
each cat. No such registration shall be issued until proved satisfactory to the
Town Treasurer that the cat has been vacated for rabies within two years of the
date of application for registration.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.015)
   (C)   Running at large prohibited.
      (1)   Every person who owns, keeps or harbors any cat who knowingly
permits such cat to run at large upon the public thoroughfare, upon school
grounds or other public property is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance and
is, therefore, guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   It is declared a public nuisance for a cat or other animal to
destroy property or other pets, to bite, scratch or chase after persons not
trespassing on the property of the animal’s owner.
      (3)   Any person aggrieved by a nuisance cat may file a complaint in the
Town Court, charging the owner with violation of this section.
      (4)   Upon a third conviction of violation of this section, the nuisance
animal may be seized and taken up by any law enforcement officer and put to
death.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.020)
   (D)   Duty of poundmaster. It shall be the duty of the poundmaster to take
up and impound every cat running at large contrary to the provisions of this
section. If an impounded cat be redeemed within 48 hours after said cat is
impounded, the poundmaster shall give notice of such impounding to the owner in
the manner prescribed by the laws of the state after which and in conformity
thereto the poundmaster shall offer the impounded cat for sale, and if no bid
to an amount equal to the charges of the poundmaster against said animal is
received therefor, the impounded cat shall be killed by him or her; provided,
any person may redeem an impounded cat upon the payment to the poundmaster of
an amount equal to the poundmaster’s charges for keeping said animal.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.030)
   (E)   Rabid cats.
      (1)   Upon issuance of an order to show cause, the Town Judge shall
direct the Police Department to capture any cats suspected of suffering from
rabies and impound at the expense of the owner, pending the hearing on said
order to show cause. In the event any physician shall indicate to the Town
Judge that there is a possibility that the cat is suffering from rabies, the
animals shall be impounded for such period as the Town Judge deems advisable
for the purpose of ascertaining if said animal is suffering from rabies.
      (2)   During any period that said cat is so impounded on the order of the
Town Judge, the owner shall be liable to the town for the cost of the care of
said animal while impounded.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.035)
   (F)   Kennel license.
      (1)   Each owner or keeper of five or more adult cats within the limits
of the town shall be required to obtain a kennel license from the Town
Treasurer. Such owner or keeper shall pay for such license the sum of $500.
      (2)   As used in this division (F), unless the context otherwise
indicates, ADULT shall be intended to mean any cat more than six months old.
      (3)   Each owner required to obtain a kennel license shall provide the
Town Clerk with a certificate executed by a doctor of veterinary medicine
stating that the cats in the kennel are in good health and that they have
received all necessary vaccinations. Thereafter, a similar certificate executed
by a doctor of veterinary medicine shall be provided to the Town Clerk at least
annually.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.050)
Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or a member or his or her immediate family either hy leash, cord, chain
or other restraint attached to the animal and held by the person in control of
the animal.
   DOG. Both male and female.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation, owning,
keeping or harboring a dog.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.010)
§ 90.21 REGISTRATION FEE; DUTY OF TREASURER.
   (A)   Each owner or keeper of a dog within the limits of the town shall
cause the same to be registered in the office of the Town Treasurer. Such
registration shall be for a period to commence on May 1 of each year and to
expire on April 30 of each year, and such registration fee must be paid and the
registration tag obtained on or before May 1 of each year or prior to the dog
becoming three months of age, or within 30 days of the time dogs are lawfully
brought into the town, as the case may be. Such owner or keeper shall pay for
such registration fee $2 for each male or female dog. No such registration
shall be issued until proof satisfactory to the Town Treasurer that the dog has
been vaccinated for rabies within two years of the date of application for
registration.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.020)
   (B)   The Treasurer, on payment of the registration fee provided in division
(A) above, shall cause the name of the person together with the description of
the dog to be registered in a book to be kept by him or her for that purpose,
and shall deliver to the owner or keeper a metal check or tag which shall be
numbered consecutively in the order of registry and stamped with the year for
which issued, and it shall be the duty of the owner or keeper of such dog to
keep such check or tag fastened to the neck of the dog or otherwise, and such
tag shall be evidence of a license for the year for which used; provided,
however, that, this subchapter shall not apply to dogs owned by non-residents
of the town unless such dogs be found running at large without their owners or
masters.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.030)
§ 90.22 ENFORCEMENT; INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the poundmaster to capture all dogs found
running at large within the town without check or tag as provided herein and
place them in a pound.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.040)
   (B)   (1)   For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this subchapter,
the Chief of Police or any law enforcement officer is empowered to demand from
the occupants of any premises, upon or in which a dog or other animal is kept
or harbored, the exhibition of such dog or other animal and the license or tag
for the animal.
      (2)   Whenever complaint has been made that an animal is kept in a
reportedly cruel or inhumane manner, the law enforcement officer may examine
such animal and take possession of the same, when, in his or her opinion, it
requires humane treatment.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.090)
   (C)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder or detail the
Chief of Police or other law enforcement officer in the performance of any duty
or power imposed on such officer by this subchapter, or release or attempt to
release any animal in the custody of any municipal official.
      (2)   For the purpose of taking into possession and capturing any animal
running at large contrary to the provisions or this subchapter, any law
enforcement officer shall have the right to use a tranquilizer gun for the
purpose of capturing and subduing such animal.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.100)
   (D)   The members of the police force of the town shall have the same
authority this subchapter in regard to enforcement of the provisions as are
conferred on the poundmaster.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.140)
§ 90.23 COUNTERFEIT TAGS.
   Any person who shall make, sell, purchase or possess or place or allow to be
placed on his, her or their dog any metal tag of the same form, shape or
intended to be like the official tag, or place or use the official tag on
another dog than that for which such tag was issued, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.050) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 MUZZLING.
   The Mayor may, by an order and notice posted in three public places within
the town or published in the official newspaper of the town at least once,
require that all dogs running at large in the streets or alleys of the town be
muzzled in such a manner as the order and notice may be prescribed until the
order is revoked. Any person having the care and control of a dog within the
town, whether owner, keeper or otherwise who shall refuse and neglect to comply
with such order and notice shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.060) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 RABIES.
   Each and every owner or keeper of a dog or cat within the limits of the town
shall cause the same to be inoculated for rabies not less often than once every
three years.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.070) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Every person who owns, keeps or harbors any dog who permits such dog
to run at large upon the public thoroughfare, upon school grounds or other
public property or private property not under the control of the person who
owns, keeps or harbors such dog is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance and
is, therefore, guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Every person having under his or her control any female dog in heat
(i.e., in the oestrual period) shall confine such dog in a house, garage or
other building, and in such a manner as to eliminate the congregation of other
dogs in the immediate vicinity of the female. Any such female dog no so
confined is a public nuisance, and the owner or other person in control of such
dog is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance and is, therefore, guilty of a
misdemeanor. The poundmaster or any police officer shall immediately abate
every such nuisance by impounding such dog.
   (C)   Every person who shall keep, feed, harbor or allow to stray about any
premises occupied or controlled by him or her, any dog which by loud and
continuous barking, howling or yelping constitutes an annoyance or disturbance
to the neighborhood or to any considerable number of persons is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   (D)   It is declared a public nuisance for a dog or other animal to damage
or destroy property of other pets, or to bite, or chase after persons not
trespassing on the property of the animal’s owner.
   (E)   Any person aggrieved by a nuisance animal may file a complaint in the
Town Council, charging the owner with violation of this subchapter. Upon a
third conviction of violation of this subchapter, the nuisance animal may be
seized and taken up by any law enforcement officer and put to death.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.080) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27 POUNDMASTER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint some suitable person as poundmaster, and said
poundmaster shall, at the expense of the town, provide a suitable and retired
place for the impounding of dogs; the location or the pound shall be published
or posted in the Town Hall and the poundmaster shall have the general
supervision of the town pound and shall see that the same is conducted in a
quiet, reliable and proper manner.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.110)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the poundmaster to take up and impound every
dog running at large contrary to the provisions of this subchapter. If an
impounded dog be not redeemed within 48 hours after said dog is impounded, the
poundmaster shall give notice of such impounding to the owner in the manner
prescribed by the laws of the state after which, and in conformity thereto, the
poundmaster shall offer the impounded dog for sale, and if no bid to an amount
equal to the charges of the poundmaster against said animal is received
therefor, the impounded dog shall be killed by him or her; provided, any person
may redeem an impounded dog upon the payment to the poundmaster of an amount
equal to the poundmaster’s charges for keeping said animal.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.120)
§ 90.28 BREAKING INTO POUND.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break, open or enter the town pound
or in any manner aid or advise the breaking, opening or entering of the town
pound, nor shall any person hinder, delay or obstruct any officer while engaged
in taking to the town pound any dog liable to be impounded under the provisions
of this section.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.130) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.29 VICIOUS DOGS TO BE KILLED.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever affidavits shall be made before the Town Judge that any
dog has bitten a person in the town, and the person so bitten was not, at the
time, the possessor of the said dog, the Town Judge shall issue and order
directing the owner of said dog to appear before the Town Judge at a time not
less than 24 hours after the issuance of said order to show cause why said dog
should not be killed.
      (2)   After hearing upon said order to show cause if the Town Judge finds
that said dog did in fact bite another person as alleged in the affidavit, the
Town Judge shall issue an order directing the owner or possessor of said dog to
kill it within 24 hours after receiving such order, subject, however, to the
provisions of division (B) below. The owner or possessor who shall refuse or
neglect to kill said dog within 24 hours after receiving such order to dispose
of said animal shall be guilty of violating this subchapter, and it shall be
the duty of the poundmaster forthwith to kill or destroy said dog.
   (B)   Upon issuance of the order to show cause, the Town Judge shall direct
the Police Department to capture said dog and impound it at the expense of the
owner, pending the hearing on said order to show cause. In the event, any
physician shall indicate to the Town Judge that there is a possibility or
probability that the dog is suffering from rabies, then in such event the
execution of any order for destruction of said animal shall be delayed by the
Town Judge for such period as the Town Judge deems advisable for the purpose of
ascertaining if said animal is suffering from rabies. During any period that
said dog is so impounded on order of the Town Judge, the owner shall be liable
to the town for the cost of the care of said animal while impounded. In issuing
said order to show cause, the Town Judge shall set bond of the owner of said
animal in an amount sufficient to cover the anticipated cost of impounding and
keeping said animal.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.150)
§ 90.30 DOG KENNELS.
   (A)   Each owner or keeper of five or more adult dogs within the limits of
the town shall be required to obtain a kennel license from the Town Treasurer.
Such owner or keeper shall pay for such license the sum of $500.
   (B)   As used in this section, unless the context otherwise indicates, ADULT
shall be intended to mean any dog more than six months old.
   (C)   Each owner required to obtain a kennel license shall provide a fenced
yard for the dogs. Said fence shall comply with all the regulations regarding
fences contained in §
155.055 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Each owner required to obtain a kennel license shall provide the Town
Clerk with a certificate executed by a doctor of veterinary medicine stating
that the dogs in the kennel are in good health and that they have received all
necessary vaccinations. Thereafter, a similar certificate executed by a Doctor
of Veterinary Medicine shall be provided to the Town Clerk at least annually.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.170)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
90.04 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $25 or more
than $100, or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, or both such fine and
imprisonment in the discretion of the court, and in default of payment of such
fine, he or she shall be committed to the town jail one day for each $10 of
such fine.
(Prior Code, § 8.06.050)
   (C)   (1)   Any person violating a provision of §
90.05(A) through (E) of this chapter shall, upon complaint and conviction, be
punished as follows:
         (a)   Upon first offense, by a fine of not more than $75;
         (b)   Upon a second or subsequent offense, by a fine of not more than
$150; and
         (c)   Upon a third or subsequent offense, by a fine of not more than
$300.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.040)
      (2)   Any person violating a provision of §
90.05(F) of this chapter shall, upon complaint and conviction thereof, be
punished by a fine of not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.050)
   (D)   Any person violating a provision of §§
90.20 through
90.30 of this chapter shall, upon complaint and conviction thereof, be punished
as follows:
      (1)   Upon a first offense, by a fine of not more than $300 or
imprisonment in the county jail for any term not to exceed six months, or both
such fine and imprisonment;
      (2)   Upon a second offense, by a fine of not more than $400 or
imprisonment in the county jail for any term not to exceed six months, or both
such fine and imprisonment; and
      (3)   Upon a third or subsequent offense, by a fine of not more than $500
or by imprisonment in the county jail for any term not more than six months, or
by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.160)
(Ord. 76, passed - -; Ord. 86, passed - -)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Distribution of substances
   
91.02   Maintenance of annoying conditions
   
91.03   Noise
   
91.04   Railroad car coupling operations
Public Nuisances
   
91.15   Definitions
   
91.16   Maintenance duty; controlling offending premises
   
91.17   Declaration of nuisance
   
91.18   Violations
   
91.19   Enforcement; complaints; notice of violations
   
91.20   Collection of costs
   
91.21   Salvage yards; zoning mitigation
   
91.22   Compatibility of regulations
Noxious Weeds
   
91.35   Noxious weeds a nuisance
   
91.36   Definitions
   
91.37   Duty of owner
   
91.38   Inspection; notice to owner
   
91.39   Service of notice
   
91.40   Forced compliance; assessment
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Junked and Abandoned Vehicles, see
Chapter 92
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DISTRIBUTION OF SUBSTANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person by himself, herself or by another to
place, throw, deposit or leave in any private house or building, lot or
premises, or other place within the town limits, any animal or vegetable
substance, shavings, paper, dirt, rubbish, unclean or noxious water or other
liquid, hay, straw, ashes, cinders, soot, garbage or other article or substance
whatever, which creates a noisome, offensive or unwholesome smell.
(Prior Code, § 7.08.010) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 MAINTENANCE OF ANNOYING CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person by himself, herself or by another, to
maintain within the town limits any buildings, fence, sign, bridge, open cellar
or pit or open well in such a way or condition as to cause material annoyance,
discomfort or hurt to the public generally.
(Prior Code, § 7.08.020) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 NOISE.
   (A)   It is hereby prohibited and made unlawful for any person within the
town or the police jurisdiction thereof, to shout, make any noise, play any
device, including, but not limited to, radios, tape or compact disc players or
musical instruments or allow his or her dog to bark in a manner so loud as to
be calculated to unreasonably disturb or interfere with the peace and comfort,
including sleeping, of the occupants of a nearby residence.
   (B)   (1)   For purposes of this section, DECIBEL means sound levels in
decibels measured on an “A” scale of a standard sound level meter having
characteristics defined by the American National Standards Institute,
Publication S.4-1970.
      (2)   Noise will be measured at the boundaries of a particular lot. Noise
radiating from properties or buildings in excess of the decibel limits
established for the districts and times listed herein, regardless of the source
unless otherwise excepted herein, shall constitute prima facie evidence that
such noise is a violation of this section.
      (3)   Noises caused by construction or grounds maintenance are excluded,
provided such noises do not exceed limitations specified herein by more than 20
decibels and do not exceed a total of eight hours over a period of two days. At
boundaries between zones, the lower of the decibel limits shall be applicable.
 
Districts                  Limitation from 6:00 a.m. Limitations from 10:00
                           to 10:00 p.m.             p.m. to 6:00 a.m.
Central Business District  60 decibels               55 decibels
(CBD)
General Commercial         70 decibels               55 decibels
Industrial District (GCID)
Residential A (R-A)        55 decibels               50 decibels
Residential B (R-B)        55 decibels               50 decibels
 
(Prior Code, § 7.08.028) (Ord. 358, passed 6-12-2024) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 RAILROAD CAR COUPLING OPERATIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, CAR COUPLING SOUND means a sound which is
heard and identified by the observer as that of a car coupling impact, and that
causes a sound level meter indicator to register an increase of at least ten
decibels above the level observed immediately before hearing the sound.
   (B)   No railroad shall conduct car coupling operations within the town that
exceed an adjusted average maximum A-weighted sound level of 92 decibels at any
receiving property measurement location, when measured with fast meter response
in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 201, subpart C; except, such coupling will be
found in compliance with this standard and the railroad will be considered in
compliance, if the railroad demonstrates that the standard is exceeded at the
receiving property measurement locations (where the standard was previously
exceeded) when cars representative of those found to exceed the standard are
coupled at similar locations at coupling speeds of eight mph or less.
   (C)   Any railroad that engages in a car coupling operation that results in
excessive noise as described in division (B) above is responsible for
compliance with said part. Such railroad shall modify the car coupling
procedure to bring it within the prescribed noise limits.
(Prior Code, § 7.08.026) (Ord. 313, passed 3-14-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 91.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ABATE/ABATEMENT. To repair, replace, remove, destroy or otherwise remedy the
condition in question by the means and extent deemed necessary by the town or
the Department of Public Works in the interest of the health, safety and
general welfare of the community.
   COMMUNITY DECAY. Conditions that are injurious to health, indecent,
offensive to the senses or which obstruct the free use of property, including
adjacent or nearby property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment
of life or the value of any property. This definition does not apply to
properly permitted construction and/or demolition projects during the time any
necessary permits are in effect.
   OCCUPANT. Any person, as defined herein, who is living in or using a
premises as a tenant or owner, or a person who has occupancy of a premises or
property. For purposes of this definition, an OCCUPANT does not need to be a
tenant or owner, but can be someone living at or using a property.
   OWNER. Any person whose name appears on the public records of the town and/
or the county as the owner of premises, whether under deed or contract.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, company, association, corporation
or other entity whether organized for profit or not.
   PREMISES. Any parcel of real property, including any building or portion
thereof, whether improved or unimproved.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any area of real property granted, deeded, dedicated to
or otherwise acquired by the town or the public at large for any public
purpose, including, but not limited to, alleys, roadways, sidewalks, public
streets, water or waterways, storm drains, sanitary sewers, water pipes,
electric and telephone conduits, electronic services, overhead wires and
supporting structures.
   PUBLIC VIEW. Any area visible from a point, up to six feet above the surface
of the center of any public roadway, sidewalk or right-of-way from which a
public nuisance is visible.
   SHIELDING. Refers to any natural barriers, fencing or other human-made
barriers used to conceal material from public view. Any SHIELDING BARRIER must
conform to all local zoning regulations, building codes, covenants and
applicable town ordinances. Any SHIELDING is to be of sufficient height and
density to conceal any violation on the premises visible to public view. This
definition is not intended to require that permanent buildings, utility poles
or other similar structures be SHIELDED.
(Ord. 344, passed - -2021)
§ 91.16 MAINTENANCE DUTY; CONTROLLING OFFENDING PREMISES.
   It shall be the responsibility and duty of any person owning, leasing,
occupying or having charge or possession of any premises in the town, and/or
the agent of such person, to maintain such premises and the right-of-way
abutting such premises in a safe, sanitary, orderly, clean and aesthetic
condition. Failure to do so shall be a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 344, passed - -2021)
§ 91.17 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   The following situations within the boundaries of the town are
declared to be public nuisances. The existence of any of the following
conditions within the boundaries of the town shall be deemed a violation of
this subchapter:
      (1)   Any building or structure which meets the definition of an unsafe
building or structure as provided in § 116 of the International Building Code,
or any successor provision, as adopted by the town under §
150.15 of this code of ordinances;
      (2)   Any violation of the town’s subdivision and zoning laws and
regulations, as may be amended from time to time;
      (3)   Buildings of any kind which are abandoned, boarded up, partially
destroyed, structurally unstable, partially constructed and/or uncompleted
buildings after building permits have expired;
      (4)   Buildings used for residential purposes which do not have running
water, electricity and sewage/septic services. Conditions described in this
division (A) shall be deemed unsanitary and hazardous to the health and public
safety of the citizens of the town;
      (5)   Buildings with damaged and/or deteriorating exteriors causing, or
having the potential to cause, dangerous structural conditions;
      (6)   Any condition which renders air, food or drink unwholesome,
unsanitary or detrimental to health;
      (7)   Excessive amounts of animal waste or its byproducts and any amount
of human waste;
      (8)   Dead animals;
      (9)   Any public nuisance, as defined by M.C.A. § 45-8-111, or otherwise
recognized by the law as a public nuisance;
      (10)   Any condition which poses a fire hazard; and
      (11)   Any condition constituting community decay under this subchapter.
   (B)   The following situations within the boundaries of the town may
constitute public nuisances after investigation, as provided in this
subchapter:
      (1)   The keeping, storage, depositing or accumulation on the premises
and in the public view (as defined in this subchapter) for over 30 days of any
personal property or wastes, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicles;
         (b)   Abandoned, wrecked or dismantled boats, vessels, all-terrain
vehicles and recreational vehicles;
         (c)   Automotive parts and equipment;
         (d)   Abandoned, discarded or unused furniture, appliances, sinks,
toilets, cabinets or other commercial or household fixtures or equipment;
         (e)   Dumping, piling or stacking of bricks; tires; iron; metal;
component or machine parts; barrels; concrete blocks; wood; used road blacktop;
lumber; building materials; shipping pallets; scrap metal; packing materials;
junk; salvaged metal items; rubbish; debris; dirt; sand; gravel; demolition
materials or wastes; and/or other similar material and residue from such items
(such as mortar, containers, wood splinters and broken and unusable bricks) in
public view, unless said material is stacked in neat piles and all items are,
within 30 days of their placement on the premises, removed to a licensed solid
waste disposal site or to some other location which has been approved by the
appropriate authority;
         (f)   Straw, hay or grass trimmings, or similar material, unless the
material is to be used as soil conditioner or mulch and, in that case; provided
that, the material is plowed into the ground or otherwise mixed and covered
with clean soil within 30 days of its placement on the premises; and
         (g)   The storage or accumulation of cardboard boxes or paper, unless
the same is specifically accumulated for recycling and is removed from the
premises within 30 days of its placement on the premises.
      (2)   Building exteriors, walls, fences, driveways or walkways which have
been defaced due to any writing, inscription, scratching and/or any other
marking commonly referred to as “graffiti”);
      (3)   Building exteriors, walls, fences, driveways or walkways which are
broken, defective, deteriorated or in disrepair, if such condition has existed
and persisted on the premises for a period of 30 days;
      (4)   Buildings with broken windows, doors, attic vents, damaged roofs or
other appurtenances;
      (5)   Premises having a topography, geology or configuration which, as a
result of grading operations or improvements to the land, experience erosion,
subsidence, unstable soil conditions or surface or subsurface drainage problems
potentially hazardous to adjacent premises;
      (6)   Abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative trailers, campers and
boats, unless the same are accumulated as part of an ongoing, active salvage
business located in an area properly zoned for such a business and which
possess a conditional use permit; and, provided that, such materials are
shielded from public view to the standards provided in this subchapter;
      (7)   The presence and enforcement of law with respect to abandoned
vehicles is addressed in M.C.A. Title 61, Ch. 12, part 4, as may be amended
from time to time, and its terms are hereby incorporated by reference;
      (8)   The presence and enforcement of law with respect to junk vehicles
is addressed in M.C.A. Title 75, Ch. 10, part 5, as may be amended from time to
time, and its terms are hereby incorporated by reference;
      (9)   Any condition in violation of Chapter 90 of this code of
ordinances;
      (10)   Any condition which may otherwise cause unsanitary or hazardous
conditions to exist; and
      (11)   Any condition which may reasonably be offensive to other persons
by sight or odor and which may detract from the aesthetic qualities or economic
value and vitality of any neighborhood within the town.
   (C)   This definition does not apply to properly permitted construction and/
or demolition projects during the time any necessary permits are in effect.
   (D)   (1)   The standards and conditions set forth in this section are not
intended to be, nor shall the same be considered, the sole or exclusive
standards for establishing a public nuisance.
      (2)   The Public Works Department has discretion to determine whether a
violation of this subchapter exists.
(Ord. 344, passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person to allow any
condition or situation constituting a public nuisance and/or community decay,
as defined herein, within the boundaries of the town.
(Ord. 344, passed - -2021)
§ 91.19 ENFORCEMENT; COMPLAINTS; NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Authority. The Department of Public Works shall be responsible for
receiving and reviewing complaints regarding public nuisances and community
decay and otherwise observing or reporting public nuisances and community
decay.
   (B)   Inspection. Within five business days of receiving a complaint of a
public nuisance or community decay, or of observing a condition constituting a
potential public nuisance or community decay, the Department of Public Works
shall inspect the premises containing the alleged violation. As part of its
inspection, the Department of Public Works shall take photographs of the
premises and shall make a written report of its findings. When appropriate,
responsibility for such reports of violation, as well as subsequent
inspections, shall be shared and coordinated with the County Sanitarian and/or
the Building Inspector.
   (C)   Written notice. If, after inspecting the premises on which an alleged
violation is reported or observed, the Department of Public Works finds that a
violation of this subchapter exists, then, within three business days of
receiving the completed investigation report, the town’s Police Department
shall issue a written notice of violation. The town’s Police Department or the
Department of Public Works shall determine, or cause to have determined, the
owner of the premises. The notice of violation shall be served upon the owner
and any occupant of the premises pursuant to the procedures set forth in this
subchapter. The owner and/or occupant of the premises may request an extension
of the time for abatement or mitigation in writing submitted to the Director of
Public Works. The Director of Public Works shall have the authority to grant an
extension of not more than 30 days in which to bring the premises into
compliance. Any additional extensions, or any extensions longer than 30 days,
must be approved by the Town Council. If the violation is not corrected within
the time provided, a hearing shall be scheduled under the procedure set forth
in division (F) below.
   (D)   Contents of notice of violation. The notice of violation shall contain
the following:
      (1)   A statement specifically describing the violation;
      (2)   Notice that the owner of the premises has ten calendar days from
the date of the notice of violation to abate or mitigate the violation,
bringing the premises into compliance with this subchapter;
      (3)   Notice that, if the violation is not abated within ten calendar
days from the date of the notice of violation, the town may undertake abatement
or mitigation and assess the costs thereof to the owner of the premises;
      (4)   (a)   Service of notice of violation. The Department of Public
Works shall cause the notice of violation to be served on the owner and any
occupant by: personal service; leaving a copy of the notice at the usual place
of residence or business of the record owner; or sending a copy to the owner by
United States certified mail, return receipt requested, or other courier
(Federal Express, UPS and the like), signature required. The Department of
Public Works shall also conspicuously post a copy of the notice at the premises
where the alleged public nuisance or community decay exists.
         (b)   Service by publication. Only if service of the notice of
violation is unable to be accomplished by any of the methods described in
division (D)(4)(a) above, the Department of Public Works shall cause a copy of
the notice of violation to be published in a newspaper of general circulation
in the town once a week for two consecutive weeks and shall further cause a
copy of the notice of violation to be left with the occupant or the person, if
any, in possession of the premises where the alleged violation is located. The
Department of Public Works shall also determine, or cause to be determined,
from the County Clerk and Recorder’s office if there is a lienholder of the
premises. If there is a lienholder of the premises, then the notice of
violation shall also be served on the lienholder by United States certified
mail, return receipt requested.
      (5)   The owner of the premises alleged to contain a public nuisance at
the time a notice of violation is issued and served pursuant to this subchapter
shall be responsible for complying with said notice of violation and shall be
liable for any costs incurred by the town, including reasonable staff costs and
attorney’s fees.
   (E)   Determination of compliance. Upon expiration of the owner’s ten-day
time frame for abatement or mitigation, the Department of Public Works shall
conduct an inspection of the premises to determine whether abatement or
mitigation has occurred and shall prepare a report containing photographs and
written findings regarding the condition of the premises.
   (F)   Procedure if no compliance. In the event the Department of Public
Works or the town determines that no abatement or mitigation has occurred
within ten days after the date of the notice of violation, the following
procedure shall apply.
      (1)   The town may issue a civil citation to the owner and any occupant
and file a copy of the same with the Municipal Court to have the violation
declared as such by the court and for an order enjoining the violation or
authorizing its restraint, removal, termination or abatement of the violation.
The civil citation shall designate a hearing date. At the hearing, the owner
shall be required to show cause why he or she should not be found to be in
violation of the terms of this subchapter, be assessed a fine and be compelled
by court order to abate or mitigate the violation with which he or she is
charged.
      (2)   The owner shall file a response with the Municipal Court on or
before the hearing date.
      (3)   (a)   On the date and time set for the hearing, the Municipal Court
shall conduct an evidentiary hearing to establish whether the premises is in
violation of this subchapter.
         (b)   If the owner has filed no response and fails to appear, and if
the town proves that proper service was made on the owner and any occupant, the
Court may grant such relief as is requested by the town. In the event of the
owner’s default, the Municipal Court shall order that the enforcement by the
town be stayed for seven days and that a copy of the Court’s order be mailed to
the owner.
      (4)   Whenever the Municipal Court shall find any person to be in
violation of the terms of this subchapter, the Municipal Court shall order the
owner of the premises to abate the violation to the standards set forth in this
subchapter within 30 days and shall authorize the town to undertake abatement,
or contract for the undertaking of abatement, in the event of the owner’s
failure to comply with the terms of the Court’s order, with all Court costs,
fines and costs of abatement/mitigation to be assessed against the owner of the
premises, together with any fine imposed by the Municipal Court.
   (G)   Emergency abatement.
      (1)   Whenever the town or the Department of Public Works has reason to
believe that a violation of this subchapter exists and that such violation
constitutes an emergency presenting imminent danger of serious injury to
persons or property, the Department of Public Works, an authorized
representative appointed by the Department of Public Works, a town firefighter
and/or a town police officer, or any other party on behalf the town, may
immediately enter into any building or upon any premises within the boundaries
of the town for purposes of emergency abatement.
      (2)   Whenever a violation of this subchapter exists which constitutes an
emergency presenting imminent danger of serious injury to persons or property,
the town may order, without notice or judicial action, that the violation be
abated by removal, destruction or mitigation within 48 hours. If the owner or
occupant fails to comply with such an order, or cannot be located, the town
shall cause the structure to be demolished and removed, or the violation
otherwise be abated, either through available public agency or by contract or
arrangement with private persons. The cost of such abatement shall be paid by
the owner of the premises upon which the violation existed, pursuant to §
91.20 of this chapter.
(Ord. 344, passed - -2021; Ord. 347, passed 9-14-2022)
§ 91.20 COLLECTION OF COSTS.
   (A)   The town shall send the owner of the premises an abatement expense
report for the premises. The expense report shall specify that any assessment
that is not paid shall become a lien upon the premises and is enforceable in
the same manner as the nonpayment of property taxes. A summary listing of the
assessments and owners will be kept by the Clerk through June 30 of each year,
and the list shall be presented to the Treasurer for billing on the next real
property tax statement. The town shall determine the actual costs of abatement
and document such costs.
   (B)   The following expenses will be assessed as the actual costs of
abatement:
      (1)   Planning staff time, mileage and costs;
      (2)   Police Department staff time, mileage and costs;
      (3)   Other involved town staff time, including attorney’s fees, mileage
and costs;
      (4)   Postage, mailing and publication costs;
      (5)   Other direct costs associated with abatement; and
      (6)   An interest fee of 6% per annum computed on the above costs, which
will be waived if the total cost of abatement is paid within 30 days of notice.
(Ord. 344, passed - -2021)
§ 91.21 SALVAGE YARDS; ZONING MITIGATION.
   The maintenance of conditions which would otherwise be considered a
violation of this subchapter shall be lawful under this subchapter if:
   (A)   The premises is being used as an active, ongoing salvage business
located in an area properly zoned as a salvage yard, pursuant to the town’s
Zoning Ordinance, as may be amended from time to time;
   (B)   The owner(s) of the premises possesses a conditional use permit,
pursuant to §
155.075 of this code of ordinances, as may be amended from time to time; and
   (C)   The condition on the premises is shielded from public view in
accordance with the following standards.
      (1)   Erection and maintenance of fences.
         (a)   Wooden fences. When wooden fences are used for shielding, the
boards must be spaced and/or slatted to reduce wind load. The space between
boards when viewed from broadside shall not be more than one and one-half
inches, and the interval between spaces shall not be less than seven and one-
half inches. Rough dimension lumber or better is acceptable.
         (b)   Chainlink. Chainlink fences with standard fiberglass or other
inserts are acceptable; provided, the gap between adjacent slats does not
exceed one and one-half inches.
         (c)   Other types of fencing. Other types of fencing of equivalent
permanence, attractiveness and shielding quantities, including corrugated
metal, may also be acceptable, with the prior approval of the Department of
Public Works.
      (2)   Alternative shielding.
         (a)   Shrubs and trees. Shielding with shrubs and trees is acceptable,
as long as the trees and shrubs provide a similar degree of shielding at all
times of the year; and, provided that, they do not violate §
154.05 of this code of ordinances.
         (b)   Fencing material. No more than one fencing material shall be
used on any one side of a shielding barrier, unless specifically approved in
writing by the Department of Public Works.
         (c)   Maintenance. The shielding erected for mitigation purposes shall
be maintained by the owner or occupant of the premises in an appropriate and
workmanlike manner and shall be replaced as it becomes necessary.
(Ord. 344, passed - -2021)
§ 91.22 COMPATIBILITY OF REGULATIONS.
   With the exception of §
91.21 of this chapter, nothing in this chapter may be construed to adversely
affect the provisions of any lawful ordinance, regulation or resolution that is
more restrictive than the provisions of this subchapter or those of the Montana
Code Annotated.
(Ord. 344, passed - -2021)
NOXIOUS WEEDS
§ 91.35 NOXIOUS WEEDS A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, occupying or controlling any
lots within the town and its additions, to permit any weeds or grasses
mentioned in this subchapter to grow rank and bloom or to remain thereon, or to
produce such seed on such lots or upon the public streets or alleys adjoining
said lots.
(Prior Code, § 7.06.010) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.36 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms WEEDS OR GRASSES, as used in this subchapter, shall mean any plant
which is ordinarily grown without cultivation and is not grown for the purpose
of landscaping or food production; except that, lawns shall be included in the
term weeds for the purposes of height control as set out in §
91.37 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7.06.020)
§ 91.37 DUTY OF OWNER.
   It shall be the duty of every owner of real property to cut, destroy or
remove or cause to be cut, destroyed or removed all weeds in excess of six
inches in height growing thereon and upon any one-half of any street or alley
abutting the property to a height of six inches or less.
(Prior Code, § 7.06.030)
§ 91.38 INSPECTION; NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   Whenever the Chief of Police or his or her agents have reason to
believe that uncontrolled plant growth is present upon property within the town
in violation of this subchapter, he or she shall forthwith inspect the
premises, and if such growth is found, he or she shall cause written notice to
be served upon the owner of the property on which such growth exists, directing
the owner to comply with the provisions of this subchapter by removing said
conditions within ten days after service of notice. Such notice shall advise
the owner of what steps are required to come into compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter. The owner shall be determined from the last
completed assessment roll of the County Assessor.
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall give notice to destroy weeds within the town
limits by publishing notice to the public at least once each week for two
consecutive weeks. The last publication shall be not less than seven days prior
to May 15. Such notice shall advise the public as follows.
      (1)   All owners of real property or agents having control thereof are
responsible for destroying, removing or cutting all weeds not later than May 15
of each year and to keep such property free of weeds through November 30 of
each year.
      (2)   Failure to remove weeds may cause the town to remove the weeds and
charge the cost thereof against the real property together with a penalty of
$500 for each time to town provides removal.
(Prior Code, § 7.06.040)
§ 91.39 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   Except for the notice to destroy weeds, which shall be deemed to be
completed to all property owners upon the second publication thereof, any
notice required to be given shall be served personally upon the owner of the
property if said owner can be found within the town. If the owner cannot be
found within the town, the notice shall be mailed to the owner by certified
mail with return receipt requested at the address shown for the owner on the
last completed assessment roll of the County Assessor.
   (B)   Service of notice shall be complete on the day such notice is
deposited in the post office at the town.
(Prior Code, § 7.06.050)
§ 91.40 FORCED COMPLIANCE; ASSESSMENT.
   The owner must take appropriate steps to bring such property into compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter pursuant to the notice within ten days
after service of such notice. If the notice shall not be obeyed within the time
specified, the Chief of Police shall cause such work to be done and make report
thereof to the Clerk with an itemized account of the expenses incurred in
bringing such property into compliance and a description of the land involved
and shall include in such account the necessary costs involved and shall
include in such account the necessary costs and expenses of chemicals, man hour
or labor and equipment employed. All labor shall be charged at the rate of $20
per hour. The Clerk shall promptly send a statement of such account requesting
payment to the owner of the property. If such statement is not paid prior to
the time that the town tax assessments are submitted to the County Treasurer’s
office, the Clerk shall place such account as a special assessment on the
property and such special assessment shall be levied and collected in the same
manner as other special assessments by the town.
(Prior Code, § 7.06.060)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
91.01 through
91.04 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7.08.030)
   (C)   Violations of §§
91.15 through
91.22 of this chapter are considered a municipal infraction under M.C.A. § 7-1-
4150 and shall be punishable by a fine of $100 for each day, including and
after the date the notice of violation was provided, in which the owner shall
fail to comply with §§
91.15 through
91.22 of this chapter. Each day the owner fails to comply with §§
91.15 through
91.22 of this chapter shall be deemed as a separate offense, not to exceed $500
for each repeat violation, pursuant to M.C.A. § 7-1-4150.
   (D)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
91.35 through
91.40 of this chapter or refuses to comply with any notice given pursuant
thereto shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment in the county jail
for not more than six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day a
property is not in compliance with the provisions of §§
91.35 through
91.40 of this chapter constitutes a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 7.06.070)
(Ord. 344, passed - -2021; Ord. 347, passed 9-14-2022)
CHAPTER 92: JUNKED AND ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Unlawful to abandon vehicles
   
92.03   Parking limits for vehicles; sale of abandoned vehicles
   
92.04   Unlawful to leave junked vehicles on streets; removal and sale
   
92.05   Shielding junk vehicles
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   JUNK VEHICLE. A discarded, ruined, wrecked or dismantled vehicle, including
component parts, or a vehicle substantially changed in for by removal of parts
or component materials and which is not lawfully and validly licensed and
remains inoperative or incapable of being driven.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PUBLIC VIEW. Any point six feet above the surface of the center of a public
road from which junk vehicles can be seen.
   SHIELDING. The construction or use of fencing or human-made or natural
barriers to conceal junk vehicles from public view.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
public way when any part thereof is open to use of the public for purposes of
vehicular traffic and shall include alleys.
   VEHICLE. Any machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include without
limitation automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles and tractors.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.010) (Ord. 222, passed 7-11-1983; Ord. 223, passed - -;
Ord. 248, passed - -; Ord. 249, passed - -)
§ 92.02 UNLAWFUL TO ABANDON VEHICLES.
   No person shall abandon any vehicle up on a street or highway in the town
and no person shall leave any vehicle upon any street or highway within the
town for such time and under such circumstances as
to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been abandoned.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.020) (Ord. 223, passed - -; Ord. 248, passed - -; Ord.
249, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 PARKING LIMITS FOR VEHICLES; SALE OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   No person shall park a motor vehicle for longer than ten consecutive days
upon a street of highway within the town. Any vehicle left parked for ten
consecutive days shall be deemed abandoned and shall be removed and sold as an
abandoned vehicle according to state statute.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.030) (Ord. 223, passed - -; Ord. 248, passed - -; Ord.
249, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 UNLAWFUL TO LEAVE JUNKED VEHICLES ON STREETS; REMOVAL AND SALE.
   (A)   No person shall leave any partially dismantled, non-operating, wrecked
or junked vehicle upon any street or highway within the town.
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter, the term NON-OPERATING shall be
deemed to include all vehicles which cannot be lawfully driven upon a public
street or highway because of either physical breakdown lack of required
equipment or lack of current license plates and registration.
   (C)   Any such vehicle left upon the town streets shall be deemed abandoned
and shall be removed and sold as an abandoned vehicle according to state
statutes.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.040) (Ord. 223, passed - -; Ord. 248, passed - -; Ord.
249, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 SHIELDING JUNK VEHICLES.
   (A)   All junk vehicles are required to be shielded from public view. Public
view is any point six feet above the surface of the center of any public road
from which the wrecking facility and junk vehicles can be seen.
   (B)   Shielding refers to fencing or other human-made barriers to conceal a
facility from public view. It also refers to natural barriers. Any shielding
barrier must conform to all zoning, planning, building and protective covenant
provisions and any other legal restrictions that may be in effect for each
wrecking facility site.
   (C)   If a fence is used, the boards may be spaced and/or slatted to reduce
wind load. The space which can be seen from a broad-side view will not be more
than one and one-half inches wide when viewed at any angle from 45 degrees to
90 degrees to the fence. The interval between spaces will not be less than
seven and one-half inches. Chain-link metal fences with standard fiberglass or
other inserts are acceptable; provided, the gap between adjacent slats does not
exceed one and one-half inches. The breaks in the fence may be vertical or at
any angle; they cannot be horizontal.
   (D)   Screening with shrubs and trees, while not subject to precise
measurements, is to provide a similar degree of shielding at all times of the
year. A berm may be constructed of any solid material, including stumps,
demolition debris and the like. The slopes of the berm are to be covered and
graded smooth, with not less than three inches of top soil and seeded with an
adequate seeding formula.
   (E)   Any shielding is to be of sufficient height that none of the junk
vehicles an the premises are visible from public view. This is not intended to
require that permanent buildings, other structures, utility poles, cranes or
derricks or similar structures be shielded.
   (F)   The fencing is to be maintained in a neat and workmanlike manner. It
is to be replaced where necessary. Damage by vandals or other causes is not to
be reason for not maintaining the fence.
   (G)   The fence is not to be used as a billboard. A maximum of two signs not
to exceed 32 square feet each, advertising the business conducted on the
premises, may be painted on or attached flush to the fence.
   (H)   The shielding requirement may also be met by the use of tarps or
covers of a kind commonly used to cover motor vehicles; provided, said tarps or
covers are in good repair and shield the junk vehicle completely from public
view.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.060) (Ord. 223, passed - -; Ord. 248, passed - -; Ord.
249, passed - -)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an
amount not exceeding $100 or be imprisoned in the town jail not exceeding ten
days or both. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue
shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
Such penalty shall be in addition to the removal and sale of any vehicle as set
forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.050) (Ord. 223, passed - -; Ord. 248, passed - -; Ord.
249, passed - -)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
93.01   Fireworks
   
93.02   Explosive devices
   
93.03   Explosive materials
   
93.04   Gasoline storage
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Prohibiting sale of fireworks; exception. It shall be unlawful for any
person to sell, trade, exchange or give away, or offer to sell, trade, exchange
or give away any fireworks, firecrackers, cannon crackers, torpedoes or other
explosive pyrotechnics, except during the period between June 26 through July 5
and December 29 through December 31 inclusive of each year, during which
period, it shall be legal to sell said articles. Any person proposing to offer
fireworks for sale shall be subject to the provisions of this section relating
to business licenses. Fireworks may not be sold before 9:00 a.m. or after 11:00
p.m. on permissible sale dates.
(Prior Code, § 9.14.010)
   (B)   Regulations on use.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to discharge or cause to be discharged any
fireworks, firecrackers, cannon crackers, torpedoes or other explosive
pyrotechnics, except during the period between June 26 through July 5 and
December 29 through December 31 inclusive of each year, during which period, it
shall be legal to discharge said articles, subject to the terms of this
section.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any individual, firm, partnership or
corporation to discharge or cause to be discharged any fireworks within 100
feet of a firework sales location, from inside or toward a motor vehicle, or in
the vicinity of another person or group of people or any animal in a manner
likely to expose them to risk of injury.
      (3)   Fireworks may not be discharged before 9:00 a.m. or after 12:00
a.m. on dates when use is permitted.
   (C)   Supervised public display of fireworks. The state’s Fire Marshal and
the Town Council shall have the power, under reasonable rules and regulations
adopted by it, to grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks.
Every such display shall be handled by a competent operator to be approved by
the state’s Fire Marshal or by the Town Council and shall be of such character
and so located, discharged or fired so as, in the opinion of the Chief of the
Fire Department or such other officer as may be designated by the Town Council,
after proper inspection, shall not be hazardous to prope1iy or endanger any
person or animal. Applications for permits to conduct public fireworks displays
shall be made pursuant to Chapter 111 of this code of ordinances. After a
permit is granted, sales, possession, use and distribution of fireworks for
such display shall be lawful for the limited purpose of said display only. No
permit granted under this division (C) shall be transferrable.
   (D)   Where section does not apply. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to prohibit the sale of any kind of fireworks to a person holding a
permit from the town for a display covered by such permit, or the use of
fireworks by railroads or other construction or transportation agencies for
signal purposes or illumination, or when used in quarrying, blasting or other
industrial use, or the sale or use of blank cartridges for show or theater, or
for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics, or for use by military
organizations or organizations composed of veterans of the United States
military.
(Ord. 348, passed 11-9-2022) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 EXPLOSIVE DEVICES.
   (A)   Sale of explosive devices prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person to sell, trade, exchange or give away, or offer to sell, trade, exchange
or give away, or have possession of what is known as toy pistols, toy cannons,
cap pistols, explosive canes or other devices or appliances for the use of
blank cartridges or caps containing chlorate of potash mixture or other
explosive substance; or any blank cartridge, paper caps or other explosive
substance prepared for, used in or intended for use in toy pistols, cap
pistols, explosive canes or other such appliances.
(Prior Code, § 9.16.010)
   (B)   Explosive devices declared a nuisance. Toy pistols, toy cannons, cap
pistols, explosive canes and all such devices and appliances, designated in
division (A) above are hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and it shall be
the duty of every officer authorized to make arrests, to seize every such toy
pistol, article and device, and bring the same before the Town Judge.
(Prior Code, § 9.16.020)
   (C)   Destruction of explosive devices. The Town Judge before whom such toy
pistol, article or device is brought must cause the public destruction of the
same, and no person owning or claiming to own any such toy pistol, article or
device shall have any right of action against any person or against the state,
county or town for the value of such article or for damages for the destruction
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9.16.030)
(Ord. 150, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to either handle or
store gunpowder, giant powder, nitroglycerine, dynamite or other explosive
materials within three miles of the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 9.18.010) (Ord. 168, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 GASOLINE STORAGE.
   (A)   Restrictions on aboveground storage in residential areas. No person
shall keep or maintain in above ground storage in any residential area within
the town limits, gasoline or other petroleum products having a flash point
lower than gasoline in excess of a total quantity of ten gallons per family
unit.
(Prior Code, § 9.20.010)
   (B)   Gasoline stored in metal containers. All such gasoline stored on
private premises in aboveground storage shall be kept in metal containers and
stored inside a building or other structure.
(Prior Code, § 9.20.020)
   (C)   Ten gallons allowable per household. The total quantity of ten gallons
per household shall apply whether or not said gasoline is stored in one or more
than one container.
(Prior Code, § 9.20.030)
   (D)   Exceptions. This prohibition shall not apply to propane or other
similar product used for the purpose of heating homes.
(Prior Code, § 9.20.040)
(Ord. 200, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §
93.01 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined in the sum of not less than $50 and not more than $500,
or be imprisoned in the town or county jail for a period of not to exceed 30
days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the Court.
(Prior Code, § 9.14.020)
   (C)   Any person violating §
93.02 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined in the sum of not less than $5 and not more than $100,
or be imprisoned in the town or county jail for a period of not to exceed 30
days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the Court.
(Prior Code, § 9.16.010)
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §
93.03 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than
$300 or imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both fined and imprisoned in the
discretion of the Court.
(Prior Code, § 9.18.020)
   (E)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §
93.04 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to fine and/or confinement in accordance with the
laws of the state and the town with regard to punishment for conviction of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9.20.050)
(Ord. 150, passed - -; Ord. 168, passed - -; Ord. 200, passed - -; Ord. 348,
passed 11-9-2022)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   GAMING BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
Liquor Regulations
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License fees
   
110.03   Application; locations
   
110.04   Non-transferable; exception
   
110.05   Qualifications
   
110.06   Restrictions
   
110.07   Exceptions
   
110.08   Renewal of suspended license
   
110.09   Compliance with state laws
Beer Regulations
   
110.20   Municipal license requirements; fees
   
110.21   Application for license
   
110.22   Issuance of license endorsement
   
110.23   Displaying license
   
110.24   Hours of business
   
110.25   Town Judge to report convictions
   
110.26   Revocation or suspension of license
   
110.27   Restrictions, sale of beer
   
110.28   Inspection and regulation for police power
 
   
110.99   Penalty
LIQUOR REGULATIONS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      CLUB. A national fraternal organization with permanent quarters or rooms,
except college fraternities, or associations of individuals organized for
social purposes and not for profit, with a permanent membership and in
existence for two years.
      COUNCIL. The Council of the town.
      INTERDICTED PERSON. A person to whom the sale of liquor is prohibited
under the laws of the state.
      LICENSE. An all-beverage license issued by the town to a qualified person
under which it shall be lawful for the licensee to sell or beverages at retail
as provided in this subchapter.
      STATE LIQUOR STORE. Stores operated by the state’s Department of Revenue
located in various cities, towns, villages and communities of the state in
which are sold all alcoholic beverages that are legal in the state.
   (B)   All other words and phrases used in this subchapter, the definitions
of which are not herein given shall be given the ordinary meaning.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.010)
§ 110.02 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Licenses may be issued to qualified applicants, as herein provided,
whereby the licensees shall be authorized and permitted to sell alcoholic
beverages at retail in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
Qualified applicants shall include persons, hotels, clubs and fraternal
organizations.
   (B)   Each licensee under the provisions of this subchapter shall pay an
annual license fee in the sum of $100 for a beer and wine license or an annual
license fee in the sum of $200 for an all beverage license, payable in full on
or before June 30 of each year.
   (C)   Where a license hereunder is issued for a period commencing subsequent
to the first of the current year, a pro rata charge will be made therefor, but
nothing herein contained shall be construed to entitle any license hereunder to
any refund of any portion of the license fee in the event of the discontinuing
of such business, or the suspension or revocation of his or her license; except
that, he or she shall be entitled to a pro rata refund in the event that his or
her business is discontinued by virtue of said State Alcoholic Beverage Code
being, by referendum petition, rendered inoperative and awaiting such time as
it may be passed upon at an election.
   (D)   The license fees herein provided for are exclusive of and in addition
to other license fees chargeable in the town for the sale of alcoholic
beverages.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.020)
§ 110.03 APPLICATION; LOCATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Prior to the issuance of a license as herein provided, the
applicant shall file with the Town Treasurer an application in writing, signed
by the applicant, and directed to the Council, which application shall specify
the location by street and number of the premises where the business is to be
carried on under the license applied for, the names of the person or persons
conducting the business, of the same if a partnership and, if the same is a
fraternal order, such fact must therein be set forth. The application must be
accompanied by satisfactory evidence that the applicant has the licenses, as
herein provided for. The application must be accompanied with the license fee
in §
110.02 of this chapter specified for the business applied for.
      (2)   Upon the filing of the application prescribed herein, accompanied
by the evidence required and upon payment of the required license fee, the
Treasurer shall issue and deliver to the applicant a license to carry on the
business of which the applicant owns and holds a subsisting license issued to
such applicant for such business appropriate index thereof, which shall show
the date filed, the name of the applicant and character and location of the
business and an appropriate file number, if any, by which said application and
accompanying documents, if any, may be found.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.020)
   (B)   (1)   Alcoholic beverages, except sales of beer and/or wine in the
original package for off-sale consumption, may be sold only at the following
described addresses situated within the town:
         (a)   Hotel Albert Lounge and Casino: 419 South Ellery Avenue;
         (b)   Powder Keg: 402 West Ninth Street;
         (c)   Waterhole #3: 416 South Ellery Avenue;
         (d)   Double Barrel Saloon and Casino: 401 South Ellery Avenue; and
         (e)   Gold Rush Casino & Liquor Store: 504 South Ellery Avenue.
      (2)   This division (B) in no way restricts the sales of beer, table wine
or both in the original package for off-premises consumption.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.030)
(Ord. 342, passed 9-9-2020)
§ 110.04 NON-TRANSFERABLE; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Every license issued under this subchapter shall set forth the name or
the person to whom issued and the location by street and number of the premises
where the business is to be carried forth under such license. If it is a
partnership, it shall set forth further names of the persons conducting the
business.
   (B)   Such license shall be signed by the licensee and shall be non-
transferable; however, transfer of any such license may be made on application
to the Council, accompanied by satisfactory evidence of the consent or the
state’s Department of Revenue to such transfer of the license by it issued
under said the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Code, being M.C.A. Title 16, Chs. 1
through 6.
   (C)   Such license shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises in
respect to which it is issued and shall be exhibited to any member of the
Police Department.
   (D)   Every license issued under the provisions of this subchapter is
separate and distinct and no person, except the licensee named therein, shall
exercise any of the privileges granted thereunder and all licenses are
applicable only to the premises in respect to which they are issued.
   (E)   All licenses shall expire December 31 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.040)
§ 110.05 QUALIFICATIONS.
   No person, club or fraternal organization shall be entitled to a license
under this subchapter unless such person, club or fraternal organization shall
have, in respect to the same premises for which a license under this subchapter
is sought: a subsisting license issued under said subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.050)
§ 110.06 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No licensee shall sell, deliver or give away or cause or permit to be
sold, delivered or given away any liquor to:
      (1)   Any person under the age of 21 years; or
      (2)   Any person who is obviously intoxicated.
   (B)   No liquor shall be sold, offered for sale or given away upon any
premises licensed to sell liquor at retail between the hours 2:00 a.m. and 8:00
a.m. on any day.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or keep for sale or have
on his or her premises for any purpose whatever, any liquor except that
purchased from a state liquor store and any licensee found in possession of, or
selling or keeping for sale any liquor which was not purchased from a state
liquor store shall, upon conviction, be punished, and if the Town Council shall
be satisfied that any such liquor was knowingly sold or kept for sale within
the licensed premises by such licensee, or by his or her agents, servants or
employees, it shall be mandatory that the Council immediately revoke the
license of such licensee.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.060) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who has not been issued a license under
this subchapter to sell or keep for sale any alcoholic beverage; provided,
however, that, nothing herein contained shall be deemed to apply to those
engaged in the sale of alcoholic beverages:
   (A)   At the various state liquor stores; or
   (B)   In the dining or buffet car of any railroad in connection with
regularly operated train service, when the person serving such liquor is in the
employ of said railroad and is acting within the scope of his or her employment
in so doing; provided, a license has been issued to said railroad under said
code by the state’s Department of Revenue and the same, or a duplicate thereof,
is displayed in such car.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.070) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 RENEWAL OF SUSPENDED LICENSE.
   After suspension or revocation of a license, the Council shall have the
power to renew the same if, in its discretion, a proper showing therefor has
been made.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.080)
§ 110.09 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAWS.
   It shall be the duty of each and every person having any connection
whatsoever with all beverage licenses issued under this subchapter to comply
fully with all state laws relating thereto.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.090)
BEER REGULATIONS
§ 110.20 MUNICIPAL LICENSE REQUIREMENTS; FEES.
   (A)   Any person who desires to engage in the business of selling beer and/
or wine in said town under the provisions of state law shall after acquiring a
state license for such activity then obtain a license therefor from the town
and shall pay therefor an annual license fee as follows:
      (1)   Each retailer of beer: $200;
      (2)   Each retailer of beer and wine: $400; and
      (3)   Each authorized club: $50.
   (B)   All licenses issued in any year shall expire on June 30 at 12:00 a.m.
of such year; provided, in case the holder of any such license shall be in
default for the payment of such license fee, or any part thereof, said license
shall immediately terminate.
   (C)   A transfer of any such license may be made on application to the town,
accompanied by satisfactory evidence of an approval of the transfer of the
license issued by the state’s Department of Revenue for such license.
   (D)   Where a license hereunder is issued for a period commencing subsequent
to the first of any current year for which such license may be issued, the pro
rata fee only shall be charged for the balance of such current year, but
nothing herein shall be construed to entitle any licensee hereunder to a refund
of any portion of the license fee in the event of his or her discontinuing such
business or the suspension or revocation of his or her license prior to the
expiration of such year.
(Prior Code, § 5.06.010)
§ 110.21 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Every person required by this subchapter to obtain a license must,
before commencing such business, file with the Treasurer an application, in
writing, directed to the Council of the town. Such application shall be
substantially the same in form as shall be prescribed by the state’s Department
of Revenue to carry out the provisions of the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Code,
being M.C.A. Title 16, Chs. 1 through 6, and must be accompanied by
satisfactory evidence that applicant is the owner and holder of a subsisting
license or permit issued by said Department under the provisions of said code
and at the same location for which application for license is being made.
   (B)   Such application must be accompanied with the license fee specified
for the business applied for, and if such applicant must accompany such
application with principal’s acknowledgment of such.
(Prior Code, § 5.06.020)
§ 110.22 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE ENDORSEMENT.
   (A)   Upon the filing of the application prescribed herein, accompanied by
the evidence required, and upon payment of the required license fee, the
Treasurer shall issue and deliver to the applicant a license to carry on the
business of which the applicant owns and holds a subsisting license issued to
such applicant for such business at such location by said Department and the
same shall refer to this subchapter by its number and as the “Fairview Beer
Regulations”.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall endorse upon each application and accompanying
documents, if any, in his or her office, and shall keep an appropriate index
thereof, which shall show the date filed, the name of the applicant and
character and location of the business and an appropriate file number, if any,
by which said application and accompanying documents, if any, may be found.
(Prior Code, § 5.06.030)
§ 110.23 DISPLAYING LICENSE.
   Any and all licenses issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall be
at all times prominently displayed in the place of business of such business.
(Prior Code, § 5.06.040)
§ 110.24 HOURS OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   The privileges granted by any and all licenses issued under this
subchapter are suspended and inoperative and shall remain suspended and
inoperative between the hour of 2:00 a.m. and the hour of 8:00 a.m. of the same
day and it shall be unlawful for any licensee under this subchapter to sell and
deliver beer or wine or permit the same to be drunk on its premises during said
period.
   (B)   Such general suspension and inoperativeness shall not apply to the
mere drinking of beer or wine in a room of a bona fide residence or a hotel
licensed hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 5.06.050) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.25 TOWN JUDGE TO REPORT CONVICTIONS.
   In the case of a conviction of any licensee hereunder of any violation of
this subchapter in the Town Court, the Town Judge shall, within ten days
thereafter, whether or not an appeal has been taken from the judgment of
conviction, transmit to the state’s Department of Revenue, a certified copy of
the record of conviction.
(Prior Code, § 5.06.060)
§ 110.26 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   If any license issued by the state’s Department of Revenue under the
provisions of the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Code shall be revoked, or shall be
suspended under the provisions of said code, the companion license issued under
the provisions of this subchapter, shall be automatically revoked or suspended
for the said period, and in the event such action by the state’s Department of
Revenue shall, on appeal, be modified or set aside, the suspension or
revocation of the license issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall
likewise be automatically affected.
(Prior Code, § 5.06.070)
§ 110.27 RESTRICTIONS, SALE OF BEER.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any other person, to sell, dispose
of or give away beer to any person who shall appear to be in an intoxicated or
disorderly condition, or to allow or permit any person under the age of 19
years or any intoxicated or disorderly person to congregate, be or remain in or
upon his or her premises, or to be employed therein.
(Prior Code, § 5.06.080) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.28 INSPECTION AND REGULATION FOR POLICE POWER.
   Every persons are subject to regulation, inspection, control and supervision
under the general police power of the town, and all laws in force, or which may
hereafter be adopted, in and of such police power and regulation and each and
every license shall be subject to suspension and revocation as hereinbefore
provided.
(Prior Code, § 5.06.090)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
110.01 through
110.09 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punishable as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.100)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   License required; compliance
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Peddlers’ hours of operation
   
111.04   Application and license fee
   
111.05   Rules and regulations generally
   
111.06   Exceptions
   
111.07   Complaints
   
111.08   Registration and licensing of solicitors
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 LICENSE REQUIRED; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in
the business, trade or calling of hawker, peddler or solicitor within the town
limits whether such business, trade or calling be conducted by personal
purposes, without first having obtained a license to do so.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.010)
   (B)   No business activity shall be allowed within the town that is in
violation of federal, state or local law.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.110)
(Ord. 196, passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   HAWKER. All persons, firms or corporations who shall hereafter sell, offer
to sell at wholesale or retail any goods, wares, merchandise or professional or
personal services from a stand, wagon, railroad car, motor vehicle or upon any
street or upon any public or vacant ground or from temporary quarters within
the corporate limits of the town shall be deemed a HAWKER within the meaning of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.030)
   PEDDLER. All persons, firms or corporations who shall enter upon private
premises or go into private residences, offices, business establishments or
public buildings for the purpose of selling or soliciting orders for the sale
of goods, wares, merchandise, books, pamphlets, lottery tickets or other items
of property shall be deemed a PEDDLER within the meaning of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.040)
   RETAILER. Any person, firm or corporation who sells to a consumer.
   WHOLESALER. Any person, firm or corporation who sells to a retailer.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.020)
(Ord. 196, passed - -)
§ 111.03 PEDDLERS’ HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No peddler may enter upon residential property or go into a private
residence before 9:00 a.m. in the morning or after 7:00 p.m. in the evening.
   (B)   No peddler may enter upon or remain on private property if the owner,
tenant or lawful occupant has asked the peddler not to peddle, solicit or
attempt to sell or otherwise present on the property.
   (C)   No peddler may enter or remain on private property on which is
conspicuously posted a “no trespassing” sign.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.041) (Ord. 196, passed - -; Ord. 322, passed 11-14-2012)
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 APPLICATION AND LICENSE FEE.
   Each peddler shall, before conducting any business, as herein defined,
within the corporate limits of the town, make application to the Town Clerk and
Police Department of said town for a license, which license, if issued, shall
not be transferable, specifying in said application his, her or their name and
residence, the number of days or the period of time he, she or they will be
engaged in said town in the conduct of such business, the article or articles
to be sold or offered for sale and the manner of conducting said business and
shall pay for said license $250 for each 30-day period. For purpose of
investigation, the Town Clerk and Police Department of said city may request
the applicant for such license to wait for a period of not more than 30 days,
immediately following application for license before granting or refusing to
grant said license.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.050) (Ord. 196, passed - -; Ord. 325, passed 10-15-2014)
§ 111.05 RULES AND REGULATIONS GENERALLY.
   Each hawker or peddler conducting such business within the corporate limits
of the town shall display the license at the beginning of the interview, comply
with all the ordinances of said town which may be applicable and shall conduct
such business in a manner not offensive to the peace, morals or welfare of the
people of said town, and in such a manner as not to create a nuisance; and,
provided further that, no such hawker or peddler shall sell or offer to sell
any article within said town at any time, except between the hours of 9:30 a.m.
and 5:30 p.m. or at such hours and on such days as such regular businesses in
said town are conducted.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.060) (Ord. 196, passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any scientific and
literary lectures and entertainments; to any duly and regularly licensed
auctioneer in pursuit of his or her profession; to a person using a motor
vehicle owned by him or her whether operated by him or her or his or her agent
for the transportation of farm produce raised or produced by him or her on his
or her own or leased premises, when the entire course of such transportation
extends not more than the confines of the territorial limits of the state; to
any regularly established and recognized charitable or welfare institution or
organization of and within the state and whose benefits are available to any
person within the state; to wholesalers calling upon established local business
firms in the town; to any legal resident of the county under the age of 18 or
to any person over the age of 18 who is a legal resident of the county and
qualified to vote therein; to any regularly established newspaper situated in
and published in the state; to all class and year books sponsored by the public
or parochial schools of the state.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.070) (Ord. 196, passed - -)
§ 111.07 COMPLAINTS.
   The Police Department or any police officer shall police such business,
trade or calling of hawkers, peddlers or solicitors to the end that this
chapter be complied with, and any and all members of the Police Department
having knowledge of a violation hereof, shall make and prosecute complaint
against the offender; and such complaint may also be made and prosecuted by the
Town Treasurer or the Assistant Town Treasurer under their duty of license
collector.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.080) (Ord. 196, passed - -)
§ 111.08 REGISTRATION AND LICENSING OF SOLICITORS.
   Any persons, firms or corporations going from place to place requesting
donations of funds or goods for charitable or religious purposes shall be
deemed solicitors and as such shall not be required to obtain a license;
provided, however, that, to protect the citizens of the town from fraud and
deception, all solicitors shall register with the Town Clerk by giving their
names, addresses and the true and correct names of the organizations they
represent and show proof of their authority to represent such organization.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.090) (Ord. 196, passed - -)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions hereof shall be guilty of
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in a sum not less than
$25 or more than $300 or by imprisonment in the town jail for not less than ten
days or more than 90 days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.100) (Ord. 196, passed - -)
CHAPTER 112: GAMING BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Minors prohibited
   
112.03   Hours of operation
   
112.04   Gaming equipment
Licensing Regulations and Conditions
   
112.15   License required
   
112.16   Restrictions on individuals
   
112.17   Denial of license for unsuitable premises
   
112.18   Application for license
   
112.19   Ineligible for license
   
112.20   Information regarding interests held
   
112.21   Change of property ownership
   
112.22   Persons to be named on license
   
112.23   Information regarding leases
   
112.24   Applicant to prove qualifications
   
112.25   Claiming any privileges; grounds for denial
   
112.26   Town Council may require additional information
   
112.27   Separate application required for each premises
   
112.28   Investigation; review of application
   
112.29   License requirements
   
112.30   Investigation of licensee on complaint
   
112.31   Hearing on suspension or revocation of license
   
112.32   Notice of hearing
   
112.33   Appointment of hearings examiner
   
112.34   Right to examine premises
   
112.35   Power to renew license
   
112.36   Restrictions on license
   
112.37   Reasons for suspension or revocation of license
   
112.38   Licensee may not refuse service; exceptions
   
112.39   Licensee not to employ full-time law enforcement personnel
   
112.40   Records of gross income and expenses
   
112.41   License not issued to government employees
   
112.42   Temporary licenses
   
112.43   Fees
   
112.44   Fees paid in advance; license period
   
112.45   Licenses or permits a revocable privilege
   
112.46   Fees and fines paid into treasury
   
112.47   Lien
Dealer’s Permit
   
112.60   Dealer’s permit required
   
112.61   Application for dealer’s permit
   
112.62   Persons ineligible for dealer’s permit
   
112.63   Appeal to Town Council regarding permit application
   
112.64   Revocation or suspension of dealer’s permit
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED CARD GAME. Card games known as bridge, cribbage, hearts,
panguingue, pinochle, pitch, rummy, whist, solo and poker.
   CARD GAME. Any game played with cards for which prize is money or any item
of value.
   DEALER’S PERMIT. A permit issued by the town authorizing an individual to
deal, supervise, participate in, conduct and operate authorized card games and
games of chance as an agent, servant, employee or independent contractor for a
licensee on a premise for which a gaming license or temporary license has been
issued pursuant to this chapter.
   EQUIPMENT. With respect to bingo, the receptacle and numbered objects drawn
from it, the master board upon which such objects are placed as drawn, the
cards or sheets bearing numbers or other designations to be covered and the
objects used to cover them, the boards or signs, however operated, used to
announce or display the numbers or designations as they are drawn, public
address system and all other articles essential to the operation, conduct and
playing of bingo or with respect to raffles, the implements, devices and
machines designed, intended or used for the conduct of raffles and the
identification of the winning number or unit and the ticket or other evidence
of right to participate in raffles.
   GAME OF CHANCE. The specific kind of game of chance commonly known:
      (1)   BINGO, in which prizes are awarded on the basis of designated
numbers or symbols on a card which conforms to numbers or symbols selected at
random; and such prizes must be in tangible personal property only and not in
money, cash, stocks, bonds, evidences of indebtedness, or other intangible
personal property and must not exceed the value of $100 for each individual
bingo award. The price for an individual bingo card shall not exceed $0.50. It
shall be unlawful to, in any manner, combine any awards so as to increase the
ultimate value or such award; and
      (2)   RAFFLES, which are conducted by drawing for prizes. Prizes must be
in tangible personal property only and not in money, cash, stocks, bonds,
evidences of indebtedness or other intangible personal property and must not
exceed the value of $1,000 for each individual raffle card. It shall be
unlawful to, in any manner, combine any award so as to increase the ultimate
value of such award.
   GAMING LICENSE. A license issued by the town to a qualified person under
which it shall be lawful for the licensee to provide a place and equipment for
the conduct of and operate games of chance and authorized card games, as
provided in this chapter and the state’s Card Games Act and Bingo and Raffles
Law.
   GAMING MACHINE. Any implement, device, equipment or machine designed,
intended or used for the conduct of raffles or the receptacle and master board
used for the conduct of bingo.
   GAMING TABLE. A piece of furniture used as a surface for playing any
authorized card games.
   LICENSEE. The person to whom a license is issued.
   MINOR. An individual under the age of 18 years.
   PERSON. Every individual, copartnership or corporation who owns or operates
premises which have been licensed for the sale of liquor, beer, food,
cigarettes or any other consumable product.
   PREMISES. Any building, structure, lot or parcel of real property under the
control of any person.
   TEMPORARY LICENSE. A gaming license issued by the town for a specified
period not to exceed two weeks.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.010) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.02 MINORS PROHIBITED.
   No minor may enter a room used for the conduct of games of chance or
authorized card games.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.240) (Ord. 204, passed - -) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No game of chance or authorized card game may be operated in any premises,
licensed hereunder, during the following hours:
   (A)   Sunday from 2:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.; and
   (B)   On any other day between 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.250) (Ord. 204, passed - -) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 GAMING EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No licensee operating authorized card games or games of chance,
pursuant to this chapter, may operate at one time on the premises more than
five gaming tables or more than five gaming machines, and may not conduct more
than two games of bingo or two raffles at any time, or more than the number of
tables and machines authorized by his or her license, whichever is fewer.
   (B)   A licensee may at any time increase the number of gaming tables or
gaming machines authorized on his or her premises up to the maximum authorized
by this chapter by first paying to the Director of Finance the necessary fees
and applying for a license amendment.
   (C)   The amendment shall be granted by the Director of Finance on payment
of the requisite fees, and shall be posted with the original license during the
balance of the license year.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.360) (Ord. 204, passed - -; Ord. 221, passed 11-8-1982)
Penalty, see §
112.99
LICENSING REGULATIONS AND CONDITIONS
§ 112.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Gaming licenses may be issued to qualified applicants as herein provided,
whereby the licensee shall be authorized and permitted to provide gaming tables
for authorized card games and equipment for games of chance and to operate and
conduct authorized card games and games of chance. No person shall permit the
operation or conduct of any card game or game of chance on his or her premises
until he or she has obtained a gaming license.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.020) (Ord. 204, passed - -) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.16 RESTRICTIONS ON INDIVIDUALS.
   No gaming license or temporary license shall be issued to:
   (A)   A person who has been convicted of being a keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame;
   (B)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crimes or other
misdemeanors opposed to decency and morality under the laws of the federal
government or any state of the United States;
   (C)   A person whose license, issued under this chapter or the ordinance or
resolution of any other city, town or county in the state relating to gaming,
has been revoked for cause;
   (D)   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
   (E)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States and who has not
been a resident of the state for at least one year immediately preceding the
filing of the application for a license;
   (F)   A person who is not the owner and operator of the business licensed
for the sale of liquor, beer, food, cigarettes or other consumable products;
   (G)   Minors; and/or
   (H)   A person who has been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude or violence against an individual.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.030) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.17 DENIAL OF LICENSE FOR UNSUITABLE PREMISES.
   (A)   A gaming license may be denied if the Town Council deems that the
place or location for which the license is sought is unsuitable for the conduct
of gaming operations.
   (B)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the following places
or locations may be deemed unsuitable:
      (1)   Premises located within the immediate vicinity of churches,
hospitals, schools and children’s public playgrounds;
      (2)   Premises located in a place where gaming would be contrary to a
zoning ordinance; and
      (3)   Premises difficult to police by reason of physical layout or
construction.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.040) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.18 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Prior to the issuance of a license, as herein provided, the applicant shall
file with the Director of Finance, an application in writing, signed by the
applicant and directed to the Town Council, which application shall specify the
location by street and number of the premises where authorized card games and
games of chance are to be conducted under the license applied for. The
application shall state the names of all individuals and persons financially
interested in the promises, the license sought or the business conducted on the
premises. The application must be accompanied hy satisfactory evidence that the
applicant is currently licensed for the sale of liquor, beer, food, cigarettes
or any other consumable product, and the applicant must further authorize the
Chief of Police to investigate the applicant’s character, background and
associations, and the suitability of the premises for gaming. The license
application shall set forth the number of gaming tables, not to exceed five,
and the number of gaming machines, not to exceed ten that are to be used on the
premises and whether games of chance are to be conducted on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.050) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.19 INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   If any person or individual named on the application is ineligible for
issuance of a gaming license or temporary license, none may be issued for that
premises.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.060) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.20 INFORMATION REGARDING INTERESTS HELD.
   In all cases in which or whereon the gaming operation for which a gaming
license is sought are not wholly owned by the applicant, the applicant shall
furnish with his or her application a statement of the name and address of the
owner or owners of such premises, a copy of all agreements whereby the
applicant is entitled to possession of the premises and such other information
as the Town Council may require. In all cases in which the premises are wholly
or partly owned by the applicant, the applicant shall furnish to the Town
Council complete information pertaining to the interests held by any person
other than the applicant, including interest held under any mortgage, deed of
trust, bonds or debentures, pledge of corporate stock, voting trust agreement
or other device whatever, together with such other information as the Town
Council may require.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.070) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.21 CHANGE OF PROPERTY OWNERSHIP.
   Every licensee shall furnish to the Director of Finance complete information
pertaining to any change of ownership of any such interest in the premises
wherein or whereon the licensed gaming is operated at least 30 days before the
date or such change of if the licensee is not a party to the transaction
effecting such change of ownership immediately upon acquiring knowledge of such
change of ownership or any contemplated change of ownership.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.080) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.22 PERSONS TO BE NAMED ON LICENSE.
   If the Town Council determines that a landlord or financier, by reason of
the extent of his or her holdings, or his or her inherent control financially,
cannot in fact be separated from the gaming operation and that, as a practical
matter, a single entity exists regardless of the form of organization, it may
require that all such persons be named on the license. Without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, such a situation may be deemed to exist in any
instance where any owner of premises leases the same to operators under terms
which are not in accordance with usual and accepted business practice.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.090) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.23 INFORMATION REGARDING LEASES.
   A licensee shall report to the Town Council all leases to which it is a
party on any premises where gaming is conducted not later than 30 days after
the effective date of the lease and shall include the following information:
   (A)   The name, address and a brief statement of the nature of the business
of the lessor;
   (B)   A brief description of the material terms of the lease; and
   (C)   A brief description of any business relationships between the licensee
and the lessor other than by the license.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.100) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.24 APPLICANT TO PROVE QUALIFICATIONS.
   An applicant for a gaming license is seeking the granting of a privilege,
and the burden of proving his or her qualification to receive any license is at
all times on the applicant. An applicant is deemed to accept any risk of
adverse public notice, embarrassment, criticism or other action of financial
loss which may result from action with, respect to an applicant and expressly
waives any claim for damages as a result thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.110) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.25 CLAIMING ANY PRIVILEGES; GROUNDS FOR DENIAL.
   An applicant may claim any privilege afforded by the Constitution of the
United States or of the state in refusing to answer questions. However, a claim
of privilege with respect to any testimony or evidence pertaining to an
application constitutes sufficient grounds for denial.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.120) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.26 TOWN COUNCIL MAY REQUIRE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Each applicants shall promptly furnish the Town Council with all
additional information pertaining to the application or to the individual
applicant which the Town Council may require. Failure to supply the information
requested within five days after tho request has been received by the applicant
shall constitute grounds for delaying consideration or the application. Failure
to supply tho information within two weeks constitutes sufficient grounds for
denial.
   (B)   The information may include:
      (1)   Personal history records for each individual partner, joint
venturer, trustee or corporate member who has any financial interest direct or
indirect in the business entity;
      (2)   Fingerprint cards for each individual financially interested;
      (3)   A copy of each of the following, if applicable:
      (4)   Articles of incorporation and certificate of incorporation;
      (5)   Partnership agreement;
      (6)   Trust agreement;
      (7)   Joint venture agreement;
      (8)   Purchase agreement;
      (9)   Lease agreement;
      (10)   Bill of sale; and
      (11)   Management agreement.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.130) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.27 SEPARATE APPLICATION REQUIRED FOR EACH PREMISES.
   A separate application is required for each premises for which a license is
sought; irrespective of tho ownership of such establishment.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.140) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.28 INVESTIGATION; REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Upon the filing of the application hereinabove prescribed with
accompanying documents, accompanied by the evidence therein required and upon
the payment of the required license fee, the Director of Finance shall deliver
the application and accompanying documents to the Chief of Police, who shall
conduct the investigation mentioned above and who shall, within one month of
receipt thereof, unless the Town Council has granted an extension, deliver the
application and accompanying documents to the Town Council. If his or her
investigation has revealed any information that would make the applicant
ineligible for issuance of a license, he or she shall deliver evidence of the
same to the Town Council. The Town Council shall, at its next regular meeting
following receipt thereof, or at any special meeting called for that purpose
consider the application and shall notify the applicant of the hearing. The
Town Council may, in its discretion, decline to authorize a license if the
applicant is ineligible for issuance of a license, he or she shall deliver
evidence of the same to the Town Council. The Town Council shall, at its next
regular meeting following receipt thereof, or at any special meeting called for
that purpose consider the application, and shall notify the applicant of the
hearing. The Town Council may, in its discretion, decline to authorize a
license if the applicant is ineligible or in the judgment of the Town Council,
it will be in the best interests of the town to refuse such license.
   (B)   Upon such refusal, the license fee paid by the applicant, less the sum
of $75, which shall be retained as an application fee, shall be returned to the
applicant. The Town Council may, in its discretion, require any individual
named in the application to testify before it. Failure to appear and answer
constitutes grounds for denial of the application. All proceedings of the Town
Council regarding the granting or declining of a license shall be at public
meetings and are reviewable by a writ of review.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.150) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.29 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every license issued pursuant to this chapter shall set forth the name
or the person to whom it is issued and the location by street and number of the
premises where business is to be carried on by such license. If the licensee is
a partnership, it shall set forth the names of the partners conducting the
business and, if a corporation, the names of the officers and directors.
   (B)   The license shall be signed by the licensee or its president and shall
be non-transferable; provided, however, that, a transfer of any such license
may be made on application to the Town Council, accompanied by satisfactory
evidence of the consent of the authority which has issued a license for the
sale of liquor, beer, food, cigarettes or any other consumable product on the
premises that the license may be transferred. The license issued pursuant to
this chapter shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises in respect
to which it is issued, shall state the number of gaming tables and gaming
machines authorized, and whether games of chance are authorized and shall be
exhibited to any peace officer on request. It is unlawful for any licensee to
operate more than one premises under one license.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.160) (Ord. 204, passed - -) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.30 INVESTIGATION OF LICENSEE ON COMPLAINT.
   The Town Council may, upon its own motion and shall upon a written, verified
complaint of any other person, investigate the action and operation of any
licensee hereunder and shall have the power to temporarily suspend or
permanently revoke a license issued under the provisions of this chapter for
violation of any provision hereof.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.170) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.31 HEARING ON SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Upon filing with the Town Council of a verified complaint charging the
licensee with the Town Council of any act which would be the cause for the
suspension or revocation or the license within one year prior to the date of
filing said complaint, the Town Council shall forthwith issue a citation
directing the licensee to appear before the Town Council or a hearings examiner
appointed by said Town Council, within ten days after the date of the service
of said citation, and by filing his or her verified answer to the complaint
show cause, if any, why his or her license should not be suspended or revoked.
Service of the citation may be effected hy mailing a true copy thereof with a
true copy to the address of record or personally by any police officer. Failure
of the licensee to answer shall be deemed an admission by him or her of the
truthfulness of the charge made and thereon the Town Council shall be
authorized to forthwith suspend or revoke the license.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.180) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.32 NOTICE OF HEARING.
   (A)   Upon filing of the answer, the Town Council or its hearings examiner
shall fix the time and place of the hearing on the charges made, and not less
than five days’ notice of said hearing shall be given to the complainant and
the licensee. The notice of hearing shall be served in the same manner as the
citation herein provided.
   (B)   With the notice of the hearing to the complainant, there shall be
attached a true copy of the answer of the licensee. If either party has
appeared by counsel, notice shall be served on counsel instead of on the party
at the hearing, the Town Council or its appointed hearings examiner shall hear
the evidence presented.
   (C)   The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the rules of
evidence in effect in the courts of the state.
   (D)   The complainant shall have the right to open and close the hearing.
The Town Council shall render its decision in writing stating the reasons
therefor 20 days after conclusion of the hearing. Notice of the decision shall
be served upon the parties or their counsel in the manner herein provided for
other notices.
   (E)   Should the Town Council determine to revoke, cancel or suspend a
license previously issued by it, the Town Council shall notify the licensee in
writing by registered mail at the address of such licensee giving reasons
therefor. The action of the Town Council is reviewable by writ of review.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.190) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.33 APPOINTMENT OF HEARINGS EXAMINER.
   Any hearings examiner appointed by the Town Council must be an attorney
licensed to practice law in the state. The hearings examiner shall report his
or her findings and recommendations to the Town Council in writing following
the hearing. The hearings examiner’s findings shall not bind the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.200) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.34 RIGHT TO EXAMINE PREMISES.
   Any duly authorized representative of the Town Council and any peace officer
shall have the right at any time to make an examination or the premises of any
licensee to determine whether this chapter and the state’s Card Games Act,
being M.C.A. Title 23, Ch. 5, part 3, and Bingo and Raffles Law, being M.C.A.
Title 23, Ch. 5, part 4, are being complied with.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.210) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.35 POWER TO RENEW LICENSE.
   After suspension or revocation of a license, the Town Council shall have the
power to renew the same if, in its discretion, a proper showing therefor has
been made.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.220) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.36 RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSE.
   No gambling shall be carried on under any license issued under the
provisions of this chapter, except in the name of the licensee. No license
shall be effective until a permit shall have been first secured under the laws
of the United States, if such a permit is necessary or is required under such
laws.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.230) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.37 REASONS FOR SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   A license issued pursuant to this chapter may be suspended or revoked in the
manner herein provided for the following reasons:
   (A)   If the licensee was originally ineligible for the license;
   (B)   For the conviction of a violation of the state’s Card Games Act, being
M.C.A. Title 23, Ch. 5, part 3, the state’s Bingo and Raffles Law, being M.C.A.
Title 23, Ch. 5, part 4, or a violation of the laws relating to conduct of
sports pools, or for conviction of any crime involving moral turpitude or the
use of violence, or any law of the United States, or any one thereof relating
to gambling. The term CONVICTION, as used in this chapter, means conviction by
any court having cognizance of the crime, whether or not said conviction is
reversed br affirmed on appeal;
   (C)   On revocation of any license issued to the licensee for the sale of
liquor, beer, food, cigarettes or other consumable products on the premises;
   (D)   For operating a premises which is disorderly, a nuisance, public or
private, or in which breaches of the peace or disturbances occur;
   (E)   Permitting persons who are visibly intoxicated to participate in
gaming activity; or
   (F)   For a violation of this chapter if such a violation is found to have
occurred by the Town Council after hearing as herein provided, regardless of
whether such violation results or resulted in a conviction in any criminal
proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.260) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.38 LICENSEE MAY NOT REFUSE SERVICE; EXCEPTIONS.
   No licensee who has been issued a license pursuant to this chapter shall
refuse any service to any individual by reason of such individual’s race,
color, sex, culture, social origin, political or religious ideas, but this
section shall not be construed to prevent a licensee from refusing to serve or
evicting from the premises any disorderly or drunk individual or any individual
improperly attired according to the general standard of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.270) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.39 LICENSEE NOT TO EMPLOY FULL-TIME LAW ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL.
   No licensee shall employ any person in any capacity while that person is in
the full-time employment of a law enforcement agency.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.280) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.40 RECORDS OF GROSS INCOME AND EXPENSES.
   Every holder of a gaming license shall maintain records adequate to reveal
gross income and expense relating to gaming operations.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.290) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.41 LICENSE NOT ISSUED TO GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES.
   No gaming license or temporary licenses all be issued to or held by any
person holding office in or employed by the town or the state or any political
subdivision thereof when the duties of such office or agency have to do with
the enforcement of the gaming laws and these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.300) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.42 TEMPORARY LICENSES.
   (A)   Any person not otherwise licensed hereunder who desires to operate
games of chance or authorized card games for a period not to exceed two weeks
on any premises which have been licensed for the sale of liquor, beer, food or
cigarettes or other consumable products may apply to the director of finance
for a temporary license, which license shall be issued in the same manner as
gaming licenses issued under this chapter, but which may be revoked by action
of the Town Council without hearing.
   (B)   Only one such temporary license may be issued to a person per year,
and the year shall be that designated in §
112.44 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.370) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.43 FEES.
   The fees to be collected by the Director of Finance with the application are
as follows:
   (A)   For each gaming license, a fee of $300;
   (B)   For each table on a licensed premises, a fee of $50;
   (C)   For each gaming machine, a fee of $50, except non-profit
organizations;
   (D)   For each temporary license, a fee of $25 per day, but not to exceed
$75;
   (E)   For each dealer’s permit, a fee of $25;
   (F)   For premises where bingo or raffles are conducted, a fee of $25,
except non-profit organizations; and
   (G)   For non-profit organizations which conduct bingo games, a fee of $100
which will empower the licensee to conduct one bingo game monthly.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.380) (Ord. 204, passed - -; Ord. 229, passed 9-10-1984;
Ord. 236, passed 8-12-1985)
§ 112.44 FEES PAID IN ADVANCE; LICENSE PERIOD.
   (A)   All fees for licenses, permits or temporary licenses issued hereunder
shall be paid in advance to the Director of Finance.
   (B)   Licenses, except temporary licenses which will state the precise term
for which they are issued, and dealer’s permits, shall be issued for a period
of one year, which shall commence on July 1 of each calender year and expire on
June 30 of the following year.
   (C)   The fee for said licenses shall be prorated by the number of quarter
years remaining in the license year for which they are issued.
   (D)   The fees herein provided shall be payable annually.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.390) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.45 LICENSES OR PERMITS A REVOCABLE PRIVILEGE.
   Any license or permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed to be
a revocable privilege, and no holder thereof shall acquire any vested rights
therein or thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.400) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.46 FEES AND FINES PAID INTO TREASURY.
   All receipts from license fees and fines collected under the provisions of
this chapter shall be paid into the town’s treasury.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.410) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.47 LIEN.
   (A)   All property held or used for or on the premises for which a license
is required by the provisions of this chapter is liable for such license and
subject to a lien for the amount thereof, which lien has precedence over any
other lien, claims or other demands, except those of the United States and the
state, or either of them, and if any person fails or refuses to procure a
license before the transaction of any games, the Chief of Police must seize
such property or any other property belonging to such persons and sell it in
the manner provided by law for foreclosure of agister’s liens.
   (B)   Such procedure for the collection of such license shall be cumulative
and in addition to any procedure and penalty imposed for violation of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.430) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
DEALER’S PERMIT
§ 112.60 DEALER’S PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No licensee shall employ or contract with an individual to be a dealer,
operator or supervisor of any game of chance or authorized card game unless
such individual has been issued a dealer’s permit.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.310) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.61 APPLICATION FOR DEALER’S PERMIT.
   Any person desiring to obtain a dealer’s permit shall apply to the Director
of Finance for the same on an application form provided therefor. On payment of
the prescribed fee, the Director of Finance shall forward the application to
the Chief of Police, who shall issue the same unless he or she finds that such
person is ineligible for such permit.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.320) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.62 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR DEALER’S PERMIT.
   No individual with an extensive police record, or whose reputation would
bring discredit on the town or who has been convicted of any violation of the
state’s Card Games Act, being M.C.A. Title 23, Ch. 5, part 3, Raffles and Bingo
Law, being M.C.A. Title 23, Ch. 5, part 4, or laws relating to the conduct of
sports pools, or of larceny or theft, or any crime of violence, or whose
gambling license has been revoked or suspended by any town, county or state may
be issued a dealer’s permit.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.330) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.63 APPEAL TO TOWN COUNCIL REGARDING PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Should the Chief of Police fail or refuse to issue a permit after
application has been made and the fee paid, the applicant may appeal his or her
decision to the Town Council and, if not satisfied with their decision, may
seek a writ of review.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.340) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.64 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF DEALER’S PERMIT.
   A dealer’s permit may be revoked or suspended in the same manner as a gaming
license issued hereunder for any of the causes listed in this section and §
112.37 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.350) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter or the terms of his or
her license shall be punished by a fine of not more than $300 and a jail
sentence of not more than 90 days.
(Prior Code, § 5.10.420) (Ord. 204, passed - -)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   PROHIBITED CONDUCT
CHAPTER 130: PROHIBITED CONDUCT
Section
   
130.01   Unlawful conduct in public generally
   
130.02   Urination, defecation in public
   
130.03   Firearms and concealed weapons
   
130.04   Alcohol; public consumption
   
130.05   Minors possessing liquor and beer
   
130.06   Curfew for minors
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 UNLAWFUL CONDUCT IN PUBLIC GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit alms as a business; or to
sleep in any barn, shed, out- building or other place other than such as is
kept for lodging purposes, without the permission of the owner or person
entitled to the possession thereof; or to live in a house of ill fame or to
live with or upon the earnings of a prostitute; or for any person to practice
prostitution or conduct oneself in an immodest, drunken, profane or obscene
manner, either by action, language or improper exposure of one’s person in or
about public place or assembly or in any salon, bar room, club room or any
other public or general place of resort within the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 URINATION, DEFECATION IN PUBLIC.
   No person shall urinate or defecate within any public place or on private
property visible from a public place or other private property, except in the
facilities provided for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.015) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 FIREARMS AND CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   Unlawful to carry firearms and concealed weapons; exceptions.
      (1)   Every person who carries or bears concealed upon the individual’s
person a firearm, dirk, dagger, sword cane, billy club, knuckles made of any
metal or hard substance, knife having a blade four inches long or longer,
razor, not including a safety razor, or other deadly weapon shall be punished
by a fine as set forth in §
130.99 of this chapter.
      (2)   This division (A) shall not apply to:
         (a)   Any peace officer of the state or another state who has the
power to make arrests;
         (b)   Any officer of the United States government authorized to carry
a concealed weapon;
         (c)   A person in actual service as a member of the National Guard;
         (d)   A person summoned to the aid of any of the persons named in
divisions (A)(2)(a) through (A)(2)(c) above;
         (e)   A civil officer or his or her deputy engaged in the discharge of
official business;
         (f)   A person authorized by a judge of a district court of the state
to carry a weapon;
         (g)   A probation and parole officer authorized to carry a firearm
under M.C.A. § 46-23-1002;
         (h)   A person issued a permit under M.C.A. § 45-8-321 or a person
with a permit recognized under M.C.A. § 45-8-329;
         (i)   An agent of the Department of Justice or a criminal investigator
in a County Attorney’s office;
         (j)   A person who is lawfully engaged in hunting, fishing, trapping,
camping, hiking, backpacking, farming, ranching or other outdoor activity in
which weapons are often carried for recreation or protection; or
         (k)   The carrying of arms on one’s own premises or at one’s home or
place of business.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.010)
   (B)   Unlawful to discharge firearms. No person shall shoot or discharge any
pistol, rifle, air rifle or pistol or other firearm within the town limits,
except when done in the lawful defense of the person, property or family or in
the necessary enforcement of the law.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.020)
   (C)   Permits. The Town Council may at any time, upon application, grant
permits to shooting galleries, gun clubs and others for shooting within the
municipal limits in fixed localities and under fixed rules. Such permits shall
be in writing, attested by the Clerk conforming to such requirements as the
Council shall demand, and the permit thus issued shall be subject to revocation
at any time by action of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.030)
   (D)   Carrying concealed weapon while under influence. A person commits the
offense of carrying a concealed weapon while under the influence if the person
purposely or knowingly carries a concealed weapon while under the influence of
an intoxicating substance. It is not a defense that the person had a valid
permit to carry a concealed weapon.
   (E)   Carrying concealed weapon in prohibited places. Except for legislative
security officers authorized to carry a concealed weapon in the state capitol,
as provided in M.C.A. § 45-8-317(1)(k), a person commits the offense of
carrying a concealed weapon in a prohibited place if the person purposely or
knowingly carries a concealed weapon in:
      (1)   Portions of a building used for state or local government offices
and related areas in the building that have been restricted;
      (2)   A bank, credit union, savings and loan institution or similar
institution during the institution’s normal business hours. It is not an
offense under this division (E) to carry a concealed weapon while:
         (a)   Using an institution’s drive-up window, automatic teller machine
or unstaffed night depository; or
         (b)   At or near a branch office of an institution in a mall, grocery
store or other place unless the person is inside the enclosure used for the
institution’s financial services is using the institution’s financial services.
      (3)   A room in which alcoholic beverages are sold, dispensed and
consumed under a license issued under §§
110.01 through
110.09 of this code of ordinances for the sale of alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises.
      (4)   It is not a defense that the person had a valid permit to carry a
concealed weapon.
(Ord. 187, passed - -; Ord. 340, passed 12-9-2019) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 ALCOHOL; PUBLIC CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   Consumption of alcoholic beverages. No person shall consume alcoholic
beverages, nor shall any person possess an open can or bottle of beer or a
glass of any type of open container containing beer or liquor in a public
place, within the town limits unless such consumption or possession is within
an establishment licensed to sell such beverages by state law; except that, a
person may possess and consume alcoholic beverages in a town park if he or she
has a valid permit to do so. Said permit may be issued at the concurrence of
the Chief of Police and a member of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.010)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. Any alcoholic, spirituous, vinous, fermented, malt
or other liquor, which contains more than 1% of alcohol by weight.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.020)
      PUBLIC PARKING LOT. Any parking lot, whether owned by the town or any
other public entity, or by any private individuals or entity, to which the
general public has access to park.
      PUBLIC PLACE. All ways of the town or the state open to the public,
sidewalks, athletic fields, public parks, public parking lots and motor
vehicles when parked or operated on ways of the town or the state open to the
public or in public parking lots within the town.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.021)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 MINORS POSSESSING LIQUOR AND BEER.
   It is unlawful and punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances for any person who shall not have reached the
age of 21 years to have in his or her possession an alcoholic beverage, within
the town limits; except that, he or she does not commit to the offense if he or
she consumes or gains possession of the beverage because it was lawfully
supplied to him or her under M.C.A. § 16-6-305 or when, in the course of his or
her employment, it is necessary to possess alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 9.10.010) (Ord. 185, passed - -; Ord. 247, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
130.99
§ 130.06 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Minors on streets and public places prohibited; exception. It shall be
unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to be in or upon the streets,
alleys, parks or other public places in the town between the hours of 10:00
p.m. of one day and 6:00 a.m. of the following day, without being on lawful
business or occupation, unless accompanied by a parent or guardian of said
minor, or other person having lawful control of said person; except that, a
person who is 16 or 17 years of age may be in or upon the streets, alleys,
parks or other public places in the town between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
12:00 midnight on Friday and Saturday nights.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.010)
   (B)   Liability of parents for violation. It shall be unlawful for any
parent, guardian or other person having the lawful control of any, person under
18 years of age, to allow or permit such person to be in or upon any of the
streets, alleys, parks or other public places in town contrary to the
provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.020)
(Ord. 228, passed 8-13-1984) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §§
130.01 or
130.02 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as set for
in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.020)
   (C)   (1)   A person violating §
130.03(A) of this chapter shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 or
imprisonment in the county jail for a period not exceeding six months, or both.
      (2)   A person who has previously been convicted of an offense, committed
on a different occasion than the offense under §
130.03(A) of this chapter, in the town or any other jurisdiction for which a
sentence to a term of imprisonment in excess of one year could have been
imposed and who carries or bears concealed upon his or her person any of the
weapons described above shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000 or
imprisoned in the state prison for a period not exceeding five years, or both.
      (3)   Every person convicted of a violation of §
130.03 of this chapter generally will be punished by a fine not exceeding $300
or by imprisonment not exceeding 90 days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.040)
      (4)   A person convicted of violating §
130.03(D) of this chapter shall be imprisoned in the county jail for a term not
to exceed six months or be fined an amount not to exceed $500, or both.
      (5)   A person convicted of the offense of carrying a concealed weapon in
a prohibited place, per §
130.03(E) of this chapter, shall be imprisoned in the county jail for a term
not to exceed six months or fined an amount not to exceed $500, or both.
   (D)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §
130.04 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to fine and/or confinement in accordance with the
laws of the state and the town with regard to punishment for conviction of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.030)
   (E)   Any person violating §
130.05 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $5 or more than $50.
(Prior Code, § 9.10.020)
   (F)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
130.06 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine or penalty
not to exceed the sum of $50.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.030)
(Ord. 181, passed - -; Ord. 185, passed - -; Ord. 187, passed - -; Ord. 247,
passed - -; Ord. 340, passed 12-9-2019)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
152.   FLOODPLAINS
      
153.   SIGNS
      
154.   TREES
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Benchmarks
   
150.02   Mobile home placement
Codes Adopted
   
150.15   Uniform Building Code
   
150.16   National Electrical Code
   
150.17   National Plumbing Code
   
150.18   Uniform Fire Code
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 BENCHMARKS.
   (A)   Benchmark established. For the purpose of establishing grades within
the town, a benchmark is hereby established from which all grades within said
town shall be referred, said benchmark to be the upper surface of the extreme
southwesterly point of that certain granite belt extending around the Security
State Bank of Fairview, Montana, as now constructed, between the base of the
windows of said building and the base of said building, at the south west
corner of said building, at the south west corner of Lot 14 in Block 7 of the
Revised L.E. Newlon Addition to the Townsite of Fairview, Montana, same being
at the corner of Ellery Avenue and Fifth Street within said town.
(Prior Code, § 12.02.010)
   (B)   Elevation of benchmark. The above-described benchmark, for the purpose
of figuring said grades, shall be considered at an elevation of 100 feet above
a plane of datum, and said benchmark shall be permanently established as the
datum plane for all grades hereafter established.
(Prior Code, § 12.02.020)
(Ord. 42, passed - -)
§ 150.02 MOBILE HOME PLACEMENT.
   The following shall be required of all mobile homes placed on lots within
the town.
   (A)   All mobile homes must be at least 14 feet wide and placed on a
permanent foundation. Removal of all wheels and lowering onto non-mobile
supports shall be considered as evidence of placement on a permanent
foundation.
   (B)   All homes must be skirted and securely fastened.
   (C)   Homes may not be placed next to, in front of, behind or attached to
any presently existing structures.
   (D)   All homes must be maintained to such extent that they do not
constitute a public nuisance.
   (E)   All homes must be in compliance with applicable uniform codes and free
of dangers to health and safety.
   (F)   A zoning permit must be issued by the town’s Zoning Officer before any
mobile home may be placed on the property for which the zoning permit is
issued.
(Ord. 323, passed 4-8-2013)
CODES ADOPTED
§ 150.15 UNIFORM BUILDING CODE.
   The town does hereby adopt the following:
   (A)   International Building Code, as may be amended from time to time;
   (B)   Modifications to the International Building Code under the
Administrative Rules of Montana, as may be amended from time to time;
   (C)   International Residential Code, as may be amended from time to time;
   (D)   International Energy Conservation Code, as may be amended from time to
time;
   (E)   International Existing Building Code, as may be amended from time to
time;
   (F)   Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, as may be
amended from time to time; and
   (G)   International Property Maintenance Code, as may be amended from time
to time.
(Prior Code, § 15.02.010) (Ord. 304, passed 4-9-2007)
§ 150.16 NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE.
   The town does hereby adopt by reference the National Electrical Code, as may
be amended from time to time, and amendments thereto, as adopted by the state,
three copies of which are on file and of record in the office of the town’s
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 15.04.010)
§ 150.17 NATIONAL PLUMBING CODE.
   The town does hereby adopt by reference the National Standard Plumbing Code,
as may be amended from time to time, and amendments thereto, as adopted by the
state, three copies of which are on file and of record in the office of the
town’s Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 15.06.010)
§ 150.18 UNIFORM FIRE CODE.
   The town does hereby adopt by reference the International Fire Code, as may
be amended from time to time, and all amendments thereto, as adopted by the
state, three copies of which are on file and of record in the office of the
town’s Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 15.08.010)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Snow and ice removal from sidewalks
   
151.02   Street cuts; fee
   
151.03   Street Maintenance District No. 1
Sidewalks and Curb Construction
   
151.15   Sidewalks, curbs constructed to grade
   
151.16   Permit required
   
151.17   Town Engineer supervision
   
151.18   Defining block
   
151.19   Sidewalks installed adjacent to curbing
   
151.20   Construction and materials
   
151.21   Bond required
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL FROM SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Removal of snow and ice. It shall be the duty of the owner and tenant
of any premises abutting or adjoining any public sidewalk to remove all snow
and ice from such public sidewalk. In the event removal of ice is not
practicable, then it shall be the duty of the owner and tenant of any premises
abutting or adjoining any public sidewalk to place sand on the icy portion of
said sidewalk. Said removal or sanding must be completed before 9:00 a.m. in
any commercial district and within 24 hours after snowfall in any residential
district.
(Prior Code, § 12.06.010)
   (B)   Town may remove. Upon failure of an owner or a tenant to comply with
provisions of this section, the town shall have the power, but not the
obligation to remove such snow and ice and assess the cost thereof against the
premises abutting the sidewalk. Such assessment shall be certified to the
County Assessor or other proper county official having charge of the making of
the assessment role and such charge shall be placed on the assessment role and
collected in the same manner as other town taxes are collected.
(Prior Code, § 12.06.020)
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.02 STREET CUTS; FEE.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to cut
any street or alley for the purpose of connecting, laying or repairing any
sewer or water connection or to open the same in any way for any purpose
without first obtaining a permit therefor from the Director of Public Works and
posting a cash bond as hereinafter provided. All permits granted shall be in
writing upon a form to be provided by the Director of Public Works,
incorporating as a part the specifications herein provided for.
   (B)   Fee. The fee for any person or entity being granted such permit shall
be $1,000. The sum of $500 may be returned to the person or entity upon
approval by the Director of Public Works after the passage of six months from
the approval of backfill and compression if the cut is in asphalt and after the
passage of one year from approval of backfill and compression if the cut is in
gravel.
   (C)   Bond.
      (1)   Before the Director of Public Works issues any such permit pursuant
to this section, the applicant shall file an application with the Town Clerk in
such from as provided by the town.
      (2)   The applicant shall designate the exact location where he, she or
it proposes to cut any street or alley and shall leave on deposit with the Town
Clerk the sum of $1,000 by way of cash bond for the use and benefit of the
town’s Street Department.
      (3)   Such cash bond shall be conditioned that the applicant will replace
such street or alley in compliance with State Public Works specifications for
replacement of street or alley openings.
   (D)   Inspection. It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works to be
present during the compaction of the cut area and said area shall not be
resurfaced until the Director of Public Works has inspected and approved the
backfill and compression.
(Ord. 328, passed 6-8-2015) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03 STREET MAINTENANCE DISTRICT NO. 1.
   (A)   The town does hereby intend to create Street Maintenance District No.
1.
   (B)   The term MAINTENANCE, as used herein, includes, but is not limited to,
sprinkling, graveling, oiling, chip sealing, seal coating, overlaying,
treating, general cleaning, sweeping, flushing, snow removal, leaf and debris
removal, the repair of traffic signs, the placement and maintenance of pavement
markings, curb and gutter repair, and minor sidewalk repair that includes
cracking, chipping, sinking and replacement of not more than six feet of
sidewalk in any 100-foot portion of sidewalk.
   (C)   Street Maintenance District No. 1 consists of an area that includes
the lots and tracts within the boundary drawn on Exhibit “A”, attached to the
ordinance codified herein and incorporated herein by this specific reference,
and within the legal description contained in Exhibit “B”, attached to the
ordinance codified herein and incorporated herein by this specific reference.
   (D)   Street Maintenance District No. 1 is created for the maintenance of
all or part of the streets or avenues within the boundary of Street Maintenance
District No. 1.
   (E)   The method of assessment for Street Maintenance District No. 1 shall
be each lot or parcel of land within the District be assessed for that part of
the cost that its assessable area bears to the assessable area of the entire
district, exclusive of streets, avenues, alleys and public places.
   (F)   The term ASSESSABLE AREA, as used herein, means the portion of a lot
or parcel of land that has benefitted by the Maintenance District.
   (G)   Maintenance within Street Maintenance District No. 1 shall be
performed by contract or by forces employed by the town, or both, as deemed
appropriate by the Town Council and Mayor.
   (H)   Maintenance shall be paid for by annual assessment by resolution of
the Town Council adopted as provided for in M.C.A. Title 7, Ch. 12, part 44.
(Ord. 334, passed 4-16-2018)
SIDEWALKS AND CURB CONSTRUCTION
§ 151.15 SIDEWALKS, CURBS CONSTRUCTED TO GRADE.
   All sidewalks and curbs shall be constructed in accordance with the
elevation and grades as heretofore established in the town.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.010) (Ord. 195, passed - -)
§ 151.16 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Prior to the commencement of any sidewalk or curbing improvement within the
town, the owner or contractor must apply for and obtain a written permit
therefor from the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.020) (Ord. 195, passed - -)
§ 151.17 TOWN ENGINEER SUPERVISION.
   All sidewalks and curbs must be constructed under the supervision and
control and in conformity with the requirements of the Town Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.030) (Ord. 195, passed - -)
§ 151.18 DEFINING BLOCK.
   In sidewalk construction, any one of the four sides of a town block shall,
for the purpose of this subchapter, be considered a block.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.040) (Ord. 195, passed - -)
§ 151.19 SIDEWALKS INSTALLED ADJACENT TO CURBING.
   In a block where curbing has been installed, all sidewalks shall be
installed adjacent thereto and in compliance with the requirements hereinafter
specified.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.050) (Ord. 195, passed - -)
§ 151.20 CONSTRUCTION AND MATERIALS.
   All sidewalks and curbs shall be constructed of the materials and in the
manner following.
   (A)   The foundation shall be the natural, undisturbed soil; except that,
all vegetation shall be removed from the surface, tamped where necessary to
ensure no further settling, or where filling is necessary, it shall consist of
sand, gravel or cinder, well tamped. Every precaution shall be taken to prevent
settling of any kind.
   (B)   All sidewalks and curbs shall be constructed of Class “A” concrete mix
containing the following minimum quantities and proportions of materials: one
sack of portland cement to not more than two and one-half cubic feet of fine
aggregate and not more than three and one-half feet of coarse aggregate using
not to exceed six and one-half gallons of water. Pit run gravel shall not be
used. Care shall be taken in working it into place so that the finished slab
will have no voids or scams. Proper expansion joints shall be provided to take
up all movement due to expansion and contraction of the walk resulting from
changes of temperature.
   (C)   All sidewalks shall be built to a minimum thickness of four inches and
must be composed of a homogenous piur and not a finished coat. All sidewalks
shall be given a broom finish.
   (D)   In a block where there is an existing sidewalk adjacent to the
property line, new sidewalks shall be so constructed as to conform thereto
insofar as possible without violating the express provisions of this
subchapter.
   (E)   Only Class “A” concrete shall be used. Cement shall be fresh portland.
Gravel shall be clean and shall consist of sharp sand with a properly graded
gravel aggregate. No gravel having pebbles or stones over one and one-half
inches in diameter shall be used. All dirt and foreign matter shall be removed
from the gravel before use.
   (F)   All sidewalks must be built to line and grade as established and with
side slope of one-eighth inch per foot in width of walk.
   (G)   Curb type sidewalks shall be four feet in width, and interior type
sidewalks shall be five feet in width.
   (H)   In areas where it is desired to install curbing, same shall be of the
same type and design, and made to the same standards and specifications as
existing curbing, and under the supervision and control of the Town Engineer.
   (I)   All curbs shall be of roll type and shall be constructed of the same
Class “A” concrete as required for sidewalks, and so as to comply with the line
and grade as heretobefore established in the town.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.060) (Ord. 195, passed - -) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.21 BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to construct sidewalks or
curbs within the town shall, before proceeding with such improvements, procure
from the Town Council and file with the Town Clerk a suitable indemnity bond to
be approved by the Town Council.
   (B)   All bonds furnished by contractors shall be written by an approved
surety company and in the amount of not less than $1,000.
   (C)   Individual property owners who desire to install their own sidewalks
or curbs shall, before proceeding with such improvements, furnish either a
surety company hand; a personal bond signed by not less than two resident
freeholders as sureties, with proper justification certificate attached, in the
amount of $1,000, or in lieu thereof furnish a certified check made payable to
the town for the sum of $1,000 to be deposited with the Town Clerk with like
effect as a bond.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.070) (Ord. 195, passed - -)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of §
151.01 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500 or imprisonment in
the county jail for not more than six months, or both such fine and
imprisonment. The town’s Police Department shall be the responsible agency for
enforcing this section.
(Prior Code, § 12.06.030)
   (C)   The town may assess an administrative penalty in a sum up to $1,000
against any person or entity that violates any part of §
151.02 of this chapter. The Director of Public Works is empowered to set the
penalty amount.
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
151.15 through
151.21 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not to exceed the sum of $100 or imprisoned
in the town or county jail for a period of not exceeding 30 days, or both such
fine and imprisonment, and any sidewalk or curb constructed contrary to the
provisions of §§
151.15 through
151.21 of this chapter shall be deemed a common nuisance and shall be subject
to abatement of such and the expense of such abatement shall be charged to and
become a lien upon the property adjoining such sidewalk or curb.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.080)
(Ord. 195, passed - -; Ord. 328, passed 6-8-2015)
CHAPTER 152: FLOODPLAINS
Section
   
152.01   Regulations adopted by reference
§ 152.01 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s floodplain regulations, and any and all amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 338, passed 9-18-2019)
CHAPTER 153: SIGNS
Section
   
153.01   General requirements for all signs
   
153.02   Ground signs
   
153.03   Projecting signs
   
153.04   Marquee signs
   
153.05   Plans, specifications and permits
   
153.06   Unsafe and unlawful signs
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL SIGNS.
   (A)   No sign shall be illuminated by other that electrical means and
electrical devices and wiring shall be installed in accordance with the
requirements of the National Electrical Code. In no case shall any open spark
or flame be used for display purposes unless specifically approved by the
Building Inspector for locations outside of the fire limits.
   (B)   No sign shall be erected, constructed or maintained so as to obstruct
any fire escape, required exitway, window or door opening used as a means of
egress or to prevent free passage from one part of a roof to another part
thereof or access thereto. Likewise, shall be no obstruction to the free
movement of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.010) (Ord. 198, passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.02 GROUND SIGNS.
   (A)   No ground sign shall be set nearer to the street lot line than the
established building line, unless it complies with the provisions set forth in
§
153.03 of this chapter, as to portion of such signs projecting over a sidewalk
or other public property.
   (B)   The bottom capping of all ground signs shall be at least 30 inches
from the ground, but the intervening space may be filled with open lattice work
or platform decorative trim.
   (C)   Structural frames may be erected of wood or other materials of similar
combustible characteristics; provided, the sign facings are covered with metal
or other approved noncombustible material, when not more than 35 feet in height
and 75 feet in length.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.020) (Ord. 198, passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.03 PROJECTING SIGNS.
   (A)   Projecting signs shall be constructed entirely of metal or other
approved non-combustible materials, except for ornamentations.
   (B)   No sign shall project into the public space five feet back of the face
of the curb.
   (C)   A clear space of not less than ten feet shall be provided below all
parts of such signs.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.030) (Ord. 198, passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.04 MARQUEE SIGNS.
   (A)   Marquee signs shall be constructed entirely from metal or other
approved non-combustible materials, except for ornamentation.
   (B)   Such signs shall not exceed seven feet in height, nor shall they
project below the facia of the marquee, nor lower than ten feet above the
sidewalk.
   (C)   Marquee signs may extend the full length, but in no case shall they
project beyond the ends of the marquee.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.040) (Ord. 198, passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.05 PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS AND PERMITS.
   (A)   No new signs shall hereafter be erected, constructed, altered or
maintained, except as herein provided.
   (B)   No sign shall be enlarged or relocated, except in conformity to the
provisions of this chapter for new signs. The changing of movable parts of an
approved sign that is designed for such changes or the repainting or reposting
of display matter shall not be deemed an alteration provided the conditions of
the original approval and the requirements of this chapter are not violated.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.050) (Ord. 198, passed - -; Ord. 357, passed 4-17-2024)
Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.06 UNSAFE AND UNLAWFUL SIGNS.
   When any sign becomes insecure, in danger of falling or otherwise unsafe, or
if any sign shall be unlawfully installed, erected or maintained in violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter, the owner thereof or the person or
firm maintaining same, shall upon written notice of the Building Official,
forthwith in the case of immediate danger and in any case within not more than
ten days, make such sign conform to the provisions of this chapter or shall
remove it. If, within ten days, the order is not complied with, the Building
Inspector may remove such sign at the expense of the owner or lessee thereof.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.060) (Ord. 198, passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or firm found violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a
fine of not less than $25 or more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.070) (Ord. 198, passed - -)
CHAPTER 154: TREES
Section
Dutch Elm Disease
   
154.01   Definitions
   
154.02   Nuisance declared
   
154.03   Dead or diseased trees; removal
   
154.04   Planting elm trees
   
154.05   Trees to be trimmed
   
154.06   Trees on boulevards
   
154.07   Firewood
 
   
154.99   Penalty
DUTCH ELM DISEASE
§ 154.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BOULEVARD. The strip of land abutting on either side of the streets of the
town lying between the outside edge of the sidewalks and the curb along such
streets or that area between the inside edge of the sidewalks and the lot lines
in areas having curbed sidewalks.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person owning such property as is shown by the County
Clerk and Recorder.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. A condition which endangers safety or health, is offensive
to the senses or obstructs the free use of property so as to interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property by an entire community or
neighborhood or by any considerable number of persons or a condition which
renders dangerous for passage any public highway or right-of-way or waters used
by the public.
   STREET. The entire width between property lines of every way or place of
whatsoever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the public as a
matter of right-of-way for the purpose of vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.010)
§ 154.02 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   The following conditions are public nuisances whenever they may be found
within the town:
   (A)   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected to any degree
with the Dutch Elm disease fungus, Ceratocystis ulmi, and which harbors any of
the elm bark beetles, Scolytus multistriatus or Hylurgpoinus rufipes; and
   (B)   All limbs or trees, shrubs, bushes and plants which project over any
public sidewalks, streets or alleys and which are less than eight feet above
the surface of said public sidewalks, and less than 14 feet above the surface
of any such street or alley.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.020) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.03 DEAD OR DISEASED TREES; REMOVAL.
   (A)   Whenever the Director of Public Works becomes aware of the existence
of any dead or diseased tree or part thereof located within the town limits, or
the existence of any trees or parts thereof that constitute a hazard to life
and/or property; or pose a threat to harbor insects or disease which may
constitute a potential threat to other trees within the town limits, he or she
shall notify, in writing, the owner of the property where said tree is located
of the condition and direct that said tree or any part thereof be removed.
Unless the owner of the property can show within 14 days that the above
described notice was sent in error, removal shall be done by the said owner at
his, her or their own expense within 14 days after the date of service of said
notice. The removed tree shall be immediately debarked or transported to the
county landfill for prompt disposal by burial or burning. The town will provide
transportation of diseased trees only, at its convenience, to the county
landfill upon request; provided, there are no tree sections longer than a
length to be set by the Director of Public Works. In the event the owner fails
to remove said tree within the 14-day period in the manner provided herein, the
town shall have the authority to remove said tree and charge the cost of
laboratory analysis fees and removal to the real property in question by
billing or special assessment if not paid in the manner prescribed by law. Said
costs and expenses shall become a lien on said premises and shall be certified
and collected as other taxes or the Town Attorney may begin a civil action in
the Town Court in the name of the town and against any owner, occupant or agent
of said premises for the collection of said costs and expenses and the cost of
the action.
   (B)   All stumps of trees shall be removed below the surface of the ground
so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of the ground
or the entire stump shall be stripped of the bark upon cutting of the tree.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.030) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.04 PLANTING ELM TREES.
   In order to prevent Dutch Elm disease, the planting of elm trees (American,
Siberian, Dropmore and any and all other elm selections of Ulmus species) shall
be prohibited on boulevards, public property and town rights-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.040) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.05 TREES TO BE TRIMMED.
   (A)   All owners and occupants of real property located within the town
limits shall keep trimmed all trees located on their property which overhang on
any public thoroughfare so that the branches thereon do not interfere with
pedestrians or public travel.
   (B)   It shall also be the duty of the owners of all real property located
within the town, as well as the duty of all persons in possession of such
property, to cause all tress, shrubs, bushes and plants located on their
property to be trimmed so as not to constitute a public nuisance, as defined
above.
   (C)   The Director of Public Works shall have the authority to make
determinations as to whether a condition exists so as to constitute a public
nuisance. Upon determination that such a condition does exist, the Director of
Public Works, shall then notify, in writing, the property owner or person in
possession of said property. Said notice shall inform the property owner or
person in possession of said property that the public nuisance condition must
be corrected within 14 days or the Director of Public Works will direct the
trimming of said trees, shrubs, bushes and plants which constitute the
nuisance. The necessary expense of such trimming or maintenance shall be
charged against the real property in question by billing or special assessment
if not paid in the manner prescribed by law. Said costs and expenses shall
become a lien on said premises and shall be certified and collected as other
taxes or the Town Attorney may begin a civil action in the Town Court in the
name of the town and against any owner, occupant or agent of said premises for
the collection of said costs and expenses and the cost of the action.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.050)
§ 154.06 TREES ON BOULEVARDS.
   The owner of the real property adjoining a boulevard shall be responsible
for the care and maintenance of the boulevard and he or she shall keep the
trees, shrubs, bushes and plants located thereon trimmed and in a condition so
that the same shall not constitute a public nuisance. If it becomes necessary
for the town to remove any trees, shrubs, bushes and plants from said
boulevard, the costs of such removal shall be assessed against the said
adjoining property. Said costs and expenses shall become a lien on said
adjoining premises and shall be certified and collected as other taxes or the
Town Attorney may begin a civil action in the Town Court in the name of the
town and against any owner, occupant or agent of said adjoining premises for
the collection of said costs and expenses and the cost of the action.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.060) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.07 FIREWOOD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, store or stock within the
town limits any firewood made from elm trees.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.070) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
154.01 through
154.07 of this chapter shall be, upon conviction or a plea of guilty, subject
to a fine not to exceed $500.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.080)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Short title
   
155.002   Authority
   
155.003   Purposes
   
155.004   Jurisdiction
   
155.005   Severability
   
155.006   Conflict with other laws
   
155.007   Terms and definitions
   
155.008   Establishment of zoning districts
   
155.009   Official zoning map
   
155.010   Interpretation of map boundaries
   
155.011   Interpretation of uses
   
155.012   Determining permitted, conditional and prohibited uses
   
155.013   Divisions of land
   
155.014   Annexation
   
155.015   Specification standards
Districts
   
155.030   District regulations
   
155.031   Residential ‘A’ District (R-A)
   
155.032   Residential ‘B’ District (R-B)
   
155.033   Central Business District (CBD)
   
155.034   General Commercial Industrial District (GCID)
   
155.035   Old Coal Mining Mitigation Area Overlay District (OCM Overlay
District)
Supplemental Regulations
   
155.050   Application of district regulations
   
155.051   Accessory buildings
   
155.052   Outdoor lighting
   
155.053   Access, utilities, municipal services and floodplain compliance
   
155.054   Home occupations
   
155.055   Fences, walls and plantings
   
155.056   Signs
   
155.057   Off-street parking and loading
   
155.058   Clear vision triangles
Administration and Enforcement
   
155.070   Zoning administration
   
155.071   Permits and activities exempt from permitting
   
155.072   Application of zoning regulations to state and local government
agencies (M.C.A. § 76-2-402)
   
155.073   Non-conforming uses
   
155.074   Board of Adjustment
   
155.075   Conditional uses
   
155.076   Variances
   
155.077   Zoning appeals
   
155.078   Zone changes and zoning amendments
   
155.079   Planned unit developments
   
155.080   Public hearing notices
   
155.081   Violations/enforcement
   
155.082   Zoning Commission
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 SHORT TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known as the “Zoning Regulations of the Town of
Fairview, Montana”.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.002 AUTHORITY.
   These zoning regulations and the zoning map, which divides the
jurisdictional area into separate zoning districts are adopted in accordance
with and under the authority of M.C.A. § 76-2-301.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.003 PURPOSES.
   The purposes of these regulations are to:
   (A)   Promote the public health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
community (M.C.A. §§ 76-2-304 and 76-2-304(1)(b)(ii));
   (B)   Accord to the town’s Growth Policy (M.C.A. § 76-2-304(1)(a));
   (C)   Secure safety from fire and other dangers (M.C.A. § 76-2-304(1)(b)
(i));
   (D)   Facilitate adequate provisions for transportation, water, sewerage,
schools, parks and other public requirements (M.C.A. § 76-2-304(1)(b)(iii));
   (E)   Provide adequate light and air (M.C.A. § 76-2-304(2)(a));
   (F)   Minimize negative effects on motorized and non-motorized
transportation systems (M.C.A. § 76-2-304(2)(b));
   (G)   Promote compatible urban growth (M.C.A. § 76-2-304(2)(c));
   (H)   Enhance the character of the district and its peculiar suitability for
particular uses (M.C.A. § 76-2-304(2)(d));
   (I)   Conserve the value of buildings and encourage the most appropriate use
of land throughout the jurisdictional area (M.C.A. § 76-2-304(2)(e));
   (J)   Provide appropriate regulations to be enforced within the
jurisdictional area’s various districts (M.C.A. § 76-2-307); and
   (K)   Comply with the requirements of M.C.A. § 76-8-107 to adopt regulations
for the administration and enforcement of the creation of buildings for lease
or rent on a single tract, thus exempting all buildings for lease or rent from
special review provided they are in conformance with this chapter.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.004 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall govern the lands within the town limits per the
zoning districts designated on the official zoning map adopted by the Town
Council.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.005 SEVERABILITY.
   Where any word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section or other part
of these regulations is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
judgment shall affect only that part held invalid.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.006 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
   Wherever conflicts exist between the standards imposed by these regulations
and any such standard imposed by other local ordinances or regulations or state
statutes, the higher or more restrictive standards shall govern.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see M.C.A. § 76-2-309
§ 155.007 TERMS AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Division (B) below gives definitions of certain terms used in these
regulations. Terms and phrases used in these regulations that are not defined
shall have the term’s or phrase’s common meaning when appropriate for its
context and to promulgate the purposes and intent of these regulations. When a
question arises concerning application of any term or phrase, it shall be the
duty of the Zoning Administrator to ascertain all pertinent facts and make an
official interpretation in writing. Thereafter such interpretations shall
govern. All interpretations shall be on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
Any appeal of the Zoning Administrator’s official written interpretation shall
be reviewed by the Board of Adjustment according to §
155.077 of this chapter.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in
the plural number include the singular number and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely
directive.
      ACCESSORY USE. A subordinate use customarily incident to the main use of
the lot.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building customarily incident to and
located on the same lot as the main building.
      ALLEY. A public way with a right-of-way not over 30 feet in width which
is not designed for general travel; which is used as a means of access to the
rear of residences and business establishments and affords only a secondary
means of access to the property abutting along its length.
      BLOCK. A group of lots fronting on one side of any street between the two
nearest of any of the following: street; park; waterway; or railroad.
      BUILDING. A structure or a unit of a structure with a roof supported by
columns or walls for the permanent or temporary housing or enclosure of persons
or property or for the operation of a business.
      BUILDING FOR LEASE OR RENT. A building intended to be leased or rented
independent of another building on a single tract of land, including
circumstances where a unit within a larger structure is to be leased or rented
independently.
      BUILDING HEIGHT.
         (a)   The vertical distance from the average level of the highest and
lowest points of the normal grade adjacent to the building foundation to the
highest point on the roof. Normal grade shall be construed to be the lower of:
            1.   Existing grade prior to construction; or
            2.   The newly established grade after construction.
         (b)   For purposes of measuring BUILDING HEIGHT, the following
elements of a building are excluded: chimneys; cooling towers; elevators;
bulkheads; fire towers; spires; smoke stacks; wireless communication towers;
antennas; and necessary mechanical appurtenances.
      CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY OR USE. A change in the type of use such as from one
business to another. A CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OCCUPANCY that results in changes
such as occupancy by a different family or occupancy by one listed commercial
or industrial land use to the same land use listed in these regulations, do not
qualify as a CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY OR USE. A CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY OR USE can be
minor or non-minor, as follows.
         (a)   MINOR. A change that has identical or less parking requirements,
similar traffic generation potential, creates no additional signage and has, as
determined by the Zoning Administrator, similar or lesser impacts on
neighboring land uses.
         (b)   NON-MINOR. A change that has additional parking requirements,
added traffic generation potential, creates additional signage or has, as
determined by the Zoning Administrator, greater impacts on neighboring land
uses.
      CLEAR VISION TRIANGLE. A triangular area formed on a corner lot by a line
connecting the following two points: the two points on the centerlines of two
streets that are 70 feet distant from the point of intersection of the
centerlines of the two streets along the corner lot. The CLEAR VISION TRIANGLE
is an area in which fences, hedges, walls, shrubs or structures over 36 inches
in height above an established top of curb grade are prohibited, except as
provided by these regulations. See §
155.058 of this chapter.
      COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL FACILITY. Has the meaning provided in state law,
including M.C.A. § 76-2-411, as follows:
         (a)   A community group home for developmentally, mentally or severely
disabled persons that does not provide skilled or intermediate nursing care;
         (b)   A youth foster home, a kinship foster home, a youth shelter care
facility, a transitional living program or youth group home as defined in
M.C.A. § 52-2-602;
         (c)   A halfway house operated in accordance with regulations of the
Department of Public Health and Human Services for the rehabilitation of
alcoholics or drug dependent persons;
         (d)   A licensed adult foster family care home; or
         (e)   An assisted living facility licensed under M.C.A. § 50-5-227.
      CONDITIONAL USE. A use allowed as a special exception in a zoning
district that is not allowed as a typical permitted use because such uses
require additional controls and safeguards not required of otherwise permitted
uses; these uses are allowed subject to appropriate conditions after findings
by the Board of Adjustment that the specific use proposed meet applicable
criteria for CONDITIONAL USES outlined by these regulations.
      CONDOMINIUM.
         (a)   A form of ownership of single units with common elements located
on property submitted to the provisions of the state’s Unit Ownership Act
(M.C.A. Title 70, Ch. 23).
         (b)   The term does not include a townhome or townhouse.
      DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building with three or more individual dwelling
units, such as three-family dwellings, four-family dwellings and the like.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached building with one individual dwelling
unit. Manufactured housing is a type of SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING(S), if used as
such.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building with two individual dwelling units.
      DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms providing complete living facilities for
one family, including equipment for cooking provisions for same, and including
room, or rooms, for living, sleeping and eating.
      FAMILY. One or more persons living as a single housekeeping unit.
      HOME OCCUPATION. A commercial or light industrial activity conducted in a
dwelling or a building accessory to a dwelling. See §
155.054 of this chapter.
      INFILL DEVELOPMENT. Development or redevelopment designed to occupy
scattered, vacant or underutilized parcels of land that remain after the
majority of development has occurred in an area.
      LANDOWNER. An owner of a legal or equitable interest in real property.
The term includes an heir, successor or assignee of the ownership interest.
      LEASE or RENT.
         (a)   The transfer of possessory interest in property for any period
of time where payment, services or other values are exchanged for the tenant’s
use of the property without a transfer of title to the real estate.
         (b)   For purposes of these regulations, the terms LEASE and RENT do
not include such arrangements between relatives, specifically, those between
individuals and their parents, children, spouses, siblings and ancestors,
natural or by adoption.
      LOT. A parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by one
building and the accessory buildings or uses customarily incidental to it,
including such yards and open spaces as are required by this chapter. These
regulations establish the following two types of LOTS.
         (a)   CORNER LOT. A lot at the intersection of two streets with
frontage along both streets.
         (b)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot that is not a corner lot.
      LOT COVERAGE.
         (a)   The area of a lot or parcel that is covered by rooftops
(excluding above grade projections such as eaves and soffits that project
horizontally from the edge of the foundation wall 30 inches or less), paving
and other surfaces that prevent direct infiltration of precipitation or runoff
into the soil. LOT COVERAGE is typically expressed as a percentage of the total
area of the lot.
         (b)   Surfaces such as gravel driveways and permeable pavers may be
assessed for LOT COVERAGE based on relative imperviousness factor guidance
provided by MDEQ or other credible sources.
         (c)   Slatted decks are not considered LOT COVERAGE where the ground
under the deck is pervious.
      LOT LINES. Property lines of a lot or parcel. These regulations establish
three types of LOT LINES.
         (a)   FRONT LOT LINE. The lot line closest to and paralleling the
street on which the main building is addressed. Except where one of the
bordering streets is an arterial or collector, corner lots shall treat the lot
line along the street on which the structure is addressed as “front”. The lot
line on an arterial or collector shall, however, be the FRONT LOT LINE,
regardless of whether the structure is addressed on that street.
         (b)   REAR LOT LINE. The lot line on the opposite end of a lot from
the front lot line, which is parallel, or more or less parallel, to the front
lot line.
         (c)   SIDE LOT LINE. A lot line extending from the front lot line to
the rear lot line. For purposes of determining side yards, any lot line not a
rear lot line or a front lot line shall be deemed a SIDE LOT LINE.
      MAIN BUILDING. The building on a lot occupied by the principal use of the
lot, and to which all other buildings on the premises are accessory.
      MANUFACTURED HOUSING.
         (a)   A building that serves as a single-family dwelling, built off-
site in a factory on or after 1-1-1990, that is placed on a permanent
foundation, is at least 1,000 square feet in size, has a pitched roof and
siding and roofing materials that are customarily used on site-built homes and
is in compliance with the applicable prevailing standards of the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development at the time of its production.
         (b)   A MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a mobile home or house
trailer, as defined in M.C.A. §§ 15-1-101 (76-2-302(4)).
      MOBILE HOME.
         (a)   A form of housing known as TRAILERS, HOUSE TRAILERS or TRAILER
COACHES exceeding eight feet in width or 45 feet in length, designed to be
moved from one place to another by an independent power connected to them, or
any trailer, house trailer or trailer coach up to eight feet in width or 45
feet in length used as a principal residence (M.C.A. § 15-1-101(m)).
         (b)   MOBILE HOMES permitted in the town shall be at least 14 feet
wide and placed on a permanent foundation.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. A tract of land providing two or more mobile home lots
or spaces for lease or rent.
      NON-CONFORMING USE. A building, structure or use of land legally existing
at the time of the enactment of a zoning regulation and which now does not
conform to the particular standard of the zoning regulations.
      NWI WETLANDS. Wetlands as identified on the latest National Wetlands
Inventory (NWI), as mapped by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
      PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. A space located outside any public right-of-
way which is at least nine feet by 20 feet in size with vertical clearance of
seven feet, for parking of typical passenger vehicles with room to get out on
either side of the vehicle, with adequate maneuvering space and accessible to
public streets or alleys.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A land development project designated as
such by the Town Council, consisting of residential clusters, industrial parks,
shopping centers or office building parks that compose a planned mixture of
land uses built (or planned to be built) in a prearranged relationship to each
other and having open space and community facilities in common ownership or
use.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD) MASTER SITE PLAN. The site plan for a
proposed PUD, which may be the plat of the proposed subdivision, which includes
information required for PUD designation including all covenants, grants of
easements and other conditions relating to use, locations and bulk of
structures, density of the development, types of uses, common open space,
private open space, public utilities and private and public roads and streets.
      PRINCIPAL USE. The primary or predominant use to which the property is or
may be devoted, and to which all other uses on the premises are accessory.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle used and so constructed as to permit
its being used as a conveyance upon public streets or highways and duly
licensable as such, constructed in such a manner as will permit occupancy
thereof as a temporary or seasonal dwelling.
      SETBACK. The horizontal distance between the property line and the outer
wall of a building, at grade, or any above-grade extension that projects more
than 30 inches from the outer wall at grade. A minimum setback distance
establishes the respective minimum yard size on a lot. These regulations
establish three types of SETBACKS.
         (a)   FRONT YARD SETBACK. The setback measured from the front lot line
to any building.
         (b)   REAR YARD SETBACK. The setback measured from the rear lot line
to the main building on a lot. The rear lot line is parallel, or more or less
parallel, to the street. Corner lots have two rear yards, but may treat either
as a side yard for the purposes of these regulations.
         (c)   SIDE YARD SETBACK. The setback measured from the side lot line
to any building.
      STREET. A public thoroughfare equal to or more than 40 feet in width
which has been dedicated or deeded to the public use and which affords
principal means of access to abutting property. Street types and functional
classifications, such as arterials, collectors and local streets, shall be
determined by the Zoning Administrator using recognized sources most
appropriate at the local level, such as adopted subdivision regulations or a
local transportation plan.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or attached to something having location on the ground, including signs
and billboards, but not including fences or walls used as fences, which are
less than six feet in height.
      TOWN. The Town of Fairview, Richland County, Montana.
      TOWNHOME or TOWNHOUSE.
         (a)   Property that is owned subject to an arrangement under which
persons own their own units and hold separate title to the land beneath their
units, but under which they may jointly own the common areas and facilities.
         (b)   TOWNHOMES or TOWNHOUSES are permitted as residential dwelling
units subject to the provisions of these regulations, but side setbacks and
side yards do not apply to the common property line between the units.
      TRACT. An individual parcel of land that can be identified by legal
description, independent of any other parcel of land, using documents on file
in the records of the County Clerk and Recorder’s office.
      VARIANCE. The relaxation of the strict application of the terms of these
regulations with respect to setback requirements, yard requirements, lot
coverage requirements, building heights, parking and loading requirements, uses
and improvements, where specific physical conditions unique to the site would
create an unreasonable burden by making its development difficult or
impossible.
      YARD.
         (a)   An area of a lot between a property line and an actual building
setback line.
         (b)   A MINIMUM YARD is a yard unoccupied by buildings, except as may
be expressly allowed by these regulations.
         (c)   These regulations establish three types of YARDS, each of which
may a have minimum yard size as a result of the minimum setback.
            1.   FRONT YARD. The yard between the front lot line and the front
side of any building closest to the front lot line.
            2.   REAR YARD. The yard between the rear lot line and the rear
side of the main building on a lot.
            3.   SIDE YARD. A yard between the side of any building and the
side lot line extending from the front yard to the rear lot line. For purposes
of determining SIDE YARDS, any lot line not a rear lot line or a front lot line
shall be deemed a side lot line.
      ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The person appointed by the Town Council to
administer these zoning regulations.
      ZONING COMMISSION. The duly appointed advisory board as established by
the Town Council pursuant to §
155.082 of this chapter for the purposes of reviewing zoning district
boundaries, zoning changes, amendments to these regulations and recommending
zoning classifications for newly annexed land.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.008 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   (1)   It is the intent of this section to establish zoning districts
where compatible uses of land may be located to create, protect and maintain a
desirable living environment, to stabilize and protect residential harmony and
to conduct businesses.
      (2)   It is also the intent of this section to make it possible to
efficiently and economically design and install public facilities in terms of
size and capacity, and to adequately meet the needs resulting from a defined
intensity of land use.
   (B)   To carry out the provisions of these regulations, the town is divided
and classified into the following four zoning districts as shown in Table 1:
 
Table 1: Zoning Districts
R-A  Residential ‘A’ District
R-B  Residential ‘B’ District
CBD  Central Business District
GCID General Commercial Industrial District
OCM  Old Coal Mining Mitigation Overlay
 
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.009 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The town is divided into four zoning districts as shown on the
official zoning map which, together with all contents on the map, is hereby
adopted and declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (B)   The following apply to the official zoning map.
      (1)   Map certificate.
         (a)   The official zoning map shall be displayed in the office of the
Town Hall and shall bear a certificate with the signature of the Town Mayor,
certification of the Town Clerk and the date of adoption of this chapter.
         (b)   If any changes to the map are made by amendment of this chapter,
such changes shall be made to the official zoning map and signed and certified.
      (2)   Map replacement. In the event that the official zoning map becomes
damaged, lost or difficult to read or interpret for any reason, a new official
zoning map shall be prepared and approved by the Town Council, signed by the
Town Mayor, and certified as the official zoning map by the Town Clerk.
      (3)   Map copies. Any copy of the official zoning map distributed to and/
or purchased by the general public shall not be official for any purpose unless
certified and, if so certified, shall be official only as of the date of said
certification.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.010 INTERPRETATION OF MAP BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
official zoning map, the boundaries shall be interpreted as following the
nearest logical line to that shown. Where shown as approximately following
parcel boundaries, it shall be construed as following such parcel boundaries;
where shown as following approximately the town limits, railroad tracks, street
centerlines, stream or water centerlines or shorelines, it shall be construed
as following such lines. Boundaries indicated as extensions of or parallel to
such lines shall be so construed and, where distances are not shown on the map,
they shall be determined by the scale of the map. Where boundaries seem to
conflict with physical or cultural features on the land, the Zoning
Administrator shall interpret such boundaries, with any interpretation or
decision of the Zoning Administrator appealable to the Board of Adjustment
according to §
155.077 of this chapter.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.011 INTERPRETATION OF USES.
   If ambiguity arises concerning the appropriate classification of a
particular use within the meaning and intent of this chapter, or if a specific
use is not listed, it shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to
ascertain all pertinent facts and make an official interpretation in writing.
Thereafter, such interpretations shall govern. All interpretations shall be on
file in the office of the Town Clerk. Any appeal of the Zoning Administrator’s
official written interpretation shall be reviewed by the Board of Adjustment
according to §
155.077 of this chapter.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.012 DETERMINING PERMITTED, CONDITIONAL AND PROHIBITED USES.
   The following criteria shall be used in determining appropriate land uses
when uses arise that are not specifically addressed:
   (A)   The subject use and its operation are substantially similar to and
compatible with the uses permitted in the district where it is proposed to be
located; in such cases, the use will be treated as a permitted use;
   (B)   The subject use and its operation are substantially similar to and
compatible with the conditional uses listed in the district where it is
proposed to be located; in such cases, the use will be treated as a conditional
use;
   (C)   The subject use will not cause substantial injury to values of
property in the neighborhood or district in which it is proposed to be located;
   (D)   The subject use will be so designed, located and operated that the
public health, safety and welfare will be protected; and
   (E)   Uses in a district that are not listed as permitted or conditional
uses, are not substantially similar to and comparable to permitted or
conditional uses, may cause substantial injury to values of property, or are
not found to be designed, located and operated that the public health, safety
and welfare will be protected, shall constitute prohibited uses, and no such
uses will be permitted without approval of a variance by the Board of
Adjustment.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.013 DIVISIONS OF LAND.
   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall be
reduced in dimension or area below the requirements set forth herein and all
yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter shall meet the
minimum requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.014 ANNEXATION.
   All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the town shall be zoned at
the time of annexation. Prior to such annexation and zoning, the Zoning
Administrator shall have made a recommendation to the Zoning Commission, and
the Zoning Commission shall have made its investigation and shall make a
recommendation to the Town Council. Public hearings on the question of zoning
shall be held in conjunction with the necessary annexation procedures.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.015 SPECIFICATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   These regulations outline specification standards for the various
zoning districts. Section
155.007 of this chapter defines the terms related to several of these
standards.
   (B)   This section outlines how certain terms and definitions are applied
with these zoning regulations.
      (1)   Setbacks. The zoning district a lot is located within determines
the minimum setback for buildings. The minimum setback is measured horizontally
from the applicable property line to the outer wall of any building, at grade
or any above-grade extension that projects more than 30 inches from the outer
wall at grade.
      (2)   Yards.
         (a)   A yard is an area of a lot between a property line and an actual
building setback line. A minimum yard is a yard unoccupied by buildings, except
as may be expressly allowed by these regulations. A minimum setback distance
establishes the respective minimum yard size on a lot. Figure 1 below
illustrates setbacks and yards on a typical residential lot.
         (b)   As illustrated by Figure 1 above, the eaves are above grade
projections less than 30 inches (2.5 feet) that do not need to meet setback
requirements. The patio, if at grade, is deemed lot coverage, but would not
need to meet the setback requirement because it is not above grade. The awning,
because it is an above grade projection greater than 30 inches (2.5 feet), must
meet the setback requirements and constitutes lot coverage. The minimum front
and side yard setbacks form the respective minimum yards. The rear yard as a
whole is formed by the area between the rear lot line and the back of the main
building, and the accessory building (garage) is allowed in the rear yard, but
not the required rear yard.
      (3)   Minimum lot sizes. The zoning district a lot is located within
determines the minimum lot sizes. The minimum lot size requirement applies to
new lots created or altered after adoption of these regulations, and for lots
proposed to be developed with multiple units.
         (a)   For lots existing in a district that lists a minimum lot size,
the minimum lot size does not need to be met for a lot to be developed with a
single-family dwelling or other single permitted use in the district, provided
all other specification standards are met.
         (b)   Planned unit developments (PUDs) are allowed flexibility with
minimum lot sizes, subject to the density bonus provisions of §
155.079 of this chapter.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
DISTRICTS
§ 155.030 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   Each zoning district is hereby designated allowable land uses and
specification standards as outlined in the following sections.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.031 RESIDENTIAL ‘A’ DISTRICT (R-A).
   (A)   Intent. This district is intended to provide single-family, two-family
and limited multi-family residential areas served by adequate public service,
and for neighborhood facilities to serve such development while preserving the
residential quality and nature of the area.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following structures and uses are allowed within
the R-A District:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings, and multi-family
dwellings with up to four units per building, provided each development
complies with the minimum lot size requirements in Table 2. Mobile homes are
permitted as single-family dwellings subject to division (D) below;
      (2)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to the uses
permitted in this district;
      (3)   Home occupations;
      (4)   Religious institutions, libraries, parks and playgrounds, public
schools and other public buildings and recreational facilities;
      (5)   Hospitals and other medical services;
      (6)   Community residential facilities and day cares;
      (7)   Bed and breakfasts;
      (8)   Fire and police stations;
      (9)   Cemeteries;
      (10)   Public utility buildings, except where prohibited by overlay
district (§
155.035 of this chapter);
      (11)   Electrical substations, except where prohibited by overlay
district (§
155.035 of this chapter); provided that, where transformers are exposed there
shall be an enclosed, non-climbable, sight- obscuring fence at least six feet
high; and
      (12)   Water reservoirs, water storage tanks, water pumping stations and
sewer lift stations.
   (C)   Specification standards. Subject to all other applicable requirements,
the specification standards for the R-A District are listed in the following
Table 2:
Table 2: R-A Specification Standards
Standards Specifications
Table 2: R-A Specification Standards
Standards                                                Specifications
Minimum lot size for single-family dwellings             7,000 square feet
Minimum lot size for 2-family dwellings                  10,000 square feet
Minimum lot size for 3-family dwellings                  12,000 square feet
Minimum lot size for 4-family dwellings                  14,000 square feet
Maximum lot coverage                                     40%
Minimum lot width at front property line                 50 feet
Minimum front yard setback                               20 feet
Minimum side yard setback                                6 feet
Minimum rear yard setback                                15 feet
Minimum setback from NWI wetlands and Main Canal (top of 30 feet
bank)
Maximum building height*                                 35 feet*
NOTES TO TABLE:
*Maximum building height of a primary structure may be increased to up to
40 feet on a lot that provides 2 side yards with setbacks of at least 15
feet if all other specification standards are met. Public buildings,
religious institutions, hospitals and schools may be permitted with a
maximum height of up to 60 feet on a lot that provides increased setbacks
of at least 1 foot for each foot of increased building height.
 
   (D)   Mobile home regulations. The following regulations apply to all mobile
homes permitted in the R-A District.
      (1)   Placement and use of all mobile homes must comply with the
provisions of this chapter, including the requirements to obtain a permit for
mobile home installation.
      (2)   All mobile homes must be at least 14 feet wide and at least 42 feet
long and placed on a permanent foundation.
      (3)   All mobile homes shall be separated from other mobile homes,
attachments and other buildings a minimum of 20 feet.
      (4)   Each mobile home shall be skirted. Said skirting shall be of a type
designed for mobile home skirting.
      (5)   Canopies and awnings may be attached to any mobile home, but shall
not exceed 12 feet in width, nor exceed the height of the home.
      (6)   Each mobile home shall be anchored to its permanent foundation to
secure the mobile home against forces exerted by wind.
      (7)   All utility lines shall be buried underground.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016; Ord. 337, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 155.032 RESIDENTIAL ‘B’ DISTRICT (R-B).
   (A)   Intent. This district is intended to provide residential areas served
by adequate public service, and for neighborhood facilities to serve such
development while preserving the residential quality and nature of the area.
The R-B District is intended to allow more flexible standards for more low and
moderate income housing and low-impact non-residential uses that support the
residential areas of the community.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following structures and uses are allowed within
the R-B District:
      (1)   All uses permitted in the R-A District;
      (2)   Multiple-family dwellings in compliance with the minimum lot size
requirements in Table 3;
      (3)   Mobile home parks, subject to subdivision review requirements and
compliance with the minimum lot size requirements in Table 3;
      (4)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to the uses
permitted in this district;
      (5)   Automobile parking lots;
      (6)   Boarding and lodging houses;
      (7)   Fraternities and sororities; and
      (8)   Professional offices, such as real estate, insurance and bank
offices.
   (C)   Specification standards. Subject to all other applicable requirements,
the specification standards for the R-B District are listed in the following
Table 3:
Table 3: R-B Specification Standards
Standards Specifications
Table 3: R-B Specification Standards
Standards                                                   Specifications
Minimum lot size                                            6,000 square feet
Minimum area for each unit in 2-family dwellings, multiple-
family dwellings and mobile home parks in addition to 6,000 2,000 square feet
square feet
Maximum lot coverage                                        45%
Minimum lot width at front property line                    40 feet
Minimum front yard setback                                  20 feet
Minimum side yard setback                                   6 feet
Minimum rear yard setback                                   15 feet
Minimum setback from NWI wetlands and Main Canal (top of    50 feet
bank)
Maximum building height                                     35 feet*
Maximum building height for mobile homes                    25 feet
NOTES TO TABLE:
*Maximum building height may be increased to up to 40 feet on a lot that
provides 2 side yards with setbacks of at least 15 feet if all other
specification standards are met. Public buildings, religious institutions,
hospitals and schools may be permitted with a maximum height of up to 60 feet
on a lot that provides increased setbacks of at least 1 foot for each foot of
increased building height.
 
   (D)   Mobile home regulations. The following regulations apply to all mobile
homes and mobile home parks permitted in the R-B District.
      (1)   Placement and use of all mobile homes must comply with the
provisions of this chapter, including the requirements to obtain a permit for
mobile home installation.
      (2)   All mobile homes must be at least 14 feet wide and at least 42 feet
long and placed on a permanent foundation.
      (3)   All mobile homes shall be separated from other mobile homes,
attachments and other buildings a minimum of 20 feet.
      (4)   Each mobile home shall be skirted. Said skirting shall be of a type
designed for mobile home skirting.
      (5)   Canopies and awnings may be attached to any mobile home, but shall
not exceed 12 feet in width, nor exceed the height of the home.
      (6)   Each mobile home shall be anchored to its permanent foundation to
secure the mobile home against forces exerted by wind.
      (7)   All utility lines shall be buried underground.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016; Ord. 337, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 155.033 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (CBD).
   (A)   Intent. The Central Business District is intended to be the central
focus of the town’s business, government, service and cultural activities. The
land uses in this district should be those which are appropriate to such a
center and inappropriate uses should be excluded. The area should be developed
as an attractive and pleasant environment, cognizant of its importance to the
community and its historical heritage.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following structures and uses are allowed within
the Central Business District:
      (1)   All uses permitted in the R-A and R-B Districts, except mobile
homes and mobile home parks;
      (2)   Accessory uses for parking, storage and solid waste disposal;
      (3)   Eating and drinking establishments;
      (4)   Breweries and wineries;
      (5)   Banks and financial institutions;
      (6)   Professional offices;
      (7)   Hair salons, barber shops and other similar personal care
establishments;
      (8)   General retail stores, such as clothing and department stores,
furniture, appliance, carpet, antique and housewares stores, hardware stores,
auto accessory stores, school and art supply stores, gift shops, jewelry
stores, leather goods and luggage stores, newspaper, magazine and tobacco
stores and candy and ice cream stores;
      (9)   Repair service for small appliances, watches, clocks and similar
items;
      (10)   Laundromats;
      (11)   Convenience stores;
      (12)   Gas stations;
      (13)   Storage facilities;
      (14)   Theaters;
      (15)   Ticket sales agencies;
      (16)   Veterans’ organizations;
      (17)   Veterinary clinics;
      (18)   Licensed recreational marijuana dispensaries; and
      (19)   License medical marijuana dispensaries.
   (C)   Specification standards. Subject to all other applicable requirements,
the specification standards for the CBD are listed in the following Table 4:
Table 4: CBD Specification Standards
Standards Specifications
Table 4: CBD Specification Standards
Standards                                        Specifications
Minimum lot size                                 None
Maximum lot coverage                             100%
Minimum lot width at front property line         None
Minimum front yard setback                       None
Minimum side yard setback                        None
Minimum rear yard setback                        None
Minimum setback from NWI wetlands and Main Canal None
Maximum building height                          60 feet
 
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016; Ord. 346, passed 7-13-2022)
§ 155.034 GENERAL COMMERCIAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (GCID).
   (A)   Intent. This district is to provide for the community’s needs for
wholesale trade, storage and warehousing, trucking and transportation
terminals, manufacturing, outdoor advertising businesses and similar
activities. Such uses should be related to the town’s major transportation
facilities and be so organized that they can be efficiently operated and yet
create a minimum of traffic or other adverse effects to the residential
neighborhoods of the town.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following structures and uses are allowed within
the GCI District:
      (1)   All uses permitted in the R-A, R-B and CBD Districts;
      (2)   Automotive and boat sales and sales areas, parts sales and
automotive service establishments, excluding junkyards and wrecking yards;
      (3)   Building and plumbing contractor establishments;
      (4)   Building materials sales;
      (5)   Data processing service activities;
      (6)   Dry cleaning plants and large-scale laundry services;
      (7)   Enclosed warehouses;
      (8)   Outdoor advertising businesses;
      (9)   Paint shops;
      (10)   Sexually-oriented businesses;
      (11)   Beverage manufacturing;
      (12)   Cabinet shops;
      (13)   Dairies and dairy products processing plants;
      (14)   Manufacture, service or repair of light consumer goods such as
appliances, batteries, garments or furniture coverings or draperies;
      (15)   Machine or blacksmith shops;
      (16)   Medical marijuana establishments;
      (17)   Petroleum service companies;
      (18)   Sign shops; and
      (19)   Open storage, if accessory to other permitted uses and where
screened from view from the street and surrounding properties by a solid fence
of at least six feet in height.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed as special
exceptions in the GCI District through conditional use review and approval by
the Board of Adjustment according to §
155.075 of this chapter:
      (1)   Truck and rail terminal facilities;
      (2)   Acid manufacture or wholesale storage of acids;
      (3)   Asphalt or concrete batch plants;
      (4)   Cement, lime, gypsum or plaster of Paris manufacture;
      (5)   Fat rendering, fertilizer, gas or glue manufacture;
      (6)   Manufacture of explosives or storage of explosives, including
gases;
      (7)   Petroleum or petroleum products refining;
      (8)   Slaughterhouses, stockyards and feedlots;
      (9)   Smelting or reduction of ore or metallurgical products;
      (10)   All other manufacturing and industrial uses not otherwise
prohibited by law; and
      (11)   Junkyards, automobile wrecking yards, scrap iron, scrap paper or
rag storage, sorting or baling; provided:
         (a)   An eight-foot sight-obscuring fence must be constructed and
inspected prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for use of the
goods. The fence shall be of a solid, single neutral color;
         (b)   No automobile wreckage or parts thereof, junk or salvage
material or parts thereof shall be visible from any public right-of-way.
Materials or parts shall be located within a fenced area; and
         (c)   The permit shall be granted for a period not to exceed two years
and at the end of such period, an inspection shall be made of the premises to
determine the advisability of renewing such permit.
   (D)   Specification standards. Subject to all other applicable requirements,
the specification standards for the GCI District are listed in the following
Table 5:
Table 5: GCID Specification Standards
Standards Specifications
Table 5: GCID Specification Standards
Standards                             Specifications
Minimum lot size*                     12,000 square feet*
Maximum lot coverage                  80%
Minimum lot width at front property   70 feet
line
Minimum front yard setback            Along highway 200: 30 feet
                                      Along other streets: 20 feet
                                      Along residential properties and vacant
Minimum side yard setback             properties zoned residential: 20 feet
                                      Along all other side yards: 10 feet
                                      Along residential properties and vacant
                                      properties zoned residential: 20 feet
Minimum rear yard setback             Along non-residential properties and
                                      vacant properties zoned for commercial:
                                      10 feet
Minimum setback from NWI wetlands and 30 feet
Main Canal (top of bank)
Maximum building height               50 feet
NOTES TO TABLE:
*Minimum lot sizes and densities for residential development and mobile home
parks are subject to the specification standards of the Residential ‘B’
District
 
   (E)   Landscaped buffers. Landscaped buffers shall be provided and properly
maintained in the GCID as follows:
      (1)   Where a lot proposed for new or expanded commercial or industrial
use adjoins (including across public rights-of-way for highways, streets, roads
and alleys): a public street, road, highway or park; a vacant lot in a
residential zoning district; or a residential property, the applicant shall
provide a landscaping plan to effectively screen the property to be buffered.
The landscaped buffer shall be designed along all property lines adjoining the
property to be buffered.
      (2)   The landscaping plan shall include trees and shrubs of sufficient
height and density to effectively screen the property to be buffered, including
a planting strip a minimum of ten feet wide. Existing healthy vegetation may be
incorporated into the plan.
      (3)   The landscaping plan shall address long-term maintenance of living
vegetation, including watering needs. If plants require more water than non-
irrigated conditions provide due to the vegetation types proposed or other
conditions on-site, an irrigation system may be required.
      (4)   Prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy, all elements of
the landscaping plan shall be installed.
   (F)   Screening. To prevent the headlights of vehicles from having a
negative impact on residential property owners, all commercial or industrial
parking lots bordering a residential zoning district or property, or across the
alley or street from a residential zoning district or property, shall provide a
four-foot high masonry wall or a solid wood fence along the lineal extent of
the adjacent property line or around that side of the parking lot.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.035 OLD COAL MINING MITIGATION AREA OVERLAY DISTRICT (OCM OVERLAY
DISTRICT).
   (A)   Intent. This overlay district is established in an area inside and
outside the municipal boundaries of the town where historic coal mining
activities are presumed to have compromised the stability of the ground to an
unknown extent. The intent of the overlay district is to allow most uses as
permitted by the underlying zoning district, subject to additional requirements
to ensure potential for subsidence and other development challenges resulting
from the unknown geologic conditions associated with past mining activities are
addressed prior to development of the land with structures and to prohibit uses
that may cause dangers to public health and safety. The other requirements of
the underlying district apply to the overlay district. The overlay district
extends outside the jurisdiction of the town, but is shown on the zoning map to
inform the landowners that upon annexation into the town, the overlay district
would likely apply to the mapped overlay area and surrounding areas where
subterranean coal shafts have been developed.
   (B)   Electrical utility stations and substations prohibited. To avoid
potential ignition of gas emissions, electrical utility stations and
substations are prohibited in this overlay district.
   (C)   Geotechnical analysis.
      (1)   Along with any zoning conformance permit application for structural
development in this overlay district, the applicant shall submit a geotechnical
analysis that addresses the past coal mining activities and potential
subsidence, and demonstrates any dangers to public health and safety will be
overcome with site-specific construction techniques.
      (2)   Such geotechnical analyses shall be prepared by a licensed engineer
or other qualified professional.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
§ 155.050 APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   Except as specifically provided by these regulations, the requirements in
the following sections shall be the minimum regulations and shall apply
uniformly to each class or kind of structure or land, and no building,
structure or land shall be used or occupied and no building, structure or part
thereof shall hereafter be placed, constructed or altered unless the action
fully complies with all of the regulations specified for the district in which
it is located.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.051 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Accessory buildings are allowed in all zoning districts subject to
permitting requirements except as exempted under §
155.071 of this chapter and the following standards.
   (A)   No accessory building shall be located or within ten feet of any
principal residential building.
   (B)   No accessory building shall be located in any required side yard.
   (C)   Recreational vehicles (RVs) may be kept on lots, but no RV parks are
permitted, and RVs may not be occupied as residences or on a basis exceeding 14
days consecutively or for more than 30 days per calendar year.
   (D)   No accessory building shall be located in any required front yard in
the residential districts, with the following exception: storm shelters,
fallout shelters and similar shelters to protect human life during periods of
danger may be constructed in the required front yard, but no part of the
building may protrude above the average grade of the lot. In addition, such
buildings with impervious surfaces shall be calculated against the lot’s
permitted lot coverage.
   (E)   For those uses listed as a conditional use, the addition of accessory
buildings that expand a conditional use beyond what may have been reviewed
under a conditional use permit process require review as a conditional use.
   (F)   For non-conforming uses, the addition of accessory buildings that
expand the non-conformity shall not be permitted without approval of a
variance. For purposes of this requirement, non-conformity is increased if any
portion of a required yard would be diminished by the proposed activity.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.052 OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   Outdoor lighting shall be down-ward pointed and side-shielded to not
illuminate or be reflected upon any other residential property or cause
excessive glare on public streets.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.053 ACCESS, UTILITIES, MUNICIPAL SERVICES AND FLOODPLAIN COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   All building sites shall have vehicular access to a public right-of-
way and shall have rights-of- way or easements so as to allow for the provision
of utilities and town services.
   (B)   All buildings shall have adequate water supply, sewage and solid waste
disposal facilities to serve the intended use of the building.
   (C)   All buildings shall be provided adequate emergency medical, fire
protection, and law enforcement services.
   (D)   All development may be required to demonstrate compliance with
applicable floodplain requirements.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.054 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Home occupations are light commercial or industrial activities conducted in
a dwelling or a building accessory to a dwelling, which may be permitted
subject to the following standards.
   (A)   No person other than members of the family residing on the premises
shall be engaged in the home occupation.
   (B)   The use of the dwelling unit and/or accessory building for the home
occupation shall be clearly incidental and subordinate to the property’s
residential use by its occupants.
   (C)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building or
premises and other visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation
other than signage as allowed under Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volumes than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood.
   (E)   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation which
will cause any vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference
detectable through the normal senses off the lot, if the occupation is
conducted in a dwelling, or outside the dwelling unit if conducted in an
accessory building. In the case of electrical interference, no equipment or
process shall be used which creates visual or audible interferences in any
radio or television receivers off the premises or causes fluctuations in line
voltage off the premises.
   (F)   Businesses established for the purpose of providing, purveying,
selling, growing, manufacturing or otherwise dealing in the procurement,
production and sale of marijuana shall not be permitted as home occupations.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016; Ord. 353, passed 3-15-2023)
§ 155.055 FENCES, WALLS AND PLANTINGS.
   Fences, walls, hedges or other plantings are allowed subject to issuance of
a permit in any required yard; provided, they do not impede clear vision
triangles. When fencing is proposed in conjunction with a permit application
for other permitted activity (i.e., construction or use of a building), the
fencing may be applied for and permitted in conjunction with the permit
application without the applicant applying for a fence permit separately.
   (A)   No fence exceeding six feet in height shall be constructed in
residential districts unless ordered by the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   Fences, walls and hedges shall not be placed and/or maintained in a
manner that impedes a required clear vision triangle.
   (C)   Fences, hedges and shrubs may only be placed in the town right-of-way
with permission by the Town Council.
   (D)   No yard fence in and adjacent to the residential districts shall be
constructed of barbed wire, chicken wire, electrical wire, snow fence or any
other wire unless such wire fencing is specifically designed and made for yard
fencing and approved by the Zoning Administrator. Chain length materials are
acceptable.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.056 SIGNS.
   Signs shall comply with
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.057 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)   Purpose. These standards are intended to prevent traffic congestion by
requiring adequate off-street parking and loading areas.
   (B)   Off-street parking required. Except in the Central Business District,
where reliance on on-street parking may be permitted, all uses and buildings
shall provide at least the minimum number of off-street parking spaces required
by Table 6. Off-street parking for different land uses on the same lot shall be
calculated separately.
      (1)   Sizes/standards. Off-street parking spaces shall be located outside
any public right-of-way. Each space must be at least nine feet by 20 feet in
size with vertical clearance of seven feet and be designed for parking of
typical passenger vehicles with room to get out on either side of the vehicle,
with adequate maneuvering space and accessible to public streets or alleys.
      (2)   Garages. Garages and similar accessory buildings may be used to
provide off-street parking spaces.
      (3)   Surfacing. All outdoor parking lots and other outdoor parking
areas, including access ways and isles, which provide five or more parking
spaces, shall be hard surfaced to minimize dust. Parking areas providing four
or fewer parking spaces, and their access ways and isles, may be gravel
surfaced but shall be well compacted and of material that minimizes dust.
      (4)   Grading/drainage. Parking areas shall have properly graded and
drained surfaces.
      (5)   Snow storage. Snow storage shall be provided on parking lots
providing more than ten parking spaces, and snow storage areas shall not be
allowed to reduce the size of required off-street parking or loading areas.
      (6)   ADA compliance. Parking must adhere to Americans with Disabilities
Act standards as applicable.
      (7)   Landscaping/screening in GCID. Parking areas in the General
Commercial Industrial District must comply with the landscaped buffer and
screening standards of §
155.034(E) and (F) of this chapter.
      (8)   Off-street parking requirements for uses not listed.
         (a)   Parking requirements for uses not listed in Table 6 shall be
reasonably determined by the Zoning Administrator based on:
            1.   The most similar land use listed in Table 6; and
            2.   Published sources of parking information including, but not
limited to:
               a.   Institute of Transportation Engineers Parking Generation
Report; or
               b.   American Planning Association Planning Advisory Service.
         (b)   Any person who disputes a decision of the Zoning Administrator
may request a review of that decision using the appeals procedure of §
155.077 of this chapter.
   (C)   Location of off-street parking. Required off-street parking spaces
shall be within 400 feet of a main entrance of the use or building served,
except for spaces serving a dwelling, which shall be within 150 feet of an
entrance of the dwelling unit served.
   (D)   Access to off-street parking and loading areas. Properly graded and
drained driveways shall be provided for safe access to off-street parking and
loading areas, including the off-street parking for single family dwellings.
      (1)   No parking or loading area shall create a situation in which
vehicles are required to back onto a public street. Parking areas for single
family dwellings with access to local and collector streets are exempt from
this requirement.
      (2)   Continuous curb cuts shall be prohibited. All access to public
streets shall be via driveways that comply with these performance standards.
      (3)   Driveways accessing an arterial shall be at least 200 feet from any
other point of access (other driveways or intersections). Driveways to roads
intersecting an arterial shall be located at least 150 feet from the arterial
or, where that distance cannot be attained, at the property line most distant
from the arterial.
   (E)   Circulation in off-street parking areas. The pattern of circulation
within parking areas shall be designed to provide safe and efficient access to
individual parking spaces, protect pedestrians moving through the parking area
and facilitate safe access to public streets.
      (1)   Minimum aisle widths shall be:
         (a)   For two-way circulation: 24 feet;
         (b)   For one-way circulation and 60-degree to 90-degree angle
parking: 18 feet; and
         (c)   For one-way circulation and 45-degree angle parking: 15 feet.
      (2)   Where one-way circulation is used, directional signs shall be
installed at all access points to the parking area.
      (3)   No parking area shall be designed so that circulation from one
portion of the area to another relies on a public street.
      (4)   There shall be safe pedestrian access from building entrances to
parking areas which may include striping or different colored or textured
surfaces.
   (F)   Shared parking. Two or more uses may share parking where:
      (1)   The total number of spaces provided meets the minimum standards for
the number of spaces required for all buildings or uses served; and
      (2)   A contract providing for shared parking for a period of at least 20
years is executed before approval of a permit and recorded before issuance of a
certificate of occupancy.
   (G)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Reduction in shared off-street parking spaces. Up to a 30%
reduction in the number of parking spaces required for shared off-street
parking may occur under the following circumstances:
         (a)   When at least 50% of the parking spaces required by this section
are for primarily “night-time” uses such as theaters, bowling alleys, bars and
related uses, and the parking spaces to serve those uses are provided by “day-
time” uses such as banks, offices, furniture stores, manufacturing, large-scale
retail, wholesale and related uses;
         (b)   When at least 50% of the parking spaces required by this section
for primarily “day-time” uses may be supplied primarily by parking for “night-
time” uses;
         (c)   When at least 60% of the parking spaces required by this section
for a religious institution, an auditorium incidental to a school, or a similar
use, may be supplied by the off-street parking facilities provided by uses
primarily of a “day-time” or complimentary nature;
         (d)   The joint parking facility shall be located within 400 of a main
entrance of the use or building served, except for spaces serving a dwelling,
which shall be within 150 feet of the main entrance of the dwelling unit
served;
         (e)   The applicant for the joint use parking facility shall show
there is no substantial conflict in the principal operating hours of the
buildings or uses for which joint use of the off-street parking facilities is
proposed; and
         (f)   A contract providing for shared parking for a period of at least
20 years is executed before approval of a permit and recorded before issuance
of a certificate of compliance.
      (2)   Reduction for bicycle parking. Bicycle parking facilities (bike
racks) may be substituted for no more than 5% of the total parking spaces
required for non-residential land uses.
      (3)   Documented case studies. Case studies or other evidence from
similar land uses and locations may be used to permit the reduction of the
minimum parking space standards in Table 6 by up to 15%.
   (H)   Passenger loading areas. Day care centers, schools, group care
facilities and places for public assembly located on arterial roads shall
provide at least one safe, properly signed off-street passenger loading area.
   (I)   Freight loading areas. Commercial and industrial buildings and uses
shall provide one safe, properly signed off-street freight loading area for
each 10,000 square feet of gross floor and/or outdoor storage area. Off-street
freight loading areas shall be on the same lot or parcel and under the same
ownership as the building or use they serve, be designed to accommodate the
largest vehicle that may reasonably be anticipated, and have the following
minimum dimensions:
      (1)   Vertical clearance: 14 feet;
      (2)   Width: 12 feet;
      (3)   Depth or length: 35 feet; and
      (4)   No vehicle parked in an off-street freight loading area shall
extend into a public right-of-way.
Table 6: Parking Requirements for Uses
Land Use Minimum Number of Parking Spaces
Table 6: Parking Requirements for Uses
                                                                                 Minimum
Land Use                                                                         Number of
                                                                                 Parking
                                                                                 Spaces
RESIDENTIAL
   Dwellings                                                                  2 per
   Mobile homes                                                               dwelling
   Mobile home parks                                                          unit

                                                                                 1 per 4
                                                                                 beds + 1
   Community residential facilities                                           per
                                                                                 employee on
                                                                                 shift
TRANSIENT LODGING
                                                                                 1 per guest
                                                                                 room + 2
   Bed and breakfasts                                                         for owner
                                                                                 dwelling
                                                                                 unit
   Hotels and motels                                                          1.25 per
                                                                                 rental room
   Boarding and lodging houses fraternities and sororities                    1 per room
PUBLIC PLACES, CIVIC, GATHERING AND MEDICAL USES
                                                                                 1 per 5
   Religious institutions, libraries, fire and police stations and other publipeople
buildings and recreational facilities                                            (building
                                                                                 capacity)
                                                                                 1.25 per
                                                                                 classroom
                                                                                 for schools
                                                                                 with
                                                                                 students
                                                                                 only under
                                                                                 16 years of
                                                                                 age;
   Schools                                                                    schools
                                                                                 with
                                                                                 students
                                                                                 over 16
                                                                                 years of
                                                                                 age must
                                                                                 add 1 per 2
                                                                                 such
                                                                                 students
                                                                                 1 per 4
                                                                                 beds+ 1 per
   Hospitals and other medical services                                       employee on
                                                                                 shift
                                                                                 during peak
                                                                                 hours
UTILITIES
                                                                                 1 per
   Public utility buildings and electrical substations                        employee on
                                                                                 shift
COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL
                                                                                 10 per
                                                                                 1,000
   Eating and drinking establishments                                         square feet
                                                                                 of customer
                                                                                 seating
                                                                                 area
                                                                                 1 per
                                                                                 employee on
                                                                                 shift + 8
   Breweries and wineries, sexually-oriented businesses and similar           per 1,000
establishments                                                                   square feet
                                                                                 of customer
                                                                                 seating
                                                                                 area
                                                                                 1 per 5
                                                                                 seats + 1
   Theaters                                                                   per
                                                                                 employee on
                                                                                 shift
   Professional offices, banks and financial institutions, large item stores, 3 per 1,000
such as furniture, appliance and carpet stores, auto accessory stores, hair      square feet
salons, barber shops and other similar personal care establishments              of gross
                                                                                 floor area
   General retail stores, clothing and department stores, hardware stores,    4 per 1,000
repair service for small appliances, watches, clocks and similar items, school   square feet
and art supply stores, gift shops, jewelry stores, leather goods and luggage     of gross
stores, newspaper, magazine and tobacco stores, candy and ice cream stores,      floor area
ticket sales agencies, veterans’ organizations, veterinary clinics, laundromats
                                                                                 5 per 1,000
   Convenience stores and gas stations                                        square feet
                                                                                 of gross
                                                                                 floor area
                                                                                 1 per 10
   Storage facilities                                                         storage
                                                                                 units
                                                                                 2 per 1,000
                                                                                 square feet
                                                                                 of gross
   Automotive and boat sales and sales areas, parts sales and automotive servifloor area
establishments                                                                   + 1 per
                                                                                 each
                                                                                 vehicle
                                                                                 (inventory)
                                                                                 1 per
   Automotive vehicle sales areas only                                        vehicle
                                                                                 (inventory)
   Building and plumbing contractor establishments                            1 per
                                                                                 employee
                                                                                 2 per 1,000
                                                                                 square feet
                                                                                 of gross
   Building materials sales                                                   floor area
                                                                                 + 1 per
                                                                                 each
                                                                                 employee on
                                                                                 shift
   Data processing service activities, dry cleaning plants and large-scale    1 per
laundry services, enclosed warehouses, outdoor advertising businesses, paint     employee on
shops, vehicle repair garages, and other commercial uses with infrequent         shift
customer visits
                                                                                 1 per
   Industrial and manufacturing uses with infrequent customer visits          employee on
                                                                                 shift
 
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.058 CLEAR VISION TRIANGLES.
   A CLEAR VISION TRIANGLE is defined as a triangular area formed on a corner
lot by a line connecting the following two points: the two points on the
centerlines of two streets that are 70 feet distant from the point of
intersection of the centerlines of the two streets along the corner lot. The
clear vision triangle is an area in which fences, hedges, walls, shrubs or
structures over 36 inches in height above an established top of curb grade are
prohibited, except as provided by these regulations.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.070 ZONING ADMINISTRATION.
   The following sections describe administrative processes and procedures of
the zoning regulations, how exceptions are applied and other aspects of
administration.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.071 PERMITS AND ACTIVITIES EXEMPT FROM PERMITTING.
   This section establishes the requirements for permits for all land
development and building activity in the town and establishes procedures for
the administration of these zoning regulations.
   (A)   Permits required.
      (1)   A permit shall be required for any clearing, grading, excavation,
construction, reconstruction, non-minor change of occupancy or use, land
development, re-development, building activity or fence construction, except as
specifically exempted by these regulations or per division (B) below.
      (2)   These regulations include the following five kinds of permits, the
procedures for administration of which are found in division (F) below.
         (a)   A zoning conformance permit shall be required for any new
building activity listed as “permitted” in these regulations. (See §§
155.031 and
155.034 of this chapter.)
         (b)   A fence permit is required prior to installing a fence. (See §
155.055 of this chapter.)
         (c)   A conditional use permit shall be required for any land use or
building activity listed as a “conditional use” in the GCID. (See §§
155.034 and
155.075 of this chapter.)
         (d)   A change of use permit is required when a non-minor change in
occupancy or use occurs in a building or on a premises.
         (e)   A certificate of occupancy is required when a new building is
completed and is intended to be occupied for use.
   (B)   Exemptions. The activities listed here are not exempt from any
applicable requirement of these regulations, except the requirement for a
permit. No permit shall be required for:
      (1)   Clearing, grading or excavation for the installation or maintenance
of landscaping and gardens;
      (2)   Repair or remodeling that does not alter the exterior dimensions of
the building by more than six inches (note that fire or building codes may
require a permit for such activities);
      (3)   Construction or installation of small accessory buildings that are
less than ten feet in height with a projected roof area of less than 120 square
feet that are not used for habitation; provided, the buildings meet all
specification standards of these regulations;
      (4)   Minor changes of occupancy, as defined by §
155.007 of this chapter;
      (5)   Construction of public streets and other municipal infrastructure,
and subdivision improvements as allowed and/or required by a subdivision
approval issued by the Town Council;
      (6)   Minor utility installations; and
      (7)   Installation of shipping containers and/or storage containers (for
example, Conex containers) is allowable as an accessory use without a permit.
Such containers must be located within the required setbacks, must have no
signage or writing and must be kept in good repair with no peeling or rust.
   (C)   Application forms and fees.
      (1)   Applications for permits shall be submitted on forms provided by
the town. All applications shall include a site plan, and all other maps,
plans, drawings, tabulations, calculations and text needed to demonstrate
compliance with these regulations. The Zoning Administrator may require
submission of multiple copies of application forms and supporting materials, as
well as a copy of all documents to be submitted electronically in PDF or
similar format.
      (2)   Application fees for each type of permit and the other procedures
established by these regulations shall be set by the Town Council.
      (3)   No incomplete or insufficient application will be accepted for
review and acted upon by the appropriate decision-making body (e.g., Zoning
Administrator, Board of Adjustment).
   (D)   Contents of applications. Applications and site plans shall include
information necessary to demonstrate compliance with these regulations. Each
permit application lists specific information that is pertinent to that
request. All pertinent information shall be submitted by the applicant. Sight
plans shall be to scale and depict the following, as applicable:
      (1)   Property boundaries/lot lines;
      (2)   Geographic features such as slopes, water features, trees and other
vegetation;
      (3)   Onsite and adjacent offsite streets, roads, alleys and easements;
      (4)   Existing and proposed wells, septic tanks and drainfields (if
applicable);
      (5)   Existing and proposed utilities and municipal facilities, such as
water lines and sewer lines;
      (6)   Existing and proposed buildings with dimensions, including all
above grade projections and lot coverage; and
      (7)   For any application that involves buildings for lease or rent, the
applicant shall submit an assessment of potential significant impacts on the
surrounding physical environment and human population in the area to be
affected, including any proposed measures, if any, to avoid or minimize
potential significant impacts identified.
   (E)   Site inspection. The filing of an application for a permit constitutes
permission for the Zoning Administrator and appropriate personnel to conduct
inspections of the site during their consideration of the application, and to
subsequently monitor compliance with any conditions of approval during the life
of the permit.
   (F)   Procedures for zoning conformance, fence and change of use permits and
certificates of occupancy.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this permit procedure is to ensure that
routine building and land use activities comply with these regulations.
      (2)   Procedures. The following is the typical procedure for an applicant
to apply for and receive a zoning conformance permit.
         (a)   The applicant shall submit a properly completed application
form, a site plan, any supporting materials necessary to demonstrate compliance
with these regulations and the required application fee at the Town Hall.
         (b)   The Town Clerk shall process the application and cause the
application to be received by the Zoning Administrator.
         (c)   After the Zoning Administrator receives the application, the
Zoning Administrator shall determine whether the application is complete and
sufficient for review. If an application is determined incomplete or
insufficient, the Zoning Administrator shall provide written notice to the
applicant indicating what information must be submitted for the review to
proceed.
         (d)   The Zoning Administrator shall determine whether the proposed
activity is in compliance with these regulations. If it complies, the
application shall be approved and a permit shall be issued at that time. If the
proposed development fails to comply, the application for a permit shall be
denied. Conditions may be attached to the permit to direct the applicant and
agents to requirements of these and other regulations.
         (e)   Zoning conformance, fence and change of use permits and
certificates of occupancy are valid for one year. During the approval period,
all construction must be completed and compliance with the permit demonstrated.
However, at the end of the approval period the Zoning Administrator may, at the
request of the applicant, extend its approval for up to one additional year.
The purpose of these timeframes is to ensure construction activities are not in
an active state for an unreasonable amount of time posing threats to public
health, safety and welfare.
         (f)   After a permit is issued and prior to permit expiration, the
applicant shall notify the Zoning Administrator and demonstrate that
development conforms to these regulations and any conditions of approval. The
Zoning Administrator shall visit the site to check for conformance and, if
verified, issue a certificate of occupancy. If the development is determined
not to be in conformance, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant
of the deficiencies. The applicant must demonstrate conformance within the
original or extended approval period, reapply for a permit, or appeal the
Zoning Administrator’s decision under §
155.077 of this chapter. If voluntary compliance is not achieved a notice of
violation may be issued under §
155.081 of this chapter.
      (3)   Appeal. Any action or decision by the Zoning Administrator may be
appealed to the Board of Adjustment using the appeals procedure of §
155.077 of this chapter.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016; Ord. 356, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 155.072 APPLICATION OF ZONING REGULATIONS TO STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT
AGENCIES (M.C.A. § 76-2-402).
   (A)   For purposes of this section, an AGENCY means a board, bureau,
commission, department, an authority or other entity of state or local
government.
   (B)   Whenever an agency proposes to use public land contrary to these
zoning regulations, a public hearing shall be held.
      (1)   If an agency proposes to use public land contrary to these zoning
regulations, the agency shall first notify the Board of Adjustment, through the
town office, of its intent to develop land contrary to these zoning
regulations.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator or Town Clerk shall give notice of the
public hearing in accordance with §
155.080 of this chapter.
      (3)   The Board of Adjustment shall hold a public hearing within 30 days
of the date the agency gives notice to the Board of Adjustment of its intent to
develop land contrary to these zoning regulations.
      (4)   The Board of Adjustment shall have no power to deny the proposed
use, but shall act only to allow a public forum for comment on the proposed
use.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.073 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   Except as may be allowed by variance, the following apply to lawful non-
conforming uses and structures existing at the time of the adoption of this
chapter and/or effectiveness of a provision of these regulations.
   (A)   The non-conforming use of a building or premises may be continued, but
the degree of non- conformity shall not be expanded.
   (B)   There shall be no limit on the maintenance and repairs of non-
conforming uses or buildings; provided, all such activities comply with
applicable fire and building codes and the degree of non- conformity is not
expanded.
   (C)   No building which has been damaged by fire or other catastrophic
events to the extent of more than 50% of its original value shall be repaired
or rebuilt, except in conformity with these regulations.
   (D)   A non-conforming use may be changed to an equal use upon approval of
the Zoning Administrator.
   (E)   Any non-conforming use abandoned for more than 18 months shall be
terminated. Abandonment shall not be measured by the owner’s intent, but solely
by the fact that use ceases for a period of 18 or more months.
   (F)   Temporary non-conforming uses or structures shall not be made
permanent without full compliance with these regulations. For example, a
building of a temporary character or low-grade construction in a location that
does not comply with a setback requirement may not be enhanced with permanent
construction features that would make it a permanent structure.
   (G)   Notwithstanding the other provisions for non-conforming uses outlined
by this section, mobile homes in mobile home parks that do not conform to the
minimum spacing requirements of §
155.032(D)(3) of this chapter, the foundation requirements of §
155.032(D)(8) of this chapter and the anchoring requirements of §
155.032(D)(6) of this chapter, are not recognized by the Town Council as lawful
non-conforming uses due to public health and safety issues associated with
mobile homes not achieving separation requirements for safety standards,
compliance with building and fire codes and to ensure mobile homes are secured
properly against forces exerted by wind in severe weather events. All non-
conforming uses shall be brought into full compliance with the sections set
forth above within six months of the effective date of these regulations. Up to
one six-month extension may be granted by the Town Council under extraordinary
circumstances at the written request of the landowner or mobile home owner. The
written request shall be submitted to the town prior to the six-month deadline
along with a proposal to achieve compliance in a timely manner. To achieve
compliance with these requirements, within 30 days of the effective date of
this chapter, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the owners of property
known to be out of compliance with the sections set forth above and request
voluntary compliance within the six-month period. If a mobile home does not
comply with the sections set forth above within the six-month time period or
within an extension period, the enforcement procedures outlined by §
155.081(C) of this chapter shall be initiated.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.074 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment is established to act on conditional uses
(special exceptions), variances and appeals of the Zoning Administrator
decisions and actions.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment consists of five members appointed by the
mayor for a three-year term, and subject to the confirmation by the Town
Council. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose
term becomes vacant. Board members serve without compensation. A Board member
is removable only for cause by the Town Council upon written charges and after
public hearing.
   (C)   The Board shall appoint one of its members as Chairperson and will set
its operating rules in accordance with M.C.A. §§ 76-2-321 through 76-2-328.
   (D)   All official files of the Board of Adjustment shall be held in the
offices at Town Hall.
   (E)   Meetings of the Board must be held at the call of the Chairperson and
at other times that the Board may determine.
   (F)   The Chairperson or, in the Chairperson’s absence, the Acting
Chairperson may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
   (G)   The concurring vote of four members of the Board of Adjustment shall
be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of
the Zoning Administrator; to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter
upon which the Board of Adjustment is required to pass under these regulations;
or to effect any variation in these regulations.
   (H)   All meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be open to the public.
   (I)   The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing
the vote of each member upon each question or, if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the offices at
Town Hall and shall be a public record.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.075 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Purpose. Conditional uses require public review of activities that may
have a significant impact on the landscape setting, public facilities or
neighboring land uses. Conditional uses are special exceptions that may be
compatible with the permitted uses in a zoning district, but require individual
review of their location, scale, design and configuration, and may include the
imposition of special conditions or mitigations in order to ensure the
appropriateness of the use at a particular location within a given zoning
district.
   (B)   Procedure. The following is the typical procedure for an applicant to
apply for and receive a conditional use permit.
      (1)   The applicant shall submit a properly completed conditional use
permit application form, a site plan, any supporting materials necessary to
demonstrate compliance with these regulations and the required application fee
at the Town Hall.
      (2)   The Town Clerk shall process the application and cause the
application to be received by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall determine whether the application is
complete and sufficient for review. When an application is determined
incomplete or insufficient, the Zoning Administrator shall provide written
notice to the applicant indicating what information must be submitted for the
review to proceed.
      (4)   After determining a conditional use permit application is complete
and sufficient, the Zoning Administrator shall place a public hearing on the
proposed conditional use on the agenda of the next Board of Adjustment meeting
for which the notice requirements of these regulations can be met (§
155.080 of this chapter), and at which time will allow for its proper
consideration.
      (5)   The Zoning Administrator or Town Clerk shall give notice of the
public hearing in accordance with §
155.080 of this chapter.
      (6)   The Zoning Administrator shall prepare, or contract for preparation
of, a report that describes the proposed conditional use, its site, its
context, and its compliance, or failure to comply, with the applicable
requirements of these regulations. In preparation of the report, the Zoning
Administrator may seek input from the police, fire, parks, sewer and water,
streets, solid waste and other departments as well as other agency and service
providers, including the state’s Department of Transportation, the local school
district, utility service providers, the state’s Department of Environmental
Quality and others. In the report the Zoning Administrator shall propose
findings of fact and a recommendation of approval, approval with conditions or
denial of the proposal for the Board of Adjustment’s consideration.
      (7)   (a)   The Board of Adjustment shall conduct a hearing on the
proposed conditional use. At that hearing, the Board of Adjustment shall review
the particular facts and circumstances of the proposed conditional use and
adopt findings of fact in support of its decision.
         (b)   If the Board finds the application complies with the evaluation
criteria in division (C) below, it shall approve the application. If the Board
finds the application fails to comply, it shall deny the application.
      (8)   Conditions may be attached to approval of any conditional use
permit as provided in division (D) below; provided, the Board of Adjustment
specifically identifies the basis for each condition.
      (9)   Consideration of a conditional use permit application may be tabled
for no more than 35 calendar days.
      (10)   Within 15 working days after a decision on the conditional use
permit application is made, the Zoning Administrator, working on behalf of the
Board of Adjustment, shall notify the applicant of the decision and any
conditions attached to the approval.
      (11)   If all conditions required by the Board of Adjustment are met at
the time the Board of Adjustment’s approval is issued by the Zoning
Administrator, the conditional use permit shall be issued at that time.
      (12)   Upon the applicant demonstrating compliance with any conditions
required by the Board of Adjustment to the Zoning Administrator, the
conditional use permit will be issued by the Zoning Administrator within 15
working days.
      (13)   Approval of a conditional use by the Board of Adjustment does not
require the Zoning Administrator to permit any activity that is found to not
comply with other applicable requirements.
   (C)   Evaluation criteria. The Board of Adjustment, after weighing and
evaluating the proposed use in light of the criteria set forth below, shall
grant a conditional use permit if the application, supplemental information,
public hearing and other evidence demonstrate that:
      (1)   The proposed use complies with the applicable standards and the
requirements of the zoning district in which the project is proposed;
      (2)   The proposed use, including mitigation measures, shall have no more
adverse effects on the health, safety or welfare of persons living or working
in the neighborhood, or shall be no more injurious to property or improvements
in the neighborhood than would any other permitted or conditional uses in the
same district. In making such determination, consideration shall be given to
the location, type, height, scale, layout and the type and extent of
landscaping and screening on the site, as well as measures proposed by the
applicant to minimize impacts to neighborhood;
      (3)   Adequate facilities and services are, or will be, through the
application of these regulations and the adoption of conditions, made available
to serve the proposed use including police, fire, parks, sewer, water, streets,
motorized and non-motorized transportation, drainage, solid waste, schools and
other facilities and services as appropriate;
      (4)   Adequate measures shall be taken as necessary to provide ingress
and egress so designed as to minimize traffic hazards and to minimize traffic
congestion on the public roads; and
      (5)   No use shall be constructed or operated so as to cause excessive
noise, vibrations, smoke, dust or other particulate matter, toxic or noxious
matter, humidity, heat or glare into a residential district. EXCESSIVE is
defined for these purposes as a degree that could be observed by the Zoning
Administrator to be injurious to the public health, safety or welfare.
   (D)   Conditions. Conditions may be imposed upon the approval of any
conditional use permit, if:
      (1)   They are clearly designed to ensure compliance with one or more
specific requirement of these or other adopted regulations the town has the
ability to enforce;
      (2)   They are clearly designed to ensure the applicant complies with
other laws or regulations;
      (3)   They are directly related to the anticipated impacts of the
proposed use;
      (4)   They are roughly proportional to the anticipated impacts of the
proposed use;
      (5)   The applicant offers to take specific actions in relation to the
proposal that can be ensured through the implementation of a condition; or
      (6)   Conditions are deemed necessary to protect the public health,
safety and general welfare.
   (E)   Approval period. Conditional use permits are typically valid for three
years from the date of approval by the Board of Adjustment, during which time
all construction must be completed and compliance with the permit demonstrated.
After this time, the use must remain in compliance with the Board of Adjustment
approval and these regulations. However:
      (1)   A conditional use permit may be granted with a shorter approval
period as deemed appropriate by the Board of Adjustment with a justifiable
reason related to protecting public health and safety or to ensure compliance
with these regulations or other applicable regulations or laws; and
      (2)   (a)   At the end of the approval period the Board of Adjustment
may, at the request of the applicant, extend its approval for a mutually
agreed-upon period of time. Any mutually agreed-upon extension must be in
writing, dated and signed by at least three members of the Board of Adjustment
and the applicant. The Board of Adjustment may issue more than one extension.
         (b)   For a permit to be extended, the applicant may be required to
submit substantiating evidence justifying the request and showing good cause
for extending the permit period.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.076 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Purpose. Variances provide relief for landowners who, due to some
unique characteristic of their property, would suffer unnecessary hardship if
these regulations are strictly enforced. Variances may be granted, but only as
provided here.
   (B)   Procedure. The following is the typical procedure for an applicant to
apply for and receive a variance.
      (1)   The applicant shall submit a properly completed variance
application form, the required supporting materials, including a narrative
evaluating the variance request under the evaluation criteria in division (C)
below and the required application fee to Town Hall.
      (2)   The Town Clerk shall process the application and cause the
application to be received by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall determine whether the application is
complete and sufficient for review. When an application is determined
incomplete or insufficient, the Zoning Administrator shall provide written
notice to the applicant indicating what information must be submitted for the
review to proceed.
      (4)   After determining a variance application is complete and
sufficient, the Zoning Administrator shall place a public hearing on the
requested variance on the agenda of the next Board of Adjustment meeting for
which the notice requirements of these regulations can be met (§
155.080 of this chapter), and at which time will allow for its proper
consideration.
      (5)   The Zoning Administrator or Town Clerk shall give notice of the
public hearing in accordance with §
155.080 of this chapter.
      (6)   The Zoning Administrator shall prepare, or contract for preparation
of, a report that describes the variance and the overall project, its site, its
context and its compliance, or failure to comply, with the applicable
requirements of these regulations. In preparation of the report, the Zoning
Administrator may seek input from the police, fire, parks, sewer and water,
streets, solid waste and other departments as well as other agency and service
providers, including the state’s Department of Transportation, the local school
district, utility service providers, the state’s Department of Environmental
Quality and others. In the report, the Zoning Administrator shall propose
findings of fact and a recommendation of approval, approval with conditions or
denial of the proposal for the Board of Adjustment’s consideration.
      (7)   The Board of Adjustment shall conduct a hearing on the variance
request. At that hearing, the Board of Adjustment shall review the particular
facts and circumstances of the variance request and adopt findings of fact in
support of its decision. If the Board finds the application complies with the
evaluation criteria in division (C) below, it shall approve the variance. If
the Board finds the application fails to comply, it shall deny the variance.
      (8)   Conditions may be attached to approval of any variance request, as
provided in division (D) below; provided, the Board of Adjustment specifically
identifies the basis for each condition.
      (9)   Consideration of a variance request may be tabled for no more than
35 calendar days.
      (10)   Within 15 working days after a decision on the variance is made,
the Zoning Administrator, working on behalf of the Board of Adjustment, shall
notify the applicant of the decision and any conditions attached to the
approval.
      (11)   If all conditions required by the Board of Adjustment are met at
the time the Board of Adjustment’s approval is issued by the Zoning
Administrator, a permit shall be issued at that time.
      (12)   Upon the applicant demonstrating compliance with any conditions
required by the Board of Adjustment to the Zoning Administrator, the permit
associated with the variance request will be issued by the Zoning Administrator
within 15 working days. This does not require the Zoning Administrator to
permit any activity that is found to not comply with other applicable
requirements.
   (C)   Evaluation criteria. The Board of Adjustment shall approve a variance
only upon finding that the following criteria are substantially met or not
relevant to the proposal:
      (1)   The need for a variance results from special conditions, such as
physical limitations or unique circumstances related to the lot or parcel on
which the variance is requested;
      (2)   Due to those special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of these regulations will result in unnecessary hardship;
      (3)   Without a variance, strict compliance with the terms of these
regulations will limit the reasonable use of the property and deprive the
applicant of the rights enjoyed by other properties similarly situated in the
district;
      (4)   The alleged hardship has not been created by action of the
applicant, owner or occupants;
      (5)   Approval of the variance will not have a substantial adverse impact
on neighboring properties;
      (6)   Approval of the variance will not be contrary to the public
interest; and
      (7)   Approval of the variance will observe the spirit of these
regulations and provide substantial justice.
   (D)   Conditions. Conditions may be imposed upon the approval of any
variance, if:
      (1)   They are clearly designed to ensure compliance with one or more
specific requirement of these or other adopted regulations the town has the
ability to enforce;
      (2)   They are clearly designed to ensure the applicant complies with
other laws or regulations;
      (3)   They are directly related to the evaluation criteria;
      (4)   They are roughly proportional to the anticipated impacts that may
result from the reduced standard;
      (5)   The applicant offers to take specific actions in relation to the
proposal that can be ensured through the implementation of a condition; or
      (6)   Conditions are deemed necessary to protect the public health,
safety and general welfare.
   (E)   Approval period. Variance approvals are typically valid for three
years from the date of approval by the Board of Adjustment, during which time
all construction must be completed and compliance with the permit demonstrated.
After this time, the use must remain in compliance with the Board of Adjustment
approval and these regulations. However:
      (1)   A variance approval may be granted with a shorter approval period
as deemed appropriate by the Board of Adjustment with a justifiable reason
related to protecting public health and safety or to ensure compliance with
these regulations or other applicable regulations or laws; and
      (2)   At the end of the approval period the Board of Adjustment may, at
the request of the applicant, extend its approval for a mutually agreed-upon
period of time. Any mutually agreed-upon extension must be in writing, dated
and signed by at least three members of the Board of Adjustment and the
applicant. The Board of Adjustment may issue more than one extension. For an
approval to be extended, the applicant may be required to submit substantiating
evidence justifying the request and showing good cause for extending the permit
period.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.077 ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Any decision of the Zoning Administrator may be appealed to the Board
of Adjustment as per M.C.A. § 76-2-326.
   (B)   The following is the procedure to appeal a decision by the Zoning
Administrator:
      (1)   The appellant shall submit a letter providing a notice of appeal
and supporting materials to the Zoning Administrator. Any appeal fees adopted
by the Town Council shall be paid at Town Hall.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall place a public hearing on the appeal
on the agenda of the next Board of Adjustment meeting for which the notice
requirements of these regulations can be met (§
155.080 of this chapter), and at which time will allow for its proper
consideration.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator or Town Clerk shall give notice of the
public hearing in accordance with §
155.080 of this chapter. Due notice shall also be given to the parties in
interest.
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator shall, in a timely manner, transmit to the
Board of Adjustment all papers constituting the record upon which the action
appealed was taken.
      (5)   The Zoning Administrator shall publish a summary report that
includes the decision and the surrounding circumstances, and forward it, along
with a copy of pertinent information, to the Board of Adjustment.
      (6)   (a)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Board of
Adjustment after the notice of appeal has been filed that by reason of facts
stated in the certificate a stay would, in the Zoning Administrator’s opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property.
         (b)   In that case, proceedings may not be stayed except by a
restraining order, which may be granted by the Board of Adjustment or by a
court of record, on notice to the Zoning Administrator, and on due cause shown.
      (7)   (a)   The Board of Adjustment shall conduct a public hearing on the
appeal.
         (b)   At the hearing, the Board of Adjustment shall determine whether
the Zoning Administrator made an error in any order, requirement, decision or
determination, and reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may make such order,
requirement, decision or determination as ought to be made and, to that end,
shall have all the powers of the Zoning Administrator.
      (8)   At the hearing, any party may appear in person or by the party’s
attorney.
      (9)   Consideration of the appeal may be tabled for no more than 35 days.
      (10)   The Board of Adjustment shall notify the appellant of its decision
within ten days after it is made. The decision shall be in writing and contain
a summary of the facts relied on as the basis for its decision.
      (11)   M.C.A. § 76-2-327 outlines state laws regarding appeals of
decisions by the Board of Adjustment to a court of record. The petition must be
presented to the court within 30 days after the filing of the decision in the
office of the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.078 ZONE CHANGES AND ZONING AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. Any person may petition for the amendment of the zoning
district map and/or these regulations. The amendment procedure shall be as
provided here and in M.C.A. § 76-2-303. Amendments may also be initiated by the
Zoning Commission or Zoning Administrator, in which cases steps (division (B)
(1) below) through (division (B)(3) below) will not be required.
   (B)   Amendment process.
      (1)   The applicant shall submit a properly completed application form,
the required supporting materials, including a narrative evaluating the
amendment request under the amendment criteria in division (B)(2) below and the
required application fee at the Town Hall.
      (2)   The Town Clerk shall process the application and cause the
application to be received by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall determine whether the application is
complete and sufficient. When an application is determined incomplete or
insufficient, the Zoning Administrator shall provide written notice to the
applicant indicating what information must be submitted for the review to
proceed.
      (4)   After the application is determined to be complete and sufficient,
the Zoning Administrator shall place a public hearing on the application for a
zoning amendment on the agenda of the next Zoning Commission meeting for which
the notice requirements can be met (§
155.080 of this chapter), and at which time allows for its proper
consideration.
      (5)   The Zoning Administrator or Town Clerk shall give notice of the
public hearing in accordance with §
155.080 of this chapter.
      (6)   The Zoning Administrator shall prepare, or contract for the
preparation of, a report that describes the proposed amendment and how it
complies, or fails to comply, with and the amendment criteria. The report may
include a recommendation for approval, approval with modifications or denial.
      (7)   The Zoning Commission shall conduct a public hearing on the
proposed amendment. At the hearing, the Zoning Commission shall determine
whether the proposed amendment meets the amendment criteria. The Zoning
Commission shall review the particular facts and circumstances of the proposed
amendment and develop findings and conclusions that support its recommendation
that the Town Council approve, approve with modifications or disapprove it
accordingly.
      (8)   The Zoning Commission’s action on a proposed amendment may be
tabled, but for no more than 35 days.
      (9)   The Zoning Administrator shall convey the Zoning Commission’s
recommendation and all public comments to the Town Council and, unless the
application is withdrawn, place a hearing on the agenda of the next Town
Council meeting for which the notice requirements can be met (§
155.080 of this chapter), and at which time allows for its proper
consideration.
      (10)   The Zoning Administrator or Town Clerk shall give notice of the
public hearing in accordance with §
155.080 of this chapter.
      (11)   The Town Council shall conduct a public hearing on the proposed
amendment. At the hearing, the Town Council shall consider the recommendation
of the Zoning Commission and all testimony received, then approve, reject or
modify and approve the amendment. Action on the proposed amendment may be
tabled, but for no more than 35 days.
      (12)   If approved or approved with modifications, the Town Council shall
pass an ordinance effectuating the amendment to the zoning map or regulations,
as applicable.
      (13)   An amendment to the zoning may not become effective, except upon
favorable vote of two-thirds of the present and voting members of the Town
Council if a protest against a change is signed by the owners of 25% or more
of:
         (a)   The area of the lots included in the proposed change; or
         (b)   1.   Those lots or units, as defined in M.C.A. § 70-23-102, 150
feet from a lot included in a proposed change. For purposes of this protest
provision, each unit owner is entitled to have the percentage of the unit
owner’s undivided interest in the common elements of the condominium, as
expressed in the declaration, included in the calculation of the protest.
            2.   If the property, as defined in M.C.A. § 70-23-102 spans more
than one lot, the percentage of the unit owner’s undivided interest in the
common elements must be multiplied by the total number of lots upon which the
property is located.
            3.   The percentage of the unit owner’s undivided interest must be
certified as correct by the unit owner seeking to protest or by the presiding
officer of the association of unit owners.
      (14)   At the conclusion of the amendment process, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the applicant of the Town Council decision within 15
working days.
   (C)   Amendment criteria.
      (1)   Zoning amendments shall be made:
         (a)   In accordance with the growth policy;
         (b)   To secure safety from fire and other dangers;
         (c)   To promote public health, safety and general welfare; and
         (d)   To facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements.
      (2)   In reviewing and making recommendations or decisions on zoning
amendments, the Zoning Administrator, Zoning Commission, and Town Council shall
also consider:
         (a)   Reasonable provision of adequate light and air;
         (b)   The effect on motorized and non-motorized transportation
systems;
         (c)   The promotion of compatible urban growth;
         (d)   The character of the district, and its peculiar suitability for
particular uses; and
         (e)   Conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most
appropriate use of the land throughout the jurisdictional area.
      (3)   Other criteria include whether the amendment:
         (a)   Corrects an inconsistency in the zoning; and
         (b)   Addresses changing conditions or furthers a specific public
challenge such as the need for affordable housing, economic development, mixed
use development or sustainable environmental features.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.079 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   This section establishes a process that allows applicants of new multi-unit
projects to obtain certain incentives if the project provides certain types of
benefits to the community. Such projects may be proposed as planned unit
developments.
   (A)   Purpose. Planned unit developments are intended to:
      (1)   Allow flexibility in zoning and subdivision standards in exchange
for community benefits and innovative, quality design;
      (2)   Encourage development in accordance with an approved plan that
protects adjacent properties;
      (3)   Encourage the preservation and enhancement of natural amenities and
topographic features, historical or cultural resources and open space;
      (4)   Prevent disruption of natural drainage patterns;
      (5)   Provide for a more efficient arrangement of land uses, buildings,
circulation systems and infrastructure; and
      (6)   Encourage infill development, harmonious neighborhood development,
affordable (low and moderate income) housing, low-impact, energy efficient and
innovative projects and a variety of housing types and sizes to accommodate
households of with incomes representative of the community.
   (B)   Applicability. PUDs may be approved in any of the zoning districts.
   (C)   Requirements. PUDs must contain the following components:
      (1)   A size of at least four acres, except for infill development, where
the minimum size is one acre;
      (2)   All of the property included in the PUD request shall be under
unified ownership or a single entity’s control;
      (3)   A mixture of housing types and/or land uses;
      (4)   Interconnected streets, preferably lots and blocks with alleys;
      (5)   Pedestrian and bicycle facilities throughout and connecting to
adjacent facilities;
      (6)   Architectural design standards to be implemented and enforced by a
private party such as a unit owners’ association;
      (7)   Community facilities in common ownership and use or that are
dedicated to the public;
      (8)   A coordinated landscape plan with landscaping and other visual
buffers to contribute aesthetics and to separate any incompatible land uses in
order to eliminate or minimize potential interference and nuisances on adjacent
properties;
      (9)   Open spaces such as playground or park areas designed for active
and passive users with the scale, type and natural features depending on the
projected needs of the future users and occupants of the PUD; and
      (10)   Building sites may be clustered to preserve open space. Clustering
of dwelling units and other buildings are encouraged as long as open space,
recreational amenities, and emergency access are adequately planned. The Town
Council may require clustering to avoid development in floodplains, wetlands,
wooded ravines or other environmentally sensitive areas.
   (D)   Standards eligible for modification. Except as expressly approved by
the Town Council, PUDs are subject to all applicable standards of the zoning
regulations and subdivision regulations’ standards. The Town Council may
approve PUDs that deviate from specific zoning and subdivision standards if it
is determined that the resulting development satisfies the review criteria in
division (G) below. A waiver of a standard does not require approval of a
zoning variance by the Board of Adjustment or a variance to subdivision
regulations by the Town Council. The specific standards that may be modified
include:
      (1)   Regardless of the underlying zoning, a PUD may include a
complementary mix of use types and a broader range of housing types and
affordable housing options. A list of uses to be allowed in a PUD must be
approved by the Town Council;
      (2)   Maximum density/minimum parcel size, subject to the density bonus
provisions of division (E) below; provided that, the resulting density and lot
sizes are adequate to safely accommodate all proposed buildings and site
features and are warranted to support the public benefit likely to result from
the proposed development;
      (3)   Setbacks, when determined to be warranted to support the public
benefit likely to result from the proposed development. A minimum distance of
ten feet shall be maintained between all detached buildings unless greater
separation is required by fire or building codes;
      (4)   Building height, when determined that such an increase is warranted
to support the public benefit likely to result from the proposed development,
and adequate fire protection measures are ensured in consultation with the Fire
Department;
      (5)   Maximum lot coverage; provided, erosion will be controlled and
storm water is determined likely to be contained in a manner that will not
negatively impact surface water quality or surrounding and down-gradient
properties;
      (6)   Parking and loading requirements, when determined that such
modifications are warranted to support the public benefit likely to result from
the proposed development;
      (7)   Design and improvement standards of the subdivision regulations,
such as those for lots, blocks, street and non-motorized transportation
standards; provided, such alternative designs would better meet the purpose of
this section while still providing a safe and efficient traffic flow and
emergency service provider access; and
      (8)   Mobile homes are not allowed where prohibited, and no exception to
this restriction will be granted through PUD designation.
   (E)   Density bonus. PUDs are allowed flexibility with minimum lot sizes,
subject to the provisions below. The zoning district’s base minimum lot sizes
and the types of residential development proposed in a PUD are used to
calculate the base density in a proposed PUD by calculating the area on which
the various types and numbers of dwelling units are proposed and applying the
minimum lot sizes that would be required by the district the PUD is located in.
The density bonuses and resulting allowed numbers of units are then calculated
as applicable. The following maximum increases in density may be granted
singularly or in total (from base density) only if the accompanying conditions
are met:
      (1)   Twenty percent: solar, wind, geothermal or other alternative
renewable energy sources will provide at least 50% of the total energy needs of
the PUD;
      (2)   Ten percent: all dwelling units in the PUD will meet state policies
and rules regarding energy-efficiency through energy efficient buildings;
      (3)   Up to 25%: density bonuses at percentages equal to the percentage
of the property that is demonstrated to become open space, playground or park
areas designed for active and passive use and either under common ownership or
dedicated to the public. For example, if a project in the R-A District is
comprised of ten acres and is proposed for a mixture of residential development
such that a typical development using the district’s maximum allowed density/
minimum lot sizes would allow 100 units, by presenting a PUD plan that devotes
20% of the development, or two acres, to open space and park areas, up to a 20%
increase, or up to 120 units, could be proposed on the ten acres. If open space
is 10%, the maximum bonus is 10%; if open space is 25%, the maximum bonus is
25%;
      (4)   Twenty percent: at least 50% of the dwelling units are to be
restricted (typically via deed restrictions) by size and type for individuals
meeting asset, income and minimum occupancy guidelines approved by the Town
Council such that those units will constitute affordable housing;
      (5)   Density bonuses exceeding those listed above, and for project
amenities and benefits to the community other than those listed may be granted
by unanimous vote of the Town Council, following a recommendation by the
Planning Board, in order to carry out the purposes of the land use policies of
the town; and
      (6)   The bonuses listed above, when calculated in total, shall be
calculated on an aggregate basis based on the base density. For example, a
development that is allowed 100 units using the zoning district’s normal
density /minimum lot size, which uses: to obtain a 20% bonus (20 units); to
obtain a 10% bonus (ten units); to obtain a 15% bonus (15 units); and to obtain
a 20% bonus (20 units), could be allowed a maximum number of dwelling units of
165.
   (F)   Review process. Planned unit developments are established through the
approval of a PUD master site plan in accordance with this section and the
subdivision regulations. A PUD may be declared as such prior to or along with
preliminary plat approval; provided, the PUD request contains sufficient
information for the Town Council to declare the project a PUD.
      (1)   At the option of the applicant, the master site plan may also serve
as a preliminary subdivision plat if:
         (a)   Such intention is declared at the pre-application meeting;
         (b)   The master site plan includes all information required for
preliminary plats; and
         (c)   The other procedural requirements of the subdivision regulations
are met. If the master site plan contemplates distinct phased preliminary
plats, the preliminary plat for the first phase shall be reviewed concurrently
with the master site plan.
      (2)   In addition to the requirements for subdivisions, each PUD request
must include the following items:
         (a)   The master site plan that shows the location and area of lots
and blocks, buildings, transportation facilities, parks, open space and other
amenities, utilities and other pertinent features;
         (b)   A list of the specific standards that are requested to be
modified;
         (c)   A list of land uses that are proposed in the PUD;
         (d)   A written description of the community benefits of the proposed
development and how it provides greater benefits to the community than would
development in compliance with all development standards;
         (e)   An evaluation of the review criteria in division (G) below;
         (f)   Architectural standards and a means of enforcement;
         (g)   A description of what facilities, such as playground equipment,
trails and other amenities will be installed, when, and to what standards; and
         (h)   A description and draft documents indicating how any common
areas and facilities will be managed or how land and/or any facilities will be
dedicated to the public.
   (G)   Review criteria. In reviewing and making decisions on proposed PUDs
and site plans, the Planning Board and Town Council shall consider and make
findings on the following criteria during subdivision review:
      (1)   (a)   Whether the proposed PUD would result in a greater benefit to
the community than would development in compliance with all development
standards.
         (b)   Greater benefit may include implementation of adopted planning
policies, natural resource preservation, innovative urban design, low-impact or
energy efficient development, affordable, workforce or senior housing,
neighborhood or community amenities or an overall level of development quality;
      (2)   The proposal’s consistency with the adopted plans for the area;
      (3)   Compliance with this section and its purposes; and
      (4)   Primary review criteria for subdivisions, when applicable.
   (H)   Effect of PUD designation. A PUD master site plan becomes designated a
PUD when approved by the Town Council after a noticed public hearing and
recommendation by the Planning Board. A subdivision plat reviewed along with a
PUD becomes final when all conditions of preliminary approval have been met.
All final subdivision plats authorized under a PUD must become final within ten
years of PUD master site plan approval.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.080 PUBLIC HEARING NOTICES.
   (A)   All required notices shall provide the following information:
      (1)   Name of the applicant and the landowner (if different);
      (2)   Legal description of the site and its address or another general
description by which the public can locate it. For proposed zoning amendments,
the geographic area of the district must be included;
      (3)   Present land use at the site;
      (4)   The proposed use;
      (5)   A public hearing is to be held to accept public comment and what
board or body will conduct a public hearing;
      (6)   The date, time and place of the hearing; and
      (7)   Where applications are available for review.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing shall be provided as follows:
      (1)   By certified mail, at least 15 calendar days before the hearing, to
the applicant, landowner and all adjoining property owners (including
purchasers of record under contract for deed);
      (2)   By newspaper publication, at least calendar 15 days before the
hearing, one legal notice in the official newspaper; and
      (3)   By first class mail, at least 15 calendar days before the hearing,
to all potentially affected public agencies and public utilities, and any
person who has requested mail notice of such hearings and paid the annual fee
for that service. All notices shall comply with division (B)(1) above.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.081 VIOLATIONS/ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violations. Any person, partnership, association, company, corporation
or individual who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
the provisions of these regulations shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as prescribed below.
Each day a violation of these regulations remains after notice to the offending
party, as described below, shall constitute a separate misdemeanor offense. A
person violates these regulations whenever he or she:
      (1)   Proceeds with an activity for which a permit is required by these
regulations without having obtained a permit;
      (2)   Makes any misrepresentation in any application for a permit
required by these regulations;
      (3)   Fails to fulfill any condition imposed on the approval of a permit;
      (4)   Fails to maintain any improvement required for compliance with
these regulations or any permit granted under these regulations;
      (5)   Engages in the development of land in any way not consistent with
the requirements of these regulations;
      (6)   Obscures, obstructs, removes or destroys any notice required to be
posted or otherwise given under the terms of these regulations;
      (7)   Fails to comply with any lawful order issued under the authority of
these regulations; or
      (8)   Disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with or resists the
enforcement of any of the provisions of these regulations.
   (B)   Responsibility for violations. The following persons may be jointly or
severally responsible for violations of these regulations and subject to its
enforcement provisions (also referred to as responsible party):
      (1)   Any owner of property on which a violation occurs;
      (2)   Any architect, engineer, planner, surveyor, builder, contractor,
agent or any other person who knowingly participates and assists, directs,
creates or maintains a situation that constitutes a violation of these
regulations; and
      (3)   Any tenant or occupant who has control over or responsibility for,
use or development of the subject property.
   (C)   Enforcement process. The process for enforcement of these regulations
shall be as described here.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the occupant (and owner, if
they are not the same) of the violation by certified mail and/or posting on the
site. The notice shall describe the violation, cite the section(s) of these
regulations being violated and order the responsible party to attain compliance
within 30 days.
      (2)   (a)   The notice of violation may order an activity or work to
cease, state the specific activity to be stopped, the specific reasons for the
ordered stoppage, and the conditions under which the activity may resume.
         (b)   If the activity does not cease, the Zoning Administrator shall
ask the Town Attorney to take prompt action as authorized by M.C.A. § 76-2-308
to end the violation, obtain applicable penalties and to require restoration of
the site to its original condition. Restoration may include re-establishment of
vegetative cover where sites have been graded in violation of these
regulations.
      (3)   Any person who receives a notice of violation may:
         (a)   Request inspection by the Zoning Administrator to show that
compliance has been attained within the 30 days allowed; or
         (b)   File a notice of appeal of the Zoning Administrator’s notice,
following the procedure in §
155.077 of this chapter.
      (4)   If voluntary compliance is not attained or a notice of appeal is
not filed within 30 days, the Zoning Administrator shall ask the Town Attorney
to begin legal action, as authorized by M.C.A. §§ 76-2-308 and 76-2-315 against
any responsible party who fails to attain compliance within the specified time,
or show, on appeal, that a violation has not occurred.
      (5)   This enforcement procedure may be accelerated where the Zoning
Administrator finds that public health and safety are endangered by a
violation. In such cases, the Zoning Administrator shall ask the Town Attorney
to take immediate action to end the danger to public health and safety.
   (D)   Withhold permit, utilities service or other development authorization.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator, Board of Adjustment, Town Council or
other authorized party may deny or withhold all permits, certificates or other
forms of authorization on any land or structure or improvements on property
upon which there is an uncorrected violation of a provision of these
regulations or of a condition or qualification of a permit, certificate,
approval or other authorization previously granted. This enforcement provision
may be applied regardless of whether the current property owner or applicant is
responsible for the violation in question.
      (2)   (a)   The Zoning Administrator, Board of Adjustment, Town Council
or other authorized party may deny or withhold all permits, certificates or
other forms of authorization on any land or structure or improvements owned or
being developed by a person who owns, develops or otherwise causes an
uncorrected violation of a provision of these regulations or a condition or
qualification of a permit, certificate, approval or other authorization
previously granted. This enforcement provision may be applied regardless of
whether the property for which the permit or other approval is sought is the
property in violation.
         (b)   For purposes of this section, a PERSON is defined as any
individual or business entity with more than a 20% interest in the subject
property.
      (3)   No municipal utility service shall be provided to any development
that is not in full compliance with these regulations.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 155.082 ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created a Zoning Commission which shall
consist of five members to be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the consent
of the Town Council. The appointment for the first commission shall be one
member for one year, two members for two years and two members for three years.
Thereafter, all appointments shall be for three years.
(Prior Code, § 11.04.010)
   (B)   Powers and duties. It shall be the duty of the Zoning Commission to
recommend the boundaries of the various original districts and appropriate
regulations to be enforced therein. Such Commission shall make a preliminary
report and hold public hearings thereon before submitting its final report, and
such Town Council shall not hold its public hearings or take action until it
has received the final report of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 11.04.020)
   (C)   Additional powers and duties. The Zoning Commission shall have such
further powers, duties and restrictions as provided by state law.
(Prior Code, § 11.04.030)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties for zoning violations shall be as provided in M.C.A. § 76-2-
315.
   (B)   Zoning violations are misdemeanor offenses and, upon conviction, a
guilty party is subject to a fine of up to $500, or imprisonment in the county
jail not exceeding six months, or both.
   (C)   Any person who violates these regulations may be required by court
order or other action or proceedings to abate or remediate a violation or
otherwise restore the premises to the condition in which it existed before the
violation.
   (D)   In addition to fines and imprisonment, the town is empowered to
provide for civil penalties for violations. Such civil penalties are as
follows.
      (1)   For a first violation, a civil penalty of not more than $500 shall
be imposed.
      (2)   For each repeat violation, a civil penalty not to exceed $1,000
shall be imposed.
(Ord. 329, passed 1-11-2016)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting a non-exclusive 25-year gas distribution
-        - -         franchise to Montana-Dakota Utilities, Co., a division of
                     MDU Resources Group, Inc.
                   (Prior Code, Ch. 13.02)
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Montana Code Annotated
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MONTANA CODE ANNOTATED
Montana Code Annotated Code Section
Montana Code Annotated     Code Section
7-1-4150                   91.99
Title 7, Ch. 12, part 44   151.03
Title 7, Ch. 32, part 41   33.01
7-32-4152                  33.06
15-1-101                   155.007
15-1-101(m)                155.007
Title 16, Chs. 1 through 6 110.04;
                           110.21
16-6-305                   130.05
                           112.34;
Title 23, Ch. 5, part 3    112.37;
                           112.62
                           112.34;
Title 23, Ch. 5, part 4    112.37;
                           112.62
Title 26, Ch. 10           33.07
45-8-111                   91.17
45-8-317(1)(k)             130.03
45-8-321                   130.03
45-8-329                   130.03
46-23-1002                 130.03
50-5-227                   155.007
52-2-602                   155.007
Title 61                   70.01
61-5-104                   71.02
61-9-420                   71.02
Title 61, Ch. 12, part 4   91.17
Title 70, Ch. 23           155.007
70-23-102                  155.078
Title 75, Ch. 10, part 5   91.17
76-2-301                   155.002
76-2-303                   155.078
76-2-304                   155.002
76-2-304(1)(a)             155.002
76-2-304(1)(b)(i)          155.002
76-2-304(1)(b)(ii)         155.002
76-2-304(1)(b)(iii)        155.003
76-2-304(2)(a)             155.003
76-2-304(2)(b)             155.003
76-2-304(2)(c)             155.003
76-2-304(2)(d)             155.003
76-2-304(2)(e)             155.003
76-2-307                   155.003
76-2-308                   155.081
76-2-309                   155.006
76-2-315                   155.081;
                           155.999
76-2-321 through 76-2-328  155.074
76-2-326                   155.077
76-2-327                   155.077
76-2-402                   Ch. 155;
                           155.072
76-2-411                   155.007
76-8-107                   155.003
                           
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2024 Code
Prior Code 2024 Code
1.00.010   10.01
1.00.020   10.02
1.00.030   10.03
1.00.040   10.04
1.00.050   10.05
1.00.060   10.06
1.04.010   11.02
1.04.020   11.02
1.06.010   11.03
1.08.010   10.99
1.08.020   10.99
1.10.010   11.01
1.10.020   11.01
1.10.030   11.01
2.02.010   31.01
2.02.020   31.02
2.02.030   31.03
2.04.010   31.04
2.04.020   31.04
2.06.010   31.05
2.06.020   31.05
2.08.010   30.20
2.08.020   30.21
2.08.030   30.22
2.08.040   30.23
2.08.050   30.24
2.10.010   30.01
2.10.020   30.02
2.10.030   30.03
2.10.040   30.04
2.10.050   30.05
2.10.060   30.06
2.12.010   31.20
2.12.020   31.20
2.14.010   31.21
2.14.020   31.21
2.14.030   31.21
2.14.040   31.21
2.14.050   31.21
2.16.010   32.01
2.16.020   32.02
2.16.030   32.03
2.16.040   32.04
2.16.050   32.05
2.16.060   32.06
2.16.070   32.07
2.16.080   32.08
2.16.090   32.09
2.16.100   32.10
2.18.010   32.25
2.18.020   32.26
2.18.030   32.27
2.18.040   32.28
2.20.010   33.20
2.20.020   33.21
2.20.030   33.22
2.20.040   33.23
2.20.050   33.24
2.20.060   33.25
2.20.070   33.26
2.20.080   33.27
2.20.090   33.28
2.20.100   33.29
2.20.110   33.30
4.04.010   52.25
4.04.020   52.26
4.04.030   52.26
4.04.040   52.27
4.04.050   52.28
4.04.060   52.29
4.04.070   52.30
4.04.080   52.30
4.04.085   52.31
4.04.090   52.32
4.04.100   52.33
4.04.110   52.34
4.04.120   52.35
4.04.130   52.36
4.06.010   51.40
4.06.020   51.41
4.06.030   51.42
4.06.040   51.43
4.06.050   51.44
4.06.060   51.45
4.06.065   51.46
4.06.070   51.47
4.06.080   51.48
4.06.090   51.49
4.06.100   51.50
4.06.110   51.51
4.06.120   51.99
4.07.010   51.01
4.07.011   51.02
4.07.015   51.03
4.07.017   51.04
4.07.020   51.05
4.07.030   51.06
4.07.035   51.07
4.07.036   51.08
4.07.040   51.09
4.07.041   51.10
4.07.045   51.11
4.07.050   51.12
4.07.059   51.13
4.07.060   51.14
4.07.070   51.15
4.07.080   51.16
4.07.090   51.17
4.07.100   51.18
4.07.110   51.19
4.07.120   51.20
4.07.130   51.21
4.07.140   51.22
4.07.150   51.23
4.07.160   51.24
4.07.170   51.25
4.07.180   51.26;
           51.99
4.08.010   52.01
4.08.020   52.02
4.08.030   52.03
4.08.040   52.04
4.08.050   52.05
4.08.060   52.06
4.08.070   52.07
4.08.080   52.08
4.08.090   52.99
4.08.100   52.09
4.08.110   52.10
4.08.120   52.11
4.08.130   52.12
4.08.150   52.13
5.04.010   111.01
5.04.020   111.02
5.04.030   111.02
5.04.040   111.02
5.04.041   111.03
5.04.050   111.04
5.04.060   111.05
5.04.070   111.06
5.04.080   111.07
5.04.090   111.08
5.04.100   111.99
5.04.110   111.01
5.06.010   110.20
5.06.020   110.21
5.06.030   110.22
5.06.040   110.23
5.06.050   110.24
5.06.060   110.25
5.06.070   110.26
5.06.080   110.27
5.06.090   110.28
5.08.010   110.01
5.08.020   110.02
5.08.020   110.03
5.08.030   110.03
5.08.040   110.04
5.08.050   110.05
5.08.060   110.06
5.08.070   110.07
5.08.080   110.08
5.08.090   110.09
5.08.100   110.99
5.10.010   112.01
5.10.020   112.15
5.10.030   112.16
5.10.040   112.17
5.10.050   112.18
5.10.060   112.19
5.10.070   112.20
5.10.080   112.21
5.10.090   112.22
5.10.100   112.23
5.10.110   112.24
5.10.120   112.25
5.10.130   112.26
5.10.140   112.27
5.10.150   112.28
5.10.160   112.29
5.10.170   112.30
5.10.180   112.31
5.10.190   112.32
5.10.200   112.33
5.10.210   112.34
5.10.220   112.35
5.10.230   112.36
5.10.240   112.02
5.10.250   112.03
5.10.260   112.37
5.10.270   112.38
5.10.280   112.39
5.10.290   112.40
5.10.300   112.41
5.10.310   112.60
5.10.320   112.61
5.10.330   112.62
5.10.340   112.63
5.10.350   112.64
5.10.360   112.04
5.10.370   112.42
5.10.380   112.43
5.10.390   112.44
5.10.400   112.45
5.10.410   112.46
5.10.420   112.99
5.10.430   112.47
7.02.010   33.30
7.02.020   50.02
7.02.030   50.03
7.02.040   50.04
7.02.050   50.03
7.02.060   50.05
7.02.070   50.06
7.02.080   50.07
7.02.090   50.07
7.02.100   33.30
7.02.110   50.08
7.02.120   50.08
7.02.130   50.08
7.02.140   50.08
7.02.150   50.09
7.02.160   50.25
7.02.170   50.26
7.02.180   50.27
7.02.190   50.28
7.02.200   50.29
7.02.210   50.30
7.02.220   50.10
7.02.230   50.99
7.06.010   91.35
7.06.020   91.36
7.06.030   91.37
7.06.040   91.38
7.06.050   91.39
7.06.060   91.40
7.06.070   91.40
7.08.010   91.01
7.08.020   91.02
7.08.026   91.04
7.08.028   91.03
7.08.030   91.40
8.02.010   90.20
8.02.020   90.20
8.02.030   90.20
8.02.040   90.22
8.02.050   90.23
8.02.060   90.24
8.02.070   90.25
8.02.080   90.26
8.02.090   90.22
8.02.100   90.22
8.02.110   90.27
8.02.120   90.27
8.02.130   90.28
8.02.140   90.22
8.02.150   90.29
8.02.160   90.99
8.02.170   90.30
8.04.010   90.01
8.04.020   90.02
8.04.030   90.03
8.04.040   90.03
8.04.050   90.03
8.06.010   90.04
8.06.020   90.04
8.06.030   90.04
8.06.040   90.04
8.06.050   90.99
8.08.010   90.05
8.08.015   90.05
8.08.020   90.05
8.08.030   90.05
8.08.035   90.05
8.08.040   90.99
8.08.050   90.05;
           90.99
9.02.010   130.01
9.02.015   130.02
9.02.020   130.99
9.06.010   130.03
9.06.020   130.03
9.06.030   130.03
9.06.040   130.99
9.08.010   130.04
9.08.020   130.04
9.08.021   130.04
9.08.030   130.99
9.10.010   130.05
9.10.020   130.99
9.12.010   130.06
9.12.020   130.06
9.12.030   130.99
9.14.010   93.01
9.14.020   93.99
9.16.010   93.02;
           93.99
9.16.020   93.02
9.16.030   93.02
9.18.010   93.03
9.18.020   93.99
9.20.010   93.04
9.20.020   93.04
9.20.030   93.04
9.20.040   93.04
9.20.050   93.99
10.02.010  70.01
10.02.020  70.02
10.02.025  70.99
10.02.030  70.99
10.06.010  70.03
10.06.020  70.03
10.06.030  70.99
10.08.005  70.06
10.08.006  70.07
10.08.010  Ch. 72, Schd. I
10.08.020  Ch. 72, Schd. I
10.08.030  70.06;
           Ch. 72, Schd. I
10.08.040  70.99;
           Ch. 72, Schd. I
10.10.010  71.01
10.10.020  71.01
10.10.030  71.99
10.12.010  92.01
10.12.020  92.02
10.12.030  92.03
10.12.040  92.04
10.12.050  92.99
10.12.060  92.05
10.14.010  70.04
10.14.020  70.04
10.14.030  70.04;
           70.99
10.16.010  70.05
10.16.020  70.05
10.16.030  70.99
10.18.010  71.02
10.18.020  71.99
11.04.010  155.082
11.04.020  155.082
11.04.030  155.082
12.02.010  150.01
12.02.020  150.01
12.04.010  151.15
12.04.020  151.16
12.04.030  151.17
12.04.040  151.18
12.04.050  151.19
12.04.060  151.20
12.04.070  151.21
12.04.080  151.99
12.06.010  151.01
12.06.020  151.01
12.06.030  151.99
13.02      TSO Table I
13.04      TSO Table I
14.02.010  153.01
14.02.020  153.02
14.02.030  153.03
14.02.040  153.04
14.02.050  153.05
14.02.060  153.06
14.02.070  153.99
14.04.010  154.01
14.04.020  154.02
14.04.030  154.03
14.04.040  154.04
14.04.050  154.05
14.04.060  154.06
14.04.070  154.07
14.04.080  154.99
15.02.010  150.15
15.04.010  150.16
15.06.010  150.17
15.08.010  150.18
           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         TSO Table I
-        - -         TSO Table I
9        - -         30.20—
                     30.24
42       - -         150.01
76       - -         90.04;
                     90.99
86       - -         90.04;
                     90.99
150      - -         93.02;
                     93.99
                     51.40—
159      - -         51.51;
                     51.99
160      - -         52.25—
                     52.36
162      - -         31.21
167      - -         71.01;
                     71.99
168      - -         93.03;
                     93.99
181      - -         130.99
185      - -         130.05;
                     130.99
187      - -         130.03;
                     130.99
190      - -         11.03
                     50.01—
                     50.10;
191      - -         50.25—
                     50.30;
                     50.99
                     151.15—
195      - -         151.21;
                     151.99
                     111.01—
196      - -         111.08;
                     111.99
                     153.01—
198      - -         153.06;
                     153.99
200      - -         93.04;
                     93.99
202      - -         31.05
                     112.01—
                     112.04;
                     112.15—
204      - -         112.47;
                     112.60—
                     112.64;
                     112.99
                     92.01—
223      - -         92.05;
                     92.99
242      - -         31.21
247      - -         130.05;
                     130.99
                     92.01—
248      - -         92.05;
                     92.99
                     92.01—
249      - -         92.05;
                     92.99
252      - -         52.25—
                     52.36
                     51.40—
253      - -         51.51;
                     51.99
254      - -         52.25—
                     52.36
                     51.40—
255      - -         51.51;
                     51.99
221      11-8-1982   112.04
222      7-11-1983   92.01
228      8-13-1984   130.06
229      9-10-1984   112.43
236      8-12-1985   112.43
250      12-10-1990  52.32
304      4-9-2007    150.15
313      3-14-2011   91.04
317      9-9-2011    70.06;
                     70.99
318      3-12-2012   70.07
319      4-9-2012    TSO Table I
320      7-9-2012    70.07
322      11-14-2012  111.03
323      4-8-2013    150.02
324      7-15-2013   70.99
325      10-15-2014  111.04
326      11-10-2014  50.08
327      4-20-2015   51.02;
                     52.32
328      6-8-2015    151.02;
                     151.99
                     155.001—
                     155.015;
                     155.030—
                     155.035;
329      1-11-2016   155.050—
                     155.058;
                     155.070—
                     155.081;
                     155.999
330      5-18-2017   70.99
331      5-18-2017   70.99
332      9-11-2017   51.11;
                     51.12
334      4-16-2018   151.03
335      8-13-2018   70.05
336      12-10-2018  52.11
337      4-8-2019    155.031;
                     155.032
338      9-18-2019   152.01
339      12-9-2019   30.20
340      12-9-2019   130.03;
                     130.99
342      9-9-2020    110.03
343      10-14-2020  33.01—
                     33.07
                     91.15—
344      - -2021     91.22;
                     91.99
346      7-13-2022   155.033
347      9-14-2022   91.19;
                     91.99
348      11-9-2022   93.01;
                     93.99
349      12-14-2022  52.14
350      12-14-2022  51.17
351      2-8-2023    11.01
352      2-8-2023    TSO Table I
353      3-15-2023   155.054
354      4-12-2023   70.08
355      8-9-2023    71.02
356      8-9-2023    155.071
357      4-17-2024   153.05
358      6-12-2024   91.03
                    
 
