CITY CODE
of
FORSYTH, MONTANA
1999
Code current through:
Ord. 2024-11, passed 12-16-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Forsyth, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 2024-11, passed December 16, 2024 and resolution
2021-R04, passed April 12, 2021. Ordinances of the City adopted after said
ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the extent that they are in
conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City office in order to
ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has been amended,
superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE 1
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-5-107.
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the City Council, this Code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the Official City Code of Forsyth, Montana. This Code
shall be known and cited as the FORSYTH CITY CODE and is hereby published by
authority of the City Council and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most
recent legislation of the City as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the penalty or infraction clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Code by title in any legal documents. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-
2019)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (1961 Code §
1-1-2; amd. 1999 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute a
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this Code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each copy of this Code within
thirty (30) days from the date of its final passage. (1961 Code §
1-1-3)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
City Council. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the Office of the City
Clerk-Treasurer. Any person having custody of a copy of this Code shall make
every effort to maintain said Code current as to the most recent ordinances
passed. Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement
pages when such are delivered or made available to such person through the
Office of the City Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of
officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the
City and shall be returned to the Office of the City Clerk-Treasurer when
directed so to do by order of the City Council. (1999 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Repealer; Exceptions: All general ordinances of the City passed prior
to the adoption of this City Code are hereby repealed, except such as are
included in this City Code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from
repeal (subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; fee
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the City; all special ordinances; and zoning ordinances
as amended. (1961 Code §
1-2-1; amd. 1999 Code)
   B.   Effect Of Repealing Ordinances: The repeal of the ordinances as
provided in subsection A of this Section, shall not affect any debt or fee
which is accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or
proceeding commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term
of office of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take
effect; nor shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any
ordinance heretofore repealed or superseded. (1999 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this City Code or by
virtue of the preceding Section, excepting as this City Code may contain
provisions for such matters, in which case, this City Code shall be considered
as amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only.
(1961 Code §
1-2-2; amd. 1999 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatsoever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the City
herein repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provisions; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
City under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this City Code. (1961 Code §
1-2-3)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this City Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The City Council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1999 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions And Rules Of Construction
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this Code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this Code by words importing the singular number only,
or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the opposite
gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided, that
these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this Code
which contains any express provision excluding such construction or where the
subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto. (1961 Code §
1-1-4; amd. 1999 Code)
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City has been
changed in the content of this Code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the City's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1999 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The City of Forsyth, County of Rosebud, State of Montana.
CITY COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the City Council of the City of
Forsyth, Montana.
CODE: The City Code of the City of Forsyth, Montana.
COMPUTATION OF TIME: Means the time within which an act is to be done. It shall
be computed by excluding the first and including the last day; and if the last
day be Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
COUNTY: The County of Rosebud, State of Montana.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Forsyth".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the City for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
INTENT TO DEFRAUD: Whenever an intent to defraud is required in order to
constitute an offense under this Code, it shall be sufficient if an intent
appears to defraud any person.
KNOWINGLY 1 : Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which brings the
act or omission within the provisions of this Code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
LIABILITY OF EMPLOYERS AND AGENTS: When the provisions of any section of this
Code prohibit the commission of an act, not only the person actually doing the
prohibited act or omitting the directed act, but also the employer and all
other persons concerned with or aiding or abetting the same person shall be
guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set forth.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MONTH: The word "month" means a calendar month unless specifically defined
otherwise.
MUNICIPAL INFRACTION: Any violation of this Code which has been specifically
declared to be a Municipal infraction under provisions of this Code as provided
for in Montana Code Annotated section 7-1-4150, et seq.
NEGLIGENT 2 : The terms "negligent", "negligence", "neglect" and "negligently"
import a want of such attention to the nature or probable consequences of the
act or omission as a prudent person ordinarily bestows in acting in his own
concern.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the City, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICER: Any employee or official authorized by the City Council to enforce
provisions of this Code, as amended. Whenever reference is made in this Code to
a City officer or agent by title only, this shall be construed as though
followed by the words "of the City of Forsyth".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PENALTY: Includes both criminal and civil penalties provided for in this Code.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
REPEAT VIOLATION: A recurring violation of the same section of this Code within
a twelve (12) month period.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
SHALL, MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
STATE: The State of Montana.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
UNLAWFUL: Shall mean a violation of this Code, unless otherwise provided for in
Montana law or the context requires otherwise. Violations of this Code may be
punished as criminal or civil penalties as provided for in this Code.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this Code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WILFULLY 3 : When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark.
YEAR: "Year" means a calendar year unless specifically defined otherwise. (1961
Code § 1-1-5; amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. Not applicable to State Criminal Code.
2 2. Not applicable to State Criminal Code.
3 1. Not applicable to State Criminal Code.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1999 Code)
CHAPTER 4
CRIMINAL PENALTIES AND MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS
SECTION:
1-4-1: Criminal Penalty For Violation Of Code Or Ordinance Of The City
1-4-2: Municipal Infractions
1-4-3: Municipal Infractions - Civil Citations; Service And Requirements
1-4-4: Municipal Infractions - Court Proceedings
1-4-5: Municipal Infractions - Civil Penalties
1-4-6: Municipal Infractions - Appeals Following Judgment
1-4-7: Municipal Infractions - Issuance Of Civil Citations Not Grounds For
Further Legal Action
1-4-8: Municipal Infractions - Environmental Actions
1-4-1: CRIMINAL PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF CODE OR ORDINANCE OF THE CITY:
   A.   All State law misdemeanors committed within the jurisdiction of the
City may be prosecuted and punished under the State Statutes in the City Court.
   B.   Unless otherwise specified by the provisions of this Code, any person
who violates any provision of this Code shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed five
hundred dollars ($500.00), by imprisonment for a term not to exceed six (6)
months, or both.
   C.   A person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day
during any portion of which any violation of any provision of this Code or any
ordinance of the City is committed, continued or permitted by any such person,
and the person shall be punished accordingly.
   D.   In addition to the above penalty the City may abate any condition which
is in violation of this Code.
   E.   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this Code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided that the revocation of a license or
permit or other remedy under the Municipal infraction provisions in this Code
shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty
being enforced.
   F.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes
a breach of any section or provision of this Code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this section
shall apply.
   G.   When any person is convicted of a violation of any section of this
Code, any City license previously issued to such person by the City may be
revoked by the court or by the City Council.
   H.   No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the City Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty.
   I.   The City adopts the Montana Criminal Code of 1973, Montana Code
Annotated section 45-1-101, et seq., except insofar as the application thereof
is clearly impractical or inappropriate.
   J.   Any person found to have committed an offense specifically designated
as a Municipal infraction shall be subject to civil penalties as specified in
section
1-4-2, et seq., of this chapter. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
1-4-2: MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS:
A Municipal infraction is a civil offense punishable by civil penalty as
provided for in Montana law and this Code. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-
2019)
1-4-3: MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS - CIVIL CITATIONS; SERVICE AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Any officer may issue a civil citation to a person who commits a
Municipal infraction.
   B.   The citation may be served on the alleged violator by any one of the
following methods:
      1.   Personal service; or
      2.   By certified mail addressed to the defendant at the defendant's last
known mailing address, return receipt requested; or
      3.   By publication, in the manner described in the Montana Rules of
Civil Procedure.
   C.   A copy of the citation must be retained by the issuing officer and one
copy be sent to or filed with the Clerk of the Forsyth City Court.
   D.   The citation shall serve as notification that a Municipal infraction
has been committed and shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the defendant;
      2.   The name or description of the infraction attested to by the officer
issuing the citation;
      3.   The location and time of the infraction;
      4.   The amount of the civil penalty to be assessed or the alternative
relief sought, or both;
      5.   The manner, location, and time in which the penalty may be paid;
      6.   The time and place of any court appearance; and
      7.   The penalty for failure to appear in court. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-
2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
1-4-4: MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS - COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   If the total amount of civil penalties does not exceed three thousand
dollars ($3,000.00), the matter shall be tried before the City Judge in the
same manner as a small claim. If the total amount of civil penalties assessed
exceeds three thousand dollars ($3,000.00), the matter must be tried before a
District Court Judge.
   B.   The City has the burden of proof that the Municipal infraction occurred
and that the defendant committed the infraction. The proof must be by clear and
convincing evidence. (Note: Clear and convincing evidence means evidence in
which there is no serious or substantial doubt about the correctness of the
conclusions drawn from the evidence. It is more than a preponderance of
evidence but less than beyond a reasonable doubt. Source Montana Code Annotated
section 27-1-221; Cartwright v. Equitable Life Assurance Soc'y, 276 M 1, 914
P2d 976, 53 St. Rep. 268 (1996).)
   C.   The court shall ensure that the defendant has received a copy of the
charges and that the defendant understands the charges. The defendant may
question all witnesses who appear for the City and produce evidence or
witnesses on the defendant's behalf.
   D.   The defendant may be represented by counsel of the defendant's own
choosing and at the defendant's own expense.
   E.   The defendant may answer by admitting or denying the infraction.
   F.   If a Municipal infraction is proven, the court shall enter judgment
against the defendant. If the infraction is not proven, the court shall dismiss
the charges. If the action is dismissed by the court, the City is liable for
the court costs and court fees.
   G.   If the person named in the citation is shown to have been served with
the civil citation in the proper manner and, without good cause, fails to
appear in response to the citation, judgment shall be entered against the
person by the court. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
1-4-5: MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS - CIVIL PENALTIES:
   A.   A Municipal infraction is a civil offense and for a proven violation, a
civil penalty may be imposed.
   B.   For a first violation, a civil penalty of twenty five dollars ($25.00)
shall be imposed.
   C.   For each repeat violation, a civil penalty of fifty dollars ($50.00)
shall be imposed. Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist
constitutes a separate and distinct infraction.
   D.   Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this section does not preclude
the City from seeking alternative relief from the court in the same action.
When any person is found to have violated any section of this Code, any City
license previously issued to such person by the City may be revoked by the
court or by the City Council.
   E.   Statutory surcharges and required City surcharges must be imposed, as
provided in Montana Code Annotated sections 3-1-317(1)(a), 3-1-318(1), and 46-
18-236(6), on Municipal infractions that are criminal offenses under State law,
and the amounts must be distributed as provided in those sections.
   F.   All penalties and forfeitures collected by the City Court for a
Municipal infraction shall be remitted to the City in the same manner as fines
and forfeitures collected for criminal offenses.
   G.   A defendant against whom judgment is entered shall pay court costs and
fees as in small claims court under title 25, chapter 35 of the Montana Code
Annotated in addition to the penalties imposed by the court.
   H.   In addition to the imposition of civil penalties authorized by law
against a defendant, the court may impose alternative relief in the same
action. Alternative relief may consist of any of the following:
      1.   Direct that payment of the civil penalty be suspended or deferred
under conditions imposed by the court;
      2.   Order the defendant to abate or cease the violation;
      3.   Authorize the City to abate or correct the violation;
      4.   Order the City's costs for abatement or correction of the violation
be entered as a judgment against the defendant or assessed against the property
where the violation occurred or both.
   I.   The City Court may assess or enter judgment for costs of abatement or
correction in any amount not to exceed the jurisdictional amount for a money
judgment in a civil action under Montana Code Annotated section 3-11-103. If
the City seeks abatement or correction costs in excess of this amount, the
matter shall be referred to District Court for hearing and entry of an
appropriate order. The procedure for hearing in the District Court shall be the
same procedure as that for a small claims appealed under Montana Code Annotated
section 25-35-803.
   J.   A defendant who willfully violates the terms of an order imposed by the
City Court is guilty of contempt. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
1-4-6: MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS - APPEALS FOLLOWING JUDGMENT:
   A.   The defendant or the City may file a motion for a new trial or may
appeal the decision to District Court.
   B.   A factual determination made by the trial court, supported by
substantial evidence as shown on the record, is binding for purposes of appeal
relating to the violation at issue, but is not admissible or binding as to any
future violations for the same or similar ordinance provision by the same
defendant. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
1-4-7: MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS - ISSUANCE OF CIVIL CITATIONS NOT GROUNDS FOR
FURTHER LEGAL ACTION:
Except for willful or wanton misconduct on the part of the City, the issuance
of a civil citation for a Municipal infraction or the ensuing court proceedings
do not provide an action for false arrest, false imprisonment, or malicious
prosecution. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
1-4-8: MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS - ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIONS:
An action brought by the City for an environmental violation does not preclude,
and is in addition to, any other enforcement action that may be brought under
State law. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Boundaries
1-5-2: Corporate Seal
1-5-3: Boundaries Of Wards
1-5-4: Depository Designated
1-5-1: BOUNDARIES:
The boundaries of the city are as described on the plat of the city, which is
on file in the county recorder's office. (1961 Code §
1-5-1; amd. 1999 Code)
1-5-2: CORPORATE SEAL 1 :
The seal of the city in design shall be in the form of a circle, having in the
upper half of said circle the words "City of Forsyth" and in the lower half of
said circle the words "Rosebud County, Montana", and in the center of said
circle having the word "Seal". (Ord. 65, 1913)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-1-4124.
1-5-3: BOUNDARIES OF WARDS:
The territory embraced within the limits of the city shall be and the same is
hereby divided into two (2) wards, bounded and described as hereinafter set
forth:
   A.   East Ward: All that portion of the city within the boundaries thereof
lying east of the centerline of Ninth Avenue, north of the centerline of the
Burlington Northern Railroad right of way, and east of the centerline of
Seventh Avenue, south of the centerline of the Burlington Northern Railroad
right of way, shall constitute and be known as the east ward.
   B.   West Ward: All that portion of the city within the boundaries lying
west of the centerline of Ninth Avenue, north of the centerline of the
Burlington Northern Railroad right of way, and west of the centerline of
Seventh Avenue, south of the centerline of the Burlington Northern Railroad
right of way, shall constitute and be known as the west ward. (Ord. 2015-01, 6-
22-2015)
1-5-4: DEPOSITORY DESIGNATED:
The official depository for the city is hereby designated as the First State
Bank Of Forsyth. (1961 Code §
1-6-1; amd. 1999 Code)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Rules Of Order
1-6-2: Ordinances, Resolutions And Technical Codes
1-6-3: Public Hearings
1-6-4: Line Of Succession
1-6-1: RULES OF ORDER 1 :
   A.   Order Of Business:
      1.   Specified: At all meetings of the city council, the order of
business shall be set forth in the agenda as prepared by the mayor and city
clerk, unless otherwise directed by special order of the city council. (Ord.
2015-02, 6-22-2015)
      2.   Questions Of Priority: All questions relating to the priority of
business shall be decided without debate. (1961 Code § 1-23-1)
   B.   Standing Committees: The mayor shall appoint such standing committees
as the city council may request. (1961 Code § 1-23-2)
   C.   Proceedings: The proceedings of the city council shall in all cases be
governed by the following rules, unless the same be suspended, pro tempore, by
the vote of a majority of the city council:
      1.   The mayor, or in his absence, the mayor pro tempore or president of
the city council, shall preserve order and decorum and shall decide all
questions of order, subject to appeal to the city council. (1961 Code § 1-23-3)
      2.   Every member, previous to speaking, shall address the mayor or
presiding officer, but shall not proceed until recognized and named and shall
arise while addressing the city council if requested.
      3.   When two (2) or more members address the presiding officer, the
first recognized shall have precedence, which shall be decided by the presiding
officer. (Ord. 2015-02, 6-22-2015)
      4.   While a question is being put, no member shall speak or walk across
the council room or leave the same.
      5.   When any member is addressing the city council, no other member
shall engage in private conversation or do any other act to divert attention or
interrupt the speaker.
      6.   A member shall not speak more than twice on the same subject without
leave of the city council, nor more than once until every member desiring to
speak on the pending question shall have an opportunity so to do.
      7.   No motion shall be debated or put unless the same shall be seconded.
It shall then be stated by the presiding officer and at the request of any
member, it shall be reduced to writing.
      8.   After a motion has been stated by the presiding officer, it shall be
deemed in possession of the city council, but may be withdrawn at any time
before amendment or decision by the mover with consent of his second.
      9.   If a question under consideration contains more than one distinct
proposition, any member may demand a division.
      10.   When a blank is to be filled and different sums and times are
proposed, the question shall first be put on the largest sum or longest time.
      11.   When a question is under debate, no motion shall be entertained,
except first to adjourn; second, to lay on the table; third, for the previous
question; fourth, to postpone to a day certain; fifth, to commit to a standing
committee; sixth, to commit to a select committee; seventh, to amend; eighth,
to postpone indefinitely; and these several motions shall have precedence in
the order stated.
      12.   The previous question must be seconded by a majority of the members
present. It shall be put in the following form: "Shall the main question be now
put?" This question shall not be debatable and shall operate to close all
further debate on the subject under consideration. (1961 Code § 1-23-3)
      13.   (Rep. by Ord. 2015-02, 6-22-2015)
      14.   Every member of the city council present shall vote upon every
question submitted to the city council unless excused or directly interested,
in which case he shall not vote.
      15.   No motion or proposition on a subject different from that under
consideration shall be admitted under color of amendment.
      16.   No motion for reconsideration shall be in order unless made at the
same meeting or the meeting following that on which the decision was made, nor
shall such motion be made save by one who voted with the majority upon the
adoption.
      17.   In all cases, the name of the member proposing a motion or
resolution shall be entered with it upon the city council minutes.
      18.   Upon the final passage of any ordinance, the yeas and nays shall be
entered upon the minutes, unless the same is unanimously adopted. Any member
may demand the yeas and nays upon any question if the demand is made before the
vote is taken.
      19.   All reports, petitions or resolutions shall be reduced to writing
before being submitted to the vote of the city council.
      20.   Every proposition involving the expenditure of money shall be
referred to and reported upon by some standing committee before being voted
upon. (1961 Code § 1-23-3)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-1-4143.
1-6-2: ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND TECHNICAL CODES 1 :
   A.   Ordinances:
      1.   Passage And Approval: All ordinances must be passed by the city
council and approved by the mayor or the person acting in his stead and must be
recorded in a book kept by the city clerk-treasurer called the ordinance book
and numbered by numerical decimal system in the order in which they are passed
or codified.
      2.   Subject; Number Limited: No ordinance shall be passed containing
more than one subject, which shall be clearly expressed in its title, except
ordinances for the codification and revision of ordinances.
      3.   Posting; Publication: Copies of every ordinance shall, as soon as
practicable and after its passage, be posted in three (3) public places in the
city, one of which places shall be the city hall; provided, the city council
may direct the city clerk-treasurer to publish in one issue of a local
newspaper of general circulation in the city any ordinance or amendment thereof
which the city council, in its discretion, shall require be published. Whenever
any special or private ordinance or ordinances granting any permit or franchise
is published, such publication shall be paid for in advance by the party or
parties to be benefited thereby.
      4.   Effective Date: No ordinance passed by the city council, or
amendment of an ordinance, shall become effective until thirty (30) days after
its passage, except general appropriation ordinances providing for the ordinary
and current expenses of the city, excepting also emergency measures, and in the
case of emergency measures, the emergency must be expressed in the preamble or
in the body of the measure and the measure must receive a two-thirds (2/3) vote
of all members elected. In emergency ordinances, the resolutions shall include
only such measures as are immediately necessary for the preservation of peace,
health and safety and shall not include:
         a.   A franchise or license to a corporation or individual;
         b.   Any provisions for the sale of real estate;
         c.   Any lease or letting of any property for a period exceeding one
year; or
         d.   The purchase or sale of personal property exceeding five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) in value 2 . (Ord., 10-11-1982, eff. 11-2-1982)
   B.   Resolutions; Effective Date: All resolutions shall be immediately
effective, unless a delayed effective date is specified. (Ord., 6-3-1982, eff.
7-3-1982; amd. 1999 Code)
   C.   Technical Codes: Technical codes may be adopted by the city in whole or
in part by reference. At least fifteen (15) days prior to final action by the
city council, notice of intent to adopt a technical code in whole or in part by
reference shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city.
Three (3) copies of the code or the part to be adopted shall be filed with the
city clerk-treasurer for inspection by the public 3 . (Ord., 10-11-1982, eff.
11-12-1982; amd. 1999 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA §§ 7-5-101 et seq., 7-5-4201 et seq.
2 1. MCA §§ 7-5-4203, 7-5-4204.
3 2. MCA § 7-5-4202.
1-6-3: PUBLIC HEARINGS 1 :
   A.   Rules Specified:
      1.   The citizen will introduce himself and state what his interest in
the matter is. (Ord. 1992-02, 8-21-1992)
      2.   There is a strict time limit of five (5) minutes in which the
citizen may state his views on the matter. If he cannot complete his comments
within the time limit, unless permitted by the mayor, he may submit the
remaining comments in writing. (Ord. 2015-02, 6-22-2015)
      3.   A citizen can only speak once during each hearing.
      4.   The citizen will not be interrupted while he is making his comments.
      5.   Comments or questions should be pertinent to the matter under
discussion.
      6.   The mayor may respond to questions asked or he may ask a council
member or department head to respond.
      7.   Citizens should be encouraged to submit all of their comments in
writing for the record.
   B.   Copies Available: Copies of rules will be available for citizens upon
entry to all public hearings. (Ord. 1992-02, 8-21-1992)
 
Notes
1 3. MCA § 7-1-4131.
1-6-4: LINE OF SUCCESSION:
In the event of a disaster, either caused by natural forces or manmade events,
the designation as the city of Forsyth's chief executive officer and the line
of succession is as follows:
   A.   The mayor,
   B.   The council president,
   C.   Other city council members based on seniority (consecutive years
served),
   D.   Public works director,
   E.   City clerk-treasurer,
   F.   City attorney,
   G.   Sheriff. (Ord. 2003-03, 6-9-2003, eff. 7-9-2003)
CHAPTER 7
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES 1
SECTION:
1-7-1: Appointive Officers
1-7-2: Qualifications
1-7-3: Compensation
1-7-4: Administrative Provisions
1-7-5: Bonds Of Officers
 
Notes
1 1. MCA title 7, chapter 4.
1-7-1: APPOINTIVE OFFICERS:
   A.   Appointments Specified: The mayor shall nominate and with the consent
of the city council, appoint a city attorney, a city clerk, a city treasurer, a
chief of police, and a city judge; provided, the mayor may appoint, in lieu of
a city clerk and a city treasurer, one officer designated as a city clerk-
treasurer, who shall perform the functions of both offices. Provided further,
the city may contract with the county for the provision of law enforcement
services to the city, in which event the duly elected or appointed sheriff of
the county shall be ex officio the chief of police. The city may also contract
with the county for legal services to the city, in which event the duly elected
or appointed county attorney shall be ex officio city attorney. Further, the
city may contract with the county for judicial services to the city, in which
event the duly elected or appointed justice of the peace shall be ex officio
city judge. Any contractual agreement shall take precedence over appointment.
(Res. 1996-R21, 2-28-1996)
   B.   Terms Of Office: All appointments shall be made for a specified term
and until their successors are appointed and qualified. (1961 Code § 1-12-2)
   C.   Removal From Office: Any appointed officer may be removed from office
by the same authority and in the same manner as he was originally appointed.
(1961 Code § 1-12-3)
1-7-2: QUALIFICATIONS 1 :
   A.   Elective: No person is eligible to hold any elective municipal office
who is not:
      1.   A citizen of the United States; and
      2.   A resident of the city.
   B.   Appointive: No person is eligible to hold any appointive municipal
office who is not:
      1.   A citizen of the United States; and (Ord., 10-12-1981, eff.
retroactive to 10-1-1981)
      2.   A resident of the state. (Ord. 2015-03, 6-22-2015)
 
Notes
1 2. MCA § 7-4-4104.
1-7-3: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Salaries, Compensation And Fees: The salaries, compensation and fees
allowed an officer or any employee is established by resolution of the city
council and amended by resolution of the city council. Such salary,
compensation or fees may be amended from time to time during an officer's term
of office, except to the extent that such fee or compensation is established by
contract. (Ord., 5-12-1986)
   B.   Pay Advances; Policy: It is hereby declared the policy of the city that
pay advances to city employees may be made only with prior approval of the
mayor for special occasions and not to exceed the amount earned by that
particular employee at the time of the request.
   C.   PERS Payments: It is hereby declared that the city will not be
obligated to future employer contributions or interest for PERS on employees
who elect not to participate or do not qualify at the time of their employment.
(Ord., 10-9-1989)
1-7-4: ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Hiring Procedures: The hiring procedures shall be as set forth in the
city's charter and/or personnel policy. (Ord., 5-22-1989; amd. 1999 Code)
   B.   Hours: Eight (8) hours shall constitute a day's work for city
employees. (Ord., 12-28-1970)
   C.   Legal Holidays 1 :
      1.   Specified: The following are legal holidays in the state:
      New Year's Day (January 1) (Ord., eff. 3-15-1978)
President's Day (observed on the third Monday in February) (Ord., eff. 3-15-
1978; amd. Res., 12-26-1988)
Martin Luther King Jr. Day (third Monday in January) (Res. R15, 1-13-1992; amd.
1999 Code)
Memorial Day (the last Monday in May)
      Independence Day (July 4)
      Labor Day (the first Monday in September)
      Columbus Day (the second Monday in October)
      Veterans' Day (November 11)
      Thanksgiving Day (the fourth Thursday in November)
      Christmas Day (December 25)
      State general election day
      2.   Holiday Falling On Weekend: If any of the above enumerated holidays
fall upon a Sunday, the Monday following is a holiday. If any of the above
enumerated holidays fall upon a Saturday, the Friday preceding is a holiday.
(Ord., eff. 3-15-1978; amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 2015-03, 6-22-2015)
      3.   Working On Legal Holiday: If a city employee is required to work on
a legal holiday and if no substitute day of leave is scheduled for such
employee as compensatory time off in lieu of such holiday, that employee shall
be entitled to one and one-half (11/2) times his regular salary for the hours
worked on such holiday, plus his base salary for an eight (8) hour day. (Ord.,
12-22-1986)
   D.   Vacations 2 :
      1.   Full Time: Each full time employee is entitled to and shall earn
annual vacation leave credits from the first full pay period of employment. For
calculating vacation leave credits, two thousand eighty (2,080) hours (52 weeks
x 40 hours) shall equal one year. Proportionate vacation leave credits shall be
earned and credited at the end of each pay period. However, employees are not
entitled to any vacation leave with pay until they have been continuously
employed for a period of six (6) calendar months. Persons regularly employed
nine (9) or more months each year, but whose continuous employment is
interrupted by the seasonal nature of the position, shall earn vacation
credits. However, such persons must be employed six (6) qualifying months
before they can use the vacation credits. In order to qualify, such employees
must immediately report back for work when operations resume in order to avoid
a break in service. Vacation leave credits shall be earned in accordance with
the following schedule: (7-1-1973; amd. Res., 1978)
         a.   One day through ten (10) years of employment, at the rate of
fifteen (15) working days for each year of service; (7-1-1973; amd. 1999 Code)
         b.   After ten (10) years through fifteen (15) years of employment, at
the rate of eighteen (18) working days for each year of service;
         c.   After fifteen (15) years through twenty (20) years of employment,
at the rate of twenty one (21) working days for each year of service;
         d.   After twenty (20) years of employment, at the rate of twenty four
(24) working days for each year of service; (7-1-1973)
         e.   Annual vacation leave may be accumulated to a total not to exceed
two (2) times the maximum number of days earned annually as of December 31.
(Ord. 2015-03, 6-22-2015)
      2.   Permanent Part Time: Permanent part time employees are entitled to
prorated annual vacation benefits if they have regularly scheduled work
assignments and normally work at least twenty (20) hours each week of the pay
period and have worked the qualifying period.
      3.   Termination: Any employee who terminates his employment with the
city, for reason not reflecting discredit on himself, shall be entitled upon
the date of such termination, to cash compensation for unused vacation leave,
assuming that the employee has worked the qualifying period set forth above.
(7-1-1973)
   E.   Sick Leave 3 :
      1.   Full Time: Each full time employee of the city is entitled to and
shall earn sick leave credits from the first full pay period of employment. For
calculating sick leave credits, two thousand eighty (2,080) hours (52 weeks x
40 hours) shall equal one year. Proportionate sick leave credits shall be
earned and credited at the end of each pay period. Sick leave credits shall be
earned at the rate of twelve (12) working days of each year of service without
restriction as to the number of working days he may accumulate.
      2.   Leave Of Absence: An employee may not accrue sick leave credits
during a continuous leave of absence without pay, which exceeds fifteen (15)
calendar days. Employees are not entitled to be paid for sick leave under the
provisions of this section until they have been continuously employed for
ninety (90) days. Upon completion of the qualifying period, the employee is
entitled to the sick leave credits he has earned.
      3.   Permanent Part Time: Permanent part time employees are entitled to
prorated leave benefits if they have a regularly scheduled work assignment and
normally work at least twenty (20) hours each week of the pay period, and have
worked the qualifying period.
      4.   Full Time Temporary And Seasonal: Full time temporary and seasonal
employees are entitled to sick leave benefits, provided they work the
qualifying period.
      5.   Termination; Lump Sum Payments:
         a.   An employee who terminates his employment with the city is
entitled to a lump sum payment equal to one-fourth (1/4) of the pay attributed
to his accumulated sick leave. The pay attributed to his accumulated sick leave
shall be computed on the basis of the employee's salary or wage at the time the
sick leave credits were earned. Accrual of sick leave credits for calculating
the lump sum payment provided for in this subsection begins July 1, 1971.
However, no employee forfeits any sick leave rights or benefits he has accrued
prior to July 1, 1971.
         b.   An employee of the city who received a lump sum payment pursuant
to this section and who is again employed by the city shall not be credited
with any sick leave for which he has previously been compensated.
      6.   Abuse: Abuse of sick leave is cause for dismissal and forfeiture of
the lump sum payments provided for in this section.
      7.   Jury Duty; Witness 4 :
         a.   Any employee of the city, under proper summons, shall be granted
leave without pay to serve as a juror in a court or judicial proceeding without
loss of cumulative benefits.
         b.   An employee subpoenaed to serve as a witness shall collect all
fees and all allowances payable as a result of the service and forward the fees
to the appropriate accounting office. Witness fees shall be applied against the
amount due the employee from his employer. However, if an employee elects to
charge his witness time off against his annual leave, he shall not be required
to remit his witness fees to his employer. In no instance is an employee
required to remit to his employer any expense or mileage allowance paid him by
the court.
         c.   Employers may request the court to excuse their employees from
jury duty if they are needed for the proper operation of a unit of state or
local government.
      8.   Construction: In construing subsections D and E of this section,
resort shall be had to the definitions provided in Montana Code Annotated
section 2-18-601. (7-1-1973, eff. 7-1-1973)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 1-1-216.
2 1. MCA §§ 2-18-611 - 2-18-617.
3 1. MCA § 2-18-618.
4 1. MCA § 2-18-619.
1-7-5: BONDS OF OFFICERS:
Each of following city officials shall provide a surety bond, for the faithful
performance of his/her duties as follow: All elected officials and employees
are covered under the crime policy with Montana municipal interlocal authority.
(Ord. 2015-03, 6-22-2015)
CHAPTER 7
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE A. CITY CLERK 1
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Appointment
1-7A-2: Attendance At Council Meetings
1-7A-3: Attest Licenses; Election Records; Filing Of Bonds
1-7A-4: Reports Required; Copies Furnished, Fee
1-7A-5: Financial Records; Claims
1-7A-6: Revenues; Licenses
1-7A-7: Other Required Duties
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-4-4501 et seq.
1-7A-1: APPOINTMENT:
The city clerk shall be appointed as provided in subsection 1-7-1A of this
chapter, who shall hold office for the duration of his appointment or until his
successor is appointed and qualified. (1961 Code § 1-13-1; amd. 1999 Code)
1-7A-2: ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS:
The city clerk shall attend all meetings of the city council and shall keep a
journal of its proceedings, wherein he shall enter all of the matters and
things acted upon by the city council in relation to the business before it; he
shall enter therein to whom and for what purpose any bill, claim or demand
against the city may have been allowed and ordered paid by the city council; he
shall have the custody of and safely keep all public documents, records,
ordinances, resolutions, orders of the city council and such other papers and
documents pertaining to the affairs of the city as may be delivered into his
custody. (Ord. 65, 1913)
1-7A-3: ATTEST LICENSES; ELECTION RECORDS; FILING OF BONDS:
The city clerk shall attest all licenses and countersign all commissions issued
by the mayor. He shall keep a record of the election and appointment of all
officers of the city, showing date of election or appointment and the term of
office. He shall file and carefully preserve all official bonds of the officers
of the city. (Ord. 65, 1913)
1-7A-4: REPORTS REQUIRED; COPIES FURNISHED, FEE:
The city clerk shall have his books and accounts closed and an exhibit of the
receipts and expenditures of the city ready for inspection and approval by the
city council. It shall be his duty to furnish to any city official a copy of
any record, paper or public document filed in his office when the same may be
necessary to said official in the discharge of his official duty and he shall
also furnish a like copy to any other person when required, but in the latter
case, he shall be entitled to charge and receive a fee as established by
resolution of the city council. (Ord. 65, 1913; amd. 1999 Code)
1-7A-5: FINANCIAL RECORDS; CLAIMS:
The city clerk shall keep a set of books containing the financial records and
accounts of the city, which set of books shall be in such form and consist of
such records as the city council shall from time to time prescribe and they
shall adequately show the condition of the accounts and transactions of the
city and its various funds and all receipts and expenditures, and he shall
report monthly to the city council in detail the financial and budget condition
of the city. He shall also issue, keep a record of, and countersign all
warrants drawn upon the various funds of the city and enter and record in a
book to be known as the register of claims, all claims and demands presented
and filed against the city and its various funds. Such record shall show
allowance and disallowance of such claims and shall be deemed and is hereby
made a part of the city council's journal of proceedings and its pages showing
allowance and disallowance of claims shall be referred to and set out by
reference in the minutes of all meetings of the city council at which claims
are allowed and be countersigned by the mayor and attested by the city clerk.
(Ord. 65, 1913)
1-7A-6: REVENUES; LICENSES:
   A.   Issuance Of Licenses; Report To City Council: The city clerk shall make
out licenses in favor of the persons liable therefor, and collect and receive
the monies derived therefrom, and after proper entry thereof, transmit such
funds to the city treasurer for credit to the general fund and he shall
quarterly submit to the city council the lists and reports of licenses so
collected, together with the receipt of the city treasurer for the funds
derived therefrom so transmitted to said city treasurer, together with the
complete report of all delinquent licenses due the city. (Ord. 65, 1913; amd.
Ord. 2015-03, 6-22-2015)
   B.   Accounts Of Money Received: The city clerk shall receive and enter upon
his books of accounts all money received from various revenues of the city and
shall pay the same to the city treasurer, and the city clerk shall keep in his
office books of official receipts consecutively numbered and he shall issue for
every payment of money by him received, except licenses, such receipt,
retaining a duplicate thereof, and he shall obtain from the city treasurer a
like receipt for all payments of money by him made to the city treasurer.
   C.   License Books; Receipts: The license books of the city clerk shall
likewise be consecutively numbered and he shall well and truly account for all
licenses and duplicate receipts which shall evidence and be issued for all
money by him received and he shall quarterly report to the city council in
detail all money by him so received and transmitted by him to the city
treasurer, with the condition of all funds of the city and its several
accounts. The city clerk shall provide each department of the city with
duplicate consecutively numbered receipts and require the same to be issued in
every department for all money and revenue received by each department to the
end that every source of revenue and income of the city in every separate
department shall be shown and may be audited therefrom and he shall have
general supervision over the accounts and records of the city in every
department thereof. (Ord. 65, 1913)
1-7A-7: OTHER REQUIRED DUTIES:
The city clerk shall perform such other duties as may be imposed upon him by
the laws of the state, this code or orders of the city council, and he shall
deliver to his successor in office all the records and proceedings of the city
council and all books and other property in his possession belonging to the
city. (Ord. 65, 1913)
ARTICLE B. CITY TREASURER 1
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Appointment; Term
1-7B-2: Duties; Generally
1-7B-3: Accounts
1-7B-4: Custody And Disbursement Of Money
1-7B-5: Collections
1-7B-6: Warrants
1-7B-7: Monthly Report To City Council
1-7B-8: Other Required Duties
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-4-4701.
1-7B-1: APPOINTMENT; TERM:
The city treasurer shall be appointed as provided in subsection 1-7-1A of this
chapter. (4-27-1981; amd. 1999 Code)
1-7B-2: DUTIES; GENERALLY:
In all cases where the duty is not expressly charged to any other department or
office, the city treasurer shall act to promote, secure and preserve the
financial and property interests of the city. He shall safely keep in
designated depositories all funds belonging to the city and all other
securities in safety deposit boxes of an approved institution designated by the
city council 1 . (1961 Code § 1-14-2)
 
Notes
1 2. See section
  1-5-4 of this title.
1-7B-3: ACCOUNTS:
The city treasurer shall keep in proper books a full and accurate account of
all the monies received and disbursed by him in behalf of the city, specifying
the time of receipt and disbursement, from whom received and to whom disbursed,
and on what account received and disbursed, and how paid and report monthly in
detail the condition of all funds and accounts of the city verified by his
oath. (1961 Code § 1-14-3)
1-7B-4: CUSTODY AND DISBURSEMENT OF MONEY:
The city treasurer shall receive and have custody of all monies paid to the
city and shall disburse monies upon the official warrant of the city when so
ordered by the city council. (1961 Code § 1-14-4)
1-7B-5: COLLECTIONS:
The city treasurer shall demand and receive all monies and fees owing to the
city, unless otherwise provided by law. When the city treasurer is unable to
collect such monies and fees, the staff of the city clerk-treasurer's office is
authorized to turn accounts over for collection when it is deemed necessary.
(1961 Code § 1-14-5; amd. Ord. 2002-05, 3-11-2002, eff. 4-12-2002)
1-7B-6: WARRANTS:
   A.   Payments; Interest: Warrants shall be paid by the city treasurer from
funds available in the order in which the warrants are presented for payment.
When a warrant is presented for payment and no funds are available, the city
treasurer shall plainly mark the warrant "not paid for want of funds" and enter
the same in a book maintained for such purpose, which shall be known as the
warrant register. Such warrants shall bear interest at the rate of six percent
(6%) per annum from the date of presentation until paid. (1961 Code § 1-14-6;
amd. 1999 Code)
   B.   Cancellation Of Warrants: The city treasurer shall cancel all warrants
and other evidence of debt against the city, whenever paid by him, by writing
or stamping across the face thereof, the words "paid by the City Treasurer",
with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. These warrants and
evidences of debt, so canceled, shall be delivered immediately to the city
clerk. (1961 Code § 1-14-7)
1-7B-7: MONTHLY REPORT TO CITY COUNCIL:
The city treasurer shall make a detailed report to the city council at its
first meeting of each month, showing the business of his office during the
month preceding, showing the balance on hand to the credit of different funds,
the amounts received during the month and on what account, together with such
other information as may be required by the city council. (1961 Code § 1-14-8)
1-7B-8: OTHER REQUIRED DUTIES:
The city treasurer shall perform such other duties as may be imposed upon him
by the laws of the state, this code or the orders of the city council and he
shall deliver to his successor in office all materials, records and resources
of the office. (1961 Code § 1-14-9)
ARTICLE C. CITY ATTORNEY 1
SECTION:
1-7C-1: Appointment; Qualifications
1-7C-2: Duties; Generally
1-7C-3: Records Available For Inspection
1-7C-4: Employment Of Additional Or Other Counsel
1-7C-5: Suspension Or Removal
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-4-4601 et seq.
1-7C-1: APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS:
The city attorney shall be appointed as provided in subsection 1-7-1A of this
chapter, and shall hold office for two (2) years, unless suspended or removed.
The city attorney shall be licensed to practice as an attorney in the state.
(Ord. 65, 1913; amd. 1999 Code)
1-7C-2: DUTIES; GENERALLY:
   A.   Described: In general, the city attorney shall draw for the use of the
city council, contracts and ordinances for the government of the city, and when
required to give to the mayor or city council written opinions on questions
pertaining to the duties and the rights, liabilities and powers of the city.
(1999 Code; amd. Ord. 2015-03, 6-22-2015)
   B.   Additional Terms And Conditions; Agreement: Additional terms and
conditions of the employment of the city attorney shall be contained in an
agreement between the city and the attorney. In the event the city and the
attorney are not able to come to the terms of the new agreement, the old
agreement shall continue to be in force until such time that either party gives
notice of termination of the old agreement.
   C.   Conflicting Provisions: In the event of a conflict of interpretation,
the terms of the legal service agreement shall take precedence over the
language of this section. (1999 Code)
1-7C-3: RECORDS AVAILABLE FOR INSPECTION:
   A.   Civil Proceedings: The city attorney will provide copies of all
material documents related to civil proceedings and other civil actions
involving the city for inspection. Files of the copies of those documents will
be maintained by the city clerk-treasurer's office.
   B.   Criminal Prosecutions: All cases involving criminal prosecutions for
the city will be maintained at the office of the Rosebud County attorney. (1999
Code)
1-7C-4: EMPLOYMENT OF ADDITIONAL OR OTHER COUNSEL:
Nothing herein shall be taken or construed as preventing the city council from
employing additional or other counsel, subject to the terms of the contract
between the city attorney and the city council. (Res. 1996-R21, 2-28-1996; amd.
1999 Code)
1-7C-5: SUSPENSION OR REMOVAL:
The city attorney may be suspended or removed from office by the city council
for the neglect, violation or disregard of the duties required of him by the
laws of the state or any of the provisions of this code, or resolutions by the
city council. (Ord. 65, 1913)
ARTICLE D. EX OFFICIO CHIEF OF POLICE
SECTION:
1-7D-1: Contract For Law Enforcement
1-7D-2: Deputies; Authority Not Limited
1-7D-3: Termination Of Contract
1-7D-1: CONTRACT FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT:
The City Council, having heretofore approved execution of a contract with the
County for joint law enforcement, has designated the Sheriff's office of
Rosebud County to be ex officio Chief of Police. This appointment shall
continue, by virtue of the existing contract, regardless of what person may
hold the office of Sheriff, until such time as the contract with the County may
or shall be terminated. (Ord., 1979, eff. 4-25-1980)
1-7D-2: DEPUTIES; AUTHORITY NOT LIMITED:
Any Deputy Sheriff of the County is authorized to enforce all City ordinances.
Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the authority of any other lawfully
appointed or commissioned police officer to enforce the ordinances of the City
or other laws pertaining within the City limits. (Ord., 1979, eff. 4-25-1980)
1-7D-3: TERMINATION OF CONTRACT:
In the event that the law enforcement contract existing between the County and
the City shall, for any reason, be terminated, the Mayor may forthwith appoint,
subject to City Council approval, a Chief of Police who will thereupon become
responsible for enforcement of the City ordinances and the preservation of law
and order within the City. Such police officer or officers as may be necessary
to assist such appointed Chief of Police will thereupon be appointed and will
assume like duties, subject to the supervision of the Chief of Police. (Ord.,
1979, eff. 4-25-1980)
ARTICLE E. FIRE CHIEF
SECTION:
1-7E-1: Election
1-7E-2: Rank
1-7E-3: Duties
1-7E-1: ELECTION:
The members of the Fire Department shall elect a Fire Chief at their annual
meeting, subject to the approval of the Mayor and City Council. (Res. 1996-R21,
2-28-1996)
1-7E-2: RANK:
The Chief of the Fire Department, commonly referred to as the Fire Chief, shall
be the head of the Department and have supervision over all officers and
members thereof. The Fire Chief may, with the approval of the Mayor, appoint
such other Fire Department officers as may be deemed necessary, including a
first assistant chief and a second assistant chief. (1961 Code § 1-22-2)
1-7E-3: DUTIES:
The Fire Chief shall keep such records and make such reports concerning the
activities of his Department as may be required by statute or by the Mayor. He
shall be responsible for the performance of the Fire Department and of its
functions and all persons who are members of the Fire Department shall serve
subject to his orders. He shall be responsible for the control and custody of
all Fire Department property and equipment. He shall have the authority of a
police officer while actively engaged in fighting a fire or going to or from a
fire. (1961 Code § 1-22-3)
ARTICLE F. BUILDING INSPECTOR
SECTION:
1-7F-1: Created; Qualifications
1-7F-2: Duties; Generally
1-7F-3: Notes, Profiles And Plans
1-7F-4: Report To City Council
1-7F-5: Deliver Records To Successor
1-7F-1: CREATED; QUALIFICATIONS:
There is hereby created the office of Building Inspector, who shall be hired as
provided by the procedures set forth in the City's Charter and/or personnel
policy. The Building Inspector shall be qualified as provided by State law.
(Res. 1996-R21, 2-28-1996; amd. 1999 Code)
1-7F-2: DUTIES; GENERALLY:
The Building Inspector shall carry out and perform such duties as required by
this Code or the laws of the State, or the orders and resolutions of the City
Council relating to the office of Building Inspector. (Res. 1996-R21, 2-28-
1996)
1-7F-3: NOTES, PROFILES AND PLANS:
All surveys, notes of surveys, field notes, maps or profiles, plans and
estimates made by him or others in his employ for the City, shall be the
property of the City and shall be carefully preserved in his office and open to
the inspection of all persons interested. He shall also make a certified copy
of all surveys, notes of surveys, field notes, maps or profiles, plans and
estimates and file the same in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer. (Ord.
65, 1913)
1-7F-4: REPORT TO CITY COUNCIL:
The Building Inspector shall inform and suggest to the City Council the kind
and quality of material to be used in all public works, the necessary means to
ensure permanent stability of the work and shall at all times aid the City
Council with his professional knowledge and skill. (Ord. 65, 1913; amd. 1999
Code)
1-7F-5: DELIVER RECORDS TO SUCCESSOR:
The Building Inspector shall, at the expiration of his term of office, turn
over and deliver to his successor in office all books, papers, profiles, maps,
estimates and other property of any kind whatsoever in his hands or belonging
to the City. (Ord. 65, 1913; amd. 1999 Code)
ARTICLE G. DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS
SECTION:
1-7G-1: Appointment
1-7G-2: Duties; Generally
1-7G-1: APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the position of Director of Public Works. The Public
Works Director shall be hired as provided by the procedures set forth in the
City's Charter and/or personnel policy. (Res. 1996-R21, 2-28-1996; amd. 1999
Code)
1-7G-2: DUTIES; GENERALLY:
The Director of Public Works shall have general supervisory powers over and
control of the Public Works Department, under the supervision of the Mayor and
City Council. (Res. 1996-R21, 2-28-1996)
ARTICLE H. WATER/WASTEWATER SUPERINTENDENT
SECTION:
1-7H-1: Appointment
1-7H-2: Duties; Generally
1-7H-1: APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the position of Water/Wastewater Superintendent. The
Superintendent shall be hired as provided by the procedures set forth in the
City's Charter and/or personnel policy. (Res. 1996-R21, 2-28-1996; amd. 1999
Code)
1-7H-2: DUTIES; GENERALLY:
The Water/Wastewater Superintendent shall have general supervisory powers over
and control of the Water and Sewer Departments and their operation and
maintenance under the supervision of the Mayor and City Council. (Res. 1996-
R21, 2-28-1996)
ARTICLE I. POOL MANAGER
SECTION:
1-7I-1: Appointment
1-7I-2: Duties; Generally
1-7I-1: APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the position of Pool Manager. The Pool Manager shall be
hired as provided by the procedures set forth in the City's Charter and/or
personnel policy. (Res. 1996-R21, 2-28-1996; amd. 1999 Code)
1-7I-2: DUTIES; GENERALLY:
The Pool Manager shall have general supervisory powers over and control of the
Municipal pool, under the supervision of the Mayor and City Council. (Res.
1996-R21, 2-28-1996)
CHAPTER 8
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: State Law Governs
1-8-1: STATE LAW GOVERNS:
The conduct of all City elections, whether primary, general or special, and of
all matters relating thereto, shall be governed by the laws of the State
presently codified in title 13, Montana Code Annotated and other enactments of
the legislature of the State, and amendments subsequent. This Chapter is
therefore amended accordingly and all sections in this Chapter which are in
conflict with or may be in the future in conflict with any State law governing
City elections, is hereby declared inoperative. (4-27-1981)
TITLE 2
DEPARTMENTS
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT 1
SECTION:
2-1-1: Created
2-1-2: Duties
2-1-3: Fire Prevention
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-3-1345.
2-1-1: CREATED:
   A.   Personnel: There is hereby created a Fire Department, which shall
consist of a Fire Chief and such other personnel as may be provided for by the
Mayor and City Council. (1961 Code §
3-2-1)
   B.   Volunteer: This Chapter shall not be construed as establishing a paid
Fire Department, but rather a formal recognition by the City of the organized
and established Volunteer Fire Company of the City, which has served this City
faithfully and well for many, many years. (1961 Code §
3-2-4)
2-1-2: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of members of the Fire Department to provide for the
immediate answering of all fire calls and to fight all fires in the best and
most modern available methods. Members shall see to the care and maintenance of
all firefighting equipment and have such equipment in constant workable
condition at all times. (1961 Code §
3-2-1)
2-1-3: FIRE PREVENTION:
Every possible action shall be taken by the members of the Fire Department to
eliminate fire hazards and to provide for fire prevention methods and
operations within the City. (1961 Code §
3-2-3)
CHAPTER 2
CITY COURT 1
SECTION:
2-2-1: Administration
2-2-2: Procedures, Duties And Responsibilities
2-2-3: Administrative Duties
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-3-1342.
2-2-1: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   City Judge Appointed: The city judge shall be appointed as provided in
subsection 1-7-1A of this code, to a term of four (4) years, and until a
successor is appointed and qualified. (4-27-1981; amd. 1999 Code)
   B.   City Court: The dates and hours of city court, in addition to the
change of location of the city court from city hall to the Rosebud County
courthouse will be established by resolution of the city council, after
consultation with the appointed city judge. (Ord. 2003-11, 11-24-2003, eff. 12-
24-2003)
2-2-2: PROCEDURES, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The procedures, duties and responsibilities of the city court shall be as
provided in title 46 of Montana Code Annotated. (1999 Code)
2-2-3: ADMINISTRATIVE DUTIES:
The administrative duties of the city court shall be as provided in title 3,
chapter 11 of Montana Code Annotated. (1999 Code)
CHAPTER 3
POOL DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
2-3-1: Created
2-3-1: CREATED:
For the purpose of regulating and operating the Forsyth swimming pool, a
department is hereby established, to be designated the pool department, which
shall be under the control and management of the city council, who shall
appoint all employees of said pool department and fix their salaries or
compensation upon nomination and recommendation, to be made and reported to the
city council by the pool manager 1 . (Ord. 1990-2, 1-8-1990; amd. Res., 1-8-
1990; Res. 2002-R17, 2-25-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 1, chapter 7, article I of this code.
TITLE 3
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
ZONING COMMISSION 1 , 2
SECTION:
3-1-1: Appointment; Terms
3-1-2: Powers And Duties
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 76-2-307.
2 2. See also section
  12-1-9 of this code.
3-1-1: APPOINTMENT; TERMS:
There is hereby created a commission to be known as and designated the zoning
commission, which such commission shall consist of five (5) members to be
appointed by the mayor, one of whom must be a member of the city council and
the other four (4) may or may not be members of the city council at the
discretion of the mayor, but must be residents of the city. The effective date
of this section shall be the first regular meeting held by the city of Forsyth,
in the month of January 2003.
On the effective date hereof, the mayor shall appoint one member of said
commission to hold office for one year, and two (2) to hold the office for two
(2) years, and two (2) to hold the office for three (3) years; and thereafter
as the term of each such member expires, the mayor shall appoint a commissioner
for the term of three (3) years and until his successor is appointed.
Any commissioner, other than a city council member, may be discharged from the
office at any time for cause by the mayor with the concurrence of three (3)
other city council members.
In the event a commissioner is a city council member, and no longer serves in
that capacity, the appointment to the commission terminates upon their
departure from office. (Ord. 2002-12, 11-12-2002, eff. 12-12-2002)
3-1-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Rules And Regulations Established: The zoning commission shall adopt
such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary to carry into effect the
provisions and purposes of this chapter, and it shall hold such meetings and
meet at such places from time to time and have such hearings as the commission
or majority thereof may determine. At the first meeting of the commission, it
shall elect one of its members chairman, and then on May 1 of each year
thereafter, the commission shall meet and organize by electing a chairman to
serve as such chairman for one year. (1961 Code § 2-3-3)
   B.   Boundary Recommendations: Such commission shall recommend the
boundaries of the various original districts and regulations to be enforced.
(1961 Code § 2-3-4)
   C.   Keeping Of Records: The city clerk-treasurer may be ex officio clerk of
the zoning commission and keep its records and notify it of the filing of
applications for permits and such other matters that come before the
commission, and the commission shall, when there is business to transact, hold
a meeting at least once each month or more often, as the business of the
commission requires. (1961 Code § 2-3-2)
   D.   Required Reports: Such commission shall make preliminary reports and
hold public hearings thereon before submitting final reports to the city
council. Such city council shall not hold its public hearings or take action
until it has received the final report of such commission. (1961 Code § 2-3-5)
CHAPTER 2
TREE BOARD 1
SECTION:
3-2-1: Establishment
3-2-2: Term Of Office
3-2-3: Compensation
3-2-4: Duties And Responsibilities
3-2-5: Operation
3-2-6: Review By City Council
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 5, chapter 5 of this Code.
3-2-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
There shall be a committee known as the Tree Board of the City of Forsyth,
Montana. The members shall be appointed by the Mayor and approved by the City
Council. A majority of the members of the Tree Board shall be residents of the
City of Forsyth. The board shall consist of the following or a similar
composition:
   Mayor
   Two (2) members of the City Council
   One representative from the Public Works Department, City of Forsyth
   Members at large
(Ord. 2018-03, 12-10-2018)
3-2-2: TERM OF OFFICE:
The term of the voting members shall be:
   Mayor and two (2) Council Members: term of office
   One (1) Representative of Public Works: term set by Mayor
   Members at large: three (3) years
In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, his
successor shall be appointed in the same manner as the original appointment for
the unexpired portion of the term. (Ord. 2005-03, 11-14-2005; amd. Ord. 2019-
02, 1-13-2020)
3-2-3: COMPENSATION:
Members of the board shall serve without compensation. (Ord. 2005-03, 11-14-
2005)
3-2-4: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
It shall be the responsibility of the board to study, investigate, counsel and
develop and/or update annually a written plan for the care, preservation,
trimming, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in
public ways, streets and alleys. Included in the plan shall be appropriate
educational programs for the public. Such plan will be presented annually to
the City Council and upon their acceptance and approval shall constitute the
official comprehensive City tree plan for the City of Forsyth, Montana.
The City Tree Board, or its agent, shall be responsible for an ongoing
inventory of Forsyth's tree resources. This inventory shall consist of a
minimum yearly hazard tree assessment. Further, the City Tree Board shall
prepare, or have prepared, a 10-year master plan for Forsyth's tree resources.
This plan shall include an inventory of said resources, goals, objectives, long
term maintenance, planting, and removal goals.
The City Tree Board, or its agent, may be responsible for the supervising of
the planting, pruning, and removal of all trees located within the street
rights-of-way, easements, alleys and parks of the City. The owners of land
abutting on any street may, when acting within the provisions of this chapter,
prune, spray, plant or remove trees in that part of the street abutting the
owner's land not used for public travel. A street tree permit shall be required
only when the owner of the property intends to deviate from the rules and
regulations contained in this chapter.
The board, when requested by the City Council, shall consider, investigate,
make findings, report and recommend upon any special matter or questions coming
within the scope of its work. (Ord. 2005-03, 11-14-2005)
3-2-5: OPERATION:
The board shall choose its own officers at the first meeting of each year, make
its own rules and regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority
of the members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business. Officers are
Chair, Vice Chair, Secretary, and Treasurer. (Ord. 2005-03, 11-14-2005)
3-2-6: REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL:
The City Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and decisions
of the Tree Board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or order of the Tree
Board to the City Council who may hear the matter and make a final decision.
(Ord. 2005-03, 11-14-2005)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS 1
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Administrative Provisions
4-1-2: Application For License
4-1-3: License Fee
4-1-4: Term Of License
4-1-5: Inspections
4-1-6: Interstate Commerce
4-1-7: Unlawful Activities Not Licensed
4-1-8: Licensed Property Subject To Lien
4-1-9: Revocation Or Denial Of License
4-1-10: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-21-4101.
4-1-1: ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Collection; Application: The city clerk-treasurer shall be charged with
the collection of the licenses herein provided for, and application for
license, accompanied by a fee therefor, shall be filed with him. In his
discretion or in the discretion of the mayor, such applications may be held
until the next regular meeting of the city council following the application,
when it shall be submitted to the city council, who may decline to issue such
license, if, in the judgment of the city council, it will be for the best
interests of the city to refuse such license. Upon such refusal, the license
fee paid upon application shall be returned to the applicant. The city clerk-
treasurer shall prepare all blanks for applications and for licenses and books
of account in connection therewith, and all shall, so far as is possible, be
charged against the funds collected under this chapter, to be segregated and
deposited as hereinafter provided. All applications made and all licenses
issued under this chapter shall bear upon their face the following:
This application is made subject to all of the terms and conditions of Title 4,
Chapter 1 of the City Code of the City of Forsyth, which are hereby agreed to
and this license is not transferable.
   B.   Form Preparation; Filing: Forms for all licenses and permits, and
applications therefor, shall be prepared and kept on file by the city clerk-
treasurer.
   C.   Signature Of Officials: Each license or permit issued shall bear the
signature of the city clerk-treasurer in the absence of any provision to the
contrary. (Ord. 2000-04, 11-13-2000, eff. 12-13-2000)
4-1-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for all licenses and permits required by this code shall be made
to the city clerk-treasurer, unless otherwise specified. The applicant shall
furnish such information as the city clerk-treasurer may require for
preparation of the license. (Ord. 2000-04, 11-13-2000, eff. 12-13-2000)
4-1-3: LICENSE FEE:
   A.   Required; Enumerated: Unless specifically exempted by state law, all
persons and/or entities doing business or engaged in commerce in the city,
whether residents or nonresidents, are required to pay city license fees.
Residents are required to pay an annual license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
Any person and/or entity with five (5) or more available rental units will be
considered a business.
      1.   Residents or nonresidents, considered to be itinerant vendors, that
intend to operate a temporary business for the sale of goods must obtain a
temporary business license and pay a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00). A
temporary business is defined as one in which goods are sold on not more than
six (6) calendar days each year.
      2.   Nonprofit organizations, service clubs, public service organizations
are exempt from paying the license fee. (Ord. 2015-09, 12-21-2015)
   B.   Two Or More Businesses:
      1.   Separate Fee: In any case where any persons conduct, operate,
transact, engage in or carry on two (2) or more different lines of business,
industry, trade, pursuit, profession or vocation, under the same roof, they
shall pay only one license.
   C.   Distribution: It is hereby declared that all fees received by the city
for licenses under this chapter are to be allocated to the general fund for
administration and regulation of health and public safety for distribution by
city council action. (Ord. 2000-04, 11-13-2000, eff. 12-13-2000)
4-1-4: TERM OF LICENSE:
   A.   Specified: All licenses shall be payable in advance on or before
January 31 of each year and all licenses shall expire on December 31 of the
year of issuance.
   B.   Time Limit: The licenses herein provided for are for the calendar year
so long as this chapter stays in force and effect. (Ord. 2000-04, 11-13-2000,
eff. 12-13-2000)
4-1-5: INSPECTIONS:
Every person licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
regulation, inspection, control and supervision under the general police power
of the city and of all of the provisions of this code now in force or which may
be adopted, in aid of such police power and regulation and each and every
license shall be subject to suspension and revocation as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 2000-04, 11-13-2000, eff. 12-13-2000)
4-1-6: INTERSTATE COMMERCE:
Nothing in this chapter contained is intended to operate so as to interfere
with the power of the congress of the United States to regulate commerce
between the states, as such power is defined by the supreme court of the United
States. (Ord. 2000-04, 11-13-2000, eff. 12-13-2000)
4-1-7: UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES NOT LICENSED:
No provision herein contained shall be construed as to license any trade,
business, occupation, pursuit, profession or entertainment prohibited by any
law of the United States, the state or by any provision of this code. (Ord.
2000-04, 11-13-2000, eff. 12-13-2000)
4-1-8: LICENSED PROPERTY SUBJECT TO LIEN 1 :
All property held or used in any trade, occupation, business, vocation, pursuit
or profession, for which a license is required by the provisions of this code,
is liable for such license and subject to a lien for the amount thereof, which
lien has precedence of any other lien, claim or demand, except liens, claims,
or other demands of the United States and the state, or of either of them; and
if any person fails or refuses to procure a license before the transaction of
the business specified, except as otherwise herein provided, the city clerk-
treasurer must seize such property or any other property belonging to such
person, association, firm or corporation, and sell the same in the manner
provided in section 15-17-911, Montana Code Annotated, and all acts amendatory
thereto. Such procedure for the collection of such license shall be cumulative
and in addition to any other procedure or penalty herein provided for violation
of this chapter. (Ord. 2000-04, 11-13-2000, eff. 12-13-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-21-2104.
4-1-9: REVOCATION OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Failure To Comply; Unlawful Activities: Any license issued pursuant to
the provisions of this code or of any ordinance of the city may be revoked and
any application denied by the city council because of:
      1.   The failure of the licensee or applicant to comply with the
conditions and requirements of this code or any ordinance of the city.
      2.   Unlawful activities conducted or permitted on the premises where the
business is conducted.
   B.   Notice To Licensee: Prior to the revocation of a license, or denial of
an application to renew business license, the licensee or applicant shall be
given a notice which shall state in substance that the city council intends to
revoke the business license or deny the application to renew, together with the
reason or reasons therefor, at a regular or special meeting of the city council
(which shall be at least 10 days and not more than 30 days from the date notice
is sent), and that the licensee or applicant has a right to appear, to be
represented by counsel, to hear the evidence against him, to cross examine
witnesses and to present evidence as to why the license should not be revoked
or the application denied.
   C.   Not Applicable To Businesses Not Previously Licensed: The preceding
subsection shall not apply to applications for licenses for businesses which
have not previously been licensed by the city, and such applicants need only be
informed that their application has been denied. (Ord. 2000-04, 11-13-2000,
eff. 12-13-2000)
4-1-10: PENALTY:
Violations of this chapter are designated as Municipal infractions as specified
in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL 1
SECTION:
4-2-1: License Required
4-2-2: Fee For License
4-2-3: Inspections
4-2-4: State License
4-2-5: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 16-1-101.
4-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of alcoholic
beverage sales without first procuring a license therefor from the city. (1999
Code)
4-2-2: FEE FOR LICENSE:
   A.   All-Beverage License:
      1.   Each holder of a Montana all-beverage license, owning and/or
operating under such license within the city limits, shall pay the city an
annual license fee of three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00). The annual fee
herein required shall be due and payable on January 2 of each year. (Ord. 2015-
04, 6-22-2015)
      2.   Provided, however, that where a license hereunder is issued for a
period commencing subsequent to the first of the current year for which such
license may be issued, a pro rata fee only shall be charged for the balance of
such current year, but nothing herein shall be construed to entitle any
licensee hereunder to any refund of any portion of the license fee in the event
of his discontinuing such business, or the suspension or revocation of his
license, prior to the expiration of such year, except and save that he shall be
entitled to a pro rata refund in the event that his business is discontinued by
virtue of said act being, by referendum petition, rendered inoperative awaiting
such time as it may be passed upon at an election, and the determination and
declaration of the result as provided by law.
      3.   The license fees herein provided for are exclusive of and in
addition to other license fees chargeable by the city for the sale of liquor,
beer and malt beverages, or any other licenses chargeable. (Ord. 190, 2-11-
1965; amd. Res., 11-4-1974)
   B.   Beer And Wine: Every person who offers for sale directly or indirectly,
for consumption on premises or off premises, dispenses beer or wine as
described and defined in the Montana Code Annotated within the city, must first
obtain a license for the sale thereof from the city clerk-treasurer, for which
said license such person must pay to the city clerk-treasurer, annually, in
advance, January 2 of each year, the following amounts: (Ord., 2-14-1983, eff.
3-17-1983; amd. 1999 Code)
      1.   Each beer only retailer, on premises consumption, two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00).
      2.   Beer only retailer, on premises consumption, with wine license
amendment, an additional two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
      3.   Retail beer, for off premises consumption, either alone or in
conjunction with license to sell table wine for off premises consumption, two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). (Ord. 2015-04, 6-22-2015)
   C.   Refunds: Nothing herein shall be construed to entitle any licensee to a
refund of any portion of the license fee in the event of discontinuing his
business or suspension or revocation of his license. (Ord., 2-14-1983, eff. 3-
17-1983; amd. 1999 Code)
   D.   Disposition Of Fees: All receipts from license fees and fines collected
under the provisions of this chapter shall be deposited to the credit of the
general fund of the city, out of which said fund the cost of administering this
chapter shall be paid. (Ord. 157, 3-22-1937)
4-2-3: INSPECTIONS:
The city council or any duly authorized representative thereof, or the mayor,
shall have the right at any time to make an examination of the premises of such
licensee as to whether this chapter is being complied with. (Ord. 157, 3-22-
1937; amd. 1999 Code)
4-2-4: STATE LICENSE:
   A.   Required: No license provided for in this chapter may be issued until
the applicant has been issued a similar license by the State. (Ord., 2-14-1983,
eff. 3-17-1983)
   B.   Revocation Or Suspension: If any license issued by the State for retail
sales of alcoholic beverages, as provided for herein, shall be revoked or
suspended under the provisions of State law, the accompanying City license
issued hereunder shall automatically be revoked and suspended for the same
period. (Ord., eff. 2-15-1985)
4-2-5: PENALTY:
Except as otherwise provided by Montana law, violations of this chapter are
designated as Municipal infractions as specified in title 1, chapter 4 of this
Code. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
CHAPTER 3
PUBLIC CONVEYANCES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Rules And Regulations
4-3-1: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Public conveyances shall be regulated in accordance with the rules, regulations
and requirements of the Public Service Commission. (1999 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GAMBLING 1
SECTION:
4-4-1: State Laws Incorporated
 
Notes
1 1. MCA title 23, chapter 5.
4-4-1: STATE LAWS INCORPORATED:
All statutes enacted by the State now in effect or in the future enacted by the
State, pertaining to gambling, are incorporated herein by this reference. (Res.
14, 2-10-1990)
CHAPTER 5
CAMPGROUNDS AND TRAILER COURTS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: Applicability
4-5-3: Enforcement
4-5-4: Health Permit Required
4-5-5: Zoning Compliance
4-5-6: Alteration To Dwelling
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CAMPGROUND: Any place, area or tract of land upon which is located any trailer,
trailer house, wagon, tent or tent house used for camping purposes or living
quarters.
TRAILER, CAMP CAR, TRAILER HOUSE: Any unit used for living or sleeping
purposes, which is equipped with wheels or similar devices and used for the
purpose of transporting said unit from place to place, whether by motive power
or other means, also such vehicles as are used as aforesaid that have had the
wheels or equipment removed. (Ord. 164, 6-7-1950)
4-5-2: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to every campground within
the corporate area of the City and it shall be unlawful for any person to
maintain, operate, conduct or carry on such campground, or for any person
living or sleeping in any camp car or trailer located in a campground, or for
any other person to violate or to contribute in any way to the violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 164, 6-7-1950)
4-5-3: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the City to enforce all of the regulations of this
chapter and for the purpose of securing enforcement thereof, the County
Sanitation Officer, or any of his duly authorized representatives, or the
building inspector, shall have the right and are hereby empowered to enter upon
the premises of any campground now operating or which may hereafter be operated
within the City, to inspect the same and all accommodations connected
therewith. Violations of this chapter are designated as Municipal infractions
as specified in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018,
eff. 1-1-2019)
4-5-4: HEALTH PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or maintain or to offer for
public use within the confines of the City as hereinafter set forth, any
campgrounds without applying for and receiving from the County Sanitation
Officer a health permit, or without complying with the regulations set forth
and any rules and regulations which may be formulated by the County Sanitation
Officer, from time to time, and the laws of the State. (Ord. 164, 6-7-1950;
amd. 1999 Code)
4-5-5: ZONING COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Location Of Campgrounds: Campgrounds hereinafter established shall be
located in accordance with the provisions of the zoning regulations. (Ord. 164,
6-7-1950; amd. 1999 Code)
   B.   Mobile Home Courts; Arrangement And Spacing: Lots in mobile home courts
shall conform to the requirements set forth in the current code as adopted.
(Ord. 2015-05, 6-22-2015)
4-5-6: ALTERATION TO DWELLING:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning or operating a camp car or trailer
located in a campground to remove or cause to be removed the wheels or any
similar transportation device from said camp car or trailer, or to otherwise
permanently affix it to the ground in a manner that would prevent the ready
removal of said camp car or trailer, without first obtaining a permit so to do
from the building inspector. Any alteration of any camp car or trailer or
trailer house, as above set forth, shall be construed as removing it from the
requirements of this chapter and converting it into a dwelling, and it shall
thereupon be subject to the requirements of the Building Code 1 . (Ord. 164, 6-
7-1950)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 11 of this Code.
CHAPTER 6
AFTER HOURS CARD GAMES
SECTION:
4-6-1: Live Card Games Authorized
4-6-2: Live Card Game Act
4-6-3: Permit Required
4-6-4: Compliance With Montana Law
4-6-5: Video Gaming Machine Operation Not Authorized
4-6-6: Violation Of Chapter
4-6-1: LIVE CARD GAMES AUTHORIZED:
The City of Forsyth hereby authorizes the operation of live card games between
the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. for each day
for facilities with an alcoholic beverage license. This time is in addition to
the time allowed under State law for the operation of live card games between
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and two o'clock (2:00) A.M. (Ord. 2008-02, 10-27-
2008, eff. 11-27-2008)
4-6-2: LIVE CARD GAME ACT:
This chapter authorizes the operation of any live card game, which is under the
Live Card Game Act under Montana Code Annotated section 23-5-311. (Ord. 2008-
02, 10-27-2008, eff. 11-27-2008)
4-6-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Any establishment, which operates a live card game between the hours of two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M., must submit a permit
application to the City. The permit application is available at the City
Clerk's Office. Approval of the permit will be obtained by the Forsyth City
Council. No fee for the permit is required. (Ord. 2008-02, 10-27-2008, eff. 11-
27-2008)
4-6-4: COMPLIANCE WITH MONTANA LAW:
In order to maintain the permit, any establishment conducting the live card
game from two o'clock (2:00) A.M. to eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. must comply with
all applicable rules and regulations for operation of an after hours live card
game and the related facility as established by the State of Montana. (Ord.
2008-02, 10-27-2008, eff. 11-27-2008)
4-6-5: VIDEO GAMING MACHINE OPERATION NOT AUTHORIZED:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to authorize the operation of video
gaming machines between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eight o'clock
(8:00) A.M. (Ord. 2008-02, 10-27-2008, eff. 11-27-2008)
4-6-6: VIOLATION OF CHAPTER:
Violations of this chapter are designated as Municipal infractions as specified
in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
ARTICLE A. REFUSE IN BUILDINGS; STAGNANT WATER
SECTION:
5-1A-1: Nuisance Declared
5-1A-2: Enforcement
5-1A-3: Penalty
5-1A-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or suffer to be in or accumulate
in or upon any yard, lot, place or premises or upon any street or sidewalk
adjacent to or abutting upon any lot, block, place or premises or in any
building or shed owned or occupied by him or for which he may be an agent
within the limits of the City, any stagnant water or impure water, refuse,
vegetable decay or decaying substance, garbage or filth of any kind, nor suffer
such yard, lot, place, building or premises to be or to remain in such
condition as to cause or create a nuisance or offensive smell or to pollute or
render unhealthful the atmosphere or the premises or thereby to be, become,
cause or create a public nuisance. (1961 Code §
8-5-1)
5-1A-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The provisions of this article shall be enforced as provided in Montana Code
Annotated section 7-5-4104. (1999 Code)
5-1A-3: PENALTY:
Violations of this article are designated as Municipal infractions as specified
in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
CHAPTER 2
ABANDONED CONTAINERS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Refrigerators
5-2-1: REFRIGERATORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or permit to remain outside of any
dwelling, building or other structure or within any unoccupied or abandoned
building, structure or dwelling under his control, in a place accessible to
children, any abandoned, unattended or discarded refrigerator, freezer, or
other container which has a door or lid, snaplock or other locking device which
may not be released from the inside, without first removing said door or lid,
snaplock or other locking device. Violations of this chapter are designated as
Municipal infractions as specified in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord.
2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
CHAPTER 3
GARBAGE AND REFUSE 1
SECTION:
5-3-1: Defined
5-3-2: Disposal Of Garbage
5-3-3: Collection Times
5-3-4: Trucks For Collection
5-3-5: Duty Of Owner Or Occupant
5-3-6: Apartments
5-3-7: Containers
5-3-8: Rates And Refunds
5-3-9: Financial Administration
5-3-10: Rules And Regulations
5-3-11: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-14-4105.
5-3-1: DEFINED:
   A.   The word "garbage", as used in this chapter, is intended to mean all
refuse, animal and vegetable matter, ashes, store sweepings, paper and rubbish,
and other waste matter, but shall not be construed to mean or include manure.
(Ord. 159, 1-7-1943)
   B.   Garbage does not include waste products from building or other
construction operations, such as lime, plaster, sand, concrete, hard steel,
large appliances, nor other refuse. (Eff. 11-9-1978)
5-3-2: DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE:
   A.   Facility: All garbage must be conveyed to the solid waste disposal unit
(compactor) located immediately west of Highway 12 and the west intersection of
Main Street, and must be transported to that location either by city garbage
trucks or by individual citizens of the city, during those hours when the
facility is open, as posted thereon.
   B.   Administration: The collection, removal and disposal of garbage shall
be done and performed under the supervision, direction and control of the
director of public works and the city council, subject to such rules and
regulations as may be made from time to time by the city council. (10-26-1981)
   C.   Private Removal: For the purpose of this chapter, nothing herein shall
prevent the city council from permitting or requiring the owner or occupant of
a premises to remove the garbage therefrom at his own expense under the
supervision and control of the public works director and exempting said
premises from taxation hereunder. (Ord. 95-03, 7-10-1995)
5-3-3: COLLECTION TIMES:
The city shall provide for domestic and commercial garbage collections at such
time or times as the city council may hereinafter direct. (10-26-1981)
5-3-4: TRUCKS FOR COLLECTION:
It shall be optional with the city council whether the city shall own and
supply to said collectors trucks used in the collection and removal of garbage,
or require the same to be furnished by said collectors. All garbage trucks
shall be of such style, size and description as the city council may from time
to time require and shall bear in prominent letters the words "City of
Forsyth". (Ord. 159, 1-7-1943; amd. Ord. 98-01, 5-26-1998, eff. 6-26-1998)
5-3-5: DUTY OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT:
It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of any premises within the city
limits to keep such premises and one-half (1/2) of the street and alley or
avenue immediately adjacent thereto, and also the gutter in front of or
adjoining his property clean (and shall fill with gravel layer and shall keep
weed free), open and free from any ashes, offal, wastepapers, cans, glass,
broken ware, dirt, rubbish, filth, yard cleanings, garbage, barnyard litter or
any unhealthful stuff or material of any sort or kind. (Ord. 2015-06, 9-28-
2015)
5-3-6: APARTMENTS:
   For the purpose of this chapter, two (2) or more rooms occupied together
shall constitute an apartment, and nothing herein shall prevent the city
council from permitting or requiring the owner or occupant of the premises to
remove the garbage therefrom at his own expense under the supervision and
control of the Code Enforcement Officer, and exempting said premises from
taxation hereunder.
(Ord. 159, 1-7-1943; amd. Ord. 98-01, 5-26-1998, eff. 6-26-1998; Ord. 2024-02,
12-16-2024)
5-3-7: CONTAINERS:
   A.   Supply; Classifications: It shall be optional with the City Council
whether the City shall own and supply to said collectors containers for holding
garbage used in the collection and removal of garbage, or require the same to
be furnished by said collectors. All containers shall be of such style, size
and description as the City Council may from time to time require, and shall
bear in prominent letters the words “City of Forsyth” and shall be of the
following volume classifications:
      1.   Ninety five (95) gallon roll-out refuse container;
      2.   Three hundred (300) gallon refuse container.
   B.   Sharing: Sharing of containers is limited to three (3) users; requests
must be made in writing at City Hall; each user will be assessed separately.
   C.   Failure To Comply: Recipients of garbage service failing to comply with
proper directives from the Code Enforcement Officer or the City Council as to
the placement of garbage cans, rules and restrictions governing placement of
restricted materials in containers, open lids and overflow of garbage from
containers may be denied service until such time as they comply.
   D.   Placement On Sidewalks: Properties serviced by curbside pickup shall
not have containers on sidewalks, except for day of scheduled pickup.
(Ord. 98-01, 5-26-1998, eff. 6-26-1998; amd. Ord. 2024-02, 12-16-2024)
5-3-8: RATES AND REFUNDS:
   A.   Filed With City Clerk-Treasurer: The garbage collection fee for each
fiscal year shall be on file in the City Clerk- Treasurer's office. (Ord. 97-
03, 7-18-1997)
   B.   Vacant Property: Property that is vacant shall not be assessed a
garbage collection fee. The garbage ratepayer must furnish the City with a
services discontinuance notice at the commencement of the vacancy. Property so
listed for one year will be removed from the garbage assessment rolls at the
time of garbage assessment review, as specified in subsection 5-3-9C2 of this
Chapter. (Ord. 97-03, 7-18-1997; amd. Ord. 98-01, 5-26-1998, eff. 6-26-1998)
   C.   Succeeding Years: Garbage taxation for succeeding years will be
assessed by the City Council annually upon recommendation of City officers and
levied against real property within the City. Said assessment shall be lawful
and reasonable considering service rendered by the City and usage by property
owners. The annual rates may be set by resolution.
   D.   New Or Increased Service: Owner/occupants of property requiring new or
increased garbage service during the year will be billed by the City Clerk-
Treasurer for the prorated service cost for the remainder of the year.
   E.   Temporary Service: Requests for temporary, nonrecurring increases in
service will be billed by the City Clerk- Treasurer for the prorated monthly
service cost for the months service is requested. (Ord. 97-03, 7-18-1997)
5-3-9: FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Garbage Fund: The expense of collecting, removal and disposition of
garbage shall be paid for out of the Garbage Fund of the City. The cost of
collecting garbage, exclusive of manure, from the streets, alleys and private
premises of the City shall in all cases be assessed and taxed against the real
estate from which such garbage is deposited, and such property owner shall, as
far as practicable, bear its share of the expense of collecting and disposing
of the garbage in proportion to the amount of garbage deposited therefrom.
(Ord. 159, 1-7-1943)
   B.   Tax List:
      1.   Preparation; Contents: The Public Works Director shall prepare a
list of all lots or parts of lots in the City upon which there are buildings or
other improvements or cultivation necessitating the removal of garbage. Such
lists shall show in connection with each lot the nature of the type, style or
size of the container. Said list shall also show the number of containers
necessary for fixing the rate of taxation hereinafter set forth. Such list
shall be filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer and constitute the list of lots
upon which Garbage Taxes shall be collected each year.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the Public Works Director each year on and
before April 1, to report to the City Clerk-Treasurer a list of all lots or
fractions of lots in the City not heretofore taxed, upon which buildings or
improvements have been erected or constructed or cultivation done necessitating
the removal of garbage since the last assessment, and any addition to
buildings, which shall effect the rate of taxation as hereinafter set forth,
and the City Clerk-Treasurer shall make the necessary additions and changes in
the list of lots liable for Garbage Taxes on file in his office. (Ord. 95-03,
7-10-1995; amd. Ord. 98-01, 5-26-1998, eff. 6-26-1998)
   C.   Extended Tax Assessment List:
      1.   Assessment: It shall be the duty of the City Clerk- Treasurer each
year immediately after the passage of the resolution fixing the basic Garbage
Taxes for the year shall have been introduced, to extend on the list of lots
liable for the tax, the total amount to be taxed against each lot or portion of
a lot under the provisions of this chapter, and at least twenty one (21) days
before the date set for final adoption, to publish in the official newspaper of
the City, a notice to all lot owners of the passage of said resolution, and
time and place, when and where the said list is on file in the City Clerk-
Treasurer's Office for inspection. Any person having any objections to offer,
wherefore, said tax should not be levied and collected, shall file the same
with the City Clerk-Treasurer not more than fifteen (15) days from the date of
said notice. At the time of said publication, the City Clerk-Treasurer also
shall mail a copy of the proposed garbage assessment to all lot owners whose
assessment therefore has been increased from the assessment levied in the
preceding year, except in the case of general rate increases. (Ord. 97-03, 6-
18-1997; amd. 1999 Code)
      2.   Objections: At the next regular meeting of the City Council, after
the expiration of the notice to lot owners prescribed in subsection C1 of this
section, the City Council shall pass upon all objections filed and make such
changes in the assessment as it shall find necessary and proper after hearing
such objections and thereafter, the City Clerk- Treasurer shall incorporate
such changes in the list of taxes as extended by him and thereafter shall
certify the taxes on such amended list, to be by him collected in the same
manner as other special taxes and assessments. (Ord. 159, 1-7-1943; amd. 1999
Code)
5-3-10: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Authority: The City Council may make such other rules and regulations
concerning the depositing, handling, removing, and disposition of garbage as
they may from time to time deem fit and proper.
   B.   Unapproved Items; Ash: Items not allowed in containers include carpet,
wood, branches and tree limbs, rocks and ash. Ash must be hauled to the
transfer station by the property owner.
   C.   Unauthorized Disposal: It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly
dump, dispose or otherwise transfer garbage in their possession into a City
garbage container located on the property of another owner, tenant or
government entity without their expressed permission. Violations of this
chapter are designated as Municipal infractions as specified in title 1,
chapter 4 of this Code.
(Ord. 159, 1-7-1943; amd. Ord. 98-01, 5-26-1998, eff. 6-26-1998; 1999 Code;
Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019; amd. Ord. 2024-02, 12-16-2024)
5-3-11: PENALTY:
Any individual or legal entity failing to comply with the requirements of this
chapter may be denied City garbage service until such time as they comply.
Violations of this chapter are designated as Municipal infractions as specified
in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
CHAPTER 4
WEED CONTROL
SECTION:
5-4-1: Enforcement
5-4-2: Destruction Or Removal Of Weeds
5-4-3: Continuing Notice
5-4-1: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Duty Of Enforcement Officer: It shall be the duty of the Code
Enforcement Officer or the Public Works Director to enforce the provisions of
this chapter and for the purpose of enforcement, shall make frequent
inspections of all of the lots and tracts of land within the city. Should the
owner or occupant neglect or refuse to comply with the provisions of this
chapter, the Code Enforcement Officer or the Public Works Director shall cause
such necessary work to be done as may be deemed necessary, when directed to do
so by the city council, cause an itemized bill of the expense to be files with
the city clerk/treasurer, who will certify to same and collect such costs in
the manner of other city taxes.
   B.   Nonpayment Of Property Assessments: Anytime the City is required,
either through their employees, or to a contractor to resolve, remedy, or
otherwise abate a condition in which the property owner is in violation of the
City, the owner is billed for such repair, and the owner does not pay the bill
within sixty (60) calendar days of the notice, failure to pay will be
considered nonpayment. Nonpayment shall be a considered lien against the
property, and is enforceable in the same manner as nonpayment of Property Taxes
is enforced.
   In the event the property owner who is billed objects or challenges to the
amount of the bill, or any other issues related to the bill, they may request
to be placed upon the agenda at a regularly scheduled City Council meeting at
any time before the expiration of the sixty (60) day period.
   C.   Posting Of Weed Control Notice: The city council designee will post a
Weed Control Notice, which summarizes the provisions of Chapter 4, Weed
Control. The notices will be posted at Forsyth City Hall, Forsyth Post Office
and Rosebud County Courthouse. The notice will be printed in the Independent
Press on two (2) consecutive weeks. All notices will be posted prior to March
15 of each year.
(Ord. 113, 6-3-1920; amd. Ord. 98-05, eff. 12-24-1998; Ord. 2001-02, 12-27-
2001, eff. 1-27-2002; Ord. 2015-06, 9-28-2015; Ord. 2022-08, 1-16-2023; Ord.
2024-03, 12-16-2024)
5-4-2: DESTRUCTION OR REMOVAL OF WEEDS:
   A.   Required; Weeds Specified: Pursuant to the authority as provided by
Montana Code Annotated section 7-22-4101, owners of all lots or parcels of land
within the City limits, shall cause to be cut, destroyed or removed (not
limited to) all dandelions, fan weed, fireweed, thistles, noxious weeds, grass
and all other nonornamental vegetation over twelve inches (12") in height
growing on their property (includes alleys and streets). Such owners shall be
responsible for removal of those weeds after receiving reasonable notice given
by either the Code Enforcement Officer, Public Works Director or other
authorized employee of the City or County.
   B.   Failure To Comply; Assessment And Penalty: The City may levy the cost
of weed extermination and removal and may bill or otherwise assess such cost as
a special tax against the property in the event the landowner fails to
satisfactorily remove the weeds within a reasonable time after notice.
Violations of this chapter are designated as Municipal infractions as specified
in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code.
   C.   Public Nuisance; Additional Sanction: In addition, failure to
satisfactorily remove the weeds, within a reasonable time after notice, (Title
5-11-3) may be considered the maintenance of a public nuisance in violation of
Montana Code Annotated section 45-8-11, and the offender will be subject to
additional sanction as provided under law.
   D.   Any vegetation (trees, hedges, bushes, grasses, weeds, etc.)
originating from individual properties that extrude into city right of way on
any sidewalk, street or alley shall be the responsibility of that property
owner to remediate when given reasonable notice (5-11-3) by the Code
Enforcement Officer, Public Works Director or other city employee tasked with
enforcement.
   Remediation would include trimming or removing of offending vegetation to
the property line, or further into the property to prevent future encroachment.
(Ord. 97-08, 11-24-1997, eff. 12-26-1997; amd. Ord. 2015-06, 9-28-2015; Ord.
2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019; Ord. 2024-03, 12-16-2024)
5-4-3: CONTINUING NOTICE:
   A notice issued of this chapter shall be deemed a continuing notice
regarding the weeds or other vegetation described in the notice for a period of
one year from the date of service and is valid for all locations within the
City of Forsyth, Montana. No further notice by an Enforcement Officer or ten
(10) day period to abate is necessary to abate a nuisance created by said
vegetation within the one-year period.
   This change shall become effective thirty (30) days after date of second
reading and passage by the City Council as required by law.
(Ord. 2024-03, 12-16-2024)
CHAPTER 5
TREES 1
SECTION:
5-5-1: Short Title
5-5-2: Definitions
5-5-3: Separability
5-5-4: Street Tree Species List
5-5-5: Spacing
5-5-6: Distance From Curb And Sidewalk
5-5-7: Distance From Street Corners And Fireplugs
5-5-8: Utilities
5-5-9: Public Tree Care
5-5-10: Trimming; Corner Clearance
5-5-11: Tree Topping
5-5-12: Abuse Or Mutilation Of Public Trees
5-5-13: Hedges
5-5-14: Dead Or Diseased Trees; Pruning, Removal
5-5-15: Pruning Or Removal Procedures
5-5-16: Interference With Tree Board Or Agent
5-5-17: Arborist License And Insurance
5-5-18: Tree, Shrub, Hedge, Etc. Encroachment On City Right Of Way
5-5-19: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 3, chapter 2 of this code.
5-5-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the MUNICIPAL TREE ORDINANCE OF
THE CITY OF FORSYTH, FORSYTH, MONTANA. (Ord. 2005-03, 11-14-2005)
5-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural include the singular and words in the singular include the plural. The
word shall is mandatory and not merely directory.
AGENT: Any person or persons specifically authorized by the city tree board
including the mayor and public works director to carry out its activities and
functions.
BOULEVARD: The "boulevard" or "parking" shall mean the space between the
sidewalk, or the normal location of the sidewalk and the curb line or curb.
LARGE TREES: Those attaining a height of forty five feet (45') or more at
maturity.
MEDIUM TREES: Those attaining a height of thirty (30) to forty five feet (45')
at maturity.
MUNICIPALITY: The city, town, village, subdivision, or otherwise designated
area unit of the city of Forsyth, Rosebud County, Montana.
PARK TREE: Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public parks
having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
PARKWAYS: Linear public lands not formally designated as parks.
PROPERTY OWNER OR OWNER: The person owning such property as shown by the county
treasurer of Rosebud County, state of Montana.
PUBLIC TREES: Shall include all shade and ornamental trees now or hereafter
growing on any street or any public place where otherwise indicated.
SMALL TREES: Those attaining a height of twenty (20) to thirty feet (30') at
maturity.
STREET TREES: Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways
within the city.
TREES: All shade and ornamental trees and all shrubs and other beautification
or landscape plantings, now or hereafter planted or growing within the
Municipality. (Ord. 2005-03, 11-14-2005; amd. Ord. 2015-06, 9-28-2015)
5-5-3: SEPARABILITY:
Should any part or provision of this chapter be declared by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the same shall not affect the validity of
this chapter as a whole, or any part thereof, other than the part declared
invalid. (Ord. 2005-03, 11-14-2005)
5-5-4: STREET TREE SPECIES LIST:
The Tree Board shall maintain a list of approved and not allowed trees for use
in public rights-of-way. The list will be on file and available at City Hall.
Said list shall constitute the requirements of the City and shall be open to
review. (Ord. 2018-04, 12-10-2018)
5-5-5: SPACING:
The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three (3) tree size
classes listed in section
5-5-2, "Definitions", of this chapter, and no trees may be planted closer
together than the following: small trees, twenty feet (20'); medium trees,
thirty feet (30'); and large trees, forty feet (40'). (Ord. 2005-03, 11-14-
2005)
5-5-6: DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK:
The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curb lines and sidewalks will
be in accordance with the three (3) tree size classes listed in section
5-5-2, "Definitions", of this chapter, and no trees may be planted closer to
any curb or sidewalk than the following: small trees, two feet (2'); medium
trees, three feet (3'); and large trees, four feet (4'); with the exception of
trees in the downtown tree program (sidewalks), one foot (1') from the curb.
(Ord. 2005-03, 11-14-2005)
5-5-7: DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIREPLUGS:
Tree planting shall conform to the City of Forsyth's clear vision ordinance in
regard to street corners and alleyways. No tree shall be planted closer than
ten feet (10') of any fireplug. Owners of existing plantings violating this
rule must keep them carefully pruned and trimmed to obviate their creating a
vision obstruction of vehicle drivers, unless they be declared a nuisance and
compulsorily removed. (Ord. 2005-03, 11-14-2005)
5-5-8: UTILITIES:
No street trees other than species falling in the small tree class of section
5-5-2, "Definitions", of this chapter may be planted under or within ten (10)
lateral feet of any overhead utility wire, or over or within five (5) lateral
feet of any underground water line, sewer line, transmission line or other
utility. (Ord. 2005-03, 11-14-2005)
5-5-9: PUBLIC TREE CARE:
The City shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees,
plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes,
squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety or to
preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. (Ord. 2005-
03, 11-14-2005)
5-5-10: TRIMMING; CORNER CLEARANCE:
It shall be the duty of any person or persons owning or occupying real property
bordering on any street upon which property there may be trees, to prune such
trees in such manner that they will not obstruct or shade the streetlights,
obstruct the passage of pedestrians on sidewalks, obstruct vision of traffic
signs, or obstruct view of any street or alley intersections. The minimum
clearance of any overhanging portion thereof shall be eight feet (8') over
sidewalks, and twelve feet (12') over all streets except truck thoroughfares,
which shall have a clearance of sixteen feet (16'). (Ord. 2005-03, 11-14-2005)
5-5-11: TREE TOPPING:
It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or City
department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property.
"Topping" is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches (3") in diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree so as to
remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions, where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted
from this section at the determination of the City. Standards for all pruning
activities will, at minimum, be the National Arborist Association "Tree Pruning
Standards". (Ord. 2005-03, 11-14-2005)
5-5-12: ABUSE OR MUTILATION OF PUBLIC TREES:
Unless specifically authorized by the City Tree Board, or its agent, no person
shall intentionally damage, cut, carve, transplant, or remove any public tree;
attach any rope, wire, nails, advertising posters or other contrivance to any
public tree; allow any gaseous liquid, or solid substance which is harmful to
such public trees to come in contact with them; or set fire or permit any fire
to burn when such fire or the heat thereof will injure any part of any public
tree. (Ord. 2005-03, 11-14-2005)
5-5-13: HEDGES:
Hedges along the street property line shall not be planted within two feet (2')
of the adjacent property line. The height and clear vision zones shall be in
conformity with the City of Forsyth's fence regulations. (Ord. 2005-03, 11-14-
2005)
5-5-14: DEAD OR DISEASED TREES; PRUNING, REMOVAL:
All trees and shrubs within the Municipality shall be pruned or removed when
such trees or shrubs constitute a hazard to life and property, or harbor
insects or disease, which constitute a threat to other trees or shrubs within
the City.
The Municipality may further remove or cause to be removed any tree or part
thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is
injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other
public improvements or is infected with an injurious fungus, insect or pest.
(Ord. 2005-03, 11-14-2005)
5-5-15: PRUNING OR REMOVAL PROCEDURES:
   A.   Notice To Prune Or Remove: For any person or persons owning real
property bordering any street who fails to prune or remove a tree in violation
of either section
5-5-10 or
5-5-14 of this chapter, the City shall order such a person or persons within
ten (10) days after written receipt or written notice to prune or remove such
trees. The order may be served by personal service, certified mail or
publication.
   B.   Hearing: In the event the property owner disagrees with the order, the
property owner may request a hearing before the City Council of Forsyth. Such
written request for hearing must be filed within fifteen (15) days from the
receipt of the order. This provision should not be construed to limit the
liability of the property owner that may be incurred for maintaining a
dangerous or diseased tree. This hearing should be held at the first Council
meeting, after the request, allowing for sufficient time for the matter to be
placed on the agenda.
   C.   Failure To Comply: When a person to whom an order is directed shall
fail to comply within the specified time, it shall be lawful for the City to
prune or remove such tree, and the exact cost thereof shall be assessed to the
owner as provided for by law in the case of special assessments. (Ord. 2005-03,
11-14-2005)
5-5-16: INTERFERENCE WITH TREE BOARD OR AGENT:
No person shall hinder, prevent, delay, or interfere with the Tree Board, or
its agent, while engaged in carrying out the execution or enforcement of this
chapter; provided, however, that nothing herein shall be construed as an
attempt to prohibit the pursuit of any remedy, legal or equitable, in any court
of competent jurisdiction of the protection of property rights by the owner of
any property within the Municipality. (Ord. 2005-03, 11-14-2005)
5-5-17: ARBORIST LICENSE AND INSURANCE:
It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or
occupation of trimming, pruning, treating, or removing trees within the City
without first applying for and procuring a business license.
Before any business license shall be issued, each applicant shall first file
evidence of current possession of liability insurance and current possession of
acceptable workers' compensation insurance as set by this Code.
Further, all applicants shall receive a copy of the applicable National
Arborist Association (NAA) "Tree Pruning Standards". These standards shall be
considered minimum requirements for lawful work within the City.
Current International Society of Arboriculture arborist certification may be
used as a criteria in awarding licenses or in contracting. (Ord. 2005-03, 11-
14-2005)
5-5-18: TREE, SHRUB, HEDGE, ETC. ENCROACHMENT ON CITY RIGHT OF WAY:
   A.   Any vegetation (trees, hedges, bushes, grasses, weeds, etc.)
originating from individual properties that extrude into city right of way on
any sidewalk, street or alley, shall be the responsibility of that property
owner to remediate when given reasonable notice (
5-11-3) by the Code Enforcement Officer, 5 Public Works Director or other city
employee tasked with enforcement.
   B.   Remediation would include trimming or removing of offending vegetation
to the property line or further into the property to prevent future
encroachment.
(Ord. 2024-04, 12-16-2024)
5-5-19: PENALTY:
   Violations of this chapter are designated as Municipal infractions as
specified in
title 1, chapter 4 of this Code.
(Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
CHAPTER 6
ANIMAL WASTES
SECTION:
5-6-1: Removal Required
5-6-2: Placement With Garbage Prohibited (Rep. by Ord. 2015-06, 9-28-2015)
5-6-3: Objection By Adjacent Inhabitants
5-6-4: Failure To Comply; Removal By City
5-6-5: Continuing Notice
5-6-1: REMOVAL REQUIRED:
   Every person owning or having control of one or more of the following kinds
of domestic animals: cats, dogs, and birds; birds does not mean barnyard fowl,
and keeping such animals within the City, shall keep the premises upon which
such animals are kept free from accumulations of manure, and shall remove such
manure from said premises at least twice during each calendar month, and
dispose of properly or more often, if required to do so by the Code Enforcement
Officer or Director of Public Works; and said Code Enforcement Officer or
Director of Public Works is hereby empowered to order removal of manure more
often than twice in any calendar month by the owner of property on which it may
accumulate whenever in the judgment of the Code Enforcement Officer or Director
of Public Works, the removal thereof is for any reason desirable.
(Ord. 2015-06, 9-28-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-05, 12-16-2024)
5-6-2: PLACEMENT WITH GARBAGE PROHIBITED:
(Rep. by Ord. 2015-06, 9-28-2015)
5-6-3: OBJECTION BY ADJACENT INHABITANTS:
No person owning or having control over one or more of the kinds of domestic
animals described in section
5-6-1 of this chapter shall keep such animals within the City limits when
seventy five percent (75%) of the adult inhabitants in the immediate
neighborhood object to the maintenance of such domestic animals within the City
limits; provided however, that such objection must be in writing, signed by at
least seventy five percent (75%) of the adult inhabitants within a radius of
three hundred feet (300') of the premises where such animals are being kept or
maintained. Said written objection shall be directed to the City Council. When
any such written objection is received by the City Council, the City Council
shall cause notice to be given to such person maintaining such animals within
the City limits. Upon receipt of such notice, such person shall forthwith
remove or cause to be removed, such domestic animals from such premises and
will not again use said premises for keeping or maintaining such animals,
unless at least seventy five percent (75%) of the adult inhabitants of the said
immediate neighborhood consent to such use. It shall be unlawful for any such
person to neglect, fail or refuse to remove such domestic animals after receipt
of said notice as herein provided or to again use said premises for such
purposes without said consent. (Res., eff. 9-22-1977)
5-6-4: FAILURE TO COMPLY; REMOVAL BY CITY:
   Should any person neglect or refuse to remove accumulations of manure from
private premises after being ordered to do so by an officer of the City as
provided in this chapter, the Code Enforcement Officer or Public Works Director
shall cause the same to be removed and shall certify the cost thereof to the
City Council. The City Council shall thereafter, by resolution, levy and assess
the cost thereof against the property from which said manure was so removed,
and the City Clerk-Treasurer shall transmit to the County Clerk a certified
copy of such resolution. In addition, violations of this chapter are designated
as Municipal infractions as specified in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code.
(Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019; amd. Ord. 2024-05, 12-16-2024)
5-6-5: CONTINUING NOTICE:
   A notice issued of this chapter shall be deemed a continuing notice
regarding the animal wastes described in the notice for a period of one year
from the date of service and is valid for all locations within the City of
Forsyth, Montana. No further notice by an Enforcement Officer or ten (10) day
period to abate is necessary to abate a nuisance created by said animal wastes
within the one-year period.
(Ord. 2024-05, 12-16-2024)
CHAPTER 7
ABANDONED AND JUNK VEHICLES, MACHINERY, TRAILERS AND PARTS 1
SECTION:
5-7-1: Purpose
5-7-2: Definitions
5-7-3: Exemptions
5-7-4: Junk Vehicle Deemed Nuisance
5-7-5: Administration And Enforcement
5-7-6: Administration Costs
5-7-7: Notices
5-7-8: Abatement And Removal
5-7-9: Illegal Off Street Parking
5-7-10: Continuing Notice
5-7-11: Penalty
5-7-12: Nonexclusive Of This Chapter
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 6 of this code.
5-7-1: PURPOSE:
The city council of the city of Forsyth, Montana, hereby makes, finds and
declares that the accumulation and storage of abandoned, wrecked, dismantled,
or inoperative vehicles, machinery, trailers, or parts thereof, on public
property or illegally parked on private property is hereby found to create a
condition tending to reduce the value of private property, to promote blight
and deterioration, to invite plundering, to create fire hazards, to constitute
an attractive nuisance creating a hazard to the health and safety of minors, to
create a harbor for rodents and insects, and to be injurious to the health,
safety and general welfare. Therefore, the presence of an abandoned, dismantled
or inoperative vehicle, or part thereof, on public property or illegally parked
on private property, except as expressly hereinafter permitted, is hereby
declared to constitute a public nuisance, which may be abated as such in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2003-05, 7-14-2003, eff.
8-14-2003)
5-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: Any of the following. For the purposes of this definition,
the word "vehicle" includes a vehicle, machinery, trailer or parts thereof:
   A.   A vehicle that has been left unattended on public property for more
than forty eight (48) hours and lacks current registration, plates, or one or
more wheels/tires or other parts which renders the vehicle totally inoperable;
   B.   A vehicle that has remained illegally parked on public property for
more than forty eight (48) hours;
   C.   A vehicle that has been unlawfully parked on private real property or
has been placed on private property without the consent of the real property
owner or person in control of the property for more than forty eight (48)
hours;
   D.   A vehicle that has been legally impounded by order of a law enforcement
authority and has not been reclaimed for a period of five (5) days. However, a
law enforcement authority may declare the vehicle abandoned within the five (5)
day period by commencing the notification process in Montana Code Annotated
title 61 chapter 8 (2001);
   E.   Any vehicle parked on a street determined by a law enforcement
authority to create a hazard to other vehicle traffic.
   F.   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing upon the right of way of
any public highway for a period longer than forty eight (48) hours, or upon a
city street, any state, county or city property for a period longer than five
(5) days. Montana code number 61.8.356.
ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY: A peace officer or any city, state or federal department
or agency operating with arrest authority in Forsyth, Montana, or city council
designee.
JUNK VEHICLE: Any vehicle, machinery, trailer, or parts thereof, located on
public property or illegally parked on private property within the corporate
limits of the city of Forsyth, Montana, which, as to a vehicle or trailer, does
not properly display license plates or stickers indicating current registration
and/or, as to any vehicle, machinery, trailer, or parts thereof, which has any
one or more of the following characteristics:
   A.   Lacks an engine, wheel, tire, properly installed battery or other
structural parts which renders the vehicle inoperable for use as designed by
the manufacturer; provided, that if there is more than one vehicle on the real
property, there shall be the necessary number of engines, wheels, tires,
batteries and other structural parts for each respective vehicle;
   B.   Has a broken or missing fender, door, bumper, hood, exterior door
handle, running board, steering wheel, trunk top, trunk handle, tailpipe,
muffler, driver's seat, fuel tank, driveshaft, differential, generator,
alternator or other structural piece;
   C.   Has become or the potential to become the breeding ground or habitat of
rats, mice, snakes, mosquitoes or other vermin, rodents or insects, or is
otherwise used for the storage, harbor, caging or dwelling for an animal of any
kind;
   D.   Has heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over eight inches
(8") in height under or immediately next to it;
   E.   Has become a point of collection for stagnant water;
   F.   Has junk, garbage, refuse, gasoline or fuel other than in its fuel
tank, paper, cardboard, wood or other combustible materials, solid waste or
other hazardous material present in it or which is primarily used for storage
of any materials;
   G.   Has become a source of danger for children through entrapment in areas
of confinement that cannot be opened from inside, through a danger of the
vehicle falling or turning over, or through possible injury from exposed
surfaces of metal, glass or other rigid materials;
   H.   Has become a potential source of contamination of the soil from
petroleum products or other toxic liquids being discharged or leaking from the
vehicle;
   I.   Has become illegal to operate on the public streets because it is
missing one or more parts required by law;
   J.   Is an abandoned vehicle; or
   K.   Because of its defective, deteriorated or obsolete condition in any
other way constitutes a nuisance or a threat to the public's health or safety.
MACHINERY: Synonymous with and means the same as "machine" as defined by the
current edition of "Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary".
PARTS: Any mechanical, structural, body or decorative part of any vehicle,
machinery or trailer.
RESPONSIBLE PARTIES: Means:
   A.   If ascertainable, the last known registered owner of the junk vehicle
as indicated in the official records of the state of Montana department of
motor vehicles or a sister state division of transportation or motor vehicles.
TRAILER: Any vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons or
property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle.
VEHICLE: Any device by which any person or property may be propelled, moved, or
drawn upon a street, except a device which is designed to be exclusively moved
by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. The term
vehicle shall include, but is not limited to, an automobile, truck, van, sports
utility vehicle, recreational vehicle camper, motorcycle, trailer, watercraft,
boat, canoe, jet skis, snowmobile, ATVs or aircraft. (Ord. 2003-05, 7-14-2003,
eff. 8-14-2003; amd. Ord. 2015-06, 9-28-2015)
5-7-3: EXEMPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to the following:
   A.   When such storage or parking is necessary to the operation of a
lawfully conducted business or commercial enterprise on land which such
business or enterprise is authorized by the city's zoning regulations;
   B.   A vehicle which was recently involved in a collision, duly documented
by a timely report filed with the appropriate law enforcement agency or the
state department of transportation, or its equivalent in a sister state, shall
not be deemed a junk vehicle unless the owner/operator of said vehicle fails to
repair the same within a reasonable period of time after said collision.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall authorize the maintenance of a public or
private nuisance as defined under provisions of law. Refer to criminal
nuisances in this code.
   D.   Nothing in this chapter and none of these exemptions alter any zoning
regulations for the land on which the vehicle is located. See title 12, "Zoning
Regulations", of this code. (Ord. 2003-05, 7-14-2003, eff. 8-14-2003)
5-7-4: JUNK VEHICLE DEEMED NUISANCE:
The keeping, maintaining or allowing a junk vehicle to be on public property or
illegally parked on private property, except as provided by section
5-7-3 of this chapter, shall constitute a nuisance. The owner of a junk vehicle
shall be responsible for the maintaining or keeping of a nuisance. (Ord. 2003-
05, 7-14-2003, eff. 8-14-2003)
5-7-5: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the provisions of this chapter
shall be administered and enforced by the city's enforcement agency and/or
their respective designees, or city council designee, hereinafter collectively
referred to as the "enforcement officer". The enforcement officer and any
person designated to abate the nuisance pursuant to this code or court order,
are hereby authorized access to any property upon which a junk vehicle is
located for the purpose of carrying out any and all actions necessary to
enforce this chapter. (Ord. 2015-06, 9-28-2015)
5-7-6: ADMINISTRATION COSTS:
The city council shall determine and fix the administrative fee annually, an
amount to be assessed as administrative costs under this chapter. Said
administrative fee shall be in addition to the actual costs incurred regarding
towing, storage and disposal of the vehicle. The administrative fee shall be
set by resolution. (Ord. 2015-06, 9-28-2015)
5-7-7: NOTICES:
   A.   A ten (10) day notice (exclusive of weekends or federally mandated
holidays) of intention to abate and remove the vehicle or parts thereof as a
public nuisance shall be given to the owner of the vehicle, if known. The
notices of intention shall be in a form promulgated by the enforcement officer
and shall provide the following information at a minimum:
      1.   A description of the vehicle or parts which constitute(s) a nuisance
under the provisions of this code;
      2.   The nuisance must be abated within ten (10) days (exclusive of
weekends and federally mandated holidays). The junk vehicle must be either:
         a.   Brought into a condition that it no longer is defined as a "junk
vehicle";
         b.   Removed from the property and properly disposed of or removed
from the city; and
      3.   Failure to properly abate said nuisance as prescribed shall be
sufficient cause for the removal of the junk vehicle by the enforcement
authority or his/her duly designated agent as set forth by this Code.
   B.   The notice required by this section shall be served in any one of the
following manners:
      1.   Posting notice on or near the junk vehicle(s) in question and by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last registered owner of said
vehicle, if ascertainable, at the address listed in the State's records
concerning ownership of the vehicle (for the purposes of this provision service
shall be deemed to have been perfected the day after the notice is mailed); or
      2.   If the last registered owner's name is not ascertainable by posting
notice on or near the junk vehicle(s) in question (for the purposes of this
provision, service shall be deemed to have been perfected the day the notice is
posted on or near the junk vehicle). (Ord. 2003-05, 7-14-2003, eff. 8-14-2003)
5-7-8: ABATEMENT AND REMOVAL:
   A.   The responsible party, after service of notice is perfected, shall
abate the nuisance within ten (10) days (exclusive of weekends and Federally
mandated holidays) of service being perfected. Abatement shall consist of:
      1.   Providing for the current registration of each and every vehicle
including affixing the registration plate or current sticker to the vehicle;
      2.   Repairing any and all conditions which cause such vehicle(s) to be a
nuisance under the provisions of this Code; and
      3.   Having all of the required equipment and parts for each vehicle
which was described in the notice; or removing the junk vehicle or causing the
junk vehicle to be removed to the Rosebud County vehicle salvage yard or to a
licensed dismantler, salvage yard, licensed vehicle dealer, a junk dealer, an
auto body shop or to any other location provided the same complies with all
applicable provisions of this Code.
   B.   If the responsible parties fail to abate the nuisance as prescribed, or
after such abatement has been affirmed by the court on appeal, the City,
through the Enforcement Officer, may abate such nuisance by causing the junk
vehicle(s) to be removed, impounded and sold or disposed of as provided for
abandoned vehicles under the laws of the State of Montana. All costs of such
abatement and the administrative fee provided by this chapter shall be charged
to the responsible parties, jointly and severally. (Ord. 2003-05, 7-14-2003,
eff. 8-14-2003)
5-7-9: ILLEGAL OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   No person shall park a vehicle onto or upon privately owned real
property or area developed as an off street parking facility without the
consent of the owner, lessee or person in charge of said property or facility.
   B.   No person shall park a vehicle onto or upon publicly owned real
property or area developed as an off street parking facility, if said property
is not properly designated and signed for parking of private vehicles; contrary
to any signs set forth upon said property or facility; or contrary to the laws
of the State of Montana, Rosebud County or the City of Forsyth, Montana,
without proper consent of said State, County or City.
   C.   Any vehicle parked in violation of this section shall be deemed an
abandoned vehicle. (Ord. 2003-05, 7-14-2003, eff. 8-14-2003)
5-7-10: CONTINUING NOTICE:
A notice issued as provided in section
5-7-7 of this chapter shall be deemed a continuing notice regarding the vehicle
(s) described in the notice for a period of one year from the date of service
and is valid for all locations within the City of Forsyth, Montana. No further
notice by an Enforcement Officer or ten (10) day period to abate is necessary
to abate a nuisance created by said vehicle(s) within the one year period.
(Ord. 2003-05, 7-14-2003, eff. 8-14-2003)
5-7-11: PENALTY:
   A.   Failure of the person or persons responsible for the accumulation and
storage of abandoned, wrecked, junked or dismantled or inoperative vehicles,
machinery, trailers, or parts thereof on public property or illegally parked on
private property which has not been abated as such in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter within the time specified in the notice, after the
same has been served as provided in this chapter, constitutes a violation of
this chapter. Violations of this chapter are designated as Municipal
infractions as specified in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code.
   B.   In any action or proceeding brought for the violation of this chapter,
as defined in this chapter, the reasonable cost and expense to City in
connection with the mailing or serving of notice and the inspection of the
private property in question, shall be awarded to City as part of the court's
judgment. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
5-7-12: NONEXCLUSIVE OF THIS CHAPTER:
This chapter is not the exclusive regulation of abandoned, wrecked, dismantled
or inoperative vehicles within the City of Forsyth, Montana. It shall
supplement and be in addition to the other regulatory codes, statutes, and
ordinances heretofore or hereafter enacted by the City, the State, or any other
legal entity or agency having jurisdiction. (Ord. 2003-05, 7-14-2003, eff. 8-
14-2003)
CHAPTER 8
UNSAFE SIGNS
SECTION:
5-8-1: Definitions
5-8-2: Purpose
5-8-3: Prohibition
5-8-4: Maintenance
5-8-5: Removal
5-8-6: Abandoned Signs
5-8-7: Penalty
5-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
ABANDONED SIGN: A sign remaining in place for at least thirty (30) days after
it no longer advertises or identifies an ongoing business, product, or service
available on the premises where the sign is located.
SIGN: Any identification, description, illustration or device, illuminated or
nonilluminated, which is visible from any public place or is located on private
property and exposed to the public and which directs attention to a produce,
service, place, activity, person, institution, business or solicitation,
including any permanently installed or situated merchandise, or any emblem,
painting, banner, pennant, placard or temporary sign designed to advertise,
identify or convey information, with the exception of window display and
national flags. "Signs" shall also include all sign structures. (Ord. 2003-09,
10-27-2003, eff. 11-27-2003)
5-8-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards for the removal of any
abandoned, unsafe, or dangerous business signs. (Ord. 2003-09, 10-27-2003, eff.
11-27-2003)
5-8-3: PROHIBITION:
Prohibition shall be a violation of this chapter to maintain an unsafe,
dangerous, or abandoned sign. (Ord. 2003-09, 10-27-2003, eff. 11-27-2003)
5-8-4: MAINTENANCE:
All signs shall be maintained in an operable and safe condition. Failure to
comply with the maintenance provision of this chapter shall constitute a
violation. (Ord. 2003-09, 10-27-2003, eff. 11-27-2003)
5-8-5: REMOVAL:
   The Code Enforcement Officer or building inspector shall require the removal
of any sign found to be unsafe or unmaintained except for emergencies. Before
bringing such action to require the removal of an unmaintained sign, the Code
Enforcement Officer or building inspector shall provide written notice to the
owner of the sign or the owner of the premises on which the sign is located.
The notice shall state the reason for the removal, specifying the deficiency
and violations and such notice shall specify what repairs, if any, to make the
sign safe. Notice shall be made to the owner of record either by personal
service or by certified mail.
   If the owner or lessee fails to remove the sign within the allowed time
after written notice, the Code Enforcement Officer or building inspector is
authorized to remove the sign at the owner’s expense.
   If the Code Enforcement Officer or building inspector finds that any sign or
sign support is in violation of this section, and by reason of its condition it
presents an immediate danger to the public, he shall order that the sign be
immediately removed. If the person who is responsible cannot be found, the Code
Enforcement Officer or building inspector should remove the sign within ten
(10) days of the notification.
(Ord. 2003-09, 10-27-2003, eff. 11-27-2003; amd. Ord. 2024-06, 12-16-2024)
5-8-6: ABANDONED SIGNS:
Any person who owns or leases a building, which has a sign shall remove the
sign within thirty (30) days after it becomes abandoned as defined in this
chapter. If the owner or lessee cannot be located, the city shall remove such
sign. The cost of removal shall be borne by the owner of the sign.
A building, structure, or premises shall be determined to be vacated based upon
the following criteria:
   A.   Vacancy.
   B.   Cessation of utility services.
   C.   Termination of the business license.
Sign structures that have been left vacant, devoid of any messages, display a
message pertaining to a time, event, or purpose that no longer applies, or are
unoccupied, any of which for a thirty (30) day period shall be deemed abandoned
and must be removed. (Ord. 2003-09, 10-27-2003, eff. 11-27-2003)
5-8-7: PENALTY:
Violations of this chapter are designated as Municipal infractions as specified
in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
CHAPTER 9
COMMUNITY DECAY
SECTION:
5-9-1: Definitions
5-9-2: Decay Prohibited
5-9-3: Shielding
5-9-4: Jurisdiction
5-9-5: Compatibility
5-9-6: Penalty
5-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   In this chapter the following terms have the meaning indicated below:
    ACCUMULATE: To gather, collect, heap or pile up.
   COMMUNITY DECAY: A public nuisance created by allowing rubble, debris, junk,
junk vehicle(s), dangerous structure(s), or refuse to accumulate on or adjacent
to a public right of way so that it:
      1.   Endangers safety or health, is offensive to the senses, or obstructs
the free use of property so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property.
      2.   Is a condition which renders dangerous for passage on any public
right of way.
Community decay does not include persons servicing, manufacturing, or
processing materials, goods, or products on lots in public view, so long as the
materials used in the normal operation of the business are neatly stacked,
piled or shredded, and such businesses are conducted within a properly zoned
area. Community decay does not include normal residential maintenance or
landscaping.
   PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, company, association, corporation,
city, town, local governmental entity, or any other governmental or private
entity, whether organized for profit or not.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE: A nuisance which affects, at the same time, an entire
community or neighborhood or any considerable number of persons, although the
extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon individuals may be unequal.
   SHIELDING: Refers to fencing or other manmade barriers to conceal community
decay from public view. It also refers to natural barriers. Any shielding
barrier must conform to all local zoning, planning, building, and protective
covenant provisions. Any shielding is to be of sufficient height so that none
of the violations on the premises is visible to public view. This is not
intended to require that permanent buildings, other structures, or utility
poles be included in this and be shielded. (Ord. 2003-10, 11-10-2003, eff. 12-
10-2003)
5-9-2: DECAY PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be a violation of this chapter to own or maintain any public
nuisance or community decay.
      1.   No person shall dump, pile, or stack bricks, concrete, block, waste
wood, and similar material in public view unless said material is stacked in
neat piles and all waste material from the cleaning of such items, such as
mortar, wood splinters, broken and unusable bricks, is removed to a licensed
solid waste disposal facility or to some other location which has been approved
by the city of Forsyth within thirty (30) days.
      2.   No person shall store or accumulate cardboard boxes, broken packing
boxes, paper, broken shipping pallets, tires, rubble, debris, junk refuse, dead
animals or animal parts, except animal parts used for ornamental purposes, or
other similar items in public view.
      3.   No person shall pile, dump, or deposit any dirt, demolition wastes
including wood, bricks, concrete, and other similar materials in public view,
unless such material is to be utilized for fill material to fill a land
depression. If such material is used as fill material, it may contain only
dirt, bricks, or concrete and all such material must be completely covered with
clean fill material once every thirty (30) days and the fill area adequately
fenced to restrict access to the area.
      4.   No person shall store or accumulate iron, metal, machine parts,
household appliances, barrels, and/or other salvaged metal items in public
view.
      5.   No person shall accumulate or store any other rubble, debris, junk,
or refuse that, upon investigation is deemed to be a "public nuisance" as
defined in this chapter.
      6.   No person shall accumulate, leave or permit to remain outside of any
dwelling, building or other structure or within any unoccupied or abandoned
building, structure or dwelling under his control, in a place accessible to
children any storage items, refrigerators, freezers or containers that
constitute an attractive hazard as defined herein without first removing said
door or lid, snaplock or other locking device. (Ord. 2003-10, 11-10-2003, eff.
12-10-2003)
      7.   No person shall permit or suffer to be in or accumulate in or upon
any yard, lot, place or premises or upon any street or sidewalk adjacent to or
abutting upon any lot, block, place or premises or in any building or shed
owned or occupied by him for which he may be an agent within the limit of the
city, any stagnant water or impure water, refuse, vegetable decay or decaying
substance, garbage or filth of any kind, nor suffer such yard, lot, place,
building or premises to be or to remain in such condition as to cause or create
a nuisance or offensive smell or to pollute or render unhealthful the
atmosphere or the premises or thereby to be, become, cause or create a public
nuisance. It shall be the responsibility of the public works director and/or a
city council designee to enforce the provisions of this title. (Ord. 2015-06,
9-28-2015)
      8.   No person shall allow storage of junk or abandoned vehicles as
defined in the junk vehicle ordinance.
   B.   Regardless of any provision of this chapter to the contrary if a person
engages in any of the activities listed in this section as an ongoing
continuous salvage business, the business shall be located in an area properly
zoned for such a salvage business and shall be shielded from public view as
required by this chapter. (Ord. 2003-10, 11-10-2003, eff. 12-10-2003)
5-9-3: SHIELDING:
   A.   The maintenance of materials that would be considered a public nuisance
under this chapter shall be lawful if such materials are shielded from public
view and if such shielding otherwise serves to abate the nuisance that is being
complained about. (Ord. 2003-10, 11-10-2003, eff. 12-10-2003)
      1.   Any shielding must conform to all local zoning, planning, building
code and protective covenant provisions applicable to the property and shall be
sufficient height that none of the nuisance materials on the premises are
visible to public view. There may be situations where partial shielding is
allowed. This determination will be made by the enforcement officer. (Ord.
2015-06, 9-28-2015)
      2.   No more than one shielding material shall be used on any one side of
a shielding fence unless approved by the city. (Ord. 2003-10, 11-10-2003, eff.
12-10-2003)
5-9-4: JURISDICTION:
   A.   This chapter applies to the incorporated limits of the city of Forsyth.
(Ord. 2003-10, 11-10-2003, eff. 12-10-2003)
5-9-5: COMPATIBILITY:
Nothing in this chapter or Montana Code Annotated section 7-5-2110 may be
construed to abrogate or affect the provisions of any lawful ordinance,
regulation or resolution that is more restrictive than the provisions of this
chapter or Montana Code Annotated section 7-5-2110. (Ord. 2003-10, 11-10-2003,
eff. 12-10-2003)
5-9-6: PENALTY:
Violations of this chapter are designated as Municipal infractions as specified
in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code.
(Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
CHAPTER 10
SHIPPING CONTAINERS/CONEX BOXES
SECTION:
5-10-1: Nuisance Declared
5-10-2: Enforcement
5-10-3: Penalty
5-10-4: Shipping Containers/Conex Boxes Allowed
5-10-5: Conditional Use Permit Required
5-10-6: Parameters For The Use Of Shipping Containers/Conex Boxes
5-10-7: Removal Of Storage Containers/Conex Boxes
5-10-8: Failure To Remove Storage Container/Conex Boxes
5-10-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
The use of shipping containers as storage or buildings on private property has
increased in the city. Shipping containers and similar structures pose a risk
to individuals and the public because they are not securely anchored, are not
served with adequate utilities, do not have fire suppression systems, do not
contain adequate ventilation and generally have heavy doors or other opening
mechanisms that may be difficult to operate. (Ord. 2022-04, 7-25-2022)
5-10-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The provisions of this article shall be enforced as provided in Montana Code
Annotated and City of Forsyth code. (Ord. 2022-04, 7-25-2022)
5-10-3: PENALTY:
Violations of this chapter are designed as Municipal infractions as specified
in
title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2022-04, 7-25-2022)
5-10-4: SHIPPING CONTAINERS/CONEX BOXES ALLOWED:
One (1) bin shall be allowed on properties that are zoned highway commercial
without a conditional use permit request. More than one container in high
commercial zoned areas will require a conditional use permit.
(Ord. 2022-04, 7-25-2022; amd. Ord. 2022-07, 1-16-2023)
5-10-5: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED:
All containers in any zoning area other than highway commercial will require a
conditional use permit.
(Ord. 2022-04, 7-25-2022; amd. Ord. 2022-07, 1-16-2023)
5-10-6: PARAMETERS FOR THE USE OF SHIPPING CONTAINERS/CONEX BOXES:
   A.   All approved containers must be located in the rear or side of the lot
and any existing home or structure;
   B.   All building and zoning codes apply which include but are not limited
to: all front/back/side set -backs; permits, 50/50 rule, IBC's preventing
buildings and structures over utilities and other applicable cods and rules;
   C.   Containers must be kept painted in a color that matches or conforms to
other structures on the existing property;
   D.   Containers must only be used for storage and in no way will they be
used for habitation;
   E.   A concrete foundation or appropriate footings must be in place to
prevent the container from settling into the ground;
   F.   Previous usage verification must be provided to ensure that the
container was not used to house or transfer and hazardous or radioactive
materials. (Ord. 2022-04, 7-25-2022)
5-10-7: REMOVAL OF STORAGE CONTAINERS/CONEX BOXES:
   A.   Any property owner with a storage container(s)/conex boxes on property
within the City shall have sixty (60) days from the date of passage of this
section to remove such storage container/conex box or to obtain a conditional
use permit for the use of the storage container/conex box.
(Ord. 2022-04, 7-25-2022; amd. Ord. 2022-07, 1-16-2023)
5-10-8: FAILURE TO REMOVE STORAGE CONTAINER/CONEX BOXES:
Failure to remove any unpermitted storage container/conex box before the
expiration of the 60-day period shall be deemed a violation of Title 5, Chapter
10 and any citizen will be subject to enforcement and penalty described
therein. (Ord. 2022-04, 7-25-2022)
CHAPTER 11
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
5-11-1: Administration And Enforcement
5-11-2: Administration Costs
5-11-3: Notices
5-11-4: Abatement And Removal
5-11-5: Penalty
5-11-1: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the provisions of this title
shall be administered and enforced by city's enforcement agency and/or their
respective designees, or city council designee hereinafter collectively
referred to as the "enforcement officer". The enforcement officer and any
person designated to abate the nuisance pursuant to this code or court order,
are hereby authorized access to any property for the purpose of carrying out
any and all actions necessary to enforce this title. (Ord. 2015-08, 12-21-2015)
5-11-2: ADMINISTRATION COSTS:
The city council shall determine and fix the administrative fee, an amount to
be assessed as administrative costs under this chapter. Said administrative fee
shall be in addition to the actual costs incurred in the enforcement of this
title. The administrative fee shall be set by resolution. (Ord. 2015-08, 12-21-
2015)
5-11-3: NOTICES:
   A.   A ten (10) day notice (exclusive of weekends or federally mandated
holidays) of intention to abate the described nuisance shall be given to the
alleged offender, if known. The notices of intention shall be in a form
promulgated by the enforcement officer and shall provide the following
information at a minimum:
      1.   A description of the items, issues or parts which constitute(s) a
nuisance under the provisions of this code;
      2.   The nuisance must be abated within ten (10) days (exclusive of
weekends and federally mandated holidays).
         a.   Brought into a condition that it no longer is defined as a
nuisance.
         b.   Removed from the property and properly disposed of or removed
from the city.
      3.   Failure to properly abate said nuisance as prescribed shall be
sufficient cause for the removal of the nuisance by the enforcement authority
or his/her duly designated agent as set forth by this code.
   B.   The notice required by this section shall be served in any one of the
following manners:
      1.   Posting notice on or near the nuisance in question and by certified
mail, return receipt requested, to the last known owner of the nuisance or
affected property, if ascertainable, at the address listed in available records
(for the purposes of this provision, service shall be deemed to have been
perfected the day after the notice is mailed); or
      2.   If the last owner's name is not ascertainable, by posting notice on
or near the nuisance(s) in question (for the purposes of this provision,
service shall be deemed to have been perfected the day the notice is posted).
(Ord. 2015-08, 12-21-2015)
5-11-4: ABATEMENT AND REMOVAL:
   A.   The responsible party, after service of notice is perfected, shall
abate the nuisance within ten (10) days (exclusive of weekends and federally
mandated holidays) of service being perfected.
   B.   If the responsible parties fail to abate the nuisance as prescribed, or
after such nonabatement has been affirmed by the court on appeal, the city,
through the enforcement officer, may abate such nuisance by causing the
nuisance(s) to be removed, impounded and sold or disposed of. All costs of such
abatement and the administrative fee provided by this chapter shall be charged
to the responsible parties, jointly and severally. (Ord. 2015-08, 12-21-2015)
5-11-5: PENALTY:
Violations of this chapter are designated as Municipal infractions as specified
in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
TITLE 6
FIRE REGULATIONS 1
CHAPTER 1
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
SECTION:
6-1-1: Adoption Of Fire Prevention Code
6-1-2: Stove Inspections; Fee
 
Notes
1 1. MCA title 7, chapter 33.
6-1-1: ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE:
For the purpose of regulating and governing conditions hazardous to life and
property from fire, the fire prevention code, current edition, as recommended
by the National Board Of Fire Underwriters, is hereby adopted. Said fire
prevention code, one copy of which shall be on file at all times in the office
of the city clerk-treasurer, shall be made a part of this code as if set out at
length herein. (Ord. 2015-06, 9-28-2015)
6-1-2: STOVE INSPECTIONS; FEE:
In the event any request is made by the owner or insurance carrier of an
existing wood or coal burning stove in the city, the building inspector is
henceforth authorized to perform inspections of those stoves and a fee of
twenty dollars ($20.00) shall be assessed, fifteen dollars ($15.00) for the
building inspector and five dollars ($5.00) for the city. These inspections are
to be on a voluntary basis only, are not to be performed unless requested by
the owner or insurance carrier for a home that has a wood or coal burning stove
and are not designed to limit or eliminate inspections of a similar type
performed by any other person or insurance carrier for a home that has a coal
or wood burning stove. (Res., 12-28-1987)
CHAPTER 2
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Defined
6-2-2: Dates And Locations Fireworks Prohibited
6-2-3: Exceptions
6-2-4: Penalty
6-2-1: DEFINED:
The city adopts by reference the state of Montana definition of "fireworks" as
set forth in Montana Code Annotated section 50-37-101.
(MCA § 50-37-101 (2019)) (Ord. 2021-02, 9-27-2021; amd. Ord. 2023-01, 1-8-2024)
6-2-2: DATES AND LOCATIONS FIREWORKS PROHIBITED:
In addition to authority under Montana law:
   A.   Sale Of Fireworks: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell any
fireworks except on the following dates:
      June 24 through July 5 each year; and
      December 29 through December 31 each year.
   B.   Location Restrictions On Discharge Of Fireworks: It shall be unlawful
for any person to discharge or cause to be discharged any fireworks in the
following locations at all times:
      Main Street
      Front Street
   C.   Time Restrictions On Discharge Of Fireworks: It shall be unlawful for
any person to discharge or cause to be discharged any fireworks within the
exterior boundaries of the City of Forsyth except on the following dates and
times:
      1.   July 1 through July 4:
      The times and dates that it is permissible to detonate, combust or
display legally authorized fireworks is from July 1 through July 4 from eleven
(11:00) A.M. to eleven (11:00) P.M., except that fireworks will be allowed to
be detonated until twelve (12:00) midnight on July 4.
      2.   In addition, fireworks will be allowed to be detonated on New Year’s
Eve, from four o’clock (4:00) P.M. December 31 through twelve thirty o’clock
(12:30) A.M. January 1.
   D.   Permit Required:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any vendor to sell fireworks within the
exterior boundaries of the City of Forsyth without first obtaining a business
license from the City Clerk. Vendors who obtain a business license to sell
fireworks within the City of Forsyth may only sell fireworks between June 24
and July 5, and December 29 and December 31 each year as provided for under
Montana Code Annotated section 50-37-106.
      2.   Vendors who obtain a permit to sell fireworks within the City of
Forsyth must strictly comply with all requirements of State law.
(Ord. 2011-02, 10-24-2011; Ord. 2015-06, 9-28-2015; Ord. 2021-02, 9-27-2021;
Ord. 2023-01, 1-8-2024; Ord. 2024-01, 12-16-2024)
6-2-3: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Signaling Devices: Nothing in this chapter shall be held to apply to
the possession or use of signaling devices for current daily consumption by
railroads, trucks and others requiring them.
   B.   Displays; Permit Required: The Chief of the Fire Department may, upon
due application, issue a permit to a properly qualified person for giving a
pyrotechnic display in the public parks or other open places. The permit will
be acquired from City Hall, and the Fire Chief must sign off on the permit.
(Ord. 2015-06, 9-28-2015; Ord. 2021-02, 9-27-2021; Ord. 2023-01, 1-8-2024)
6-2-4: PENALTY:
Violations of the time and location restrictions in this chapter are designated
as Municipal infractions as specified in
title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. All other violations are considered
misdemeanors and punishable as set forth in this code.
(Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019; Ord. 2021-02, 9-27-2021; Ord. 2023-
01, 1-8-2024)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE SAFETY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Public Buildings
6-3-2: Open Burning; Permission Required; Violation
6-3-3: Open Burning; Bonfire Restrictions
6-3-4: Special Burn Permit
6-3-5: Recreational Fire Pit
6-3-6: Clean Burning Fuels
6-3-7: Functional Water Source
6-3-8: Open Burning Prohibited
6-3-9: Constantly Attended
6-3-10: Liability For Damages
6-3-11: Unlawful Open Burning
6-3-12: Enforcement
6-3-13: Penalty
6-3-1: PUBLIC BUILDINGS:
Pursuant to sections 7-5-108, 7-5-109, 7-5-4202 and 7-33-4208, Montana Code
Annotated, the City hereby adopts and includes within this Code, by this
reference, title 50, chapter 61, Montana Code Annotated, entitled Fire Safety
in Public Buildings, the same being sections 50-61-101 through 50-61-121,
Montana Code Annotated, inclusive. (Res. 1990-R11, 11-12-1990)
6-3-2: OPEN BURNING; PERMISSION REQUIRED; VIOLATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any debris or material outside a
dwelling house without first obtaining permission from the County Sheriff's
Office. Violations of this chapter are designated as Municipal infractions as
specified in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff.
1-1-2019)
6-3-3: OPEN BURNING; BONFIRE RESTRICTIONS:
Bonfires restrictions apply within the city limits of Forsyth:
   A.   Fires which exceed the size of a recreational fire are bonfires and are
not permitted within the city limits of Forsyth, unless a special burn permit
is obtained and is approved by the Forsyth city council. (Ord. 2022-03, 8-8-
2022)
6-3-4: SPECIAL BURN PERMIT:
An Application for a special burn permit can be obtained at City Hall
Permission and verification from the Forsyth Volunteer Fire-Department is
required. (Ord. 2022-03, 8-8-2022)
6-3-5: RECREATIONAL FIRE PIT:
A recreational fire pit may be conducted in a homemade/unlisted (non-
commercially available/produced incinerator, commercially available fire pit,
outdoor fireplace, fire pit, portable outdoor fireplace, barbeque grill,
barbeque pit when it is constructed of and surrounded by wholly noncombustible
materials. (Ord. 2022-03, 8-8-2022)
6-3-6: CLEAN BURNING FUELS:
Only clean burning fuels such as unpainted wood, paper, paper goods, cardboard,
pellets, propane or charcoal may be used. (Ord. 2022-03, 8-8-2022)
6-3-7: FUNCTIONAL WATER SOURCE:
Must have a functional water source and garden hose, appropriately sized
extinguisher or other comparable means of fire extinguishment immediately
available at all times. (Ord. 2022-03, 8-8-2022)
6-3-8: OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED:
May be prohibited based on hazardous conditions such as severe weather or
drought. (Ord. 2022-03, 8-8-2022)
6-3-9: CONSTANTLY ATTENDED:
Must be constantly attended until completely extinguished. (Ord. 2022-03, 8-8-
2022)
6-3-10: LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES:
A person who sets or leaves a fire that spreads and damages or destroys
property of any kind not belonging to the person (or threatens to do the same)
may be held liable for all damages caused by the fie and all costs and expenses
incurred, but not limited to, expenses incurred in fire suppression and
investigation. (Ord. 2022-03, 8-8-2022)
6-3-11: UNLAWFUL OPEN BURNING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to openly burn any debris or material
outside of the allowances described in
6-3-2 within the city limits of the City of Forsyth. (Ord. 2022-03, 8-8-2022)
6-3-12: ENFORCEMENT:
The provisions of this article shall be enforced as provided in Montana Code
Annotated and City of Forsyth code. (Ord. 2022-03, 8-8-2022)
6-3-13: PENALTY:
Violations of this chapter are designed as Municipal infractions as specified
in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2022-03, 8-8-2022)
TITLE 7
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
7-1-1: State Criminal Code Adopted
7-1-2: Barbed Wire And Electric Fences
7-1-3: Loudspeakers Or Sound Trucks (Rep. by Ord. 2024-07, 12-16-2024)
7-1-4: Lug Wheels
7-1-5: Playing Ball On Streets (Rep. by Ord. 2024-07, 12-16-2024)
7-1-6: Drinking In Public Places; Display
7-1-7: Exotic Dancers; Nude And Seminude Exhibitions
7-1-8: Sanitation Violation
7-1-9: Dike Preservation
7-1-10: Littering
7-1-11: Quiet Hours Established
7-1-12: Abandoned Vehicles
7-1-13:    Unlawful Parking
7-1-1: STATE CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED:
The City adopts the Montana Criminal Code of 1973, Montana Code Annotated
section 45-1-101, et seq., except insofar as the application thereof is clearly
impractical or inappropriate. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
7-1-2: BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any electric fence. It
is further unlawful for any person to erect any fence constructed in whole or
in part of barbed wire or to use barbed wire as a guard to any parking lot or
parcel of land; provided, however, the City Council may, in specific instances
upon request, grant a written license to erect certain barbed wire fences or
structures within the City limits for protective purposes, if in the judgment
of the City Council, the erection of said barbed wire fence is in the interest
of public safety or is an adjunct to law enforcement; further provided,
however, in the event the City Council elects to approve the erection of a
barbed wire fence under the exceptions herein provided, the licensee will be
obligated to provide to the City an indemnifying agreement holding the City
harmless for any bodily injury or property damage resulting from the erection
and maintenance of said fence, or in lieu thereof, a bond or such other
security as the City Council may require. Violations of this section are
designated as Municipal infractions as specified in title 1, chapter 4 of this
Code. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
7-1-3: LOUDSPEAKERS OR SOUND TRUCKS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2024-07, 12-16-2024)
7-1-4: LUG WHEELS:
It shall be unlawful for tractors or other vehicles equipped with wheels
injurious to pavement to be permitted upon the public thoroughfares. Vehicles
must have lug nut covers. Violations of this section are designated as
Municipal infractions as specified in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord.
2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
7-1-5: PLAYING BALL ON STREETS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2024-07, 12-16-2024)
7-1-6: DRINKING IN PUBLIC PLACES; DISPLAY 1 :
   A.   Definitions: The following words and phrases used in this section shall
be defined as follows:
    BEER: Shall mean and be defined as that term is defined in the Alcoholic
Beverage Code by section 16-1-106, Montana Code Annotated, as amended.
   LIQUOR OR LIQUORS: Shall mean and be defined as those terms are defined by
section 16-1-106, Montana Code Annotated, as amended, of the Alcoholic Beverage
Code.
   PUBLIC DISPLAY OR EXHIBITIONISM OF BEER OR LIQUOR: The carrying and
exhibiting of opened cans or bottles of beer or the carrying and exhibiting of
glasses or containers containing beer or liquor, even though empty, from retail
liquor or beer establishments to, in, on or upon the public places in the City,
but does not include carrying or transporting such beer or liquor from retail
liquor or beer establishments in sacks, cases, boxes or cartons when no display
or exhibition is made.
   PUBLIC DRINKING: The drinking or consuming of beer or liquor in, on or upon
the public places in the City.
   PUBLIC PLACES: The streets, avenues, alleys and places in the City, but does
not include the premises licensed for the sale of liquor or beer at retail by
the Montana Liquor Control Board, nor does it include private residences and
other private places not within the public view. (Ord. 186, 10-14-1963)
   B.   Public Drinking And Display Prohibited; Violation: "Public drinking"
and "public display or exhibitionism of beer or liquor", as defined in
subsection A of this section, is hereby prohibited and it shall be unlawful for
any person to engage in "public drinking", as herein defined, within the City
limits, and it shall be unlawful for any person to engage in "public display or
exhibitionism of beer or liquor", as herein defined, within the City limits.
Violations of this section shall be considered a misdemeanor and punishable as
set forth in this Code. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 8-5-1 of this Code for variance provisions.
7-1-7: EXOTIC DANCERS; NUDE AND SEMINUDE EXHIBITIONS:
   A.   Unlawful; Described: The dances or exhibitions referred to in this
section shall not be deemed unlawful unless:
      1.   Any female participant intentionally appears with breast or breasts
uncovered. The breast shall be considered under the prohibitions of this
section when any portion of the nipple or areola is not covered by a fully
opaque material or is so thinly covered as to appear uncovered.
      2.   Any person, male or female, appears unclothed, costumed or clothed
in such a manner that the lower part of his or her torso, consisting of the
private parts or genitalia, or anal cleft or cleavage of the buttocks, is not
covered by a fully opaque material or is so thinly covered as to appear
uncovered. (Ord., eff. 2-15-1985)
   B.   Penalty: Any person procuring or employing any person to participate in
such prohibited dances or exhibitions is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Additionally, any person who participates, for hire or
voluntarily, in any such dance or exhibition, contrary to the mandate of this
section, is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord., eff. 2-15-1985; amd. 1999 Code)
7-1-8: SANITATION VIOLATION:
Any person who shall urinate or defecate in any public place, other than a
public restroom or toilet, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Such offense is declared to be a violation of the public
health and sanitation standards of the City. (Ord., eff. 6-23-1980; amd. 1999
Code)
7-1-9: DIKE PRESERVATION:
   A.   Deterioration Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person to perform
any activity which may cause a deterioration of the Yellowstone River dike or
any vegetation on said dike. Violations of this section shall be considered a
misdemeanor and punishable as set forth in this Code.
   B.   Protected Area: The length of the dike to be so protected shall include
that part of the Yellowstone River dike running from the West Rosebud Fishing
Access to the waste water treatment plant.
(Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019; amd. Ord. 2024-07, 12-16-2024)
7-1-10: LITTERING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, deposit, dump or leave any
garbage, debris, refuge, dead animal, including bottles, cans, glass, nails,
wire, paper or any other substance in or upon any street, alley, private
property of another or upon any public property under the control of any
governmental or political subdivision within the City. Violations of this
section shall be considered a misdemeanor and punishable as set forth in this
Code. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
7-1-11: QUIET HOURS ESTABLISHED:
   A.   The hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. are
hereby established as quiet hours in the City of Forsyth, and it is unlawful to
create excessive noise, such as loud music (including from vehicles), from
either residences or vehicles, operation of machinery, including lawn mowers
and chain saws, and other activities which adversely affect the use and quiet
enjoyment by citizens by their residential houses during these hours. (Ord.
2002-10, 11-12-2002, eff. 12-12-2002)
   B.   Violations of this section are designated as Municipal infractions as
specified in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff.
1-1-2019)
7-1-12: ABANDONED VEHICLES:
   A.   Any vehicle that is removed through enforcement action of the City,
whether the removal is from either public or private property, creates a prima
facie presumption that the last registered owner of the vehicle is responsible
for the abandonment and is liable for all costs incurred in the removing,
storing, and disposing of the abandoned vehicle. The following costs and
proceedings are adopted:
      1.   Towing Fee: The actual amount charged by the contractor hired by the
City for removal of the vehicle. This amount shall not exceed what is
considered commercially reasonable.
      2.   Storage: The City of Forsyth is authorized to charge up to ten
dollars ($10.00) per day, up to a total of one hundred dollars ($100.00), for
storing such impounded vehicles.
      3.   Other Expenses: Any other actual expenses directly incurred by the
storage of the vehicle.
      4.   Payment: All charges will be paid to the City Treasurer, and proof
of payment shown before the vehicle is released.
      5.   Placement Of Vehicles: Abandoned vehicles will be stored on City
property.
      6.   Enforcement: The Rosebud County Sheriff is designated as the law
enforcement agency responsible for enforcement. (Ord. 2008-01, 1-28-2008, eff.
2-28-2008)
      7.   Violation: Violations of this section are designated as Municipal
infractions as specified in
title 1, chapter 4 of this Code.
(Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
7-1-13: UNLAWFUL PARKING:
   A.   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited in specified places -
- exceptions -- definition.
      1.   a.   A person may not stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
directions of a police officer, highway patrol officer, or official traffic
control device, in any of the following places:
            (1)   On a sidewalk;
            (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
            (3)   Within an intersection;
            (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
            (5)   On a crosswalk;
            (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
            (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop
sign, or official traffic control device located at the side of a roadway;
            (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet
of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless
the local authorities indicate a different length by signs or markings;
            (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
            (10)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station
and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of the entrance when properly signposted;
            (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction
when stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
            (12)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the
edge or curb of a street;
            (13)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway
or within a highway tunnel;
            (14)   At any place where official traffic control devices prohibit
stopping.
         b.   A public bus stop may not be established in the areas described
in subsections (1)(a) through (1)(c) and (1)(e). Otherwise, this section does
not prohibit the establishment of public bus stops and the regulation of their
use by the authority having jurisdiction. A bus stop may only be established
pursuant to a traffic and engineering study.
         c.   A person may not move a vehicle not lawfully under the person’s
control into a prohibited area or an unlawful distance away from a curb.
         d.   As used in this section, “safety zone” means the area or space
that is officially set apart within a roadway for the exclusive use of
pedestrians and that is protected or is so marked or indicated by adequate
signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set apart as a safety zone.
   (MCA 61-8-354)
History: En. Sec. 98, Ch. 263, L. 1955; R.C.M. 1947, 32-21-101; amd. Sec. 1,
Ch. 417, L. 1981; amd. Sec. 6, Ch. 450, L. 1983; amd. Sec. 1, Ch. 217, L. 1989;
amd. Sec. 3, Ch. 512, L. 1991; amd. Secs. 33, 51(1), Ch. 352, L. 2003; amd.
Sec. 201, Ch. 542, L. 2005.
      2.   No person shall park any vehicle in a driveway that obstructs the
sidewalk and impedes the ability for pedestrians to walk on the sidewalk, or
wheelchair access on the sidewalk, due to the size of the vehicle or position
parked.
      3.   No person shall park on a boulevard owned by the city.
      4.   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten (10) feet of the
width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic at all times.
      5.   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle within an alley for
a period of time longer than 20 minutes for the reasonably expeditious loading
or unloading of such vehicle.
      6.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in
such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten (10)
feet of the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
      7.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in
such a position as to block the driveway or entrance to any abutting property.
(Ord. 2024-07, 12-16-2024)
CHAPTER 2
CURFEW
SECTION:
7-2-1: Restrictions
7-2-2: Responsibility Of Parents
7-2-3: Violations; Penalty
7-2-1: RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of eighteen (18) years to
loiter, idle, wander, stroll, or drive, operate or ride in an automobile
randomly, purposelessly or aimlessly, in or upon the public street, highways,
roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds, other public grounds, or other public places
or other unsupervised places, between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and
five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of the following day, official City time, Sunday
through Thursday, from September 1 to June 1, and between the hours of ten
thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of the following day,
official City time, Sunday through Thursday from June 1 to September 1, and
between twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of the
following day, on Friday and Saturday nights throughout the year; provided
however, that the provisions of this section do not apply to a minor
accompanied by his parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and
custody of the minor or where the minor is upon an emergency errand or
legitimate business directed by his or her parent, guardian or other adult
person having the care and custody of the minor. (Ord. 178, 1958; amd. Ord.
178, 3-28-1966)
7-2-2: RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS:
It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other adult person having the
care and custody of a minor under the age of eighteen (18) years to allow or
permit such minor to loiter, idle, wander, stroll or drive, operate or ride in
an automobile randomly, purposelessly or aimlessly in or upon the public
streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds, other public grounds,
other public places or other unsupervised places, during those hours when the
same is prohibited as defined in section
7-2-1 of this chapter; provided however, that the provisions of this section do
not apply when the minor is accompanied by his parent, guardian or other adult
person having the care and custody of the minor or where the minor is upon an
emergency errand or legitimate business directed by his or her parent, guardian
or other adult person having the care and custody of the minor. (Ord. 178,
1958; amd. Ord. 178, 3-28-1966)
7-2-3: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Duty To Apprehend: It shall be the duty of peace officers to apprehend
and take into custody any minor found in violation of this chapter. The City
officer designated as the juvenile authority shall thereupon notify said parent
or guardian and such parent or guardian shall be immediately summoned.
   B.   Prosecution Against Parent: In any prosecution under this section
against the parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody
of a minor under said age, it shall not constitute a defense thereto that said
person did not have knowledge that such minor did loiter, idle, wonder, stroll
or drive, operate or ride in an automobile randomly, purposelessly or
aimlessly, in or on the public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks,
playgrounds or other public grounds, other public places or other unsupervised
places, at any time between the aforementioned prohibited hours. (Ord. 178,
1958; amd. Ord. 178, 3-28-1966)
   C.   Violations:
      1.   Minor: Violations shall be handled in accordance with the Montana
Youth Court Act.
      2.   Parent: Violations of this section by any parent, guardian or other
adult care giver are designated as Municipal infractions as specified in title
1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL 1
SECTION:
7-3-1: Administration
7-3-2: Running At Large
7-3-3: Impound Fee
7-3-4: Notice Of Impound
7-3-5: Rabies Control
7-3-6: Public Nuisance Animals
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-23-101 et seq.
7-3-1: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   City Pound: All enclosures within the limits of the City which are now
used by the City for the purpose of impounding animals running at large,
contrary to the provisions of this chapter, and all enclosures which shall
hereafter be established by the City Council or under its instructions by the
animal control officer for such purpose, are hereby declared to be the public
pounds of the City. Said pounds shall be under the care of the animal control
officer.
   B.   Report To City Council: The animal control officer shall render to the
City Council at the end of each month a statement under oath, of all money
received by him, and shall at the same time pay to the City Clerk-Treasurer all
fees, penalties and surplus of all proceeds of sales, and present to the City
Council with the statement aforesaid the City Clerk- Treasurer's statement
therefor. (Ord. 65, 1913; amd. 1999 Code)
7-3-2: RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for the owner of any horse, mule, goat,
sheep, swine, potbellied pig, cattle, or livestock to allow or permit the same
to run at large within the limits of the City. Violations of this section are
designated as Municipal infractions as specified in title 1, chapter 4 of this
Code.
   B.   Impounding: No horse, mule, sheep, goat, swine, potbellied pig, any
cattle or livestock shall be permitted to run at large in the City at any time
and if found running at large in the City, each and every of such animals shall
be impounded in any common or public pound of said City from whence they shall
not be released until the owner or some person shall pay to the animal control
officer the fees and penalty hereinafter provided. It shall be the duty of the
animal control officer and all police officers to take up and impound any such
animal known to him or them to be running at large contrary to the provisions
of this chapter.
   C.   Care Of Impounded Animals: It shall be the duty of the animal control
officer to receive into the City Pound all animals brought there in pursuance
of any of the provisions of this chapter, to take proper care of and provide
proper sustenance for all animals impounded. (Ord. 65, 1913; amd. 1999 Code;
Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019; Ord. 2019-02, 1-13-2020)
7-3-3: IMPOUND FEE:
The impound fee shall be the prevailing rate of the facility used for
impounding. (1961 Code § 6-2-6; amd. Res. 1995-R67, 9-28-1995; 1999 Code)
7-3-4: NOTICE OF IMPOUND:
Upon determination of the owner, the City will provide reasonable notice of
impound. (Ord. 65, 1913; amd. 1999 Code)
7-3-5: RABIES CONTROL:
Rabies control shall be in accordance with Montana Code Annotated. (1999 Code)
7-3-6: PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMALS:
   A.   A public nuisance animal is any animal that unreasonably annoys humans,
endangers the life or health of other animals or persons, or substantially
interferes with the rights of citizens, other than their owners, to the
enjoyment of life or property. A public nuisance animal shall include, but not
be limited to, any animal that:
      1.   Is repeatedly found at large;
      2.   Damages the property of persons other than its owner;
      3.   Repeatedly molests or intimidates pedestrians or passersby;
      4.   Repeatedly chases vehicles;
      5.   Repeatedly barks, howls, whines, or growls such that it disturbs the
quiet enjoyment of the neighborhood as documented by persons living or working
in the immediate vicinity of the dog:
         a.   For a period of more than ten (10) minutes between the hours of
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.;
         b.   For a period of more than twenty (20) minutes between the hours
of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.;
         c.   It shall be an absolute defense to such violation if the owner or
other person maintaining or harboring the dog proves by a preponderance of the
evidence that the primary reason the dog was barking, howling, whining, or
growling was that the dog was being provoked by a person or was otherwise being
incited, or was acting as a guide dog, hearing dog, service dog, work dog, or
guard dog;
      6.   Causes fouling of the air by odor and thereby creates unreasonable
annoyances or discomfort to neighbors or others in close proximity to the
premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
      7.   Attacks other animals or is found to otherwise be a menace to the
public health, welfare, or safety. (Ord. 2010-05, 2-14-2011)
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his/her possession,
ownership, maintenance or control, a public nuisance animal. Violations of this
section are designated as Municipal infractions as specified in title 1,
chapter 4 of this Code. In addition to the penalties provided in title 1,
chapter 4 of this Code, the court may require payment of all impoundment fees
and all reasonable costs incurred in providing necessary veterinary attention
and treatment for the subject animal and any and all other reasonable costs
incurred as a result of the violation and, depending upon the severity of the
offense, order that the animal be seized and destroyed. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-
2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE A. DOGS AND CATS 1
SECTION:
7-3A-1: Administration
7-3A-2: Possessor And Harborer Defined
7-3A-3: License And Vaccination Required
7-3A-4: License And Registration; Fee
7-3A-5: Tag And Collar Required
7-3A-6: Running At Large
7-3A-7: Impounding
7-3A-8: Vicious Dogs
7-3A-9: Prohibited And Unlawful Acts
7-3A-10: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-23-4102.
7-3A-1: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Enforcement Officers; Designated: All references in this Article to
police officers, Chief of Police or to police shall mean such officers as shall
be employed by the City to enforce the laws of the City, whether direct City
employees or deputy sheriffs of any consolidated law enforcement agency
providing police services to the City. (Ord., 1-26-1976)
   B.   Authority Of Enforcement Officers: The City Animal Control Officer, or
if off duty or otherwise unavailable, the County Sheriff and his deputies, any
police officer, any City police officer or any other person lawfully appointed
and employed by the City Council for the purpose of enforcing this Article, is
empowered to take up and seize all dogs in violation of this Article and may
pursue such dogs or cats onto private property if a violation occurs in the
presence of said officers or appointees of the City Council; further, such
officers or employees of the City Council appointed to enforce this Article may
enter upon any private property in pursuit of a dog or cat suspected of being
infected with rabies or in an effort to apprehend any dog or cat directed by
order of the City Court to seize. Persons other than law enforcement officers,
appointed by the City Council to enforce the provisions of this Article, shall
have the same authority as a police officer to issue citations for violations
of this Article to any person deemed in violation and such citations shall
constitute a formal complaint when filed in the City Court, and shall be
answerable by the person charged in like manner to any citation issued by a
police officer charging a violation of the law. (Ord., 2-10-1986; amd. 1999
Code)
7-3A-2: POSSESSOR AND HARBORER DEFINED:
Any person who shall permit a dog to remain upon or about his premises for the
space of three (3) days shall be deemed a possessor or harborer of said dog and
for all purposes herein shall be treated as the owner of said dog. (Ord., 5-14-
1973)
7-3A-3: LICENSE AND VACCINATION REQUIRED:
Nothing herein contained shall excuse the owner, harborer or possessor of any
dog or cat within the corporate limits of the City from having vaccinated and
licensed such animals, regardless of where or how they are kept or maintained
within the City limits. (Ord., 5-14-1973)
7-3A-4: LICENSE AND REGISTRATION; FEE:
   A.   Dogs:
      1.   Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, harbor or
maintain in the City any dog over five (5) months of age unless such dog is
duly registered and licensed as herein provided. Licenses shall be issued by
the City Clerk-Treasurer upon proof that the dog has been vaccinated against
rabies. An annual dog license must be purchased by the owner of each dog
between April 1 and April 30 of each year. (Ord. 97-04, 9-12-1997; amd. 1999
Code)
      2.   Fee Schedule:
         a.   Specified:
 
Description         Fee Per Year
Male dog            $5.00
Spayed female dog   5.00
Unspayed female dog 10.00
Unneutered male dog 10.00
 
         b.   After April 30: Fees for dog licenses issued after April 30 of
the current license year are as follows:
 
Description         Fee
Male dog            $10.00
Spayed female dog   10.00
Unspayed female dog 20.00
Unneutered male dog 20.00
 
      3.   Registration: Registration shall be in the form required by the City
Clerk-Treasurer to supply sufficient information to identify the dog and the
owner. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to nonresidents having
dogs under restrain with the City less than fifteen (15) days.
      4.   New Residents: Fees for registration of dogs brought into the City
by new residents at any time after April 30 of the current license year will be
at the single rate stated in subsection A1a of this Section.
      5.   Guide Dogs: Guide dogs for the blind or otherwise handicapped
persons will be licensed without charge upon proof of vaccination as
hereinabove required. (Ord. 97-04, 9-12-1997)
   B.   Cats:
      1.   Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, harbor or
maintain in the City any cat over six (6) months of age unless such cat is duly
registered and licensed as herein provided. Licenses shall be issued by the
City Clerk-Treasurer or the Animal Control Officer upon proof that the cat has
been vaccinated against rabies. An annual cat license, at the fee stated, must
be purchased by the owner of each cat between April 1 and April 30 of each
year. (Eff. 3-27-1972; amd. letter dated 6-13-1991; 1999 Code)
      2.   Fee Schedule: All cats, three dollars ($3.00) per year.
      3.   After April 30: Fees for cat licenses issued after April 30 of the
current license year are six dollars ($6.00) for all cats.
      4.   Registration: Registration provisions as to new residents or
temporary visitors to the City are the same with reference to cats as those
provisions regarding dogs provided in subsections A3 and A4 of this Section.
(Eff. 3-27-1972)
7-3A-5: TAG AND COLLAR REQUIRED:
Upon proper registration and payment of the license fee, the City Clerk-
Treasurer or Animal Control Officer will issue to the applicant a license
certificate and a metal tag. The shape of the tag shall be changed each year
and shall have stamped thereon the year for which it was issued and the number
corresponding to the number of the certificate. Every owner must provide each
dog with a substantial collar to which the license tag shall be affixed at all
times. Any dog found without a license tag shall be deemed to be not licensed.
In the event a dog tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate shall be issued by the
City Clerk-Treasurer or Animal Control Officer upon presentation of an
affidavit to that effect, a receipt or duplicate receipt showing payment of the
license fee for the current year and payment of a replacement cost fee of fifty
cents ($0.50) for each such duplicate. License tags are not transferable from
one dog to another. No refund shall be made on a dog license fee because of the
death of the dog or the removal of the owner from the City before the
expiration of the license period. (Eff. 3-27-1972; amd. letter dated 4-7-1982;
letter dated 6-13-1991; 1999 Code)
7-3A-6: RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   At Large Defined: "At large" means off the premises of the owner,
harborer or possessor, and not then and there restrained by leash, cord, chain
or otherwise.
   B.   Prohibited:
      1.   If any dog or cat be found running at large within the City limits,
the owner, harborer or possessor of such animal shall be guilty of a violation
of this Section. It is no defense to a charge under this Section that the
owner, harborer or possessor of such animal was unaware the animal was at large
or that such animal was released from the owner's premises by overt act, error
or omission on the part of any person.
      2.   Policy: It is declared to be the public policy of the City Council
that no dog or cat be off the premises of its owner, harborer or possessor at
any time, unless leashed or otherwise restrained and that the owner, harborer
or possessor shall be held strictly liable therefor, regardless of the
circumstances which may contribute to or result in the violation.
   C.   Seizure; Impoundment: Any such animal running at large shall be seized
and impounded by the City enforcement authority or any other officer or
official designated by the City Council, and a complaint may be filed charging
the violation. (Ord., 11-22-1982)
   D.   Impound Fee: The owner, harborer or possessor of any impounded animal
seized pursuant to this Section, must pay a redemption fee of the prevailing
rate of the facility used for impounding. These fees shall be in addition to
any fines or costs assessed by the court upon conviction of the violation.
(Ord., 11-22-1982; amd. 1999 Code)
   E.   Redemption; License And Vaccination Required: No animal impounded for
being at large may be redeemed unless or until it is currently licensed and
vaccinated.
   F.   Unclaimed; Disposition:
      1.   No impounded animal will be destroyed after the expiration of
seventy two (72) hours impoundment, unless reasonable effort has been made to
notify the person responsible for such animal, if identity can reasonably be
determined.
      2.   If such animal is not redeemed from impoundment within seventy two
(72) hours, it shall be humanely destroyed, except as provided in subsection 7-
3A-7D2 of this Article. (Ord., 11-22-1982)
7-3A-7: IMPOUNDING:
   A.   Duty Of Officials: It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer
or other officers or persons appointed by the City Council for the purpose of
enforcing these laws, to take up and impound any dog found running at large,
whether licensed or not; if such dog shall not be redeemed as hereinafter
provided within seventy two (72) hours after such dog shall have been
impounded, it shall be the duty of the officers charged with enforcing these
regulations, or any other person duly appointed by the City Council for such
purpose, to put the said dog to death in a humane manner. (Res., 7-24-1978;
amd. 1999 Code)
   B.   Notice And Redemption: It is hereby declared the duty of every owner of
any dog to know its whereabouts at all times. In the event any dog is
impounded, the owner shall redeem the same within seventy two (72) hours,
without formal notice, or said dog shall be subject to disposal as hereinabove
provided. (Eff. 3-27-1972; amd. 1999 Code)
   C.   Release: Any dog so impounded will be released upon presentation to the
Animal Control Officer or other officers appointed to enforce these
regulations, proof that the dog is currently licensed and that the dog has had
a rabies shot within the current period recommended by the local veterinarians;
provided, if said dog has not been licensed and/or vaccinated within the period
required, the owner or interested party, in order to redeem the dog from
impoundment, must immediately make payment of the necessary amounts for
vaccination and/or license and said dog will not be released solely upon
payment of impoundment fees, as set forth hereinafter, unless license and
vaccination are both current. Any person, including members of the same
household, who, upon notification of impoundment of their dog, refuse to pay
impoundment fees, whether said dog be otherwise redeemed or not, will be barred
from obtaining any dog license thereafter, without subsequent specific approval
for the purpose of a dog license from the City Council. (Res., 7-24-1978; amd.
1999 Code)
   D.   Unclaimed; Disposition And Alternative:
      1.   Any dog impounded pursuant to the provisions of this Article not
redeemed within the time period provided herein, may be put to death in a
humane manner as provided above. (Res., 7-24-1978)
      2.   If an impounded dog is not redeemed within the time provided and any
other person shall desire to redeem said animal, they may do so by paying the
impoundment fees, plus licensing and vaccination fees for said animal. (Eff. 3-
27-1972)
   E.   Redemption Defined: "Redemption", as used in this Article, shall mean
not only payment of impoundment fees, but payment for license and/or
vaccination, if the same be required to redeem the dog. (Res., 7-24-1978)
7-3A-8: VICIOUS DOGS:
   A.   Defined:
      1.   Any dog which, in a vicious or terrorizing manner, approaches any
person or domestic animal in apparent attitude of attack;
      2.   Any dog with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack,
to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human beings or animals;
or
      3.   Any dog which bites, inflicts injury, assaults or otherwise attacks
a human being or domestic animal on public or private property.
   B.   Unlawful To Own And Possess: It shall be unlawful for any person to own
and possess a vicious dog within the City. Whenever a prosecution for this
offense is commenced under this section, the dog so involved may not be
redeemed, pursuant to the provisions of this article, while awaiting final
decision of the court as to the disposition to be made of such dog.
   C.   Disposition After Conviction Of Offense: Upon the trial of any offense
under this section, the court may, upon conviction and in addition to the usual
judgment of conviction, order the animal control officer or other authorized
personnel of the City to put the dog to death or may order such other
disposition of the dog as will protect the inhabitants of the City.
   D.   Nuisance Declared: Any dog which has bitten a person without
provocation or any dog that has a known propensity to attack or bite human
beings is hereby declared to be a nuisance and a menace to the public health
and safety and the dog may be taken up and impounded as provided in subsection
7-3A-7A of this article. (1999 Code)
7-3A-9: PROHIBITED AND UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   Hindering Impoundment: No person shall hinder or molest the animal
control officer or any persons appointed to enforce this article, while such
persons are engaged in seizing or capturing and delivering any dog to the
pound. Any person who so interferes with any other person lawfully enforcing
the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.   Killing Licensed Dog; Depriving Of Tag: Any unauthorized person who
shall kill or cause to be killed any dog licensed as herein provided without
the consent of the owner or possessor thereof, or who deprives a licensed dog
of his collar or tag or who puts a registered tag on a dog not registered,
shall be deemed to have committed a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Eff. 3-27-1972; amd. 1999 Code)
   C.   Dogs In City Parks: No dogs shall be permitted in the City parks,
except for seeing-eye dogs when being used for that purpose and dogs being used
in police work. This subsection imposes an absolute prohibition on dogs in the
City parks whether unrestrained or restrained. This prohibition does not
prohibit dogs in areas that are undeveloped parks. Dogs in the City parks are
deemed a nuisance and may be impounded; provided, that a permit for organized
obedience training or shows may be granted for use in designated areas of
designated parks on designated days. The permit shall be obtained from the
animal shelter for that particular event. The permit shall be in writing and
shall designate the park area within the park, the dates and duration. A fee,
as prescribed by City Council resolution, shall be collected for each permit
for each event. (Ord., 1-23-1989)
7-3A-10: PENALTY:
Except as provided for in this article, violations of this article are
designated as Municipal infractions as specified in title 1, chapter 4 of this
Code. The following violations shall be considered a misdemeanor and punishable
as set forth in this Code: a) owning or possessing a vicious dog, as defined in
section
7-3A-8 of this article, b) hindering impoundment, as defined in subsection 7-
3A-9A of this article, and c) killing a licensed dog, as defined in subsection
7-3A-9B of this article. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
CHAPTER 4
FIREARMS AND WEAPONS 1
SECTION:
7-4-1: Defined
7-4-2: Discharge Of Firearms Prohibited
7-4-3: Carrying Of Concealed Weapons While Under The Influence
7-4-4: Carrying Weapons In City Facilities; Exceptions; Penalty
7-4-5: Screening For Weapons In City Facilities
7-4-6: Exceptions
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 45-8-351.
7-4-1: DEFINED:
Unless otherwise defined in this City Code, all terms shall have the same
definition as those definitions in the current Montana Code Annotated.
 
BUILDING: Shall have the meaning prescribed in § 50-60-101, MCA.
          Any building or structure owned and occupied by the City, and any building
          or structure lead and occupied by the City where a governmental function,
          public service, or public event is held. The use of a City-owned or -leased
CITY      building or structure by employees or members of the public, even if for
FACILITY: limited periods of time, is considered continual occupation of the building
          or structure. "City Facility" included the grounds immediately adjacent to
          the City-owned or -leased buildings or structures, including pathways
          leading to entrances.
          Any weapon, including a starter gun, which will or is designed to or may
          readily be converted to expel a projective by the action of any explosive;
FIREARM:  the frame or receiver of any such weapon and any firearm muffler or firearm
          silencer; and includes without limitation a pistol, revolver, rifle,
          shotgun, air rifle, BB gun, or machine gun as defined in § 45-8-302, MCA.
          Any weapon other than a firearm and includes without limitation a bow/
          crossbow, dirk, dagger, slingshot, sword, cane, billy club, knuckles made
OTHER     of any metal or hard substance, throwing stars, nunchucks, knife having a
WEAPON:   blade four inches (4") long or longer, razor, not including a safety razor,
          a destructive device as defined in § 45-8-332(1), MCA, or any other deadly
          weapon or other article or instrument possessed with the purpose to commit
          a criminal offense. (Ord. 2021-04, - -2022)
 
7-4-2: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS PROHIBITED:
For purposes of preserving public safety, the discharge of any firearm within
the City limits shall be unlawful, except when discharged by law enforcement
officers, military personnel or militia in the discharge of their duties; a
legally licensed rifle range or shooting gallery; anyone duly authorized or
permitted; or in the authorized performance of ceremonials. (Ord. 2021-04, 11-
-2021)
7-4-3: CARRYING OF CONCEALED WEAPONS WHILE UNDER INFLUENCE:
As provided in § 45-8-327, MCA, a person is prohibited from carrying a
concealed weapon, whether firearm or other weapon, while under the influence of
an intoxicating substance, regardless of whether the person holds a valid
permit to carry the concealed weapon. Violations of this section shall be
considered misdemeanors pursuant to City Ordinance
1-4-1. (Ord. 2021-04, 11- -2021)
7-4-4: CARRYING WEAPONS IN CITY FACILITIES; EXCEPTIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   The open carry of a firearms or other weapon or the carry of an
unpermitted concealed firearm or other weapon by any person in a city facility
is prohibited.
   B.   A person with a valid permit to carry a concealed weapon issued
pursuant to § 45-8-321 or § 45-8-329, MCA, is prohibited is restricted from
exercising that permit to carry a concealed firearm or other weapon in city
facilities as described in § 45-8-356, including secure areas of law
enforcement facilities owned and operated by the City and any courtroom or
other area used by court personnel, pursuant to a court order.
   C.   Nothing herein shall prohibit a presiding judge from designating peace
officers and other persons with authority to carry weapons in buildings in
which court is held to meet the security needs of the building or facility.
   D.   Except for a person issued a permit pursuant to § 45-8-321 or § 45-8-
329, MCA, a person commits the offense of carrying a concealed weapon in a
prohibited place when the person purposely or knowingly carries an unconcealed
firearm or other weapon or unpermitted concealed firearm or other weapon in
city facility in violation of this chapter.
   E.   Violations of this section shall be considered misdemeanors pursuant to
City Ordinance
1-4-1. (Ord. 2021-04, 11- -2021)
7-4-5: SCREENING FOR WEAPONS IN CITY FACILITIES:
The Mayor or City Council may determine the circumstances and locations where
screening for Firearms and Other Weapons is required and may establish
standards for such screening. City officials and employees acting within their
official capacities may deny entrance to a City Facility, subject to such
screening standards, to a person who: (i) possesses an openly visible firearm
or other weapon; (ii) possesses an unpermitted concealed firearm or other
weapon; or (iii) possesses a permitted concealed firearm or other weapon in
locations of city facilities that have been restricted pursuant to court order
or state law. The City may require proof of a valid permit to carry a concealed
weapon before allowing the carrying of a permitted concealed firearm or other
weapon in a city facility. Refusing to provide a City employee or official
proof of a valid permit to carry a concealed weapon is sufficient basis for
denial of entry to the city facility. Screening under this section applies to
all those excepted by any other provision of this chapter. (Ord. 2021-04, 11- -
2021)
7-4-6: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Exceptions For Authorized Use: Other than participation in any
screening provided under City Ordinance
7-4-5, the provisions of this chapter do not apply to: any peace office of the
state; any officer of the United States government authorized to carry a
concealed firearm or other weapon; any member of the armed services or reserve
forces of the United States or National Guard, while in the performance of
their official duties; a probation or parole officer authorized to carry a
Firearm under § 46-23-1002, MCA; an agent of the state department of justice;
or a person authorized by the chief of police to carry or possess an
unconcealed weapon on City property.
   B.   Exceptions By Permit: Any person duly authorized and granted a special
permit under this Section is not in violation of the provisions of this chapter
provided the permit is valid and the permit-holder complies with the terms of
the permit, submits to any weapons screening, and otherwise complies with all
applicable laws and regulations.
      1.   Issuance Of Permit: Upon receipt of proper application and fees, the
Mayor and City Council may, at its discretion, grant special permits for:
         a.   Shooting galleries, gun clubs and others for shooting in fixed
localities and under specified rules;
         b.   Legitimate displays of firearms at shows or other public
occasions;
         c.   Other education, events, displays, shows, exhibitions, or sales
as determined appropriate.
      2.   Such permits shall be in writing attested by the City Clerk-
Treasurer conforming to such requirements as the Mayor and City Council shall
demand, and the permit thus issued shall be subject to revocation at any time
by action of the Mayor and City Council. (Ord. 2021-04, 11- -2021)
CHAPTER 5
HUNTING
SECTION:
7-5-1: Hunting Restricted
7-5-1: HUNTING RESTRICTED:
The City Council has decided for the safety of the citizens and for the
protection of City property that the following conditions apply:
   A.   Unlawful To Hunt On City Property: It shall be unlawful for any person
to engage in any hunting activity for game and/or wildlife on any real property
owned by the City of Forsyth, except for the property located by Vananda.
   B.   Exceptions: Nothing in this section shall be considered to prohibit the
firing of a gun, pistol or other firearm when done in the lawful defense of the
person, property, or family or in the necessary enforcement of the law. (Ord.
2000-02, 4-26-2000, eff. 5-26-2000)
   C.   Violations; Penalty: Violations of this chapter are designated as
Municipal infractions as specified in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord.
2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
CHAPTER 6
VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY 1
SECTION:
7-6-1: Definitions
7-6-2: Enforcement
7-6-3: Prohibited
7-6-4: Permitted In A Building
7-6-5: Repair
7-6-6: Person Responsible
7-6-7: Notice
7-6-8: Violation And Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See title 5, chapter 7 of this code.
7-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter unless otherwise noted. When not inconsistent with the context,
words used in the present tense include the future, words in the plural number
include the singular number and words in the singular number include the plural
number.
ABANDONED, WRECKED, JUNKED OR DISMANTLED MOTOR VEHICLES: Any motor vehicle
described in 61-1-102, Montana Code Annotated, which does not have lawfully
affixed thereto both an unexpired license plate or plates and the condition of
which is wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, abandoned or discarded.
ABANDONED, WRECKED, JUNKED OR DISMANTLED VEHICLE: Any vehicle described in
"abandoned, wrecked, junked or dismantled motor vehicles" as defined herein
which is not being utilized for its manufactured or intended purpose and has
been discarded, abandoned, wrecked, junked, dismantled or partially dismantled,
including parts thereof.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: A peace officer or any city, state or federal department
or agency operating with arrest authority in Forsyth, Montana.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any real property within the city that is privately owned.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property may be
transported or drawn upon a public highway or upon private property, including
trailers, semitrailers, travel or camp trailers, as well as machinery used in
farming, logging, excavating, but not including mobile homes presently utilized
for human habitation. "Vehicle" shall not include motorbikes, motorcycles,
motor scooters, tractors, go-carts and golf carts. (Ord. 2003-06, 7-14-2003,
eff. 8-14-2003)
7-6-2: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Authority: The enforcement officer is authorized and directed to
enforce all the provisions of this chapter, and all enforcement agencies of the
city shall cooperate in this regard.
   B.   Right Of Entry: The enforcement officer will contact the owner of the
premises and the responsible person, if different from the owner, either in
writing or by telephone prior to entry upon an individual's property. The
purpose of this contact is to receive affirmative permission to be on the
property. If the enforcement officer does not acquire prior permission to enter
onto the property, the officer will immediately contact the owner and/or the
responsible person upon entry on private property to explain the purpose of the
visit and receive permission to remain on the premises to conduct the
legitimate business of the city. Any combination of: 1) a "No Trespassing" sign
and a gate or chain on private property, or 2) the securing of a gate or chain
(other than by a simple latching or closure device) shall be considered
controlling. Entry shall not be made upon such property without the express
permission of the property owner and/or the responsible person, or in response
to legal process (search warrant). No enforcement officer shall be required to
enter a posted or gated piece of property if the officer feels threatened,
intimidated, or otherwise in fear of his or her personal safety. (Ord. 2003-06,
7-14-2003, eff. 8-14-2003)
7-6-3: PROHIBITED:
No person shall park, store, keep, place, leave or permit the same, any
abandoned, wrecked, junked or dismantled motor vehicle or vehicle upon any
private property within the city limits for a period in excess of seventy two
(72) hours. The presence of any abandoned, wrecked, junked or dismantled
vehicle or motor vehicle, or parts thereof, upon private property as specified
in this chapter, is declared a public nuisance which shall be abated as such in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
This section shall not apply to any vehicles enclosed within a building, or
covered by a fabric cover specifically designed for covering vehicles or motor
vehicles or to any vehicle held in connection with a business enterprise
lawfully licensed and properly operated in an appropriate zone, pursuant to the
zoning laws of the city or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or
depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the city or to any
vehicle or motor vehicle validly and properly retained by the owner thereof for
antique collection purposes, pursuant to 61-3-411, Montana Code Annotated.
Any motor vehicle whether in operable or inoperable condition designed, adapted
or used for drag strip racing or raceway racing shall be covered, as set forth
in this chapter, or placed within a building. (Ord. 2003-06, 7-14-2003, eff. 8-
14-2003)
7-6-4: PERMITTED IN A BUILDING:
Storage, service, restoration and repair of an abandoned, wrecked, junked or
dismantled vehicle or motor vehicle which is conducted within the confines of a
building shall be permitted provided that such vehicle or motor vehicle is the
property of the owner or occupier of the lot and provided that the storage
service, service, restoration or repair is not a commercial use of the
property. (Ord. 2003-06, 7-14-2003, eff. 8-14-2003)
7-6-5: REPAIR:
This chapter shall not be construed to prevent any occupant of a premises
within the city limits from repairing his own motor vehicles or vehicle or
machinery on his premises even though exposed to public view, so long as the
person pursues the work to completion with reasonable diligence; provided,
however, that any vehicle which remains out of running condition with any
wheel, tire, engine, body or other major part removed therefrom for a period in
excess of twenty (20) days, while remaining exposed to public view, shall be
deemed to be prima facie evidence that the vehicle or motor vehicle is not
being diligently repaired and constitutes a violation of this chapter. (Ord.
2003-06, 7-14-2003, eff. 8-14-2003)
7-6-6: PERSON RESPONSIBLE:
The owner of any private property within the city limits shall be absolutely
responsible for any violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2003-06, 7-14-2003, eff.
8-14-2003)
7-6-7: NOTICE:
Whenever it comes to the attention of the enforcement officer that a nuisance
exists within the city limits due to the maintenance or presence of abandoned,
wrecked, junked or dismantled motor vehicles or vehicles upon private property
within the city limits, a notice in writing shall be served upon the occupant
of the land where the nuisance exists, or in the case there is no such
occupant, then upon the person being the owner of the property, notifying them
of the existence of the nuisance and ordering its removal in the time specified
in this chapter.
   A.   Notice shall be given by United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed
to the occupant or the person who is the owner at the last known address as
exists upon the records of the city. An alternative notice may be served in the
same manner as other legal process is served in the state.
   B.   The enforcement officer shall give the notice for the removal of the
items that constitute the nuisance at least ten (10) days before the time of
compliance with the notice. The notice shall specify clearly the abandoned,
wrecked, junked or dismantled motor vehicles or vehicles, or parts thereof upon
the private property, which constitutes the nuisance and shall order the
removal of the same as specified within this chapter. The notice shall advise
that failure to remove or cover as specified in the notice shall render the
person so served subject to prosecution for violation of this chapter and the
penalty therefor as set forth in this chapter. The notice shall contain the
name, address and telephone number of the enforcement officer for contact by
the occupant or owner. (Ord. 2003-06, 7-14-2003, eff. 8-14-2003)
7-6-8: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
   A.   Failure of the person or persons responsible for the removal or
covering of abandoned, wrecked, junked or dismantled motor vehicles or vehicles
or parts thereof to remove or cover the same within the time specified in the
notice, after the same has been served as provided in this chapter, constitutes
a violation of this chapter. Any person violating any provision of this chapter
shall be subject to a penalty as provided in section
1-4-2 of this Code.
   B.   In any action or proceeding brought for the violation of this chapter,
as defined in this chapter, the reasonable cost and expense to City in
connection with the mailing or serving of notice and the inspection of the
private property in question, shall be awarded to City as part of the court's
sentence.
   C.   Violations of this chapter are designated as Municipal infractions as
specified in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2003-06, 7-14-2003, eff. 8-
14-2003; amd. Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019; Ord. 2019-02, 1-13-2020)
CHAPTER 7
PUBLIC USE AND DISPLAY OF MARIJUANA
SECTION:
7-7-1: Purpose And Intent
7-7-2: Definitions
7-7-3: Public Display, Smoking Or Consumption Of Marijuana Prohibited
7-7-4: State Law Superseded And Applicable
7-7-5: Violation And Penalty
7-7-6: No Private Right Of Action
7-7-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to identify acts regarding the use of marijuana
within the city of Forsyth that are not authorized to be conducted in a manner
open or visible to the general public. (Ord. 2010-04, 9-28-2010; amd. Ord.
2022-02, 6-13-2022)
7-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
 
MARIJUANA:                           Has the meaning provided in Montana Code
                                     Annotated section 16-12-102.
                                     The uses of marijuana described in Montana
                                     Code Annotated section 50-46-102(5). Other
MEDICAL MARIJUANA:                   phrases herein such as the use of medical
                                     marijuana or the medical use of marijuana
                                     shall have the same meaning and includes
                                     the term "usable marijuana."
                                     Any highway, road, driveway, alley, lane,
                                     parking area, sidewalk, park, trail, or
                                     other public or private place within the
WAYS OF THE CITY OPEN TO THE PUBLIC: city of Forsyth that is adapted and fitted
                                     for the use of the public and that is in
                                     common use by the public. (Ord. 2010-04,
                                     9-28-2010; amd. Ord. 2022-02, 6-13-2022)
 
7-7-3: PUBLIC DISPLAY, SMOKING OR CONSUMPTION OF MARIJUANA PROHIBITED:
No person authorized by title 50, chapter 46, or title 16. chapter 12. Montana
Code Annotated, to acquire, possess, cultivate, manufacture, deliver, transfer
or transport marijuana may on the ways of the city open to the public display,
smoke or consume marijuana in an open or visible manner. A violation of this
section is an absolute liability offense. (Ord. 2010-04, 9-28-2010; amd. Ord.
2022-02, 6-13-2022)
7-7-4: STATE LAW SUPERSEDED AND APPLICABLE:
The provisions of this chapter shall supersede title 50, chapter 46, and title
16, chapter 12, Montana Code Annotated, only insofar as this chapter expands
the limitations on the use of marijuana. All other provisions of state law
related to medical marijuana shall be applicable. (Ord. 2010-04, 9-28-2010;
amd. Ord. 2022-02, 6-13-2022)
7-7-5: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor and upon conviction a person shall
be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned in the
Rosebud County Jail for a period not to exceed six (6) months or both. A person
so convicted shall also be required to pay all costs and expenses of
prosecution and the courts as authorized by law. (Ord. 2010-04, 9-28-2010; amd.
Ord. 2022-02, 6-13-2022)
7-7-6: NO PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to create right of action regarding
the acquisition, possession, cultivation, manufacture, delivery, transfer, or
transport of either marijuana or medical marijuana. (Ord. 2010-04, 9-28-2010;
amd. Ord. 2022-02, 6-13-2022)
CHAPTER 8
MARIJUANA BUSINESSES PROHIBITED
SECTION:
7-8-1: Definitions
7-8-2:    Marijuana Businesses Prohibited
7-8-3:    Penalties
7-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to all other definitions cited in this title, which are
specifically incorporated herein by reference, the following definitions apply:
              A licensed premises from which a person licensed by the
              department may obtain marijuana or marijuana products from a
ADULT-USE     licensed cultivator, manufacturer, dispensary, or other
DISPENSARY:   licensee approved under this chapter; and sell marijuana or
              marijuana products to registered cardholders, adults that are
              twenty one (21) years of age or older, or both.
COMBINED-USE  A licensee possessing both a tier I canopy license and one
MARIJUANA     dispensary license from the department allowing for the
LICENSEE:     operation of a dispensary.
              A person licensed by the department to plant, cultivate, grow,
              harvest, and dry marijuana; and package and re-label marijuana
CULTIVATOR:   produced at the location in a natural or naturally dried form
              that has not been converted, concentrated, or compounded for
              sale through a licensed dispensary.
DEPARTMENT:   The Department of Revenue provided for in M.C.A. § 2-15-1301.
              A person licensed by the department to convert or compound
MANUFACTURER: marijuana into marijuana products, marijuana concentrates, or
              marijuana extracts and package, repackage, label, or relabel
              marijuana products as allowed under this chapter.
              All plant material from the genus Cannabis containing
              tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) or seeds of the genus capable of
              germination. The term does not include hemp, including any part
              of that plant, including the seeds and all derivatives,
              extracts, cannabinoids, isomers, acids, salts, and salts of
              isomers, whether growing or not, with a delta-
              9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of not more than 0.3% on a
MARIJUANA:    dry weight basis, or commodities or products manufactured with
              hemp, or any other ingredient combined with marijuana to
              prepare topical or oral administrations, food, drink or other
              products.
              The term also does not include a drug approved by the United
              States Food and Drug Administration pursuant to Section 505 of
              the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, 21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et
              seq.
              A cultivator, manufacturer, adult-use dispensary, medical
MARIJUANA     marijuana dispensary, combined-use marijuana licensee, testing
BUSINESS:     laboratory, marijuana transporter, or any other business or
              function that is licensed by the department.
MARIJUANA     Any type of marijuana product consisting wholly or in part of
CONCENTRATE:  the resin extracted from any part of the marijuana plant.
MARIJUANA     Any mixture or preparation of the dried leaves, flowers, resin,
DERIVATIVE:   or byproducts of the marijuana plant, including but not limited
              to marijuana concentrates and other marijuana products.
              A product that contains marijuana and is intended for use by a
MARIJUANA     consumer by a means other than smoking. The term includes but
PRODUCT:      is not limited to edible products, ointments, tinctures,
              marijuana derivatives, and marijuana concentrates.
              A person that is licensed to transport marijuana and marijuana
              products from one marijuana business to another marijuana
MARIJUANA     business, or to and from a testing laboratory, and to
TRANSPORTER:  temporarily store the transported retail marijuana and retail
              marijuana products at its licensed premises but is not
              authorized to sell marijuana or marijuana products to consumers
              under any circumstances.
MEDICAL       Marijuana or marijuana products that are for sale solely to a
MARIJUANA:    cardholder who is registered under Title 16, chapter 12, part 5
              of Montana Code Annotated.
MEDICAL       The location from which a registered cardholder may obtain
MARIJUANA     marijuana or marijuana products.
DISPENSARY:
              A qualified person, licensed by the department that provides
TESTING       testing of representative samples of marijuana and marijuana
LABORATORY:   products; and provides information regarding the chemical
              composition and potency of a sample, as well as the presence of
              molds, pesticides, or other contaminants in a sample.
 
(Ord. 2022-05, passed by voters on 11-8-2022)
7-8-2: MARIJUANA BUSINESSES PROHIBITED:
As authorized by HB 701, Section 59 and M.C.A. § 16-12-301(7)(a), and based
upon the November 8, 2022, election results, marijuana businesses are
prohibited from opening or operating within the limits of the City of Forsyth.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed by voters on 11-8-2022)
7-8-3: PENALTIES:
Violations of this Chapter are civil municipal infractions within the exclusive
jurisdiction of the City Court of the City of Forsyth. Violations are
punishable by a civil penalty of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
or imprisoned in the Rosebud County Jail for a period not to exceed six (6)
months or both. A person so convicted shall also be required to pay all costs
and expenses of prosecution and the courts as authorized by law.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed by voters on 11-8-2022)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 0
TITLE VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
8-0-1: Violations
8-0-1: VIOLATIONS:
Violations of this title are designated as Municipal infractions as specified
in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Emergency Temporary Street Closures
8-1-1: EMERGENCY TEMPORARY STREET CLOSURES:
There is hereby adopted that for all times the emergency help helicopter,
servicing Rosebud Healthcare Center, is required to be grounded for the loading
or unloading of passengers, the sections of Park Street and 18th Avenue,
immediately adjacent to the Rosebud Healthcare Center, in the city of Forsyth,
Montana, shall be closed to all motorized vehicles. Gates shall be constructed
and closed for safety purposes. The street closures shall not exceed a total
period of three (3) hours. Said regulations shall be enforced by any remedy
available in law or equity. (Ord. 02-2012, 2-13-2012)
ARTICLE A. SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION 1
SECTION:
8-1A-1: Administration And Enforcement
8-1A-2: Permit Required
8-1A-3: Public Liability And Property Damage Insurance
8-1A-4: Construction Requirements
8-1A-5: Concrete Curbing; Exception
8-1A-6: Placement Of Sidewalks
8-1A-7: Access Ramp For Handicapped Persons
8-1A-8: Duties Of Property Owner To Keep Sidewalks Repaired
8-1A-9: Contract For Construction
8-1A-10: Payment For Construction
8-1A-11: Payment For Repairs
8-1A-12: Assessments
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-14-4122.
8-1A-1: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the building inspector, in all cases where he may find
any person engaged in the work of constructing sidewalks, to ascertain at once
if such person has a permit to perform such work and, in the event of such
person not having a permit, to cause them to cease work until proper
application has been made and a permit issued. (Ord. 2015-07, 11-9-2015)
8-1A-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall construct any sidewalks on any of the streets or avenues of the
city without a permit in writing. Application for permits may be made by the
parties employed to construct the work or by the owners of the property, and
must state the location, the name of the owner, the number of the lot and block
abutting upon the sidewalk to be built. (Ord. 171, 7-18-1951; amd. 1999 Code)
8-1A-3: PUBLIC LIABILITY AND PROPERTY DAMAGE INSURANCE:
Before any contractor shall be granted a permit to construct sidewalks in the
city, he shall file with the city clerk- treasurer a policy in such amount as
the city council shall deem necessary; also that he will indemnify and save
harmless the city from all suits, accidents and damages consequent thereupon
for or by reason of any opening in the streets and walks made by him or those
in his employ, or any such damages due to any act of the contractor or those in
his employ, by reason of the performance of such construction work. No bond
shall be required from the owner of any lot who wishes to actually construct
the walk himself. (Ord. 171, 7-18-1951)
8-1A-4: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Order Of City Council: Whenever in the judgment of the city council, a
sidewalk or curb shall be constructed in front of any lot or parcel of land
within the city it shall, by majority vote, order the construction of the same.
The order shall be entered upon the minutes of the city council, shall name the
street or avenue along which said sidewalk or curb is to be constructed and
shall specify the general character of material of which such sidewalk or curb
shall be constructed.
   B.   Notice: Thereafter, the city clerk-treasurer shall cause to be
published in one issue of the official newspaper of the city a notice that the
city council has ordered the construction of a sidewalk or curb, giving the
description of the lot or parcel of land in front of which a sidewalk or curb
is to be constructed, which notice shall state that if the owners or agents of
the owners of lots or parcels of land in front of which such sidewalks or curbs
are to be constructed, shall fail for a period of thirty (30) days after the
date of the publication of such notice to cause such sidewalks or curbs to be
constructed, the city will cause such sidewalks or curbs to be constructed and
will assess the cost thereof against the property in front of which the same is
constructed. On or before the second day following the date of publication of
said notice, the city clerk-treasurer shall mail a copy thereof to the owner or
agent of the owner of each lot or parcel of land in front of which a sidewalk
or curb has been ordered constructed as specified in said notice. (Ord. 171, 7-
18-1951)
   C.   Failure To Comply; Performance By City: If the owner or agent of the
owner of any lot or parcel of land in front of which any sidewalk or curb shall
be ordered constructed shall fail or neglect, during such period of thirty (30)
days, to construct such sidewalk or curb, the city council may cause the same
to be constructed by the letting of a contract for the construction thereof to
the lowest responsible bidder, after advertising for bids for the construction
thereof, or upon failure to receive an acceptable bid, may order the city to
construct such sidewalk or curb. (Ord. 171, 7-18-1951; amd. 1999 Code)
8-1A-5: CONCRETE CURBING; EXCEPTION:
All curbs and curbing constructed or placed on the line of any street or avenue
within the city shall be of concrete or other such material as may be approved
by the building inspector, with the consent and approval of the city council,
such curbing to be constructed according to plans and specifications in the
office of the building inspector, provided however, that with the consent of
the city council, the building inspector may give a permit authorizing the
construction of temporary wooden curbs in outlying portions of the city. When
any curbing now in existence shall be renewed or repaired, the same shall be
done in compliance with the terms hereof. (Ord. 2015-07, 11-9-2015)
8-1A-6: PLACEMENT OF SIDEWALKS:
Placement of sidewalks, whether new, reconstructed or replacing existing
sidewalks, will remain consistent and in line with other sidewalks in the same
block. If no sidewalks are present in the block, placement of the first
sidewalk designates placement of all other sidewalks for that block. (Ord. 97-
07, 10-27-1997, eff. 11-27-1997)
8-1A-7: ACCESS RAMP FOR HANDICAPPED PERSONS:
   A.   Required; Design: All new sidewalk and curb constructed after the
effective date hereof or all reconstructed curbing and sidewalk, occurring at a
pedestrian crossing within the city, will contain, at appropriate locations,
wheelchair ramps according to the standard design required as set forth in
state statute. (Res., 6-28-1976, eff. 7-28-1976; amd. 1999 Code)
   B.   Compliance Required: It shall be the responsibility of all individuals
constructing such sidewalks or curbs at pedestrian crossings within the city or
any private or public contractors, so constructing such sidewalks and/or curbs
in violation hereof, as well as the owners of any real property upon which such
sidewalks and/or curbs are constructed at pedestrian crossings, to comply with
this section. (Res., 6-28-1976, eff. 7-28-1976)
   C.   Noncompliance; Performance By City: In the event of noncompliance, the
building inspector or mayor may issue an order in writing to the owner of such
property, extending to said owner thirty (30) days in which to remedy and
correct the violation. In the event the owner shall fail to correct and remedy
the violation by reconstructing said sidewalk and/or curb to conform to this
section, the city is thereupon authorized to proceed, through the use of city
employees and city furnished materials, to reconstruct said sidewalk and/or
curb to conform to this section and all such reasonable charges for labor and
materials so used by the city shall be immediately payable by the owner to the
city. Such charges for material and labor shall additionally bear interest at
the legal rate after the date of billing until paid and may be assessed against
the owner of said property as a tax upon the property and may be collected in
the same manner as other taxes of the city are collected. This provision for
collection shall not limit the city to any other remedy available under law for
collection of this debt. (Ord. 2015-07, 11-9-2015)
8-1A-8: DUTIES OF PROPERTY OWNER TO KEEP SIDEWALKS REPAIRED:
It is the duty of the owner(s) of any premises within the city to keep the
sidewalks in front of and adjoining their premises in good safe and substantial
condition and repair, and that the owner(s) shall see that all breaks and
unsoundness of any character resulting from natural deterioration or from any
other cause whatever are repaired with all possible dispatch. (Ord. 2003-08,
11-10-2003, eff. 12-10-2003)
8-1A-9: CONTRACT FOR CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Specifications; Insurance: If the construction of such sidewalk or curb
is done by contract after advertisement for bids, such advertisement for bids
and contract may be for sidewalks or curbs in front of one or more lots or
parcels of land as the city council shall determine. All sidewalks and curbs
constructed by the city shall be constructed in accordance with specifications
therefor prepared by the city engineer. Any contract to whom a contract is let
for the construction of sidewalks or curbs shall, before commencing work,
execute and deliver to the city public liability and property damage insurance
as provided in this article 1 .
   B.   Lowest Responsible Bidder; Bond: The city council may, if it sees fit,
at any time let to the lowest responsible bidder after advertising for bids, a
contract for the construction of all sidewalk and curbs, for a period of not to
exceed one year, which may be ordered constructed under the provisions of this
article and which have not been constructed by the owner or agent of the owner
of the property, such construction to be in accordance with specifications
prepared therefor by the city engineer and such contractor, before he commences
any work under his contract, shall be required to deliver to the city a good
and sufficient bond for which sum as may be determined by the city council,
which bond shall be conditioned for the faithful performance of all work done
by him under the provisions of such contract and such specifications.
   C.   Authority To Proceed: Should the contract mentioned in the preceding
subsection be entered into, such contractor shall, within ten (10) days after
being notified to do so by the city engineer, proceed with the construction of
any sidewalks or curbs previously ordered by the city council, which have not
been constructed by the owner or agent of the owner, and shall, within forty
five (45) days thereafter, fully complete the construction thereof in
accordance with his contract and the specifications for such work prepared by
the city engineer, and that once such construction work has been commenced, the
same shall thereafter be prosecuted with due diligence until completed. (Ord.
171, 7-18-1951)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-1A-3 of this article.
8-1A-10: PAYMENT FOR CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Fund Created: There is hereby created a fund to be known as the special
sidewalk and curb fund, in which fund shall be kept all assessments and taxes
collected pursuant to the resolutions levying an assessment and tax referred to
in section
8-1A-11 of this article, which fund shall be expended by the city clerk-
treasurer for the purpose of paying warrants issued thereon, whenever such fund
is sufficient to pay any of such warrants. (Ord. 2015-07, 11-9-2015)
8-1A-11: PAYMENT FOR REPAIRS:
All repairs to sidewalks made by the city shall be paid out of the general
fund, and the city clerk-treasurer shall keep a separate account of the cost of
such repairs and charge the abutting property therewith, and shall certify a
list of all property chargeable with repairs of sidewalks, with the amount of
the cost of repairs for which each separate parcel is chargeable, to which cost
he shall add interest at the rate of six percent (6%) per annum from the date
of the incurring of such charge by the city, and ten percent (10%) additional
to cover costs and charges of administration, and such items shall constitute a
tax against the property affected thereby, and such tax shall be collected or
the property sold for delinquency as in the case of special improvement
assessments, and all taxes collected under the provisions of this article shall
be placed in the general fund. (Ord. 171, 7-18-1951; amd. 1999 Code)
8-1A-12: ASSESSMENTS:
   A.   Authority: The cost and expense of the construction of any sidewalk or
curb caused to be constructed by the city council under the provisions of this
article shall be assessed against the lot or parcel of land in front of which
such sidewalk or curb is constructed. (Ord. 171, 7-18-1951)
   B.   Resolution Levying And Assessing: The city council shall annually and
before the later of the first Thursday after the first Tuesday in September or
thirty (30) days from the receipt of the certified taxable value; each year,
pass and adopt a resolution levying and assessing a tax against each lot or
parcel of land in front of which sidewalks or curbs have been caused to be
constructed under the provisions of this article, which resolution shall be in
every manner prepared and certified the same as resolutions levying assessments
for the making of improvements in special improvement districts. (Ord. 2015-07,
11-9-2015)
   C.   Payment; Term: (Rep. by Ord. 2015-07, 11-9-2015)
   D.   Collection: The city clerk-treasurer or the county treasurer, as the
case may be, shall collect the special assessment or tax levied by the city
council under the provisions of this article with interest as herein provided,
such interest to run from the date of the registry of the warrant and the city
clerk-treasurer shall at any time permit the owner of any property assessed for
sidewalk or curb constructed under the provisions of this article to pay the
cost and expenses of construction with interest to the date of payment.
   E.   Lien: The cost and expenses of the construction of sidewalks and curbs
under the provisions of this article shall be a lien upon the lot or parcel of
land in front of which the same is constructed and when any one of the payments
assessed and levied by the city council shall become delinquent, the property
against which the same is levied and assessed shall be sold by the city clerk-
treasurer, the same as the sale of property for nonpayment of assessments and
levies for the making of improvements in special improvement districts. (Ord.
171, 7-18-1951)
   F.   Nonpayment Of Property Assessments: Anytime the city is required,
either through their employees, or to a contractor to resolve, remedy, or
otherwise abate a condition in which the property owner is in violation of the
city, the owner is billed for such repair, and the owner does not pay the bill
within sixty (60) calendar days of the notice, failure to pay will be
considered nonpayment. Nonpayment shall be a considered lien against the
property, and is enforceable in the same manner as nonpayment of property taxes
is enforced.
In the event the property owner who is billed objects or challenges to the
amount of the bill, or any other issues related to the bill, they may request
to be placed upon the agenda at a regularly scheduled city council meeting at
any time before the expiration of the sixty (60) day period. (Ord. 2001-02, 12-
27-2001, eff. 1-27-2002)
CHAPTER 2
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Permission And Bond Required
8-2-2: Application
8-2-3: Excavation Fees
8-2-4: Excavation Of Trenches
8-2-5: Warning Devices
8-2-6: Refilling Of Excavations Or Trenches
8-2-1: PERMISSION AND BOND REQUIRED:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation of any kind,
nature or description in the streets or alleys of the city without first
obtaining permission of the Water/Waste Water Director or public works director
and posting a bond in such an amount or sum as may be fixed by the city council
protecting the same city from any damage that might or could result from the
making of such excavation. Bond shall be refunded upon completion of excavation
and refilling of trench and with final approval of the Water/Waste Water
Director or public works director.
(Res. 1993-R11, 4-26-1993; amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 2024-08, 12-16-2024)
8-2-2: APPLICATION:
Before an excavation can be made for any purpose whatsoever in the streets or
alleys of the city, an application must be made to the city clerk-treasurer
stating the purpose of said excavation, where and when said excavation will be
made, the length of time required to complete and refill said excavation and
what precautions the applicant will take to protect persons and their property
from being damaged by said excavation. The public works director shall review
and approve said application prior to any excavation. (Res. 1993-R11, 4-26-
1993; amd. 1999 Code)
8-2-3: EXCAVATION FEES:
The city council will set excavation fees when the annual budget is made. The
refilling of any excavations must meet the standards set forth in section
8-2-6 of this chapter. If said excavation does not meet such standards, an
additional fee will be charged in the amount that it cost the city to restore
the street or alley to its original condition, and shall be held responsible
for compaction. (Ord. 2015-07, 11-9-2015)
8-2-4: EXCAVATION OF TRENCHES:
   A.   Procedures: Excavation of trenches in public streets or alleys shall be
done so as to impede public travel as little as possible. The public works
director shall have the power to determine or limit the time such street or
alley may be kept open, and when unnecessarily delayed, he may direct that the
number of workmen be increased to hasten the work to such an extent as he may
deem necessary for public interests. Trenches four feet (4') or more in depth
and in "filled in" or otherwise treacherous soil, or near large brick
buildings, shall be properly braced to prevent any caving in which might occur.
(Res. 1993-R11, 4-26-1993; amd. 1999 Code)
   B.   Water Escape: The crossing of gutters and all other ways shall be left
in such shape as to admit ready escape of water during storms. (Res. 1993-R11,
4-26-1993)
   C.   Planks: Planks shall always be provided when sidewalks or crossings are
opened, so as to facilitate easy crossings over trenches, as approved by the
public works director or water/wastewater superintendent. (Ord. 2015-07, 11-9-
2015)
8-2-5: WARNING DEVICES:
Any and all warning signs, flashing lights and barricades necessary to show
that an excavation is in progress shall be prescribed by the public works
director. (Res. 1993-R11, 4-26-1993; amd. 1999 Code)
8-2-6: REFILLING OF EXCAVATIONS OR TRENCHES:
The refilling of all trenches shall be well and thoroughly done using pit run
gravel in uniform layers not to exceed twelve inches (12") and tamped with a
tamper of not less than forty (40) pounds' weight. Work shall be completed so
as to leave the surface in as good condition as found before the commencement
of the work, and for up to a year. This section shall apply to the excavation
of all trenches whatsoever and no excavations shall be made or begun without
first obtaining a permit from the city clerk-treasurer. (Res. 1993-R11, 4-26-
1993; amd. Ord. 2015-07, 11-9-2015)
CHAPTER 3
SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL 1
SECTION:
8-3-1: Required
8-3-2: Failure To Comply; Performance By City
8-3-3: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-14-4105.
8-3-1: REQUIRED:
   A.   Owner Or Tenant: It shall be the duty of the owner or tenant of any
premises abutting or adjoining any public sidewalk to remove all snow and ice
from such sidewalk, or as much thereof as may reasonably be removed to make the
same passable for public pedestrian traffic, as soon after the accumulation of
such ice or snow as may reasonably be done, and in any event no longer than
forty eight (48) hours after the accumulation of such ice and snow. (1-3-1978)
   B.   Businesses: Whenever additional snow and ice shall be deposited in the
public street from parking lots, parking areas or private driveways operated or
owned by any business, person or entity within the City, a charge will be made,
to be established by resolution of the City Council from time to time, for the
labor and equipment involved in removing such additional accumulations of snow
and/or ice from the public streets. Off main street hours will be established
to allow for cleaning of the street. This charge will be billed to the operator
of such business and if not paid will be charged to the property owner and
collected in the same manner as other City taxes are collected. (1-3-1978; amd.
Ord. 2015-07, 11-9-2015)
8-3-2: FAILURE TO COMPLY; PERFORMANCE BY CITY:
   A.   Assessments: Upon failure of any owner or tenant to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, the City shall have the right, but is not required,
to remove such snow and ice from said public sidewalks and assess the costs
thereof against the premises abutting the sidewalk. Such assessment is to be
certified to the County Assessor or any other proper County official having
charge of making of the assessment roll and such charge shall be placed on the
assessment roll and collected in the same manner as other City taxes. (1-3-
1978)
   B.   Nonpayment Of Property Assessments: Anytime the City is required,
either through their employees, or to a contractor to resolve, remedy, or
otherwise abate a condition in which the property owner is in violation of the
City, the owner is billed for such repair, and the owner does not pay the bill
within sixty (60) calendar days of the notice, failure to pay will be
considered nonpayment. Nonpayment shall be a considered lien against the
property, and is enforceable in the same manner as nonpayment of Property Taxes
is enforced.
In the event the property owner who is billed objects or challenges to the
amount of the bill, or any other issues related to the bill, they may request
to be placed upon the agenda at a regularly scheduled City Council meeting at
any time before the expiration of the sixty (60) day period. (Ord. 2001-02, 12-
27-2001, eff. 1-27-2002)
8-3-3: PENALTY:
In addition, any tenant and/or owner of property abutting a public sidewalk on
Main Street between 8th and 12th and between Main Street and Cedar Street on
9th, 10th and 11th Streets, shall remove, to a reasonable extent, any
accumulation of ice or snow within forty eight (48) hours of the accumulation
of such ice and/or snow. Violations of this section are designated as Municipal
infractions as specified in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-
19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
CHAPTER 4
OUTDOOR MEETINGS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Permit Required
8-4-2: Application For Permit
8-4-3: Permit Restrictions
8-4-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to hold an assemblage or meeting, or to
arrange for, make or deliver a public speech, or address in or upon any public
avenue, street or alley within the city, without a permit. (Ord. 2015-07, 11-9-
2015)
8-4-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
The application for such permit shall be made at least twenty four (24) hours
before holding such assemblage or meeting or making or delivering such public
speech, or address. The application for permit will be made to the city on such
form as the city may prescribe and containing substantially the following
information: (Ord. 2015-07, 11-9-2015)
   A.   Name: Name of applicant, address of group, association, church or other
organization or persons sponsoring the assemblage or meeting; (1961 Code §
7-7-2; amd. Ord. 2015-07, 11-9-2015)
   B.   Number Of Participants: Number of persons expected to actively
participate;
   C.   Speaker Identification: Name and address of all speakers;
   D.   Time, Place And Manner: Proposed time, place and manner of holding such
meetings. (1961 Code §
7-7-2)
8-4-3: PERMIT RESTRICTIONS:
The city shall issue such permit upon application and payment of the fee
therefor, setting forth in the permit the time, place and manner of holding
such assemblage or meeting, or the making or delivery of such public speech, or
address. Such permit shall be issued in accordance with the application unless
it would endanger the public health, safety or morals, or otherwise interfere
with the peace and quiet of the neighborhood. In such case, the permit shall be
issued for such time and place as will not endanger the public health, safety
or morals or interfere with the peace and quiet of a neighborhood. Each permit
shall be limited to a total time not to exceed one hour. (Ord. 2015-07, 11-9-
2015)
CHAPTER 5
CITY PARKS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Variance To Open Container Law
8-5-1: VARIANCE TO OPEN CONTAINER LAW 1 :
   A.   Criteria: The city will consider on a case by case basis variance to
any individual or group, applications for a variance from the Forsyth open
container law, in addition to the city's permission to allow the serving of
alcohol in city parks. In consideration of a variance application that is prior
to a city council meeting the city clerk may approve the variance in
consideration of the same criteria the city council does. The city clerk will
notify the city council and the law enforcement department. The city council
will consider the following criteria in reviewing these requests:
      1.   The willingness and ability of the individual or group, to assume
liability and responsibility for the event. (Ord. 2015-07, 11-9-2015)
      2.   The ability to post a sufficient deposit for additional law
enforcement personnel if necessary.
      3.   The ability to clean up the park or the facility immediately
afterwards. A reasonable deposit for cleanup may be required.
      4.   The ability to conduct the function without causing noise
disturbance to the adjacent landowners. Applicants are encouraged to acquire
written consent of the adjacent landowners in advance of any request.
   B.   State Law Applicable: All applicants will be required to follow the
provisions of Montana law concerning the sale or distribution of alcohol, as
set forth under Montana Code Annotated sections 16-6-301 through 16-6-305.
(Ord. 98-03, 9-28-1998, eff. 10-28-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 7-1-6 of this code for open container law.
TITLE 9
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC 1
CHAPTER 0
TITLE VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
9-0-1: Violations
 
Notes
1 1. MCA §§ 7-14-4102 through 7-14-4103.
9-0-1: VIOLATIONS:
Except as otherwise provided for in this title, violations of this title are
designated as Municipal infractions as specified in title 1, chapter 4 of this
Code. The following violations shall be considered a misdemeanor and punishable
as set forth in this Code: a) unauthorized use of flood control dike, as
defined in section
9-4-6 of this title and b) driving on pedestrian crossing, as defined in
section
9-4-7 of this title. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
CHAPTER 1
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Definitions
9-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this Title shall, for the purpose
of this Title, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this Section,
unless different meaning clearly appears from the context.
ALLEY: Any public space or public thoroughfare twenty feet (20') or less in
width.
AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Vehicles of the Fire Department (fire patrol),
police vehicles, and such ambulances and emergency vehicles of Municipal
departments or public service corporations as are designated or authorized by
the Chief of Police.
BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two (2) tandem wheels, either of which is over twenty inches (20") in
diameter.
BUSINESS DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a street or
highway when within any six hundred feet (600') along such street or highway
there are buildings in use for business or industrial purposes, including, but
not limited to, hotels, banks or office buildings, railroad stations and public
buildings which occupy at least three hundred feet (300') collectively on both
sides of the street or highway; provided however, that the Chief of Police,
with the consent of the City Council, may change the boundaries or territory
within said business district.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Every vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily for
the transportation of property.
CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY: Every highway, street or railroad in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting property or lands and other persons have
no legal right of access to or from the same, except at such points only and in
such manner as may be determined by this Title or the Chief of Police.
CROSSWALK: That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs, or in the absence of curbs from the edges of
the traversable roadway. Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or
elsewhere distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other
markings on the surface.
CURB LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight.
INTERSECTION: A. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two (2) highways which join one another at or approximately at right angles,
or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways joining at
any other angle may come in conflict.
   B.   Where a highway includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an
intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event
such intersecting highway also includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or
more apart, then every crossing of two (2) roadways of such highways shall be
regarded as a separate intersection.
LANED ROADWAY: A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled, not operating upon rails.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD: Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall
mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in the
City.
OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES: All signs, signals, markings and devices not
inconsistent with this Title placed or erected by authority of the Chief of
Police or current Law Enforcement for the purpose of regulating, warning or
guiding traffic and parking.
PARK: When prohibited, means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading.
PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE: A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
PERSON: Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or corporation.
POLICE OFFICER: Every officer of the City Police Department or any officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of
this Title.
PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY: Every way or place in private ownership and used for
vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
RAILROAD: A carrier of persons or property upon cars operated upon stationary
rails.
RAILROAD TRAIN: A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without cars
coupled thereto, operated upon rails.
RESIDENCE DISTRICT: Reserved.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street or highway improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a
highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways, the term roadway, as used
herein, shall refer to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways
collectively.
SAFETY ZONE: The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between curb lines or the lateral lines of a
roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of pedestrians.
STOP: When required, means complete cessation of movement.
STOP, STOPPING OR STANDING: When prohibited, means any stop or standing of a
vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic- control sign or signal.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
THROUGH HIGHWAY: Every street or highway or portion thereof at the entrances to
which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required by
law to stop before entering or crossing the same and when stop signs are
erected as provided in this Title.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other conveyances
either singly or together while using any street for the purpose of travel.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL: Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
TRAFFIC DIVISION: The Traffic Division of the Police Department of this City or
current Law Enforcement, or in the event a Traffic Division is not established,
then said term whenever used herein shall be deemed to refer to the Police
Department of this City or current Law Enforcement.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Ord. 173, 11-11-1953; amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 2024-09, 12-16-2024)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION OF TRAFFIC
SECTION:
9-2-1: Police Administration
9-2-2: Authority Of City Officials
9-2-3: Records Of Traffic Violations
9-2-4: Accident Investigation
9-2-5: Drivers' Files; Maintenance
9-2-6: Annual Traffic Safety Report
9-2-7: Traffic-Control Devices
9-2-8: Signs For One-Way Streets And Alleys
9-2-9: U-Turns; Authority To Designate
9-2-10: Necessary, Emergency And Experimental Regulations
9-2-1: POLICE ADMINISTRATION:
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department of this City or current Law
Enforcement to enforce the provisions of this Title and all of the State
vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in this City, to make arrests for
traffic violations, to investigate accidents and to cooperate with other
officers of the City in the administration of the traffic laws and in
developing ways and means to improve traffic conditions, and to carry out those
duties specially imposed upon said departments by this Title and the traffic
ordinances of this City.
(Ord. 173, 11-11-1953; amd. Ord. 2024-10, 12-16-2024)
9-2-2: AUTHORITY OF CITY OFFICIALS:
   A.   Police Department:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department or
current Law Enforcement or such officers as are assigned by the Chief of Police
or current Law Enforcement to enforce all street traffic laws of this City and
all of the State vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in this City.
      2.   Officers of the Police Department or current Law Enforcement or such
officers as are assigned by the Chief of Police or current Law Enforcement are
hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformance
with traffic laws; provided, that, in the event of a fire or other emergency or
to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police
Department or current Law Enforcement may direct traffic as conditions may
require, notwithstanding the provisions of the Traffic Code.
   B.   Fire Department: Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of
a fire, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic at the scene or in
the immediate vicinity.
(Ord. 173, 11-11-1953; amd. 1999 Code 11-11-1953; Ord. 2024-10, 12-16-2024)
9-2-3: RECORDS OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Required: The Police Department or current Law Enforcement shall keep a
record of all violations of the traffic provisions of this Title or of the
State vehicle laws of which any person has been charged, together with a record
of the final disposition of all such alleged offenses. Such record shall be so
maintained as to show all types of violations and the total of each. Said
record shall accumulate during at least a five (5) year period and from that
time on the record shall be maintained complete for at least the most recent
five (5) year period.
   B.   Numbering; Disposal: All forms for records of violations and notices of
violations shall be serially numbered. For each month and year, a written
record shall be kept available to the public showing the disposal of all such
forms.
   C.   Public Records: All such records and reports shall be public records.
(Ord. 173, 11-11-1953; amd. Ord. 2024-10, 12-16-2024)
9-2-4: ACCIDENT INVESTIGATION:
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police or current Law Enforcement and
members of the Police Department or current Law Enforcement to investigate
traffic accidents, to arrest and to assist in the prosecution of those persons
charged with violations of laws causing or contributing to such accidents.
(Ord. 173, 11-11-1953; amd. Ord. 2024-10, 12-16-2024)
9-2-5: DRIVERS' FILES; MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Required: The Police Department or current Law Enforcement shall
maintain a suitable record of all traffic accidents, warnings, arrests,
convictions and complaints reported for each driver, which shall be filed
alphabetically under the name of the driver concerned.
   B.   Studies; License Revocation: Said Department or current Law Enforcement
shall study the cases of all drivers charged with frequent or serious
violations of the traffic laws or involved in frequent traffic accidents or any
serious accident and shall attempt to discover the reasons therefor, and shall
take whatever steps are lawful and reasonable to prevent the same or to have
the licenses of such persons suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 173, 11-11-1953; amd. Ord. 2024-10, 12-16-2024)
9-2-6: ANNUAL TRAFFIC SAFETY REPORT:
The Chief of Police or current Law Enforcement shall annually prepare a traffic
report, which shall be filed with the City Council. Such report shall contain
information on traffic matters in this City as follows:
   A.   Accidents, Fatalities And Injuries: The number of traffic accidents,
the number of persons killed, the number of persons injured and other pertinent
traffic accident data.
   B.   Investigations; Safety Activities: The number of traffic accidents
investigated and other pertinent data on the safety activities of the police.
   C.   Plans And Recommendations: The plans and recommendations of the Police
Department or current Law Enforcement for future traffic safety provisions.
(Ord. 173, 11-11-1953; amd. Ord. 2024-10, 12-16-2024)
9-2-7: TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES:
The Chief of Police or current Law Enforcement, with the approval of the City
Council is hereby authorized:
   A.   Pedestrian Markings: To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices,
marks or lines upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections
where in his opinion there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the
roadway, and at such other places as he may deem necessary.
   B.   Traffic Lanes: To mark lanes for traffic on street pavements at such
places as he may deem advisable.
   C.   Parking Spaces: To mark off individual parking spaces to be designated
by lines painted or durably marked on the curbing or surface of the street; at
each space so marked off it shall be unlawful to park any vehicles in such a
way that said vehicle shall not be entirely within the limits of the space so
designated.
   D.   Safety Zones: To establish safety zones of such kind and character and
at such places as he may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
(Ord. 173, 11-11-1953; amd. Res., 11-8-1976; Ord. 2024-10, 12-16-2024)
9-2-8: SIGNS FOR ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   Whenever any provision of this Title designates any one-way street or alley,
the Chief of Police or current Law Enforcement shall place and maintain signs
giving notice thereof and no such regulation shall be effective unless such
signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement
shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite
direction is prohibited.
(Ord. 173, 11-11-1953; amd. Ord. 2024-10, 12-16-2024)
9-2-9: U-TURNS; AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE:
   The Chief of Police or current Law Enforcement is authorized to designate
those streets upon which no U-turn shall be made and shall cause the same to be
plainly marked.
(Ord. 173, 11-11-1953; amd. Res., 11-8-1976; Ord. 2024-10, 12-16-2024)
9-2-10: NECESSARY, EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Authority: The Chief of Police or current Law Enforcement, with the
approval of the City Council, is hereby empowered to make and enforce
regulations necessary to make effective the provisions of the Traffic Code of
this City.
   B.   Emergencies; Time Limit: The Chief of Police or current Law Enforcement
may make and enforce temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies
of special conditions. No such temporary or experimental regulations shall
remain in effect for more than ninety (90) days.
   C.   Testing Of Devices: The Chief of Police or current Law Enforcement may
test traffic-control devices under actual conditions of traffic.
(Ord. 173, 11-11-1953; amd. Ord. 2024-10, 12-16-2024)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS; GENERALLY
SECTION:
9-3-1: Speed Regulations
9-3-2: Turning Movements
9-3-3: Roller Skates And Similar Devices; Restricted Uses
9-3-4: Taxicabs And Bus Operators; License Regulations
9-3-1: SPEED REGULATIONS:
   A.   Restrictions As To Speed:
      1.   Reasonable And Proper: Any person driving a vehicle on a street,
avenue or alley in the city shall drive the same at a careful and prudent speed
not greater than is reasonable and proper, having due regard to the traffic
surface and width of such street, avenue or alley, and any other conditions
then existing, and no person shall drive any vehicle upon such street, avenue
or alley at such speed or in such manner as to endanger the life, limb or
property of other persons.
      2.   Specified Speed Limits: Subject to the provisions of subsection A1
of this section and except in those instances where a lower speed is specified
in this title, it shall be prima facie lawful for the driver of a vehicle to
drive the same at a speed not exceeding the following, but in any case when
such speed would be unsafe, it shall not be lawful:
         a.   Railroad Crossing: Fifteen (15) miles per hour when approaching
within fifty feet (50') of a grade crossing of any railroad when the driver's
view is obstructed.
         b.   Hospital, Park Or School: Fifteen (15) miles per hour when
passing a hospital, public park, playground or when passing schools during
recess or while children are going to and/or from school during opening or
closing hours.
         c.   Intersections: Fifteen (15) miles per hour when approaching
within fifty feet (50') and in traversing an intersection of highways when the
driver's view is obstructed.
         d.   Curves And Grades: Fifteen (15) miles per hour in traversing or
going around curves or traversing a grade upon a highway when the driver's view
is obstructed within the distance of one hundred feet (100') along such highway
in the direction in which he is proceeding.
         e.   Streets And Highways Within City: Twenty five (25) miles per hour
on all streets and highways within the city limits, except as herein otherwise
provided; provided, however, that the chief of police, with the approval of the
city council, may either increase or decrease the speed in any particular
street, highway or alley in the city where conditions of travel or emergency
may require such change to be duly noticed and posted.
         f.   Alleys: Ten (10) miles per hour on all alleys, with alleys as
defined in section
9-1-1 of this title.
            i.   Main Street: Speed limit on the western portion of Main Street
between Highway 12 and North 7th Street shall be thirty five (35) miles per
hour. Speed limit on the eastern portion of Main Street between North 7th
Street and the end of Main Street shall be twenty five (25) miles per hour.
      3.   Violation; Speed Specified: In every charge of violation of this
section, the complaint, also the summons or notice to appear, shall specify the
speed at which the defendant is alleged to have driven, also the speed which
this section and accompanying schedules declare shall be prima facie lawful or
unlawful at the time and place of such violation.
   B.   Regulation By Traffic Signals: The chief of police is authorized to
regulate the timing of traffic signals so as to permit the movement of traffic
in an orderly and safe manner at speeds slightly at variance from the speeds
and otherwise applicable within the district or at intersections and shall
erect appropriate signs giving notice thereof. (Ord. 173, 11-11-1953; Ord.
2007-04, 9-24-2007, eff. 10-24-2007; Ord. 2021-01, 9-27-2021)
9-3-2: TURNING MOVEMENTS:
   A.   Restricted Turn Signs: The chief of police is hereby authorized to
determine those intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a
right, left or U-turn and shall place proper signs at such intersections. The
making of such turns may be prohibited between certain hours of any day and
permitted at other hours, in which event the same shall be plainly indicated on
the signs or they may be removed when such turns are permitted.
   B.   Obedience To Signs: Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating
that no right, left or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall
disobey the directions of any such sign. (Ord. 173, 11-11-1953)
   C.   Limitations On Turning: The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such
vehicle as to proceed in the opposite direction (U-turn) upon any street for
the purpose of parking, nor shall any driver make any turning movement to the
driver's left across any adjacent traffic lane for the purpose of parking on
the public street. (Ord., 3-10-1986)
9-3-3: ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES; RESTRICTED USES:
   A.   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster,
toy vehicle or similar device, shall go upon any roadway, except while crossing
a street on a crosswalk and when so crossing, such person shall be granted all
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
   B.   No person shall rollerblade, skate, bicycle, skateboard, use coasters,
or similar devices, on sidewalks, except while crossing a street on a crosswalk
and when so crossing, such person shall be granted all the rights and shall be
subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians. Area to include, south
side of Main Street from 6th Avenue to 12th Avenue, north side of Main Street
from 14th Avenue (includes Pioneer park) to 6th Avenue, Cedar Street from 6th
Avenue to 14th Avenue, 8th Avenue to Oak Street (includes the school); Park
Street between 8th Avenue and 14th, River Street between 8th and 14th, 9th
Avenue to Oak Street. (Ord. 2003-02, 5-12-2003, eff. 6-12-2003)
9-3-4: TAXICABS AND BUS OPERATORS; LICENSE REGULATIONS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any
taxicab, bus or other vehicles for hire for the purpose of carrying passengers
within the city without first obtaining a license for such operation issued by
the city clerk-treasurer in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   B.   Application: Any person desiring to obtain such license shall file a
written application therefor with the city clerk- treasurer, setting forth the
name of the person to whom the license is to be issued, the name of the
manufacturer of the vehicle to be operated thereunder, the motor, serial and
model numbers of the vehicle and the state license plate number.
   C.   State License Required: Such applicant must have a license from the
state board of railroad commissioners of the state and exhibit the same to the
chief of police before such applicant shall have the approval of the chief of
police, and such city license shall be revoked when such state railroad
commissioners' license expires or when the indemnity insurance required by the
state board of railroad commissioners expires.
   D.   Separate License; Fee; Term: A separate license shall be issued for
each vehicle operated under the provisions of this title and the charge for
each taxicab shall be fixed and determined by the city council. All licenses
hereunder shall expire on December 31 of the year of issuance. In case licenses
are issued for a period of less than one year, the charge therefor shall be
that portion of the annual charge which the period for which the license is
issued bears to one year; provided, however, that the minimum fee in no case
shall be less than one-fourth (1/4) of the annual charge.
   E.   Issuance Of License: When such application shall have the approval of
the chief of police certified thereon, the city clerk-treasurer shall, upon the
receipt of fee herein provided, issue a license to such applicant, covering the
operation of the vehicle for which the license is issued. (Ord. 173, 11-11-
1953)
CHAPTER 4
DRIVING RULES
SECTION:
9-4-1: Processions
9-4-2: Parades And Processions; Permit Required
9-4-3: Driving Vehicles On Sidewalks
9-4-4: Boarding And Alighting From Vehicles (Rep. by Ord. 2024-11, 12-16-2024)
9-4-5: Railroad Trains (Rep. by Ord. 2024-11, 12-16-2024)
9-4-6: Flood Control Dike; Unauthorized Use
9-4-7: Pedestrian Crossings
9-4-1: PROCESSIONS 1 :
   A.   Driving Through Processions Unlawful; Exception: No driver of a vehicle
shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized
processions while they are in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously
designated as required by the provisions of this Title. This provision shall
not apply at intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic-control
signals or police officers.
   B.   Drivers In Procession: Each driver in a funeral or other procession
shall drive as near to the right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and
shall follow the vehicle ahead as close as is practical and safe.
   C.   Identification Of Processions: A funeral composed of a procession of
vehicles shall be identified as such by a lighting of the headlights of all
vehicles in said procession or by such other method as may be determined and
designated by the Chief of Police. (Ord. 173, 11-11-1953)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section 9-4-2 of this Chapter for permit requirements.
9-4-2: PARADES AND PROCESSIONS; PERMIT REQUIRED:
   No funeral, procession or parade containing two hundred (200) or more
persons or fifty (50) or more vehicles, excepting the forces of the United
States Army or Navy, the military forces of this State and the forces of the
Police and Fire Departments, shall occupy, march or proceed along any street,
except in accordance with a permit issued by City Hall. Such other regulations
as are set forth herein may apply.
(Ord. 173, 11-11-1953; amd. Ord. 2024-11, 12-16-2024)
9-4-3: DRIVING VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS:
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area, except at
a permanent driveway or upon a temporary driveway unless driver is engaged in
immediate loading or unloading of goods or materials.
(Ord. 173, 11-11-1953; amd. Ord. 2024-11, 12-16-2024)
9-4-4: BOARDING AND ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES:
(Rep. by Ord. 2024-11, 12-16-2024)
9-4-5: RAILROAD TRAINS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2024-11, 12-16-2024)
9-4-6: FLOOD CONTROL DIKE; UNAUTHORIZED USE:
   A.   Vehicles: No motor vehicle of any type may be operated over, upon or
along the flood control dike constructed on the northerly environs of the City
for flood protection, unless such vehicle is an "authorized vehicle", as
defined in this subsection. An "authorized vehicle" is a vehicle owned by the
City, State or the United States while operated for the purpose of and in the
maintenance of the said dike. Violation of this provision is a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction thereof, subjects the violator to the penalty provisions
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.   Animals And Fowl: The owners or persons having custody and control over
any commonly domesticated hoofed animals or domesticated fowl are prohibited
from permitting such animals upon the dike or the approaches to the dike and
are further prohibited from permitting such animals to cross over or along said
dike. The presence of such animals upon the dike or on the approaches to the
dike constitutes the owner, whether in actual physical control of such animals
or not, or the person having the care, custody and control of such animals,
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, subjects the violator to
the penalty provisions provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Res., 5-24-1976, eff. 6-24-1976; amd. 1999 Code)
9-4-7: PEDESTRIAN CROSSINGS:
   A.   Driving Upon Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a
motor vehicle upon the pedestrian crossing immediately east of the Eighteenth
Avenue railroad crossing. Penalty for violation of this subsection shall be a
fine of fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 1992-04, 11-24-1992)
   B.   Right Of Way In Crosswalks:
      1.   Yield To Pedestrians:
         a.   Except as provided in subsection B1b of this Section, when
traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation, the driver of a
vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so
yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a marked crosswalk or within
an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection, but a pedestrian may not suddenly
leave a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a
vehicle that is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield.
         b.   When a vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at an unmarked
crosswalk at an intersection, the driver of a vehicle may make a right-hand
turn if the pedestrian is in the opposite half of the roadway and is not in
danger.
      2.   Vehicle Stopped At Crosswalk: When a vehicle is stopped at a marked
crosswalk or at an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian
to cross the roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear
may not overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
      3.   School Crossings: It is unlawful for any person to drive a motor
vehicle through a column of school children crossing a street or past a member
of the school safety patrol while the member of the school safety patrol is
directing the movement of children across a street and while the school safety
patrol member is holding an official signal in the stop position.
      4.   Penalty: A violation of this subsection is a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, subjects the violator to the penalty provisions provided in
Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 1994-01, 9-27-1994; amd. 1999 Code)
CHAPTER 5
STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING
SECTION:
9-5-1: Applicability
9-5-2: Vehicle Defined
9-5-3: Owner Responsibility
9-5-4: Prohibited Areas
9-5-5: Obstruction Of Traffic
9-5-6: Parking Regulations; Generally
9-5-7: One-Way Streets And Roadways
9-5-8: Hazardous Or Congested Places
9-5-9: Special Stops Required
9-5-10: Method Of Parking
9-5-11: Loading And Unloading
9-5-12: Regulations Not Exclusive
9-5-1: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this Chapter prohibiting the standing or parking of a vehicle
shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as indicated on
official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
official traffic-control device. (Ord. 173, 11-11-1953)
9-5-2: VEHICLE DEFINED:
The term "vehicle", as used herein, shall mean every motor driven vehicle
licensed by the State and additionally shall include all other vehicles on
wheels, which are registered (licensed) by the State. (Ord., 2-14-1983)
9-5-3: OWNER RESPONSIBILITY:
Every person in whose name a vehicle is registered (licensed) shall be
responsible for any parking of such vehicle in violation of any provision of
this Title or of State laws. It shall be no defense to such charge that such
vehicle was illegally parked by another, unless it is shown that at such time
the vehicle was being used without the consent of the registered (licensed)
owner. (Ord., 2-14-1983)
9-5-4: PROHIBITED AREAS:
It shall be unlawful to stop, stand or park a vehicle in any location in or
upon any public street or alley where such stopping, standing or parking is
prohibited by this Title or by State law, or where traffic indicators or
parking zones established by lawful authority shall prohibit the same. (Ord.,
2-14-1983)
9-5-5: OBSTRUCTION OF TRAFFIC:
No vehicle may be parked on any street or alley so as to obstruct traffic,
except in unloading or loading commercial vehicles servicing business
establishments of the City; provided, the driver of such commercial vehicles
shall not park longer than necessary and shall at no time permit such vehicle
to remain unattended so that it can be immediately removed in the event of an
emergency requiring the passage of emergency vehicles. (Ord., 2-14-1983)
9-5-6: PARKING REGULATIONS; GENERALLY:
   A.   Signs Required: Whenever by this Code any parking time limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, it shall be the duty of the
Chief of Police to erect appropriate signs giving notice thereof and no such
regulation shall be effective unless said signs are erected and in place at the
time of any alleged offense.
   B.   Certain Purposes Prohibited: No person shall park a vehicle upon any
roadway for the principal purpose of:
      1.   Displaying For Sale: Displaying such vehicle for sale.
      2.   Washing, Repairing: Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle,
except repairs necessitated by an emergency.
      3.   Selling Merchandise: Selling merchandise, tickets or solicitations
of subscriptions to magazines or other printed periodicals.
      4.   Storage: Storage of any such vehicle other than normal parking of
vehicles regularly used.
   C.   Adjacent To Schools:
      1.   Authority To Regulate: The chief of police is hereby authorized to
erect signs indicating no parking upon either or both sides of any street
adjacent to any school property when such parking would, in his opinion,
interfere with traffic or create a hazardous situation.
      2.   No Parking; Signs Erected: When official signs are erected
indicating no parking upon either side of a street adjacent to any school
property as authorized herein, no person shall park a vehicle in any such
designated place.
   D.   Narrow Streets:
      1.   Authority To Regulate; Street Width: The chief of police is hereby
authorized to erect signs indicating no parking upon any street when the width
of the roadway does not exceed twenty feet (20') or upon one side of a street
as indicated by such signs when the width of the roadway does not exceed thirty
feet (30').
      2.   No Parking; Signs Erected: When official signs prohibiting parking
are erected upon narrow streets as authorized herein, no person shall park a
vehicle upon any such street in violation of any such signs.
   E.   Street Cleaning; Specific Hours Regulated:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any street, avenue or
alley between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. while any such street, avenue or alley is being cleaned and the chief of
police, county sheriff or any other person duly authorized to act as the chief
law enforcement officer for the purpose of enforcing these city ordinances,
shall have the authority to designate the days upon which certain streets,
avenues and alleys shall be cleaned and no parking permitted. The streets shall
be plainly signed.
      2.   Special cleaning of streets, avenues or alleys may also be
accomplished at other hours than those specified herein upon publication five
(5) days in advance of a notice to that effect in the local newspaper,
authorized by the chief law enforcement officer. Additionally, such streets to
be specially cleaned at hours other than two o'clock (2:00) A.M. to seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. shall be specially signed with portable signs at least
twelve (12) hours in advance of such proposed cleaning. During such hours
designated for such special street cleaning no vehicular parking will be
permitted.
      3.   The owner of any motor vehicle parked on any street, avenue or alley
between the prohibited hours designated in subsection E1 of this section or
during those hours designated by the chief law enforcement officer as provided
in subsection E2 of this section is hereby made liable to fine for violation of
these parking regulations. Additionally, the chief law enforcement officer, any
police officer thereof or officer authorized to enforce these parking
regulations, or the chief of police or sheriff's department may order the
removal of any vehicle so parked in violation of this subsection and the owner
or operator of any towing device or vehicle which shall respond to such order
to remove such vehicle in violation is authorized to retain custody of such
vehicle for towing and resulting storage charges and for safekeeping of said
motor vehicle.
   F.   Time Limited Parking: Except between the hours of two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on Tuesdays and Saturdays, during which hours
no motor vehicles shall be parked on or along Main Street between Eighth Avenue
and Eleventh Avenue or on or along Ninth Avenue between Cedar Street and Main
Street (as per subsection D of this section), motor vehicles may be parked on
such streets, if properly parked in conformance with other parking ordinances
of the city, for a continuous period of time not to exceed twenty four (24)
hours. The above twenty four (24) hour parking restriction also applies to the
city owned parking lot, located behind several downtown businesses on the 800
block of Main. In addition to the civil infraction penalties, the City may
impose the cost of towing such vehicle to police impoundment area and storage
charges of one dollar ($1.00) per day until said motor vehicle is redeemed by
the owner or his agent by payment of such towing and accrued storage charges
and such fine as the city judge may assess for this violation. The police
department or sheriff's department, and any other law enforcement officers
enforcing the ordinances of the city, are authorized to seize and impound motor
vehicles illegally parked in excess of the limitation herein provided, such
seizure and impound be made pursuant to the policies adopted by that law
enforcement agency. Violation of this subsection will be punished in accordance
with the penalty section for city code violations as set forth in section 
1-4-1 of this code.
   G.   Front Of Others' Property:
      1.   Specified Time Limit: No vehicle, licensed or unlicensed, trailer or
vehicle part shall be parked on the street in front of somebody else's property
for over twenty four (24) hours, without the property owner's permission, when
the parking of such vehicle would interfere with the quiet, peace, use and
enjoyment of that person's property.
      2.   Penalty: Penalties for violation of this subsection shall be as
follows:
         a.   First Offense: A reading of this subsection and a warning to move
such parked vehicle.
         b.   Second Offense: A fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) per vehicle,
plus towing charges.
         c.   Third Offense: A fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per
vehicle, plus towing charges, impounding and storage fees and all costs
relating to impoundment.
   H.   Residential Areas:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle in the city of
Forsyth, either on a public right of way, or on their individual property in
any area zoned as residential, if the vehicle or trailer exceeds the width of
eighty four inches (84") (7 feet) or has a total length exceeding twenty feet
(20'), including the amount of the load. Large motor homes, residential
trailers, school buses and similar passenger vehicles, are exempted from this
subsection.
      2.   In cases of special circumstances, an owner of a large truck,
semitruck, or semitrailer may apply for an exemption permit, with such
circumstances to be decided by the city council on a case by case basis.
      3.   Violation of this subsection will be punished in accordance with the
penalty section for city code violations as set forth in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 173, 11-11-1953; amd. 1999 Code; Res., 5-10-1976,
eff. 6-9-1976; Ord. 1992-03, 10-26-1992; Ord. 2002-09, 11-12-2002, eff. 12-12-
2002; Ord. 2007-01, 1-22-2007, eff. 3-1-2007; Ord. 2019-02, 1-13-2020)
9-5-7: ONE-WAY STREETS AND ROADWAYS:
   A.   Streets: The chief of police is authorized to erect signs upon the left
hand side of any one-way street to prohibit the standing or parking of
vehicles, and when such signs are in place, no person shall stand or park a
vehicle upon such left hand side in violation of any such sign.
   B.   Roadways: In the event a highway includes two (2) or more separate
roadways and traffic is restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no
person shall stand or park a vehicle upon the left hand side of such one-way
roadway unless signs are erected to permit such standing or parking. The chief
of police is authorized to determine when standing or parking may be permitted
upon the left hand side of any such one-way roadway and to erect signs giving
notice thereof. (Ord. 173, 11-11-1953)
9-5-8: HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES:
   A.   Authority To Designate; Sign Placement: The chief of police is hereby
authorized to determine and designate by proper signs placed not exceeding one
hundred feet (100') in length in which the stopping, standing or parking of a
vehicle would create an especially hazardous condition or would cause unusual
delay to traffic.
   B.   No Parking; Signs Erected: When official signs are erected at hazardous
or congested places as authorized herein, no person shall stop, stand or park a
vehicle in any such designated place. (Ord. 173, 11-11-1953)
9-5-9: SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED:
   A.   Through Streets Designated: The following are hereby declared to be
through streets for the purpose of this code; traffic will stop when entering;
provided, however, that the chief of police, with the approval of the city
council, may declare other streets in the city to be through streets when
deemed necessary:
      1.   Main Street, both sides, entire length;
      2.   Third Avenue (north), both sides, Main Street to River Bridge;
      3.   Ninth Avenue, Cedar and River Streets;
      4.   Front Street (Highway 10-12), entire length;
      5.   Tenth Avenue (south), Main Street to Front Street (highway).
   B.   Hazardous Intersections: The chief of police is hereby authorized to
determine and designate intersections where particular hazards exist upon other
than through streets and to determine whether vehicles shall stop at one or
more entrances to any such stop intersection, and shall erect a stop sign at
every such place where a stop is required.
   C.   Traffic Obstructed: No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked
crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of the
intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle he is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any
traffic control signal indication to proceed.
   D.   Stopping Within Intersection Or Crosswalk: It shall be unlawful for any
vehicle to stop within an intersection or on a crosswalk for the purpose of
picking up or discharging passengers, guests or other persons. (Ord. 173, 11-
11-1953)
9-5-10: METHOD OF PARKING:
   A.   Close To Curb: No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway
other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of
lawful traffic movement and with the right hand wheels of the vehicle within
eighteen inches (18") of the curb or edge of the roadway, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter.
   B.   Angle Parking:
      1.   Authority To Regulate; Signs Required: The chief of police, with the
approval of the city council, shall determine upon what streets angle parking
shall be permitted and shall mark or sign such streets, but such angle parking
shall not be indicated upon any federal aid or state highway within this city
unless the state highway commission has determined by resolution or order
entered in its minutes that the roadway is of sufficient width to permit angle
parking without interfering with the free movement of traffic.
      2.   Driving On Left Side: Angle parking shall not be indicated or
permitted at any place where passing traffic would thereby be caused or
required to drive upon the left side of the street.
      3.   Obedience To Signs Or Markers: Upon those streets which have been
signed or marked by the chief of police for angle parking, no person shall park
or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway
indicated by such signs or markings and in such a manner that said vehicle
shall be entirely within the limits of the space so designated. (Ord. 173, 11-
11-1953)
9-5-11: LOADING AND UNLOADING:
   A.   Authority To Regulate; Signs Required: The chief of police is hereby
authorized to determine the location of passenger and freight curb loading
zones and shall place and maintain appropriate signs indicating the same and
stating the hours during which the provisions of this section are applicable.
   B.   Permit Required:
      1.   Authority: The chief of police is authorized to issue special
permits to permit the backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of
loading or unloading merchandise or materials subject to the terms and
conditions of such permit. Such permits may be issued either to the owner or
lessee of real property or to the owner of the vehicle and shall grant to such
persons the privilege as therein stated and authorized herein. It shall be
unlawful for any permittee or other person to violate any of the special terms
or conditions of any such permit. (Ord. 173, 11-11-1953)
      2.   Application Required; Fee: The chief of police shall not hereafter
designate or sign any curb loading zone upon special request of any person
unless such person makes application for a permit for such zone and for two (2)
signs to indicate the ends of each such zone. Such application shall state the
location of the desired zone, the number of passenger vehicle parking spaces in
said zone so desired and the business hours during which said zone shall be so
used. Upon approval of the application by the city council, the chief of police
shall grant such permit and issue such signs upon the payment by the applicant
of an annual service and maintenance fee, the amount of which is to be fixed
from time to time by the city council. The chief of police may by general
regulations impose conditions upon the use of such signs and for reimbursement
of the city for the value thereof in the event of their loss or damage and
their return in the event of misuse or upon expiration of permit. All permits
hereunder shall expire on December 31 of the year of issuance. (Ord. 173, 11-
11-1953; amd. 1999 Code)
      3.   Minimum Fee: In case a permit is issued for a period of less than
one year, the charge thereof shall be that portion of the annual charge which
the period for which the permit is issued bears to one year; provided however,
that the minimum fee in no case shall be less than one-third (1/3) of the
annual charge.
      4.   Denial, Cancellation Or Suspension: The city council shall have the
right to deny any and all requests for permit or to cancel or suspend any
permit previously granted.
   C.   Standing In Passenger Curb Loading Zone: No person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle for any purpose or period of time other than the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers in any place marked as a passenger curb
loading zone during the hours when the regulations applicable to such curb
loading zone are effective, and then only for a period not to exceed three (3)
minutes.
   D.   Standing In Freight Curb Loading Zone:
      1.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pick up
and loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone
during the hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In
no case shall the stop for loading of material exceed thirty (30) minutes.
      2.   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight loading zone for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not interfere with
any motor vehicle used for the transportation of materials which is waiting to
enter or about to enter such zone.
   E.   Public Carrier Stops And Stands: The chief of police is hereby
authorized and required to establish bus stops, bus stands, taxicab stands and
stands for other passenger common- carrier motor vehicles on such public
streets, in such places and in such number as he shall determine to be of the
greatest benefit and convenience to the public, and every such bus stop, bus
stand, taxicab stand or other stand shall be designated by appropriate signs.
   F.   Stopping, Standing And Parking Of Public Conveyances:
      1.   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than a bus stand so designated as provided herein.
      2.   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
other than at a bus stop, bus stand or passenger loading zone so designated as
provided herein, except in case of an emergency.
      3.   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand or passenger
loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus when stopped to
load or unload passengers or baggage shall be in a position with the right
front wheel of such vehicle not further than eighteen inches (18") from the
curb and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede
the movement of other vehicular traffic.
      4.   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated as provided
herein. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations
at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers.
   G.   Restricted Uses: No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other
than a bus in a bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any
such stop or stand has been officially designated and appropriately signed,
except that the driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for
the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers
when such stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter
or about to enter such zone. (Ord. 173, 11-11-1953)
9-5-12: REGULATIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The provisions of this chapter imposing a time limit on parking shall not
relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing or parking of
vehicles in specific places or at specified times. (Ord. 173, 11-11-1953)
TITLE 10
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 0
TITLE VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
10-0-1: Violations
10-0-1: VIOLATIONS:
Except as otherwise provided for in this Chapter, violations of this title are
designated as Municipal infractions as specified in title 1, chapter 4 of this
Code. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019; amd. Ord. 2019-02, 1-13-2020)
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE AND SERVICE 1
SECTION:
10-1-1: Administration
10-1-2: Financial Administration
10-1-3: Fixture Defined
10-1-4: Connection To System
10-1-5: Meters
10-1-6: Payment Of Bills; Delinquency
10-1-7: Rules And Regulations
10-1-8: Extension Of Water Mains
10-1-9: Connection With Existing Special Improvement District
10-1-10: Hydrants In Streets
10-1-11: Connections For Fire Protection
10-1-12: Water For Human Consumption
10-1-13: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-3-4301.
10-1-1: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Department Established: For the purpose of regulating and operating the
waterworks system owned by the City, a Department is hereby established to be
designated the Water Department, which shall be under the control and
management of the City Council, who shall appoint all employees of said Water
Department and fix their salaries or compensation upon nomination and
recommendation, to be made and reported to the City Council by the Committee on
water or by the Water/Wastewater Superintendent of said waterworks system.
(Ord. 1990-3, 1-8-1990; amd. Res., 1-8-1990; 1999 Code)
   B.   Utility Clerk: There is hereby created the position of Utility Clerk,
who shall be hired as provided by the procedures set forth in the City's
Charter and/or personnel policy. The duties of Utility Clerk include
responsibility for the accurate tabulation and maintenance of water and sewer
payments and records. (Ord. 96-06, 11-25-1996; amd. 1999 Code)
   C.   Annual Report: The City Clerk-Treasurer shall make an annual report to
the Committee on condition of the Water Department and probable expenditures
for the ensuing year, which report shall be and made prior to determination of
the annual budget.
   D.   Adoption Of Rules And Regulations: The Department reserves the right to
adopt from time to time any and all rules and regulations concerning the
consumption of water, the tapping of mains, the installation of service or the
acts of licensed plumbers, and all such rules and regulations when so adopted
by the Department shall be certified by the Committee to the City Council and
by the City Council approved and thereupon, every such rule and regulation
shall be considered a part of and amendment to this Chapter and shall become a
part of the contract of service of every consumer. (Res., 1-1-1977)
10-1-2: FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Revenue Disposition: All revenues accruing to the Water Fund over and
above what is necessary for construction or extension of said waterworks or
what may be required as mandated reserves or for revolving funds, shall on
resolution passed by a majority of the members of the City Council, be paid
over and credited to the sinking fund, to be used as may be provided by
resolution of the City Council. (Res., 1-1-1977)
   B.   Water Fund: There shall be an account kept by the City Clerk-Treasurer
known as the Water Fund and all receipts of the City Clerk-Treasurer arising
from the sale of bonds, from the collection of water rates, from taxation for
water purposes and operating such works, for the sale of such property or
materials connected with the management and operation of the waterworks or any
appropriation made by the City Council for the purpose of construction and
extension of the waterworks, shall be placed in said Fund and all salaries and
disbursements connected with the management and operation of the waterworks
shall be paid out of said Fund. (Res., 1-1-1977; amd. 1999 Code)
10-1-3: FIXTURE DEFINED:
In the regulation of rates set forth by the City Council from time to time, the
term fixture shall be construed to mean any single device for the consumption
of water and shall include one hot and one cold water faucet at one rate where
the character of the device or the use to which the same is applied shall admit
such consumption. (Res., 1-1-1977; amd. 1999 Code)
10-1-4: CONNECTION TO SYSTEM:
   A.   Permit Required: Each person or organization desiring customer service
must make written application for a permit to have service lines connected to
the existing Water Department system. Until such permit is approved by the
Water/Wastewater Superintendent or directly by the City Council, no one is
permitted to make any connection to the existing water system or to attempt
such connection. Any excavation of streets or alleys, for the purpose of
attempting to make or making water service connection to any existing pipe or
units of the Water Department system, without a written permit to make such
entry into the street or alley, is a Municipal infraction. Any unauthorized
connection to an existing pipe of the Water Department system is a Municipal
infraction. Violations of this section are designated as Municipal infractions
as specified in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018,
eff. 1-1-2019)
   B.   Charges: Applicants for water shall be charged from the actual location
of the main where the main is located in the street, to the curb line, for all
service pipes and trenching and the City, through its Water/Wastewater
Superintendent or through the City Council, shall have the power to make such
arrangements with the plumber and others as they may deem expedient to carry
this section into effect, and no water shall be turned on until the costs of
such connection or connections have been paid. When the main is extended, the
costs of all such extension shall be borne by the applicant or applicants for
service requiring such extension. (Res., 1-1-1977; amd. 1999 Code)
10-1-5: METERS:
   A.   Provided By City: The Water Department will provide meters for five-
eighths inch (5/8") lines at no direct expense to the subscriber. Meters
required for larger service will be paid for by the subscriber. Remote meters
must be installed with all meters which are in outside meter boxes or pits. The
cost of remote meters will be borne in part by the subscribers, according to
the current contribution policy of the City Council in effect at the time of
installation.
   B.   Deposit Required: A deposit will be required for water meters installed
for any entity which:
      1.   Businesses:
         a.   Does not own the real property upon which such business is
operated; or
         b.   Has not been in business within the City more than one year and
established a satisfactory record of payment of water bills.
      2.   Residential: The residential meter deposit rate shall be three (3)
times the minimum residential rate. (Ord. 96-06, 11-25-1996)
   C.   Amount Of Deposit: The amount of deposit will be established by the
Utility Clerk or the Water/Wastewater Superintendent and will be no less than
sixty dollars ($60.00), nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00), based upon
an estimate of the first three (3) months water consumption by the user.
   D.   Security Deposit: The security deposit will be refunded at the end of
one year, provided the user has established a satisfactory record of prompt
payment of water bills. If the user's record of payment of water bills is
unsatisfactory in the opinion of the Water/Wastewater Superintendent or the
Utility Clerk, such security deposit will be retained until such time as a one
year period of satisfactory payment has been established. (Ord. 96-06, 11-25-
1996; amd. 1999 Code)
   E.   Satisfactory Payment: For the purposes of this section, satisfactory
payment shall mean reasonable prompt payment of water bills by the user. (Ord.
96-06, 11-25-1996)
10-1-6: PAYMENT OF BILLS; DELINQUENCY:
All bills must be paid promptly. All past due balances of water/sewer bills
shall receive an additional billing of two percent (2%) per month on the
outstanding balance, with a minimum charge of one dollar ($1.00) for any unpaid
balance due as of the twenty fifth of the month. Failure of a subscriber to pay
charges within thirty (30) days of billing may subject the subscriber to action
to terminate water service as set forth in the rules and regulations. (Ord. 96-
07, 9-9-1996)
When a water and sewer account is delinquent, as determined under the City
ordinances and policies, the Water Clerk shall notify the property owner by
certified letter or personal service of this determination and notify that the
City will be seeking the assessment of the lien against the property. In the
event, sixty (60) days have expired after the receipt of the certified letter
or personal service, and the property owner has not challenged the
determination, the Water Clerk shall charge the delinquent bill as an
assessment against the property, and this assessment shall be a lien against
the property, and is enforceable in the same manner as nonpayment of Property
Taxes.
Anytime during the sixty (60) day period from the date of the notification of
delinquent account as prescribed by this section, the property owner may
request to be placed upon the agenda of the City Council regular scheduled
meeting, and challenge the determination of delinquency by the Water Clerk.
(Ord. 2001-02, 12-27-2001, eff. 1-27-2002)
10-1-7: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
These rules and regulations are adopted in conformance to the requirements of
chapter 607, Montana Session Laws of 1981, effective July 1, 1981.
Rule 1: Water shall not be turned into any house or service pipe except by the
Water/Wastewater Superintendent or Water Department employee, and not until the
applicant shall have received a written permit and the meter deposit shall have
been paid. All new subscribers shall be required to maintain a meter deposit
for the first year of service. Licensed plumbers, their employees and all other
persons, are strictly prohibited from turning water into any service pipe,
except on order or permission of the Water/Wastewater Superintendent, but this
rule shall not be construed to prohibit licensed plumbers from turning water
into any pipe for the purpose of testing the same and for that purpose only.
Rule 2: No more than one house shall be supplied from one tap, except by
special permission, and whenever two (2) or more parties are supplied from one
service pipe connecting with a distributing main, the failure on the part of
any one of said parties to pay the water rent when due or to comply with the
rules and regulations of the department, or whenever any person, whether owner,
tenant or lessee, permits any person not a member of the family to use water
from his hydrant or pipes without knowing that such person has first obtained
the consent of the Superintendent, or whenever any such person permits any
waste on his own premises, or in any way violates the rules and regulations of
the department or prevents or interferes with the carrying out of the rules of
the department on his premises, the water on the premises of such person shall
be turned off.
Rule 3: No customer shall supply water to other families, persons, firms or
corporations, or shall permit them to take it off their premises, except when
they are paying therefor at meter rate or after water is introduced into any
building or upon any premises, shall any person make or employ any plumber or
other person to make taps or connections with any pipes upon the premises for
alterations, extensions or attachments without permission from the
Superintendent upon the filing of the regular application therefor.
Rule 4: If a consumer furnishes other people or places with water without
written permission from the Utility Office or uses the water for other purposes
than those authorized, it shall be a violation of his contract and after
reasonable notice, the water may be shut off and service discontinued until
such time the additional service furnished has been paid for, plus the
reconnection charge (if the utility has a shut- off and turn-on charge). (Res.,
1-1-1977)
Rule 5: Whenever the water has been turned off from any consumer, he shall not
turn it on again nor permit it to be turned on without the written consent of
the Director and whoever violates this section shall be subject to a Municipal
infraction. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
Rule 6: A permit for water for building purposes shall be limited to a
specified time and must be left subject to examination at the premises where
the water is to be used. A violation of this rule will result in shutting off
of the water supplied for such purpose.
Rule 7: No person shall use any water for irrigation or sprinkling during
progress of any fire in the City and all irrigation or sprinkling shall be
immediately stopped when an alarm of fire is sounded in any part of the City
and shall not be begun again until the fire has been extinguished.
Rule 8: Pipes must always be tapped on the sides or on the top at the
discretion of the Water/Wastewater Superintendent and in no case at or within
six inches (6") from the hub. All service pipes must be laid as much under the
surface of the ground as the main pipe is and in all cases to be protected so
as to prevent rupture from freezing. Every service pipe must be provided with
stop and waste cocks for each consumer, easily accessible and so situated that
the water can be conveniently shut off and drained from the pipes; stopcocks to
be of the patent, size and style as prescribed by the department.
Rule 9: Every person desiring a supply of water must make application therefor
to the Water/Wastewater Superintendent on such forms as may be prescribed by
the City Council. The application must state fully and truly all of the uses to
which the water is to be applied and no different or additional use will be
allowed, except by written permission obtained from the Superintendent upon the
filing of proper application. Not more than one house shall be supplied from
one tap except by written permission of the committee. No rebate will be
allowed water takers on account of the use of wells or cisterns. (Res., 1-1-
1977)
Rule 10: The Water Department shall discontinue service to any customer who
violates its rules and regulations or for nonpayment of bills. Service shall
actually be discontinued only after at least seven (7) days' written notice to
record address of water user as the same appears of record in the Office of the
Utility Clerk. Notice shall be deemed given when deposited in the U.S. mail,
postage prepaid, so addressed. Such notice of imminent termination of water
service will be given when a customer's water bill is thirty (30) days
delinquent or when there has been some violation of the rules pertaining to
water service; provided however, where fraudulent use of water is detected or
where the utility's regulating or measuring equipment has been tampered with,
or where a dangerous condition is found to exist on a customer's premises, the
water may be shut off without notice in advance. Officials and employees of the
Water Department are prohibited from extending credit in excess of what is
provided herein. (Ord., 1981; amd. 1999 Code)
Rule 11: Service connection means the utility's pipe which connects the water
main to a customer's service line at or near the user's property line, at the
point designated by the Water/Wastewater Superintendent or Water Department
employee.
Rule 12: Consumer or customer shall mean any individual, partnership,
association, firm, public or private corporation, or governmental agency
receiving water service.
Rule 13: Copies of all rates and other charges shall be filed annually with the
Public Service Commission on forms as provided by the Public Service
Commission.
Rule 14: All water shall be meter rated.
Rule 15: No water shall be furnished free to any customer.
Rule 16: In all cases where meters are installed, the customer shall furnish
proper protection from frost or other damage. Meter must be located where it is
easily accessible for reading purposes and repairs.
Rule 17: All new customers desiring water service must make a written
application at the utility office on forms furnished by the utility stating all
purposes for which the water will be used upon their premises.
Rule 18: Special water service for construction or other temporary purposes
must be applied for by the customer.
Rule 19: The City reserves the right to specify the necessary size of main and
service lines for all extensions.
Rule 20: In the event the City Council shall consider it advisable to make a
change in the water rates or classifications of its consumers, it shall order a
hearing to be held before it at a time and place specified. (Res., 1-1-1997)
Rule 21: Notice of the hearing shall be published in a newspaper as provided in
Montana Code Annotated, section 7-1-4127. The notice shall be published three
(3) times with at least six (6) days separating each publication. The first
publication may be no more than twenty one (21) days prior to the hearing and
the last publication may be no less than three (3) days prior to the hearing.
Notice must also be mailed at least seven (7) days and not more than thirty
(30) days prior to the hearing to persons served by the utility. The notice
shall accompany the bill for services of that utility and must be mailed within
the prescribed time period. This notice must contain an estimate of the amount
the customer's average monthly bill will increase. The published notice must
contain: (Res., 1-1-1997; amd. 1999 Code)
   A.   The date, time and place of hearing;
   B.   A brief statement of the proposed action;
   C.   Address and telephone number of a person who may be contacted for
further information regarding the hearing.
Notice of all hearings shall be mailed first class, postage prepaid, to the
Montana Consumer Counsel.
Rule 22: At the hearing, all persons, associations, corporations or companies
affected or interested, including the Montana Consumer Counsel, may be present
and represented by counsel. The hearing may be continued from time to time by
the City Council. At the conclusion of the hearing, all interested parties
shall be allowed to make such arguments as they may consider proper. Within
thirty (30) days after the hearing, the City Council shall issue its decision.
The decision is final ten (10) days after being filed with the City Clerk-
Treasurer. A copy of each revised rate schedule shall be filed with the Public
Service Commission upon final decision.
Rule 23: A municipality regulating its utility services must make an annual
report to the Public Service Commission and furnish a copy thereof to the
Montana Consumer Counsel. The report shall set forth the rates and number of
users of each service and classification, the rate increases and the total
income and expenditures of the utility as provided in Montana Code Annotated
section 69-3-203.
Rule 24: If a municipal utility requires rate increases that yield an increase
in total revenues in excess of twelve percent (12%) in any one year or rate
increases for mandated Federal and State capital improvements for which the
increase exceeds amounts necessary to meet the requirements of bond indentures
or loan agreements required to finance the local government's share of the
mandated improvements, it must make application for such increases to the
Public Service Commission.
Rule 25: A party to a municipal rate hearing may appeal the decision of the
City to the District Court in whose jurisdiction the City lies.
A person may appeal the adoption or application of the City utility rules to
the District Court in whose jurisdiction the City lies. (Res., 1-1-1977)
Rule 26: Water bills shall be mailed out on the first day of each month or as
near thereto as possible. Payment of such bills shall be due the fifteenth of
each month. (Res., 1-1-1977; amd. Ord., 10-26-1981)
Rule 27: There will be a charge to the subscriber for any entry into any street
or alley for the purpose of an initial service hookup. Additionally, the Water
Department will not charge for any turn-off of service, but will charge fifteen
dollars ($15.00) for a reconnection or turn-on of service of City water, unless
the turn-off of service was due to an emergency situation, in which case no
reconnection fee will be charged. (Ord., 8-28-1989)
Rule 28: All mains installed in streets or public rights of way within the City
limits become public property and shall immediately, upon installation, become
a part of the Water Department system. Service lines will be installed from the
mains to the property to be served by the owner of property to be served, at
the owner's expense.
The City will not maintain service lines from the property line to the mains.
Rule 29: Whenever water leakage or any other damage to a service line shall
occur between the subscriber's property line (whether tenant or owner) and the
point of consumption and use, the Water Department may immediately shut off
service and refuse to connect service until the consumer has made necessary
repairs to the service line. (Res., 1-1-1977)
Rule 30: Water service shall not be provided through the City water system
outside of the City limits, except lands abutting the City limits, owned by
County, State or Federal government may be served, at the option of the City
Council, by such fee or contract arrangement as the City Council deems
equitable. Preexisting services in violation hereof shall be permitted to
continue, but shall not otherwise be extended or expanded. (Ord., 2-8-1988)
Rule 31: The cost of meter installation will be enough to recover the current
costs of such meters. (Ord. 96-06, 11-25-1996)
10-1-8: EXTENSION OF WATER MAINS:
   A.   Size Of Line: No water main extension may be less than by six inch (6")
line approved by the Water/Wastewater Superintendent or Director of Public
Works;
   B.   Extended Through Entire Property: Beginning at the point where service
is available, the main shall be extended through the entire property to be
served. The term "entire property to be served" shall mean that such extension
shall abut and run the full length of the frontage of the applicant's property,
whether one or more than one connection is to be made to the main for service
to the applicant's property. Whatever the applicant shall own and intend to
occupy in person or by lessee or tenant, a residence or business structure or
enterprise occupying more than one lot, such water main extension shall extend
the full frontage length of such property so occupied. The purpose of this
provision shall be to make uniform and equalize, to the extent possible, costs
of installation on an ownership basis and to provide for the necessary and
desirable placement of fire hydrants for fire protection to the property
served.
   C.   Cost Of Installation: All installation of water mains and water main
extensions will be done by the City on a cost for material, plus labor basis.
Individual contractors may not install City water mains, except by express
approval of the City Council for any such individual project, excepting only
subdivisions, as defined by the subdivision regulations of the City and County,
which said subdivisions shall be excluded from the provisions of this Section,
subject to subdivision regulation requirements for utility services.
   D.   Estimate Of Costs: Costs for installation shall be estimated prior to
installation and payment on said estimate basis made by the applicant prior to
the installation by the City. Should the actual cost and labor involved exceed
the estimate, the applicant will be billed at the conclusion of installation
and will thereafter be required and obligated to pay the balance due within
thirty (30) days after billing. In the event of any overpayment on estimate
basis, such overpayment shall be immediately refunded by the City upon
completion of the project.
   E.   Appurtenances Included: Main extensions shall include all valves,
hydrants and appurtenances deemed necessary by the City.
   F.   Equity; Reimbursement: For the purpose of equity, any individual
property owner making a water main extension at his expense, except in
subdivisions subject to or where extension is by special improvement district,
shall be entitled to a pro rata reimbursement from other abutting property
owners who may subsequently require a connection to the main for water service.
Such connections shall be prorated on the basis of fifty foot (50') frontage
per lot and the reimbursement provisions hereof shall remain in effect for ten
(10) years after the installation of any water main extension provided for
herein.
   G.   Service Tap Application: Before any person may install a service tap
from a water main, he must make application to the Water/Wastewater
Superintendent or Director of Public Works. Under the provisions of this
Section, such applicant making application within ten (10) years after
extension of main by any private individual, shall be required to make a
payment on a proportionate basis.
   H.   Criteria For Reimbursement: Reimbursement under this Section shall be
determined initially by the Water/Wastewater Superintendent or Director of
Public Works, using the following criteria:
      1.   The total potential users of the water main extension shall be
estimated on the basis of the most probable development of lots adjacent to the
water main extension, the capacity of the installation and the capacity of City
water mains.
      2.   The standard method, not to exclude other methods or factors, of
estimating the number of total potential users shall be that one potential user
will be allotted per fifty feet (50') of lot frontage. The total potential use
by the applicant shall be similarly determined and included in the total of
potential users.
      3.   The cost for a water service tap from the water extension shall be
found by dividing the total cost of the water main installation by the total
potential users of the water main extension.
      4.   No person shall be reimbursed a greater amount than the total cost
of the water main installation, less the person's total potential use,
multiplied by the cost per water service tap, as established by the City
Council.
      5.   Review of the reimbursement determination may be made by the City
Council upon demand.
      6.   For the purpose of administering this Section, each person,
including the person extending the water main, shall be charged the current
hookup fee for each water service tap as determined by the City Council. (Res.,
1-1-1977; amd. 1999 Code)
10-1-9: CONNECTION WITH EXISTING SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT:
   A.   Hookup Fee: Whenever a water and/or sewer main or service line is
connected to an existing special improvement district, the indebtedness of
which has not been paid, users benefiting thereby shall be charged a hookup fee
commensurate with the pro rata share of the addition or extension based upon
the remaining principal balance of the special improvement district
indebtedness to which such extension or addition is made.
   B.   Permit Required: No hookup shall be made to any existing main until the
necessary permit for such hookup or extension of main has been received by the
applicant, executed by the City Clerk-Treasurer or other official of the City,
indicating that all fees required therefor have been paid, which shall include
any fee assessed pursuant to this Section for connection to or extension of a
special improvement district, the indebtedness of which has not been fully
retired.
   C.   Application Of Proceeds: The City Clerk-Treasurer shall apply the
proceeds of such special improvement district pro rata payments for extensions
or additions to reduction of the indebtedness of the special improvement
district so extended. (1981)
10-1-10: HYDRANTS IN STREETS:
No hydrant may be installed in the City streets, including boulevards, unless
installed by the Water Department. (Res., 1-1-1977)
10-1-11: CONNECTIONS FOR FIRE PROTECTION:
If proprietors of manufactories, lumber yards, halls, stores, elevators,
warehouse, hotels or public buildings, wish to lay larger pipes with hydrants
and hose connections or couplings to be used only in case of fire, they will be
permitted to connect with the street mains at their own expense upon
application to the City Council and will be allowed the free use of water for
fire purposes only, under the direction of the Committee and Superintendent.
(Res., 1-1-1977)
10-1-12: WATER FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION:
It is hereby declared the policy of the City that no water intended for human
consumption, absent any filtration or purification processes approved by the
State Department of Health, be withdrawn directly from beneath the ground by
means of a well within the City limits. The connection of any surface water
supply furnishing water for human consumption, without approved filtration or
purification system by any person for himself or for another, is hereby
declared to be a violation of the ordinances of the City. In such event, the
Water/Wastewater Superintendent or other City employee acting in that capacity,
or any employee of the Water Department or the City Clerk-Treasurer may issue a
written order and deliver the same to the owner of the premises where said
water connection has been made contrary to this provision, ordering that the
same be forthwith ceased to be used for the provision of water for human
consumption, unless the same be treated by filtration and purification methods
approved by the State Department of Health. (Res., 1-1-1977)
10-1-13: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation: Violations of this title are designated as Municipal
infractions as specified in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code.
   B.   Plumbers: If the person making unauthorized entry and unauthorized
connection or attempt to make an unauthorized connection is a plumber or an
employee of a licensed plumber, the City Council will by resolution report such
plumber to the State Plumbing Board and request disciplinary action. Violations
of this subsection are designated as Municipal infractions as specified in
title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER USE AND SERVICE 1
SECTION:
10-2-1: Compliance Required
10-2-2: Definitions
10-2-3: Connection Required
10-2-4: Permit Required For Excavation
10-2-5: Application For Permit; Required Documents
10-2-6: Sewers Under Supervision Of Inspector
10-2-7: Inspections
10-2-8: Rates And Charges
10-2-9: Administration Of Rates And Charges
10-2-10: Standards And Specifications
10-2-11: Additional Fixtures Or Alterations; Special Permit
10-2-12: Discharges; Rules And Regulations
10-2-13: Defective Work Remedied
10-2-14: Extension Of Sewer District Mains
10-2-15: Clear Water Connections Prohibited
10-2-16: Unauthorized Connection Or Disconnection
10-2-17: Service Outside City Limits
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-13-4301 et seq.
10-2-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
All connections of private drains or sewers with the public sewers of the City
or the construction or modification of appurtenances to sewers or sewer
connections, shall be in accordance with the regulations embodied in this
Chapter and such further regulations as the City Council may from time to time
adopt. (Ord. 81, 9-2-1915; amd. 1999 Code)
10-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section:
CONSUMER OR CUSTOMER: Any individual, partnership, association, firm, public or
private corporation or governmental agency receiving sewer services.
INSPECTOR: The Forsyth Water Department.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The utility's pipe which connects the sewer main to a
customer's service line at or near the user's property line, at the point
designated by the Water/Wastewater Superintendent, the Director of Public Works
or any other authorized City officer or employee. (Res., 1-1-1977; amd. 1981;
1999 Code)
10-2-3: CONNECTION REQUIRED:
   A.   Order Of City Council; Notice: It shall hereafter be the duty of every
owner of any house situated upon any lot upon the line of any sewer in the
City, after being ordered so to do by the City Council and notice thereof
given, to make connections with the sewer nearest to such house, and for that
purpose when any such connection shall be ordered by the City Council, it shall
be the duty of the Water/Wastewater Superintendent or any other officer
authorized to do so to give notice of such order to the owner of such house or
his or their agent. (Ord. 176, 1-27-1958; amd. 1999 Code)
   B.   Availability; Septic Tanks: Every dwelling house, hotel, apartment
house, tenement, factory, store or other building in which plumbing
arrangements are made, shall be connected with the City sewer system. From and
after the effective date hereof, no septic tanks shall be permitted within the
exterior boundaries of the City. The owners of existing septic tanks within the
City must disconnect the same and make connection to existing City sewer
facilities whenever the same are available. A City sewer main shall be deemed
available if located within one hundred fifty feet (150') of a parcel of land.
In such event, extension of sewer district mains is to be accomplished by the
property owner pursuant to the provisions of Section
10-2-14 of this Chapter. (Ord., eff. 10-12-1978)
10-2-4: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR EXCAVATION 1 :
No person shall excavate any trenches for sewer pipes or open, uncover or in
any manner make connections with, lay any sewer or drain, or attach or modify
any appurtenances to sewer connections with sewers within the public streets,
alleys or other grounds of the City, or with any private sewer or drain without
holding the proper license for such work and without having first obtained a
permit therefor as required and such permit shall be on the grounds at all
times during the progress of the work and must be shown to any officer in
authority upon demand. (Ord. 81, 9-2-1915; amd. 1999 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 8, Chapter 2 of this Code for excavation provisions.
10-2-5: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; REQUIRED DOCUMENTS:
   A.   Drain Plan: All applications for permits must be made in writing upon
the proper blanks for that purpose and signed by the owner or his authorized
agent, and must be accompanied by a plan showing the whole course of the drain
which it is desired to construct, together with the size of the same, the
location of any and all branches and the number and kind of fixtures to be
connected thereto, as near as can be determined at the time, a copy thereof to
be left with the application in the office of the inspector. If the drain is to
be connected with a sewer built by a private party, the applicant must present
the written consent of the owner to connect therewith.
   B.   Record Of Details: The plumber shall keep a record covering the full
details of such work and shall file a return of the same with the inspector on
the first of each month for all work completed during the previous month. (Ord.
81, 9-2-1915; amd. 1999 Code)
10-2-6: SEWERS UNDER SUPERVISION OF INSPECTOR:
All connections of private drains or sewers with the public sewers of the City
or the construction or modification of any and all sewers, shall be done under
and in compliance with the direction of the inspector as herein specified.
(Ord. 81, 9-2-1915; amd. 1999 Code)
10-2-7: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Notification: The inspector shall be notified when the work is ready
for inspection and test, by registering the number of the permit and the
location of the work in the register book kept for that purpose in the office
of the inspector. All work shall be left uncovered for examination.
   B.   Final Inspection: After all the fixtures have been placed in position
and the work completed, a final test shall be made by the inspector, and if
found to be tight and in accordance with this Chapter, the inspector shall so
certify on the face of the permit and no plumbing shall be used until such
certificate is made by the inspector. (Ord. 81, 9-2-1915; amd. 1999 Code)
10-2-8: RATES AND CHARGES:
Rates and charges for sewer use and service shall be as established by
resolution of the City Council. (1999 Code)
10-2-9: ADMINISTRATION OF RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Review Annually: The City shall review the total annual cost of
operation and maintenance as well as each user's wastewater contribution
percentage on an annual basis and will revise the system as necessary to assure
equity of the service charge system established herein and to assure that
sufficient funds are obtained to adequately operate and maintain the wastewater
treatment works. If a significant user, such as an industry, has completed in-
plant modifications which would change that user's wastewater contribution
percentage, the user can present at a regularly scheduled meeting of the City
Council such factual information and the City shall then determine if the
user's wastewater contribution percentage is to be changed. The City shall
notify the user of its findings as soon as possible. (Ord. 63, 12-1979)
   B.   Hearings: Actual rates charged for waste water handling and treatment
by the City utility are determined in connection with establishment of City
water rates. Therefore, all rate hearings shall be governed by the proceedings
for such hearings as set forth in Section
10-1-7 of this Title. For the purposes of hearing any matter relating to
changes in sewer rates, those procedures referred to in Section
10-1-7 of this Title are hereby adopted, incorporated herein and made a part
hereof, to the extent that they shall apply to the rates charged for wastewater
handling and treatment.
   C.   File With Public Service Commission: Copies of all sewer rates and
other charges shall be filed annually with the Public Service Commission of the
State on forms to be provided by the Public Service Commission. (1981)
10-2-10: STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
Standards and specifications shall be as established by the Uniform Plumbing
Code. (1999 Code)
10-2-11: ADDITIONAL FIXTURES OR ALTERATIONS; SPECIAL PERMIT:
When additional fixtures or alterations are required and the same are not
practicable to be constructed in accordance with the provisions of this
Chapter, a special permit may be issued by the inspector. (Ord. 81, 9-2-1915;
amd. 1999 Code)
10-2-12: DISCHARGES; RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Or Restricted: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described water or wastes to any public sewers:
      1.   Flammable Or Explosive: Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or
other flammable or explosive, liquid, solid or gas.
      2.   Toxic Or Poisonous: Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids,
liquids or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with
other wastes, to contaminate the sludge of the Municipal system, to injure or
interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in the receiving waters
of the wastewater treatment plant.
      3.   Corrosive Property: Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater works.
      4.   Obstructions: Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such
size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference
with the proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited
to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers,
tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders. (Supplement No. 63, 12-1979)
   B.   Limited Wastes: The following described substances, materials, waters
or wastes shall be limited in discharges to the Municipal system to
concentrations or quantities which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater
treatment process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream or will not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property or
constitute a nuisance. The inspector may set limitations lower than the
limitations established in the regulations below if in his opinion such more
severe limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his
opinion as to the acceptability, the inspector will give consideration to such
factors as the quantity of subject waste in relation to the sewers, the
wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment
plant, degree of treatability of the waste in the wastewater treatment plant
and other pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions on materials or
characteristics of waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which
shall not be violated without approval of the inspector are as follows:
      1.   Temperature: Wastewater having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (650° Celsius).
      2.   Oils: Wastewater containing more than twenty five (25) milligrams
per liter of petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils or product of mineral
oil origin.
      3.   Industrial Wastewater: Wastewater from industrial plants containing
floatable oils, fat or grease.
      4.   Unground Garbage: Any garbage that has not been properly shredded,
ground or diluted. Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from
homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or
similar places where garbage originates from the preparation of food in
kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the premises or when served by
caterers.
      5.   Toxic Substances: Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium,
copper, zinc and similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that
any such material received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater
treatment works exceeds the limits established by the inspector for such
materials.
      6.   Odor-Producing Substances: Any waters or wastes containing odor-
producing substances exceeding limits which may be established by the
inspector.
      7.   Radioactive Wastes: Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-
life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the inspector in
compliance with applicable State or Federal regulations.
      8.   Untreatable Substances: Waters or wastes containing substances which
are not amenable to treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment
processes employed, or are amendable to the treatment only to such degree that
the wastewater treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other
agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
      9.   Obnoxious Gases: Any water or wastes which, by interaction with
other water or wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form
suspended solids which interfere with the collection system or create a
condition deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
   C.   Authority Of Inspector; Considerations:
      1.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated above and which in the judgment of the inspector
may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater facilities, processes,
equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the inspector may:
         a.   Reject the wastes;
         b.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         c.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         d.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under provisions of
this Section.
      2.   When considering the above alternatives, the inspector shall give
consideration to the economic impact of each alternative on the discharger. If
the inspector permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the
design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the inspector.
   D.   Interceptors: Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when,
in the opinion of the inspector, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts as specified
previously, or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except
that such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or
dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by
the inspector and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner
shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal which must be
performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
   E.   Pretreatment Or Flow-Equalizing Facilities: Where pretreatment or flow-
equalizing facilities are provided or required for any waters or wastes, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his expense.
   F.   Industrial Wastes: When required by the inspector, the owner of any
property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install
a suitable structure, together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances, in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such structures, when required, shall be accessibly
and safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved
by the inspector. The structure shall be installed by the owner at his expense
and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   G.   Information Required To Determine Compliance: The inspector may require
a user of sewer services to provide information needed to determine compliance
with this Chapter. These requirements may include:
      1.   Peak Rate: Wastewater discharge peak rate and volume over a
specified time period.
      2.   Analyses: Chemical analyses of wastewaters.
      3.   Raw Materials: Information on raw materials, processes and products
affecting wastewater volume and quality.
      4.   Quantity And Disposition: Quantity and disposition of specific
liquid, sludge, oil, solvent or other materials important to sewer use control.
      5.   Plot Plan: A plot plan of sewers of the user's property, showing
sewer and pretreatment facility location.
      6.   Facility Details: Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities.
      7.   Spills: Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of
materials through spills to the Municipal sewer.
   H.   Measurements, Tests And Analyses: All measurements, tests and analyses
of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this
Chapter shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of "Standard
Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater", published by the American
Public Health Association. Sampling methods, location, times, durations and
frequencies are to be determined on an individual basis, subject to approval by
the inspector.
   I.   Special Agreements: No statement contained in this Section shall be
construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the City
and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the City for treatment. (Supplement No. 63, 12-
1979; amd. 1999 Code)
10-2-13: DEFECTIVE WORK REMEDIED:
Any defective or improper work in connection with sewers or their
appurtenances, disapproved by the inspector, shall upon written notice be
promptly remedied. Accidents to sewers by caving in or in cleaning private
connections must be promptly reported to the inspector. (Ord. 81, 9-2-1915;
amd. 1999 Code)
10-2-14: EXTENSION OF SEWER DISTRICT MAINS:
   A.   Pipe Size: No sewer main line extension may be less than eight inch
(8") pipe, approved by the Water/Wastewater Superintendent or Director of
Public Works. (Res., 1-1-1977; amd. 1999 Code)
   B.   Frontage Requirement: Beginning at the point where service is
available, the main shall be extended across the frontage of one-half (1/2) the
frontal width of the property to be served, except in those locations where the
City Council shall, by resolution, reduce this frontage requirement. The term
"property to be served" shall mean that such extension shall abut and run one-
half (1/2) the frontal length of the applicant's property, unless the City
Council shall otherwise order whether one or more than one connection is to be
made to the main for service to the applicant's property. Whenever the
applicant shall own and intend to occupy in person or by lessee or tenant, a
residence or business structure or enterprise occupying more than one lot, such
sewer main extension shall extend a full one-half (1/2) the frontage length of
such parcel of property to be so used or occupied, unless for good cause the
City Council shall otherwise direct. The purpose of this provision shall be to
make uniform and equalize, to the extent possible, costs of installation on an
ownership basis. (1981)
   C.   Installation By City: All installation of sewer main extensions will be
done by the City on a cost for material, plus labor cost basis. Individual
contractors may not install sewer main extensions, except by express approval
of the City Council for any such individual project, excepting only
subdivisions, as defined by the subdivision regulation of the City and County,
which said subdivision shall be excluded from the provisions of this Section,
subject to subdivision regulation requirements for utility services.
   D.   Estimate Of Costs: Costs for installation shall be estimated prior to
installation and payment on said estimate basis made by the applicant prior to
the installation by the City. Should the actual cost and labor involved exceed
the estimate, the applicant will be billed at the conclusion of installation
and will thereafter be required and obligated to pay the balance due within
thirty (30) days after billing. In the event of any overpayment on estimate
basis, such overpayment shall be immediately refunded by the City upon
completion of the project.
   E.   Lateral Connections: All lateral connection to mains installed by the
City pursuant to these provisions shall be made by the owners or their
contractors or employees, subject to City supervision and control.
   F.   Appurtenances: Main extensions shall include any appurtenances or
controls deemed necessary by the City.
   G.   Reimbursement: For the purposes of equity, any individual property
owner making a sewer main extension at his own expense, except where such main
is constructed by special improvement district, shall be entitled to a pro rata
reimbursement from other abutting property owners who may subsequently require
a connection to the said sewer main so installed. Such connections by
subsequent property owners shall be prorated on the basis of fifty foot (50')
frontage per lot and the reimbursement provisions hereof shall remain in effect
for ten (10) years after the installation of any sewer main extension provided
for herein. (Res., 1-1-1977)
   H.   Application Required: Before any person may install a sewer main
extension, he must make application to the Water/Wastewater Superintendent or
Director of Public Works. Under the provisions of this Section, such applicant
making application within ten (10) years after extension of the sewer main by
any private individual, shall be required to make payment on a proportionate
basis.
   I.   Criteria For Reimbursement: Reimbursement under this Section shall be
determined initially by the Water/Wastewater Superintendent or Director of
Public Works, using the following criteria: (Res., 1-1-1977; amd. 1999 Code)
      1.   The total potential users of the sewer main extension shall be
estimated on the basis of the most probable development of lots adjacent to the
sewer main extension, the capacity of the installation and the capacity of the
City sewer system.
      2.   The standard method, not to exclude other methods or factors, of
estimating the number of total potential users shall be that one potential user
will be allotted per fifty feet (50') of abutting lot frontage. The total
potential use by the applicant shall be similarly determined and included in
the total of potential users.
      3.   The cost for sewer lateral connection for private line connecting to
the sewer main extension shall be found by dividing the total cost of the sewer
main extension installation by the total potential users of the sewer main
extension.
      4.   No person shall be reimbursed a greater amount than the total cost
of the sewer main installation less that person's total potential use
multiplied by the cost per private sewer service connection, as established by
the City Council.
      5.   Review of the reimbursement determination may be made by the City
Council upon demand.
      6.   For the purposes of administering this Section, each person,
including the person extending the sewer main, shall be charged the current
hook-up fee for each private sewer line connection to the main as determined by
the City Council. (Res., 1-1-1977)
   J.   Applicable Codes And Rules: The size, slope, alignment, materials of
construction of all sanitary sewers and sewer connections and the methods to be
used in excavations, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the
trench, shall all conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing
codes or other applicable rules and regulations of the City and the State. In
the absence of code provision or in amplification thereof, the materials and
procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and WPCF Manual
of Practice No. 9 shall apply. (Ord. 63, 12-1979)
10-2-15: CLEAR WATER CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED:
No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains,
areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a building
sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a
public sanitary sewer. (Ord. 63, 12-1979)
10-2-16: UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTION OR DISCONNECTION:
Any person who shall make any unauthorized connection or disconnection to the
City utility sewer services or shall otherwise tamper with or attempt to
regulate or deregulate any of the City sewer facilities, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to the maximum penalties provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord., 11-26-1984; amd. 1999 Code)
10-2-17: SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
No City sewer services shall be provided by the City sewer system extending
outside the exterior City limits or in any manner connecting to any existing
services outside the City limits, nor will the City sewer system provide any
facilities to drain or remove waste water from any area outside the exterior
City limits, except only in the case of abutting lands owned by a County, State
or Federal agency which lands are not subject to City taxes. In the case of
lands owned by governmental entities, the provision of sewer service to such
government owned land may be provided at the option of the City, subject to
such fee or contract arrangements as the City Council deems equitable. (Ord.,
11-26-1984)
TITLE 11
BUILDING REGULATIONS 1
CHAPTER 0
TITLE VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
11-0-1: Violations
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 50-60-301.
11-0-1: VIOLATIONS:
Violations of this title are designated as Municipal infractions as specified
in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
11-1-1: Building Codes Adopted
11-1-2: Windmill Construction Regulated
11-1-3: Uniform Zoning Code On Fence Heights
11-1-4: Pole Building And Garage Construction
11-1-1: BUILDING CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption and incorporation by reference of uniform and model codes
having general applicability, together with the following:
      1.   International Building Code: International building code, 2012
edition, as provided by ARM 24.301.131 (including appendix chapter C [group U -
agricultural buildings]) and ARM 24.301.146 (modifications to the international
building code applicable to both the department's and local government code
enforcement programs).
      2.   Residential Building Code, 2018 edition.
      3.   International Energy Conservation Code: International energy
conservation code, 2018 edition, as provided by ARM 24.301.161.
      4.   International Existing Building Code: International existing
building code, 2012 edition, as provided by ARM 24.301.171.
      5.   National Electric Code: National electric code, 2014 edition of the
NFPA 70, as provided by ARM 24.301.401.
      6.   International Mechanical Code: International mechanical code, 2012
edition, as provided by ARM 24.301.172.
      7.   International Fuel Gas Code: International fuel gas code, 2012
edition, as provided by ARM 24.301.173.
      8.   Uniform Plumbing Code: Uniform plumbing code, 2012 edition, as
provided by ARM 24.301.301.
      9.   Building Accessibility Rules: Subchapter 9, building accessibility
rules, as provided by ARM 24.301.901 through 24.301.905.
      10.   Optional Appendix Chapters: Optional appendix chapters for local
government adoption as follows: appendix chapter B (board of appeals) and
appendix chapter H (signs), as provided by ARM 24.301.134;
   B.   These codes are applicable to all buildings within the building code
enforcement area of Forsyth as provided by section 50-60-102, Montana Code
Annotated. (Ord. 01-2014, 1-12-2015; amd. Ord. 2020-01, 6-8-2020; Res. 2021-
R04, 4-12-2021)
11-1-2: WINDMILL CONSTRUCTION REGULATED:
   A.   Definition: A "wind unit", "windmill" or "wind tower" is defined as any
wind driven propeller, blade or fan which revolves or rotates when activated by
the wind, erected for any purpose.
   B.   Special Authorization Required: No windmill, wind unit or wind tower
may be constructed within the city limits, except by special authorization for
each unit, approved and regulated by the city council.
   C.   Control And Exclusion By City Council: Absolute control and exclusion
of such instrumentalities is declared to be within the purview of the city
council for purposes of controlling noise level and dangerous or hazardous
objects. (Ord., 4-26-1982)
11-1-3: UNIFORM ZONING CODE ON FENCE HEIGHTS:
There is hereby adopted the uniform zoning code, section 802 and table 8-B on
fence heights. (Ord. 96-06, 11-25-1996)
11-1-4: POLE BUILDING AND GARAGE CONSTRUCTION:
Pole building construction will be no more than nine hundred (900) square feet,
single-story and twenty five feet (25') in height. (Ord. 2005-02, 6-27-2005,
eff. 7-27-2005)
For garages to be constructed in residential districts 1 and 2 of the city of
Forsyth, the size of garages shall be no more than one thousand two hundred
(1,200) square feet. (Ord. 2013-01, 1-28-2013)
If a lumber criterion is met, living quarters may be allowed in garages if
zoning code requirements are met. (Ord. 2005-02, 6-27-2005, eff. 7-27-2005)
CHAPTER 2
ELECTRICAL INTERFERENCE
SECTION:
11-2-1: Electrical Interference
11-2-1: ELECTRICAL INTERFERENCE:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or
wantonly operate or cause to be operated within the corporate limits of the
City any machine, device, apparatus or instrument of any kind whatsoever
between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight of each day, and also on Sundays from nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to one
o'clock (1:00) P.M., the operation of which shall cause reasonably preventable
electrical interference with radio and television reception within the City;
provided, however, that x-ray pictures, examinations or treatments may be made
at any time if the machine or apparatus therefor is properly equipped to avoid
all unnecessary or reasonable preventable interference with radio and
television reception and is not negligently operated. (1961 Code §
4-5-1)
   B.   Exception: This Section shall not be held or construed to embrace or
cover the regulation of any transmitting, broadcasting or receiving instrument,
apparatus or device used or useful in interstate commerce or the operation of
which instrument, apparatus or device is licensed or authorized by or under the
provisions of any act of Congress of the United States. (1961 Code §
4-5-2)
CHAPTER 3
HOUSE NUMBERS
SECTION:
11-3-1: House Numbers; Size
11-3-1: HOUSE NUMBERS; SIZE:
All residences shall have house numbers of a minimum of three inches (3") and
visible from the street. (Ord. 99-01, 4-12-1999, eff. 5-12-1999; amd. 1999
Code)
CHAPTER 4
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
11-4-1: Definitions
11-4-2: Impact Fee Advisory Committee
11-4-3: Preparation Of Service Area Report
11-4-4: Impact Fees To Be Adopted By Resolution
11-4-5: Requirements For Impact Fees
11-4-6: Collection And Expenditure Of Impact Fees
11-4-7: Appeal Process
11-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used herein, the following definitions apply:
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS: Improvements, land and equipment with a useful life of
ten (10) years or more that increase or improve the service capacity of a
public facility. The term does not include consumable supplies.
CITY: The city of Forsyth, Montana.
CONNECTION CHARGE: The actual cost of connecting a property to a public utility
system and is limited to the labor, materials, and overhead involved in making
connections and installing meters.
DEVELOPMENT: Construction, renovation, or installation of a building or
structure, a change in use of a building or structure, or a change in the use
of land when the construction, installation, or other action creates additional
demand for public facilities.
IMPACT FEE: Any charge imposed upon development by the city of Forsyth as part
of the development approval process to fund the additional service capacity
required by the development from which it is collected. An impact fee may
include a fee for the administration of the impact fee not to exceed five
percent (5%) of the total impact fee collected. The term does not include:
   A.   A charge or fee to pay for administration, plan review, or inspection
costs associated with a permit required for development;
   B.   A connection charge;
   C.   Any other fee authorized by law, including, but not limited to, user
fees, special improvement district assessments, fees authorized under title 7,
Montana Code Annotated for county, municipal, and consolidated government sewer
and water districts and systems, and costs of ongoing maintenance; or
   D.   On site or off site improvements necessary for new development to meet
the safety, level or service, and other minimum development standards that have
been adopted by the city of Forsyth or another government entity.
PROPORTIONATE SHARE: That portion of the cost of capital system improvements
that reasonably relates to the service demands and needs of the project. A
proportionate share must take into account the limitations provided in sections
11-4-3,
11-4-5 and
11-4-6 of this chapter.
PUBLIC FACILITIES: A. A water supply production, treatment, storage, or
distribution facility;
   B.   A wastewater collection, treatment, or disposal facility;
   C.   A transportation facility, including roads, streets, bridges, rights of
way, traffic signals, and landscaping;
   D.   A stormwater collection, retention, detention, treatment, or disposal
facility or a flood control facility;
   E.   A police, emergency medical rescue, or fire protection facility; and
   F.   Other facilities for which documentation is prepared as provided in
section
11-4-3 of this chapter that have been approved as part of an impact fee
resolution by a two-thirds (2/3) majority of the city council of the city of
Forsyth. (Ord. 03-2012, 5-9-2012)
11-4-2: IMPACT FEE ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
There is hereby established an impact fee advisory committee to be appointed by
the mayor, subject to the approval of the city council. The impact fee advisory
committee shall consist of five (5) members, and shall include at least one
representative of the development community and one certified public
accountant. The committee shall review and monitor the process of calculating,
assessing, and spending impact fees, and shall serve in an advisory capacity to
the city council. The committee shall be provided with adequate financial
reports on a semiannual basis, shall meet at least annually, and shall provide
the city council with a report of their findings and recommendations. The city
shall provide the committee with the appropriate advice and counsel from city
administrative staff and/or an appropriate professional consultant(s) selected
by the city. (Ord. 03-2012, 5-9-2012)
11-4-3: PREPARATION OF SERVICE AREA REPORT:
   A.   For each public facility for which an impact fee is imposed, city
administrative staff shall prepare, and the city council shall review, amend,
and approve a service area report.
   B.   The service area report must be in writing and must:
      1.   Describe existing conditions of the facility;
      2.   Establish level of service standards;
      3.   Forecast future additional needs for service for a defined period of
time;
      4.   Identify capital improvements necessary to meet future needs for
service;
      5.   Identify those capital improvements needed for continued operations
and maintenance of the facility;
      6.   Make a determination as to whether one service area or more than one
service area is necessary to establish a correlation between impact fees and
benefits;
      7.   Make a determination as to whether one service area or more than one
service area for transportation facilities is needed to establish a correlation
between impact fees and benefits;
      8.   Establish the methodology and time period over which the city will
assign the proportionate share of capital costs for expansion of the facility
to provide service to new development within each service area;
      9.   Establish the methodology that the city will use to exclude
operations and maintenance costs and correction of existing deficiencies from
the impact fee;
      10.   Establish the amount of the impact fee that will be imposed for
each unit of increased service demand; and
      11.   Have a component of the budget of the city that:
         a.   Schedules construction of public facility capital improvements to
serve projected growth;
         b.   Projects costs of the capital improvements;
         c.   Allocates collected impact fees for construction of the capital
improvements; and
         d.   Covers at least a five (5) year period and is reviewed and
updated at least every two (2) years.
   C.   The service area report must contain documentation of sources and
methodology used for purposes of subsection B of this section and must document
how each impact fee meets the requirements of section
11-4-5 of this chapter.
   D.   The service area report that supports adoption and calculation of an
impact fee must be available to the public upon request.
   E.   The amount of each impact fee imposed must be based upon the actual
cost of public facility expansion or improvements or reasonable estimates of
the cost to be incurred by the city as a result of new development. The
calculation of each impact fee must be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. (Ord. 03-2012, 5-9-2012)
11-4-4: IMPACT FEES TO BE ADOPTED BY RESOLUTION:
Any impact fees imposed shall be adopted by resolution of the city council. The
resolution adopting the impact fee must include a time schedule for
periodically updating the documentation required under subsection 11-4-3B of
this chapter. The resolution adopted by the city must include the following
requirements:
   A.   Upon collection, impact fees must be deposited in a special proprietary
fund, which must be invested with all interest accruing to the fund.
   B.   The city of Forsyth may impose impact fees on behalf of local
districts.
   C.   If the impact fees are not collected or spent in accordance with the
impact fee resolution or in accordance with section 7-6-1602, Montana Code
Annotated, any impact fees that were collected must be refunded to the person
who owned the property at the time that the refund was due. (Ord. 03-2012, 5-9-
2012)
11-4-5: REQUIREMENTS FOR IMPACT FEES:
An impact fee must meet the following requirements:
   A.   The amount of the impact fee must be reasonably related to and
reasonably attributable to the development's share of the cost of
infrastructure improvements made necessary by the new development.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the city clerk to notify the developer, in
writing, of the imposition of any impact fee upon the development and the
dollar amount of such impact fee. Notice shall be given by certified mail,
return receipt requested, addressed to the developer at the address provided by
the developer to the city.
   C.   The impact fees imposed may not exceed a proportionate share of the
costs incurred or to be incurred by the city in accommodating the development.
The following factors must be considered in determining a proportionate share
of public facilities capital improvements costs:
      1.   The need for public facilities capital improvements required to
serve new development; and
      2.   Consideration of payments for system improvements reasonably
anticipated to be made by or as a result of the development in the form of user
fees, debt service payments, taxes, and other available sources of funding the
system improvements.
   D.   Costs for correction of existing deficiencies in public facility may
not be included in the impact fee.
   E.   New development may not be held to a higher level of service than
existing users unless there is a mechanism in place for the existing users to
make improvements to the existing system to match the higher level of service.
   F.   Impact fees may not include expenses for operations and maintenance of
the facility.
   G.   The city council shall not consider or adopt any impact fees that have
not been calculated as provided for in this chapter and that have not been
first reviewed and considered by the impact fee advisory committee. (Ord. 03-
2012, 5-9-2012)
11-4-6: COLLECTION AND EXPENDITURE OF IMPACT FEES:
The collection and expenditure of impact fees shall comply with the following
requirements:
   A.   The collection and expenditure of impact fees must be reasonably
related to the benefits accruing to the development paying the impact fees.
   B.   All impact fees imposed pursuant to the authority granted by this
chapter must be paid no earlier than the date of issuance of a building permit
if a building permit is required for the development or no earlier than the
time of wastewater or water service connection or well or septic permitting. A
building permit shall not be issued nor will a septic permit be granted until
all impact fees imposed upon the development have been deposited with the city
treasurer.
   C.   The city may recoup costs of excess capacity in existing capital
facilities, when the excess capacity has been provided in anticipation of the
needs of new development, by requiring impact fees for that portion of the
facilities constructed for future users. The need to recoup costs for excess
capacity must have been documented pursuant to sections
11-4-3 and
11-4-5 of this chapter, and this section in a manner that demonstrates the need
for the excess capacity. This provision does not prevent the city from
continuing to assess an impact fee that recoups costs for excess capacity in an
existing facility. The impact fees imposed to recoup the costs to provide the
excess capacity must be based on the city's actual cost of acquiring,
constructing, or upgrading the facility and must be no more than a
proportionate share of the costs to provide the excess capacity.
   D.   The city council may accept the dedication of land or the construction
of public facilities in lieu of payment of impact fees if:
      1.   The need for the dedication or construction is clearly documented
pursuant to this chapter;
      2.   The land proposed for dedication for the public facilities to be
constructed is determined to be appropriate for the proposed use by the city;
      3.   Formulas or procedures for determining the worth of proposed
dedications or constructions are established as part of the impact fee
resolution; and
      4.   A means to establish credits against future impact fee revenue has
been created as part of the adopting resolution if the dedication of land or
construction of public facilities is of worth in excess of the impact fee due
from an individual development.
   E.   Impact fees may not be imposed for remodeling, rehabilitation, or other
improvements to an existing structure or for rebuilding a damaged structure
unless there is an increase in units that increase service demand as described
in subsection 11-4-3B10 of this chapter. If impact fees are imposed for
remodeling, rehabilitation, or other improvements to an existing structure or
use, only the net increase between the old and new demand may be imposed.
   F.   This section does not prevent the city council from granting refunds or
credits:
      1.   That it considers appropriate and that are consistent with the
provisions of this chapter; or
      2.   In accordance with a voluntary agreement, consistent with the
provisions of this chapter, between the city and the individual or entity being
assessed the impact fees.
   G.   An impact fee represents a fee for service payable by all users
creating additional demand on the facility.
   H.   All impact fees shall be deposited with the city treasurer. (Ord. 03-
2012, 5-9-2012)
11-4-7: APPEAL PROCESS:
Any party upon whom an impact fee has been imposed has the right to appeal the
imposition or amount of the impact fee.
   A.   Any appeal must be perfected by the appellant within ten (10) business
days of the date that the appellant was first informed, in writing, of the
imposition of the impact fee and the amount of such fee. Failure to timely
perfect the appeal shall result in denial of the appeal.
   B.   The appellant must perfect the appeal by giving written notice of the
appeal to the city clerk and shall, at the same time, deposit the full amount
of the required impact fee, in cash or cash equivalent, with the city treasurer
as an appeal bond. An appeal is not deemed filed hereunder until both the
written notice of appeal has been filed with the city clerk and the bond is
deposited with the city treasurer.
   C.   The form of the written notice shall be sufficient if it identifies the
name and address of the appellant and a short statement giving the reason why
the impact fee is wrongly imposed or in the wrong amount.
   D.   Upon receiving the notice of appeal and verifying the deposit of the
cash bond with the city treasurer, the city clerk shall place the matter upon
the agenda before the city council on its next regularly scheduled city council
meeting that is more than five (5) days following the filing of the appeal with
the city clerk.
   E.   At such meeting, the city council shall hear evidence from the
appellant and city staff and shall make the determination whether the impact
fee imposed upon the appellant is compliant with state law and city ordinance
and is in the correct amount. In the event that the city council determines
that the imposition of the impact fee is not compliant with either state law or
the city ordinance, or is in the wrong amount, the city treasurer shall return
the cash bond paid by the appellant to the extent that it exceeds the amount of
impact fee determined by the city council to have been correctly imposed. (Ord.
03-2012, 5-9-2012)
TITLE 12
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 0
TITLE VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
12-0-1: Violations
12-0-1: VIOLATIONS:
Violations of this title are designated as Municipal infractions as specified
in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
12-1-1: Short Title
12-1-2: Authority
12-1-3: Purpose And Intent
12-1-4: Jurisdictional Area
12-1-5: Permit Required
12-1-6: Official Zoning Map
12-1-7: Definitions
12-1-8: Zoning Officer
12-1-9: Zoning Commission
12-1-10: Procedures For Application, Reviewing And Granting Permits
12-1-11: Conditional Use Permits
12-1-12: Board Of Adjustment
12-1-13: Amendments
12-1-14: Schedule Of Fees
12-1-15: Violation; Penalties
12-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known and cited as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF
FORSYTH, MONTANA. (Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-2000)
12-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This zoning ordinance is adopted under the authority of the municipal zoning
enabling act 1 . (Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 76-2-301 et seq.
12-1-3: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The purpose of this zoning ordinance is to promulgate and adopt such
regulations that:
      1.   Are designed in accordance with the comprehensive plan.
      2.   Are designed to lessen congestion in the streets.
      3.   Will secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers.
      4.   Will promote health and the general welfare.
      5.   Will provide adequate light and air.
      6.   Will prevent the overcrowding of land.
      7.   Will avoid undue concentration of population.
      8.   Will facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewerage, schools, parks and such other public requirements.
      9.   Give reasonable consideration to the character of the district.
      10.   Give reasonable consideration to the district's peculiar
suitability for particular uses.
      11.   Give reasonable consideration to conserving the value of buildings.
      12.   Will encourage the most appropriate use of land throughout the
jurisdictional area. (Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-2000)
      13.   Prohibit the use of any property or structure within the city's
zoning jurisdiction that is in violation of federal, state, or local law. (Ord.
2010-03, 10-26-2010)
   B.   Further, the intent of this zoning ordinance is to:
      1.   Ensure that the land uses of the community are properly located in
relation to one another, providing adequate space for each type of development,
and preventing problems associated with incompatible uses.
      2.   Control the density of development in each area of the community so
that property can be adequately served by such public facilities as streets,
schools, recreation and utility systems.
      3.   Direct new growth into appropriate areas.
      4.   Protect existing property by requiring that development affords
adequate light, air and privacy for persons living and working within the
municipality.
      5.   Protect and maintain property values.
      6.   Preserve and develop the economic base of the community.
      7.   Encourage the provision of affordable housing for families of all
income levels. (Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-2000)
12-1-4: JURISDICTIONAL AREA:
The zoning jurisdiction of the City of Forsyth shall include the land within
the corporate limits of the City and shown on the official zoning map of
Forsyth, Montana. (Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-2000)
12-1-5: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Zoning Permit: A zoning permit must be obtained from the Zoning Officer
before any building, structure or land may be used or occupied, or before any
building or structure permitted under this title may be erected, placed, moved,
expanded or structurally altered. The Zoning Officer may issue a zoning permit
only when the proposed building, structure, parcel or use will meet the
requirements of this zoning ordinance.
   B.   Conditional Use Permit: A conditional use permit must be obtained from
the Zoning Commission before those uses specified as conditional uses within
certain zoning districts may be established. A conditional use permit may be
issued only when the Zoning Commission finds that the proposed use will meet
both the requirements of the particular district involved and the conditions
specified for the use.
   C.   Zoning Requirements Operate In Addition To Other Municipal Codes: The
requirements of this zoning ordinance operate in addition to those requirements
established under other City Municipal codes, except that where conflicts with
other City Municipal codes may occur these zoning requirements shall govern.
(Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-2000)
A survey of the property may be required by the Zoning Officer/building
inspector. (Ord. 2017-01, 3-13-2017)
12-1-6: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
   A.   Official Zoning Map A Part Of Zoning Ordinance: The "Official Zoning
Map of Forsyth, Montana" and all notations, references and other information
shown on the map are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of this
title.
   B.   Maintaining And Changing The Official Zoning Map:
      1.   The official zoning map shall be kept in City Hall, and shall be the
final authority as to the current status of zoning districts in the Forsyth
zoning jurisdictional area.
      2.   The official zoning map shall bear the signature of the Mayor,
attested by the City Clerk, the date of adoption hereof, and bear the seal of
the City and certifying that it is the official zoning map of Forsyth, Montana,
referred to under ordinance 2000-03 of the City of Forsyth, Montana.
      3.   Whenever any changes are made to district boundaries in accordance
with the procedures of this title, those changes approved by the City Council
shall be promptly entered on the official zoning map, and a signed and dated
certification attached to the map. Any changes adopted by the City Council to
the official zoning map must be approved by resolution of the City Council in
accordance with the amendment procedures specified in section
12-1-13 of this chapter.
      4.   In the event that the official zoning map becomes damaged,
destroyed, lost or difficult to interpret, the City Council may by resolution
adopt a new official zoning map which shall supersede the prior official zoning
map. The new official zoning map may correct drafting or other errors or
omissions in the prior map, but no such corrections shall have the effect of
amending the original official zoning map or any subsequent amendment thereof.
The new map shall be certified in the same manner as the original official
zoning map, noting that it supersedes the prior map. (Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-2000)
12-1-7: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Interpretation Of Certain Words: For purposes of this title the
following conditions and interpretations apply:
      1.   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
      2.   Words used in the singular number include the plural; words used in
the plural include the singular, unless the natural construction of the wording
indicates otherwise.
      3.   The word "person" includes a firm, association, corporation, trust,
organization, partnership or company, as well as an individual.
      4.   The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
   B.   Terms: The following terms used in this title mean:
    ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR USE: The use or structure on the same lot with, and
customarily secondary or subordinate to, the principal use or structure.
   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY: A housing facility for people with disabilities.
These facilities provide supervision or assistance with activities of daily
living coordination of services by outside health care providers; and
monitoring of resident activities to help to ensure their health, safety, and
well- being.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING: The dismantling or wrecking of used motor vehicles or
trailers, or the storage, sale, or dumping or dismantling, of partially
dismantled, obsolete or wrecked vehicles or their parts.
   BOARDING HOUSE: A building, or portion thereof, where lodging for five (5)
or more persons is provided for compensation whether or not meals are provided.
   BUILDING: Any structure erected for support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, or property of any kind.
   BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the highest point of a structure
to the finished grade of the ground.
   CARETAKER'S RESIDENCE: A single-family dwelling located in conjunction with
a residential, commercial or industrial land use that requires twenty four (24)
hour care in order to protect or operate the use.
   CHURCH: A building designed and used for public worship by a religious body.
   COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL FACILITY 1 : 1. A community group home for
developmentally, mentally, or severely disabled persons which does not provide
skilled or intermediate nursing care;
      2.   A youth foster home or youth group home as defined in section 41-3-
1102, Montana Code Annotated;
      3.   A halfway house operated in accordance with regulations of the
Department of Health and Environmental Sciences for the rehabilitation of
alcoholics or drug dependent persons; or
      4.   A licensed adult foster family care home.
   CONDITIONAL USE: A use that is allowed in a specific district if the use
meets certain requirements in order to maintain and assure the health and
safety of the community and to maintain the character of the district.
   DISTRICT, ZONING: A geographical area designated in the zoning ordinance and
delineated on the zoning map for which requirements for the use of land and
structures and development standards are prescribed.
   DRIVE-UP EATING ESTABLISHMENT: A building or structure from which persons
are served food or beverages in their vehicles or at curbside, including
establishments that serve customers outside of their vehicles.
   DWELLING: A building or portion thereof used for occupancy by one (1) or
more families.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building or portion thereof designed for
residential occupancy by two (2) or more families living separately.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building designed for residential occupancy by
one (1) family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building designed for residential occupancy by two
(2) families living separately.
   DWELLING UNIT: A building or portion thereof providing separate cooking,
eating, sleeping and living facilities for one family.
   FAMILY: One or more persons living together as a single housekeeping unit
and occupying a dwelling unit.
   GRADE: The point of elevation of the finished surface of ground at the
exterior wall of the building.
   HOME OCCUPATION: The use of a portion of a dwelling unit or accessory
building for occupations at home by one or more persons residing in the
dwelling unit. The activity must be clearly incidental and subordinate to the
use of the building as a dwelling.
   HOTEL/MOTEL: A building, or buildings, containing six (6) or more rooms
designed and rented for sleeping purposes for transients, and where only a
general kitchen and dining room may be provided within the building or in an
accessory building.
   LIVESTOCK: Horses, cattle, sheep, goats, swine, donkeys, mules and fowl.
   LOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET: An off-street space conveniently located at a
building to allow service pickups and deliveries by commercial vehicles.
   LOT: A parcel or tract of land shown as an individual unit of ownership on a
certificate of survey, subdivision plat, deed or other instrument of record.
   LOT, CORNER: A lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more streets.
   LOT DEPTH: The mean distance between the front and rear lot lines.
   LOT FRONTAGE: The portion of a lot nearest the street. For corner lots the
front of a lot shall be the narrowest part of the lot having street frontage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5293cb4d11644b7eba4e97efaaf8adb314bc05b7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-900.gif]
   LOT, INTERIOR: A lot with only one frontage on a street.
   LOT LINES: The lines bounding a "lot" as defined herein.
   LOT WIDTH: The mean width of the lot measured at right angles to its depth,
as measured at the building setback line.
   MOBILE HOME: A detached residential dwelling unit fabricated at a factory,
not in accordance with the standards of the uniform building code, and designed
for transportation on its own chassis to a building site for occupation as a
dwelling with or without a permanent foundation.
   MOBILE HOME, CLASS A: A mobile home fabricated after July 1, 1976, in
compliance with the standards specified in 42 United States code section 5401
(HUD code), and that satisfies each of the following additional criteria:
      1.   The length does not exceed four (4) times its width.
      2.   The pitch of the roof has a minimum vertical rise of three feet (3')
per twelve feet (12') of horizontal run, and the roof is finished with a type
of shingle commonly used in standard residential construction.
      3.   The exterior siding consists of wood, hardboard, vinyl or aluminum
siding, or other materials comparable in composition, appearance and durability
to the exterior materials used in standard residential construction.
      4.   The dwelling unit is secured to a permanent, continuous masonry
foundation.
      5.   The tongue, axles, transporting lights, and removable towing
apparatus are removed after placement on the lot and before occupancy.
   MOBILE HOME, CLASS B: A mobile home fabricated after July 1, 1976, in
compliance with the standards specified in 42 United States Code section 5401
(HUD code), but that does not meet the additional criteria necessary to qualify
as a class A mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME, CLASS C: A mobile home constructed prior to July 1, 1976, and
that does not meet the HUD code.
   MOBILE HOME PARK: A tract of land providing two (2) or more spaces for lease
or rent to the general public for siting mobile homes.
   MODULAR HOME: A dwelling constructed at a factory in accordance with the
building code for site built homes, and transported to the site for final
assembly on a permanent foundation.
   NURSING HOME: A building used to house and care for ambulatory, aged, or
infirm persons under the care and supervision of a professional staff.
   OFFICE, PROFESSIONAL, BUSINESS, ADMINISTRATIVE AND GOVERNMENT: Offices
occupied by accountants, architects, dentists, doctors, engineers, attorneys,
insurance agents, real estate agents, public employees and other professions.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF STREET: A space located off any public right of way that
is available for parking a motor vehicle.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: A land development project designed and planned as
a single entity under a plan that offers a variety of land uses, housing types
and densities, and design features in addition to those allowed by right or
condition in the zoning district.
   PROHIBITED USES: In specific districts, prohibited uses are those uses not
specifically enumerated as permitted uses. Prohibited uses are listed in this
title for the purposes of clarity and emphasis only. Prohibited uses mentioned
include, but are not limited to, the enumerated prohibited uses. No use of any
property or structure in any district shall be permitted or conditionally
permitted that is in violation of federal, state, or local law.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: A premises used for public camping where persons
can rent space to park individual camping trailers, pickup campers, motor
homes, travel trailers.
   RESTAURANT: A public eating facility that does not provide curbside or
drive-up automobile service.
   RETAIL SALES: An establishment selling goods, wares, or merchandise directly
to a consumer.
   SETBACK: The horizontal distance required between any structure and a lot
line, measured at right angles to the lot line.
   SHOPPING CENTER: One (1) or more buildings containing at least three (3)
separate retail businesses that are planned, developed and managed as a unit,
with off street parking provided on the property.
   SIGN: Any lettered or pictorial device or structure designed to inform or
attract attention.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: The modification of a building that changes its
exterior dimensions or its roofline(s).
   STRUCTURE: That which is constructed or erected at a fixed location on the
ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground.
Structures include buildings, mobile homes, walls, fences, and billboards or
signs.
   USE: Any purpose for which a building or other structure or a tract of land
may be designed, arranged, intended, maintained, or occupied in any legal
activity, occupation, business, or operation carried on or intended to be
carried on in a building or other structure or on a tract of land.
   VARIANCE: The approved relaxation of the strict application of the terms of
these regulations, where owing to special conditions a literal enforcement of
the provisions of these regulations will result in an unnecessary hardship,
where it will not be contrary to the public interest, and where the spirit of
the ordinance will be observed and substantial justice done.
   WHOLESALE: The sale of goods and merchandise for resale rather than for
direct consumption.
   YARD, FRONT: A required open space unoccupied by any structure or portion of
a structure and extending across the full width of the lot between the front
building line and the front lot line.
   YARD, REAR: A required open space unoccupied by any structure or portion of
a structure and extending across the full width of the lot between the rear
building line of the principal building and the rear lot line.
   YARD, SIDE: A required open space unoccupied by any structure or portion of
a structure and extending from the side building line to a side lot line
running from the front to the rear of the lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5293cb4d11644b7eba4e97efaaf8adb314bc05b7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-902.gif]
(Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-2000; amd. Ord. 2010-03, 10-26-2010; Ord. 2017-01, 3-13-
2017)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 76-2-411.
12-1-8: ZONING OFFICER:
   A.   Designation: The City Council shall designate a Zoning Officer to
administer and enforce this title. The City Council through the Mayor may
direct City personnel or departments to provide assistance as appropriate.
(Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-2000; amd. Ord. 2017-01, 3-13-2017)
   B.   Duties:
      1.   The Zoning Officer shall receive applications for zoning permits,
conditional use permits and variance requests; review applications and plans;
issue zoning permits; and coordinate inspection of premises and properties.
      2.   Where the Zoning Officer finds that any of the provisions of this
title are being violated, he shall notify in writing the person responsible for
such violations, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the action
necessary to correct it. He shall order discontinuance of illegal buildings or
structures or of illegal additions, alterations, or structural changes; or
shall take any other action authorized by this title to ensure compliance with
or to prevent violation of its provisions.
      3.   The zoning officer shall:
         a.   Serve as an advisor to the zoning commission, board of adjustment
and city council on matters relating to administration and enforcement of this
zoning ordinance; prepare staff reports and maintain records of all proceedings
required or authorized as required under this title. (Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-2000)
12-1-9: ZONING COMMISSION 1 :
The city council shall establish a zoning commission and appoint members to the
commission. The zoning commission shall have the following duties:
   A.   Review proposals and make recommendations to the city council regarding
proposals for the amendment of this title and the official zoning map.
   B.   Review and approve applications for conditional use permits under the
procedures set forth in section
12-1-11 of this chapter. (Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 3, chapter 1 of this code.
12-1-10: PROCEDURES FOR APPLICATION, REVIEWING AND GRANTING PERMITS:
   A.   Procedures For Applying For A Zoning Permit:
      1.   Before conducting a use, or constructing, erecting, expanding,
altering or modifying a building or structure, a person must submit a completed
zoning application form to the zoning officer, with all of the required
information. The application shall include other reasonable information
required by the zoning officer as may be necessary to determine conformance
with this title.
   B.   Reviewing And Issuing A Zoning Permit:
      1.   The zoning officer shall review the application to ensure the
required information is submitted and is complete. When the application and
submitted information are complete, the zoning officer shall determine whether
the proposed building, structure, alteration, or use is permitted at the
proposed location, and whether the proposal will comply with the requirements
of the applicable district and these regulations.
      2.   Should the zoning officer find that the proposal is permitted in the
applicable district and will conform to all requirements, he shall issue the
applicant a zoning permit.
      3.   Should the zoning officer find that the proposal either is not
permitted in the applicable district or will not conform to all requirements of
this title, he shall deny the application and state in writing that the
application is denied, and explain the reasons for denial. A copy of the
written statement shall be sent to the applicant.
      4.   Construction, installation, alteration, placement or use must comply
with the plans approved by the zoning officer.
      5.   A zoning permit shall be in effect for one year from the date of
approval. (Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-2000)
12-1-11: CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of conditional use permits is to provide for
specific uses, other than those specifically permitted in each district, that
may be appropriate in the district under certain safeguards or conditions. The
conditional use permitting process is intended to provide a detailed and
comprehensive review of proposed developments that potentially could have
significant adverse impacts on the community.
   B.   Conditional Uses; Requirements:
      1.   No structure or land may be used for any purpose in any district
where the use is not permitted, unless the use is listed as a conditional use
within that district and the approval for the use is obtained through these
procedures.
      2.   Conditional uses and the required conditions are listed as part of
the requirements for each district.
      3.   Conditional uses also must comply with any additional conditions
prescribed by the zoning commission relating to the following:
         a.   Adequate ingress and egress to property and proposed structures
with particular concern for automotive and pedestrian safety and convenience,
traffic flow and control, and access in case of fire or other emergency.
         b.   Adequate off street parking and loading areas, where required,
with particular attention to access, traffic flow and vehicular and pedestrian
safety.
         c.   Adequate screening and buffering, with attention to type,
dimensions and character.
         d.   Signs, with attention to preventing glare and promoting traffic
safety and harmony with adjacent properties.
         e.   General compatibility with adjacent and other properties.
   C.   Procedures For A Conditional Use Permit: The following procedures must
be followed before the zoning commission may grant a conditional use permit:
      1.   The applicant must submit an accurate and complete application for a
conditional use to the zoning commission through the zoning officer. All
applications for conditional use permits must be accompanied by plans drawn to
approximate scale, showing the approximate dimensions and shape of the lot to
be built upon; the approximate sizes and locations on the lot of buildings
already existing, if any; the location and dimensions of the proposed buildings
or alterations; and information which clearly states how the conditions for the
use will be met; and such other matters as may be necessary to determine
conformance with, and provide for the enforcement of this title.
      2.   The zoning commission shall hold a public hearing regarding the
application for a conditional use. Notice shall be published at least seven (7)
days in advance of the public hearing. The owner of the property for which a
conditional use is sought or his agent shall be notified of the hearing by
mail. At the public hearing any party may appear in person, or through a
representative or attorney.
      3.   The zoning commission shall make a written finding either that:
         a.   The proposed use will comply with the specific conditions
governing the use and the other requirements of this title, and that the
conditional use will not adversely affect the character of the district; or
         b.   The proposed use will not comply with the specific conditions
governing the use and/or that the use would adversely affect the character of
the district. In the written statement denying a conditional use application,
the zoning commission shall describe the specific conditions which would not be
met by the use and any specific factors that would adversely affect the
character of the district.
      4.   Where the proposed conditional use is subject to review as a
subdivision under the Montana subdivision and platting act 1 , the zoning
commission and planning board shall hold joint and concurrent review, including
joint public hearing(s). Notice of each hearing shall be given in the manner
prescribed by this title and the city's subdivision regulations. (Ord. 2003-01,
4-14-2003, eff. 5-14-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 76-3-101 et seq.
12-1-12: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
   A.   Board Of Adjustment Established: A board of adjustment (hereinafter
referred to as "the board") is hereby established and the city council will
perform the functions of the board of adjustment. (Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-2000;
amd. Ord. 2003-07, 7-28-2003, eff. 8-28-2003)
   B.   Powers Of The Board Of Adjustment: The board shall have the following
powers:
      1.   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that there is an
error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the zoning
officer in the enforcement of this title.
      2.   To grant variances from the standards of this title where the board
determines: a) that granting the variance will not be contrary to the public
interest, b) where owing to special conditions a literal enforcement of the
provisions of these regulations will result in unnecessary hardship, and c)
where the spirit of the ordinance will be observed and substantial justice
done. "Hardship" refers to circumstances peculiar to the particular property.
Financial or economic difficulties, or consequences of actions by the property
owner are not "hardships" for zoning purposes.
More specifically, the board may, approve, conditionally approve, or deny any
request to modify only the following requirements of this title:
         a.   Setback requirements.
         b.   Yard requirements.
         c.   Area requirements.
         d.   Height and width requirements.
         e.   Parking requirements.
         f.   Loading requirements.
   C.   Proceedings Of The Board Of Adjustment:
      1.   The board shall select one of its members as chairman and shall
adopt rules necessary to conduct its affairs in keeping with the provisions of
this title. Meetings shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such
other times as the board may determine. The chairman, or in his absence, the
acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
Meetings shall be open to the public.
      2.   The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of
each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote indicating such
fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions,
and immediately filed in the office of the board. The board shall make its
records and minutes available for public inspection.
   D.   Procedures For Variance Requests:
      1.   Any person may submit an application for a variance to the board of
adjustment as provided by the rules of the board by filing the application with
the zoning officer. The application for variance must specifically set forth
the grounds for requesting the variance, as indicated on the application form.
      2.   The board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing on the
variance request, publish notice of the hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation at least seven (7) days prior to holding a public hearing, and
shall notify by mail the person requesting the variance. At the hearing any
party may appear in person, or be represented by a representative or attorney.
   E.   Requirements Governing Granting Of Variances:
      1.   To grant a variance the board must make a finding that the granting
of the variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this
title, will not be injurious to the neighborhood, is the minimum variance that
will make possible the reasonable use of the land, building or structure, and
will not be detrimental to the public welfare.
      2.   In addition, the board must determine:
         a.   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are
peculiar to the land, structure or building involved and which are not
applicable to other lands, structures or buildings in the same district; and
that the special conditions and circumstances do not result from the action of
the applicant;
         b.   That literal interpretation of the provisions of this title would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same district under the terms of this title;
         c.   That granting the requested variance will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this title to other lands,
structures, or buildings in the same district.
      3.   The board of adjustment may not grant a variance, and the city
council may not grant an appeal, that would allow a use that is prohibited in
general or in a particular district under the terms of this title.
      4.   Neither the nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures or
buildings in the same district, nor the permitted or nonconforming use of
lands, structures or buildings in other districts are grounds for the issuance
of a variance.
   F.   Procedures For Hearing And Acting On Appeals From Actions Of Zoning
Officer:
      1.   The board of adjustment shall hear and decide appeals where it is
alleged that there is an error in any order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by the zoning officer in the enforcement of this title.
      2.   Any person or any city department head or member of the city council
may file a notice of appeal of any decision made by the zoning officer within
sixty (60) days of the date the subject decision was made. The notice of
appeal, submitted to the zoning officer, must comply with the rules adopted by
the board of adjustment.
      3.   The zoning officer shall promptly transmit to the board of
adjustment the notice of appeal and all papers constituting the record of the
subject decision.
      4.   The board of adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for a hearing of
the appeal, give public notice and notify the affected parties. At the hearing,
any party may appear in person or be represented by agent or attorney.
      5.   The board of adjustment, in conformity with the provisions of this
title, may reverse, affirm, wholly or in part, or modify the order, decision or
action appealed and may make such order, decision, or action as deemed
necessary, and to that end shall have the powers of the administrative official
whose decision is appealed.
An appeal stays all proceedings of the action appealed until the board of
adjustment makes its decision.
   G.   Appeals From Decisions Of The Board Of Adjustment: Appeals from
decisions of the board of adjustment may be made to a court of record in
accordance with sections 76-2-327 and 76-2-328, Montana Code Annotated. (Ord.
2000-03, 9-13-2000)
12-1-13: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Initiation:
      1.   Proposals to amend, supplement, modify or repeal any of the
provisions or the district boundaries established by this title may be
initiated by the city council, the zoning commission, or by petition of any
interested resident or property owner. Such a petition shall be submitted to
the zoning commission, which shall review the petition, consider its merits and
make a recommendation to the city council.
      2.   In addition to an accurate and completed amendment application, any
petition to amend a zoning classification shall include a current map drawn to
scale showing all parcels of land included in the petition and the name of the
owner of each parcel. A legal description of the property for which a petition
to amend a zoning classification is requested shall be included in such
petition.
   B.   Public Hearings Required:
      1.   The zoning commission shall hold public hearings on proposed
amendments, and interested parties and citizens shall have an opportunity to
comment at the hearing. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be
published in the local newspaper at least fifteen (15) days prior to the
hearing.
      2.   If the proposed change involves an amendment to the official zoning
map, notice of the hearing shall be mailed to all property owners within the
affected area and all owners of property within one hundred fifty feet (150')
of the affected area.
      3.   After the hearing(s), the zoning commission shall make a
recommendation to the city council.
      4.   After the zoning commission makes its recommendation, the city
council shall hold a public hearing on the issue after giving notice in
accordance with the procedures above.
      5.   When a proposed amendment affects the zoning classification of
property, and a protest against such change is signed by the owners of twenty
percent (20%) or more either of the area of the lots included in such proposed
change, or of those immediately adjacent in the rear thereof extending one
hundred fifty feet (150') therefrom, or of those directly opposite thereto
extending one hundred fifty feet (150') from the street frontage of such
opposite lots, then such amendments may not become effective except by the
favorable vote of three-fourths (3/4) of the city council. (Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-
2000)
12-1-14: SCHEDULE OF FEES:
   A.   Fees Established: The City Council shall establish a schedule of fees
and charges and a collection procedure for zoning permits, conditional use
permits, variances and zoning amendments.
   B.   Payment: Until all applicable fees and charges have been paid in full,
no action may be taken on any application or appeal.
   C.   Fee Summary:
1. Zoning permit:
 Single-family residential         $ 15.00
 All other                         50.00
2. Conditional use permit          50.00
3. Zoning amendment                200.00
4. Variance (Board of Adjustment):
 Single-family residential         25.00
 All other                         50.00
 
(Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-2000)
12-1-15: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Filing A Complaint: Whenever a violation of this title occurs or is
alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written complaint. The
complaint, stating fully the causes and basis of the violation, shall be filed
with the Zoning Officer. He shall properly record the complaint and immediately
investigate and take action as provided by this title. (Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-
2000)
   B.   Penalties:
      1.   Violations of this title are designated as Municipal infractions as
specified in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff.
1-1-2019)
      2.   The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises or part
thereof, and any architect, builder, contractor, agent or other person who
commits, participates in, assists, or maintains such violation may be found
guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties specified above.
      3.   Nothing set forth in this section shall prevent the City from taking
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord.
2000-03, 9-13-2000)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
12-2-1: Application
12-2-2: Nonconforming Lots, Uses And Structures
12-2-3: Home Occupations
12-2-4: Flood Hazard Areas
12-2-5: Yard Measurements
12-2-6: Supplemental District Regulations
12-2-7: Off Street Parking
12-2-8: Off Street Loading
12-2-9: Signs
12-2-10: Screening And Buffering
12-2-11: Planned Unit Developments (PUD)
12-2-12: Permitted Lot Coverage
12-2-13: Conditional Use Process For Maintaining Chickens
12-2-1: APPLICATION:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all lands, uses and structures
subject to this title. (Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-2000)
12-2-2: NONCONFORMING LOTS, USES AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Purpose:
      1.   Within the districts established by this title, lots, structures,
and uses of land and structures may exist which were lawful at the time this
title was adopted or amended, but which would be prohibited or regulated under
the terms of this title or future amendment. The intent of this section is to
permit these nonconformities to continue until they are removed, but not to
encourage their survival. This title further intends that nonconformities shall
not be enlarged, expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other
structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district.
      2.   Nonconforming uses are declared by this title to be incompatible
with permitted uses in the same district. However, to avoid undue hardship,
nothing in this title shall be deemed to require a change in the plans,
construction or designated use of any building on which actual construction was
lawfully begun prior to the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
title and which actual building construction has been carried on diligently.
   B.   Nonconforming Lots Of Record:
      1.   Structures and uses permitted in a district may be established on
any single lot that is of record on the effective date hereof. The lot must be
in separate ownership and not of contiguous frontage with other lots of the
same ownership. A lot of record that does not meet lot area or lot width
requirements must meet all other requirements of the district.
      2.   If two (2) or more lots with contiguous frontage in single ownership
are of record at the time of passage or amendment of this title, and any of the
lots do not meet the requirements established for lot width and area, the lands
involved shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this
title, and no portion of this parcel shall be used, divided or sold in a manner
which would fail to meet the requirements of this title.
   C.   Nonconforming Uses And Structures: Where, at the time of passage
hereof, a lawful use of land or a structure exists which would not be permitted
by the regulations imposed by this title, the use may be continued where it
remains otherwise lawful, provided:
      1.   A nonconforming use or structure may not be enlarged or increased,
nor extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied on the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this title.
      2.   Should any nonconforming use cease for any reason for a period of
more than one year, or should a nonconforming structure or portion of a
structure be destroyed to an extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of its
replacement cost at the time of destruction, the use or structure will be
reestablished only in compliance with the provisions of this title.
      3.   No additional nonconforming structure shall be erected in connection
with such nonconforming use of land or structures.
      4.   Should a nonconforming structure be moved for any reason for any
distance whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the
district in which it is located after it is moved.
      5.   Nothing in this title shall be deemed to prevent the routine repair
and maintenance of a nonconforming structure, or strengthening or restoring the
structure to a safe condition. (Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-2000)
12-2-3: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   Requirements For Permitted Home Occupations: A home occupation may be
conducted as a secondary use in a dwelling, provided that:
      1.   The use of the dwelling for the home occupation clearly must be
incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes, and not more
than twenty five percent (25%) of the floor area of the dwelling may be used in
the conduct of the home occupation.
      2.   No traffic may be generated by a home occupation in greater volumes
than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any need for
parking generated by the home occupation shall be met by off-street parking.
      3.   No vehicles, except those normally used as passenger vehicles, will
be used for the home occupation unless stored or parked elsewhere.
      4.   No equipment or process shall be used in a home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference
detectable by normal senses off the lot.
      5.   Any equipment or materials used in connection with a home occupation
shall be stored within the principal structure or in an enclosed space outside
of the principal structure. (Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-2000)
12-2-4: FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:
Any construction or location of buildings or other structures within a 100-year
flood plain officially designated by the Montana department of natural
resources and conservation must conform to the city or county flood plain
management regulations. (Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-2000)
12-2-5: YARD MEASUREMENTS:
   A.   Front Yard: Depth of required front yards is measured at right angles
to a straight line joining the foremost points of the side lot lines. The
foremost point of the side lot line, in the case of rounded property corners at
street intersections, will be assumed to be the point at which the side and
front lot lines would have met without such rounding. Front and rear yard lines
will be parallel.
   B.   Side Yard: Width of a required side yard is measured in such a manner
that the yard established is a strip of the minimum width required by the
district regulations with its inner edge parallel with the side lot line.
   C.   Rear Yard: Depth of a required rear yard is measured in such a manner
that the yard established is a strip of the minimum width required by district
regulations with its inner edge parallel with the rear lot line. (Ord. 2000-03,
9-13-2000)
12-2-6: SUPPLEMENTAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Purpose: Supplementary district regulations are intended to govern
miscellaneous issues related to uses or conditions that occur in more than one
zoning district.
   B.   Visibility At Intersections: On a corner lot in any district, for a
distance of fifty feet (50') from the point of intersection along each street,
nothing may be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow in a manner that
would impede the visibility of vehicles entering the intersection.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5293cb4d11644b7eba4e97efaaf8adb314bc05b7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-904.gif]
   C.   Fences, Walls And Hedges: Unless other provisions of this title specify
otherwise, fences, walls and hedges are permitted in any required yard,
provided that no fence, wall or hedge in or along the edge of a front yard
shall be no more than six feet (6') in height, subject, however to the
restrictions of subsection B of this section.
   D.   Structures To Have Legal And Physical Access: Every principal building
erected or placed on a lot shall have legal and physical access to a public
street, other than an alley, or an approved private street, and all structures
shall be so located on lots as to provide required off-street parking and safe
and convenient access for emergency vehicles.
   E.   Exceptions To Height Regulations: The height limitations contained in
the district regulations do not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas,
water tanks, ventilators, chimneys, or other appurtenances not intended for
human occupancy and usually required to be placed above the roof level.
   F.   Number Of Principal Structures On A Lot: In any district, more than one
structure housing a permitted or conditional principal use may be erected on a
single lot, provided that minimum yard areas and other requirements of this
title are met for each structure as though it were located on an individual
lot.
   G.   Parking Or Storage Of Certain Vehicles: No more than one automotive
vehicle without current license plates may be parked or stored on any
residentially zoned property, except those in completely enclosed buildings.
   H.   Fire Hazards: Any activity involving the use or storage of flammable or
explosive materials must be entirely enclosed with protective fencing at least
six feet (6') in height and be protected by adequate firefighting and fire
prevention equipment and by normal safety devices. The activities must be set
back not less than one hundred feet (100') from all lot lines. Such activities
will be subject to the fire safety standards prescribed by the city fire
marshal or other appropriate authority.
   I.   Livestock: "Livestock", as defined in section
12-1-7 of this title, shall not be maintained in any district within the
corporate boundaries of the municipality.
   J.   Bars, Taverns, Lounges, Nightclubs: No building, structure or premises
shall be used as a bar, tavern, lounge, nightclub or any commercial
establishment that serves alcoholic beverages within six hundred feet (600'),
and on the same street, of any building used exclusively as a school, church,
synagogue or other place of worship. The distance shall be measured in a
straight line from the center of the nearest entrance of the place of worship
or school to the nearest entrance of the proposed establishment. This distance
restriction does not apply to establishments where sale of table wine and beer
is solely in the original package for off-premises consumption. (Ord. 2000-03,
9-13-2000)
12-2-7: OFF-STREET PARKING:
   A.   Purpose: The intent of off-street parking requirements is to provide
convenient and safe access to property, reduce the need for on-street parking
and thus congestion on streets, alleviate hazards associated with access to
traffic-generating business and industrial uses, provide adequate and safe
parking for residents and business customers, protect residential uses from the
undesirable effects of abutting traffic, and maintain the traffic carrying
capacity of the road system serving the jurisdiction.
   B.   Design:
      1.   An off-street parking space shall be at least nine feet (9') in
width and eighteen feet (18') long.
      2.   Off-street parking areas must be accessible from a public street.
      3.   The access to a commercial or industrial off-street parking area
must be at least twenty four feet (24') wide, or twelve feet (12') wide where
one-way drives are used.
      4.   Off-street parking spaces serving residential uses must be located
on the same lot as the dwelling, and may not be located in any front yard
except in the driveway.
      5.   Off-street parking areas serving commercial, industrial, public or
institutional uses must be located within five hundred feet (500') of the use,
and may not be located in required front yards.
      6.   Off-street parking areas serving multi-family residential
developments of more than ten (10) units, commercial, industrial and
institutional uses must comply with the following provisions:
         a.   Grading And Drainage: Off-street parking areas shall be graded
and any needed swales, culverts or other drainage facilities installed to
remove surface runoff in a manner that does not adversely affect adjacent
properties, public streets or surface waters.
         b.   Surfacing: Off-street parking areas shall be surfaced with gravel
or equivalent material. Parking areas containing twenty (20) or more spaces
shall be surfaced with asphalt, paving or other hard surface.
         c.   Screening: Where an off-street parking area abuts a residential
use or zoning district, the parking area shall be effectively screened at the
property line(s) by an acceptably designed sight-obscuring wall, fence or
planting screen.
         d.   Lighting: No lighting used to illuminate a parking area shall
face, or have its light source directly visible from any residential use or
residential zoning district.
   C.   Number Of Spaces: The following number of off-street parking spaces are
required:
1. Residential:
 Single-family and mobile home           2 per dwelling unit.
 Multiple-family                         11/2 per dwelling unit.
 Boarding houses, rooming houses         1 per room for rent.
2. Commercial:
 Auto repair, body shops                 2 per service bay.
 Banks, financial institutions           2 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                         area.
 Bowling alleys                          4 per lane.
 Drive-in restaurants                    1 per 50 feet of floor area or a
                                         minimum of 10, whichever is greater.
 Funeral homes, mortuaries               1 per 4 seats.
 Hotels, motels                          1 per rental unit.
 Medical, dental clinics                 4 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                         area.
 Offices; business, professional,        2 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
 governmental                            area.
 Restaurants, taverns                    1 per 4 seats of customer seating.
 Service station                         1 per 2 gasoline pumps and 2 per
                                         service bay.
 Theater                                 1 per 4 seats.
 All retail establishments not otherwise 4 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
 classified                              area.
 All other commercial uses               2 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                         area.
3. Institutions:
 Churches                                1 per 4 seats.
 Community centers                       4 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                         area.
 Hospitals and nursing homes             1 per 2 beds.
 Libraries, museums                      2 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                         area.
 Schools, elementary                     1 per classroom, plus 1 per 8 seats in
                                         auditorium.
 Schools, secondary                      1 per 4 students plus 1 per classroom.
 Other institutions                      2 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                         area.
4. Industrial:
 Motor freight companies                 1 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                         area.
 Production and manufacturing            2 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                         area.
 Warehousing                             1 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                         area.
 
   D.   Joint Use Of Off-Street Parking Facilities: The applicant for a
proposed use may apply to the zoning commission to use the off- street parking
facility of another use. The zoning commission may approve an application for
joint use, provided:
      1.   The parking facility is within five hundred feet (500') of the
proposed use.
      2.   There will be no substantial conflict between the principal
operating hours of the uses for which joint use of parking facilities is
proposed, and no conflicting demands for parking by employees, customers or
clients.
      3.   Where necessary, the applicant shall present an appropriate and
enforceable lease or agreement, executed by the parties for the joint use. The
term of the lease or agreement shall be for the duration of time that each use
exists at the said location. (Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-2000)
12-2-8: OFF-STREET LOADING:
   A.   Purpose: The intent of off-street loading requirements is to avoid
traffic hazards and minimize congestion of streets by requiring that off-street
loading areas be provided on the same lot as the building served by delivery
trucks, and that such areas be adequate in size and number to provide the
service needed without affecting adjacent properties.
   B.   Design Of Loading Spaces:
      1.   Off-street loading spaces shall be provided on the same lot as the
use they serve, and shall not occupy the front yard of the lot.
      2.   Each loading space shall be designed to have access to a street or
alley in a manner that does not interfere with traffic movement.
      3.   Each loading space shall be at least ten feet by twenty five feet
(10' x 25') in size or designed to accommodate the largest service trucks
expected to serve the use.
      4.   All or part of the off-street loading requirements may be met by
loading facilities within buildings.
   C.   Number Of Off-Street Loading Spaces: One off-street loading space shall
be provided for every industrial, institutional and commercial use having a
gross floor area of five thousand (5,000) square feet, plus one additional
loading space for each additional ten thousand (10,000) square feet of floor
space. (Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-2000)
12-2-9: SIGNS:
   A.   Purpose: Sign regulations are intended to promote and protect the
public safety and welfare by regulating existing and proposed outdoor
advertising signs and signs of all types. The purpose of this section is to
protect property values, create a more attractive economic and business
climate, enhance and protect the physical appearance of the community, and
preserve the scenic and natural beauty of designated areas by regulating
existing and proposed outdoor advertising signs, and outdoor signs of all
types. It is further intended to reduce sign or advertising distraction and
obstructions that may contribute to traffic accidents, reduce hazards that may
be caused by signs overhanging or projecting over public rights of way, provide
more open space, curb the deterioration of the natural environment and enhance
community development. Nothing in this regulation is intended to interfere with
constitutional rights related to free speech.
   B.   Signs Permitted In All Districts Without A Permit: The following signs
are permitted in all zoning districts and do not require a permit:
      1.   Signs advertising the sale, lease or rental of the premises upon
which the sign is located, and which do not exceed twelve (12) square feet in
area, except in all residential districts where the area of the sign shall not
be more than six (6) square feet.
      2.   Signs bearing only property numbers, post box numbers, names of
occupants of premises, or other identification of premises not having
commercial connotations.
      3.   Flags and insignia of any government except when displayed in
connection with commercial promotion.
      4.   Legal notices, identification, information or directional signs
erected or required by governmental bodies.
      5.   Integral decorative or architectural features of buildings, except
letters, trademarks, moving parts, or moving lights.
      6.   Signs directing and guiding traffic and parking on private property,
but bearing no advertising matter.
      7.   Bulletin boards for churches, schools, or other public, religious or
educational institution provided the sign is located a minimum of ten feet
(10') from the established right-of-way line of any street or highway and does
not obstruct traffic visibility at street or highway intersections.
      8.   Political or campaign signs erected temporarily and removed no later
than fifteen (15) days following the election.
   C.   Regulations For On-Site Signs: All on-site signs permitted as accessory
uses in business and industrial districts are subject to the following
provisions:
      1.   Setback: No on-site freestanding sign may be located within the
required front, side or rear yard area for the district. No sign may be erected
or placed closer than fifty feet (50') from a side or rear lot line abutting a
residential district.
      2.   Height: No freestanding sign shall exceed seventy five feet (75') in
height.
      3.   Height Clearance: Signs that extend over a sidewalk or walkway shall
have a vertical clearance of at least eight feet (8').
      4.   Number Of Signs Permitted: In business and industrial districts,
each use is permitted one wall sign. In addition, one freestanding sign is
permitted for each building, regardless of the number of businesses or
industrial uses conducted in the building.
      5.   Permitted Surface Area: The total surface area of all signs is
limited to two (2) square feet of sign for each lineal foot of front width of
the business or industrial building, provided that the maximum total surface
area for all signs does not exceed one hundred (100) square feet.
   D.   Regulation Of Off-Site Signs Requiring A Permit:
      1.   Setback: No off-site freestanding sign may be located within the
required front, side or rear yard area for the district. No sign may be erected
or placed closer than fifty feet (50') from a side or rear lot line abutting a
residential district.
      2.   Lighting: Any illuminated sign or lighting device may employ only
light emitting a light of constant intensity, and no sign may be illuminated by
or contain flashing, intermittent, rotating, or moving lights. An illuminated
sign or lighting device may not be placed or directed so that the beams and
illumination therefrom cause glare or reflection that may constitute a traffic
hazard or nuisance. All wiring, fittings and materials used in the
construction, connection and operation of electrically illuminated signs shall
be in accordance with the provisions of the state electrical code.
      3.   Area: No off-site sign may exceed thirty two (32) square feet in
area.
      4.   Height: No off-site sign shall exceed thirty five feet (35') in
height as measured from the normal grade at the sign. (Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-2000)
12-2-10: SCREENING AND BUFFERING:
Whenever a nonresidential use or off-street parking area abuts a residential
use, the use shall be effectively screened at the property line on all sides
which adjoin or face the residential district or institutional use by an
acceptably designed, sight- obscuring wall, fence or planting screen. The
fence, wall, or planting screen shall be not less than four feet (4') nor more
than six feet (6') in height and shall be maintained in good condition. Where
terrain or other natural features effectively serve as a screen, no wall, fence
or planting screen is required. (Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-2000)
12-2-11: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS (PUD):
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to allow, with adequate review,
flexibility in design of developments that do at least several of the
following:
      1.   Encourage development with mixed uses, particularly a variety of
housing types and densities.
      2.   Create or preserve usable open space and recreation areas.
      3.   Preserve the natural characteristics of the land including
topography, native vegetation and scenic views.
      4.   Avoid construction in unsuitable areas.
      5.   Encourage creativity in design, including flexibility in residential
siting to achieve energy conservation.
      6.   Allow efficient provision of streets, utilities and other services.
      7.   Provide lower cost housing affordable by low and moderate income
families within the community.
   B.   Definition: A "planned unit development (PUD)" is a land development
project designed and planned as a single entity under a plan that offers a
variety of land uses, housing types and densities, and design features in
addition to those allowed by right or condition in the zoning district.
   C.   Application And Review:
      1.   Any person requesting approval of a planned unit development shall
submit an application for conditional use under the provisions of section
12-1-11 of this title. The application shall be accompanied by the required
review fees and a PUD plan, described below.
      2.   The PUD plan shall provide the following:
         a.   A vicinity map showing the location of the site in relationship
to surrounding areas and showing the existing land uses and zoning of the site
and surrounding properties.
         b.   A map drawn to approximate scale showing:
            (1)   Location, types and heights of existing and proposed
buildings and other structures, including density and number of dwelling units
or other uses of each structure.
            (2)   Existing and proposed streets, alleys, bikeways, pedestrian
walkways, and vehicle circulation patterns, off street parking areas.
            (3)   Locations, dimensions and sizes of common and open space
areas, and a landscaping plan showing areas to be landscaped and those that
will be left in a natural state.
            (4)   Physical features such as streams, ponds, canals, rights of
way, utilities.
         c.   A written statement describing:
            (1)   A schedule for installing improvements, developing lots and
constructing structures.
            (2)   Proposed types of ownership of dwelling units and other uses,
and restrictive covenants, if any.
            (3)   Means of providing maintenance of common facilities and open
space areas.
      3.   A PUD will be reviewed and approved under the procedures for
conditional uses pursuant to section
12-1-11 of this title. Where the proposed PUD is subject to review as a
subdivision under the Montana subdivision and platting act, the zoning
commission and planning board shall hold joint and concurrent review, including
a joint public hearing(s). Notice of each hearing shall be given in the manner
prescribed by this title and the municipality's subdivision regulations.
      4.   A PUD must conform to the conditions prescribed by the zoning
commission pursuant to subsection 12-1-11B3 of this title. (Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-
2000)
12-2-12: PERMITTED LOT COVERAGE:
Permitted lot coverage will be fifty percent (50%) free and fifty percent (50%)
occupied.
(Ord. 2005-01, 5-30-2005, eff. 6-30-2005; amd. Ord. 2020-01, 6-8-2020)
12-2-13: CONDITIONAL USE PROCESS FOR MAINTAINING CHICKENS:
   A.   Authorization:
      1.   The City of Forsyth will implement an expedited conditional use
permitting process allowing up to six (6) chicken hens (female Gallus gallus
domesticus) that may be on a premises subject to the following requirements and
subject to all other applicable provisions of this code.
      2.   The chicken hens must be kept on a single-family parcel(s). Chicken
hens are prohibited on any multi-dwelling parcel(s).
   B.   Permitting Process:
      1.   Through the permitting process, the City of Forsyth will establish
reasonable permitting conditions. The permit fee is twenty-five dollars
($25.00) annually. Permitting conditions are subject to oversight by the City
council.
      2.   The owner must obtain an annual permit from the City of Forsyth,
City Hall. The fee(s) for this permit will be determined by the City Council
Resolution and may be periodically adjusted.
   C.   Revocation Of Permit:
      1.   The City council designee may, based on violations of this section,
revoke such permit. The revocation must be in writing and identify the reasons
for the revocation.
      2.   The City council may designate officials to serve as enforcement
officers including law enforcement officers, zoning officer, mayor, code
enforcement officer, other. The enforcement officers have authority to take
reasonable steps to enforce this code including access to property with
appropriate notice to the property owner.
      3.   The revocation decision of the City council designee may be appealed
to the City council.
   D.   Specific Rules For Maintaining Chickens: Specific guidelines are hereby
provided associated with the maintenance of chickens.
      1.   The chicken hens shall be provided with a covered, predator-proof
chicken house that is thoroughly ventilated, of sufficient size to allow free
movement of the chicken hens, designated to be easily accessed, cleaned and
maintained by the owners, be at least two (2) square feet per chicken hen and
the coop and enclosure cannot be more that twelve feet (12') at its peak in
height.
      2.   Chicken coops must be set back a minimum of ten feet (10') from all
property lines as measured from the nearest wall of the coop.
      3.   The chicken hens shall be shut into the chicken house at night, from
sunset to sunrise.
      4.   During daylight hours the chicken hens shall have access to the
chicken house and, weather permitting, shall have access to an outdoor
enclosure on the subject property, adequately fenced to contain the chicken
hens to prevent access to the chicken hens by predators.
      5.   Chickens must be kept twenty feet (20') from any door/window of any
neighboring residence.
      6.   Stored feed must be kept in rodent and predator proof containers.
      7.   It is unlawful for the owner, custodian or keeper of any chicken hen
to allow the chicken(s) to be a nuisance to any neighbors, including but not
limited to: noxious odors from the chickens or their enclosures (See Code
Title 5, Chapter 1, Nuisance; See Code
Title 5, Chapter 6, Animal Waste) and noise of a loud and persistent and
habitual nature (See Code
Title 7, Chapter 3, Animal Control).
      8.   No chicken hen(s) shall be allowed to run at large in the City. No
owner or keeper shall allow or permit any chicken hen(s) to be at large off the
owner's or keeper's property. Any chicken hen(s) found running at large in the
City or on private property in violation of this section is a public nuisance
and shall be impounded (See Code
Title 7, Chapter 3).
      9.   No chicken house or chicken enclosure shall be located in a front
yard.
      10.   No chicken hens shall be slaughtered within view of adjacent
property or the public.
   E.   Maintaining Chickens Without Permit: Unless a permit under this section
is obtained, maintaining chickens shall constitute a zoning violation in
accordance with Forsyth City Code.
   F.   Changes To Provisions Of This Code: Changes to standards contained in
this section shall require any permit holder to comply with any new standard,
regulation, or condition and no notice to a permit holder is required prior to
enforcement of any new standard beyond that required for adoption of a new or
revised ordinance.
   G.   Penalties: Violation of any section of this code is considered to be a
municipal infraction and the consequence(s) for violation are outlined in
Title 1, Chapter 4.
(Ord. 2022-06, 1-16-2023)
CHAPTER 3
DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED
SECTION:
12-3-1: Districts Established; Requirements
12-3-2: Interpretation Of District Boundaries
12-3-3: Low Density Residential District (R-1)
12-3-4: Medium Density Residential District (R-2)
12-3-5: Central Business District (CBD)
12-3-6: General Commercial District (GC)
12-3-7: General Industrial District (I)
12-3-8: Highway Commercial District (H-C)
12-3-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED; REQUIREMENTS:
Within the incorporated Municipal limits of the City of Forsyth, zoning
districts are hereby established and are shown on the official zoning map
described in section
12-1-6 of this title. This chapter sets forth the specific requirements which
must be met by any proposed building, structure or use located within each
district. (Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-2000)
12-3-2: INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty may exist as to the location of district boundaries as shown
on the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply in interpreting the
nearest logical line to that shown:
   A.   Boundaries shall be construed as following the centerline of streets,
highways or alleys.
   B.   Boundaries shall be construed as following the centerline of streams,
rivers, canals or ditches.
   C.   Boundaries shall be construed as following a line midway between the
main tracks of a railroad right-of-way.
   D.   Boundaries shall be construed as following platted lot lines.
   E.   Boundaries shall be construed as following the boundaries of the
incorporated City limits.
   F.   Boundaries shall be construed as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated on the official zoning map.
   G.   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are
different from those shown on the official zoning map, or where circumstances
arise not covered by the rules above, the Board of Adjustment shall interpret
the district boundaries. (Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-2000)
12-3-3: LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-1):
   A.   Purpose: This district is intended to provide for the development of
single-family residences and two-family residences at a density compatible with
existing residential development. This district also accommodates those
institutional and public uses compatible with residential neighborhoods.
   B.   Permitted Principal Uses: The following uses are permitted within this
district:
      Assisted living facility.
      Churches.
      Libraries, museums, schools; public or private.
      Nursing homes.
      Parks, playgrounds, recreational facilities.
      Single-family dwellings, constructed on site or assembled as modular
homes, and Class A mobile homes.
      Two-family dwellings.
      Where licensed by the Montana Department of Public Health and Human
Services, group homes serving disabled persons, halfway houses providing drug
or alcohol rehabilitation, adult foster family daycare facilities, and group
daycare homes serving twelve (12) or fewer children.
      Youth foster homes or youth group homes.
   C.   Conditional Uses: The following uses must comply with the additional
conditions specified below. Approval of these conditional uses must be obtained
from the Zoning Commission under the provisions of section
12-1-11 of this title.
 
Uses                                   Conditions
                                       1. Conform to off-street parking
                                       requirements specified in section
                                       12-2-7 of this title.
Nursing homes; 24-hour per day care    2. Provide safe ingress/egress onto
facilities                             public streets.
                                       3. Lot will be of adequate size and
                                       width to accommodate the proposed use,
                                       and the yard and parking requirements.
                                       1. For PUDs containing residences, the
                                       development plan provides for placement
                                       of housing units and street and open
                                       space design and layout that ensures: a)
Planned unit developments that seek    privacy for residents, b) safe entry
waivers from district requirements, in from lots onto public streets, c) usable
accordance with the requirements of    yard areas, d) adequate off-street
section                                parking, e) proper installation of
12-2-11 of this title                  utilities, and f) access by emergency
                                       vehicles.
                                       2. Placement of structures shall take
                                       into consideration topography, privacy,
                                       building height and orientation,
                                       drainage and aesthetics.
 
   D.   Accessory And Temporary Uses Permitted: The following accessory and
temporary uses are permitted in this district:
      Accessory buildings and uses incidental to the above principal uses.
      Home occupations under the requirements of section
12-2-3 of this title.
      Temporary buildings for and during construction only.
   E.   Lot Area And Width: Except for existing lots of record which, because
of ownership, cannot be reassembled to conform to this requirement, the
following lot areas and widths are required:
      1.   Single-Family Dwelling: Each lot shall contain a minimum of seven
thousand (7,000) square feet, and be at least fifty feet (50') wide.
      2.   Two-Family Dwellings: Each lot shall contain a minimum of eight
thousand (8,000) square feet, and be at least fifty feet (50') wide.
      3.   On-Site Water And Sewage: Where either or both water supply and
sewage treatment will be provided on-site, the minimum lot size shall be
determined by the Montana Department of Environmental Quality.
   F.   Yard Requirements: Every lot shall have the following yard requirements
as measured from the farthest extension of the structure:
      1.   Front Yard: A twenty five foot (25') yard shall be provided on all
street frontages (as measured from the curb line, drainage swale or equivalent
drainage facility). Corner lots shall be construed as having two (2) frontages,
each of which shall require a twenty five foot (25') yard.
      2.   Side Yard: Side yards abutting interior lot lines shall not be less
than five feet (5').
      3.   Rear Yard: A rear yard of at least fifteen feet (15') shall be
provided, except where a garage is located within the rear yard, the rear yard
may be reduced to three feet (3').
   G.   Building Height: Maximum height for all buildings and other structures
shall be thirty feet (30').
   H.   Signs: The following signs are permitted in this district:
      1.   For residential uses, nonilluminated signs a maximum of eight (8)
square feet in area.
      2.   For all other uses, nonilluminated signs, including bulletin boards
at schools and churches, not exceeding sixteen (16) square feet in area,
provided the sign is located at least ten feet (10') from any road right-of-way
and does not obstruct traffic visibility. (Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-2000; amd. Ord.
2017-01, 3-13-2017; Ord. 2020-01, 6-8-2020)
12-3-4: MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-2):
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this district is to recognize the existing
residential neighborhoods of the community as well as those areas which are
deemed appropriate for residential expansions. A variety of residential types
and densities, including multiple-family and mobile homes, will be accommodated
to provide a balance of housing types within the community. It is intended that
this district be maintained and expanded to preserve the residential
attractiveness in a mixed use atmosphere. This district also will accommodate
those institutional and public uses compatible with residential neighborhoods.
   B.   Permitted Principal Uses: The following uses are permitted within this
district:
      All mobile homes in mobile home parks.
      Assisted living facility.
      Boarding houses.
      Churches and other places of worship.
      Class B and Class C mobile homes under the special provisions of
subsection E of this section.
      Libraries, museums.
      Multiple-family dwellings.
      Nursing homes.
      Parks and recreation facilities.
      Public or private schools.
      Single-family dwellings, constructed on-site, assembled as modular homes,
and Class A mobile homes.
      Where licensed by the Montana Department of Public Health and Human
Services, group homes serving disabled persons, halfway houses providing drug
or alcohol rehabilitation, adult foster family daycare facilities, and group
daycare homes that serve twelve (12) or fewer children.
      Youth foster homes or youth group homes.
   C.   Conditional Uses: The following uses must comply with the additional
conditions specified below. Approval of these conditional uses must be obtained
from the Zoning Commission under the provisions of section
12-1-11 of this title.
 
Uses                                   Conditions
                                       1. Conform to mobile home park
Mobile home parks                      requirements in local subdivision
                                       regulations.
Nursing homes; hospitals; 24-hour per  1. Conform to off-street parking
day care facilities                    requirements specified in section
                                       12-2-7 of this title.
                                      2. Provide safe ingress/egress onto
                                       public streets.
                                       3. Lot is of sufficient size and width
                                      to accommodate the proposed use, and
                                       yard and parking requirements.
                                       1. For PUDs containing residences, the
                                       development plan provides for placement
Planned unit developments that seek    of housing units and street and open
waivers from district requirements, in space design and layout that ensures: a)
accordance with the requirements of    privacy for residents, b) safe entry
section                                from lots onto public streets, c) usable
12-2-11 of this title                  yard areas, d) adequate off-street
                                       parking, e) proper installation of
                                       utilities, and f) access by emergency
                                       vehicles.
                                       2. Placement of housing units shall take
                                      into consideration topography, privacy,
                                       building height and orientation,
                                       drainage and aesthetics.
 
   D.   Accessory And Temporary Uses Permitted: The following accessory and
temporary uses are permitted in this district:
      Accessory buildings and uses incidental to the above uses.
      Home occupations under the requirements of section
12-2-3 of this title.
      Temporary buildings for and during construction only.
   E.   Special Provisions For Class B And Class C Mobile Homes:
 
                                 1. Each mobile home must be placed on a
Class B and Class C mobile homes masonry foundation, or provided with anchors
                                 or cable tie downs for securing the mobile
                                 home, and
                                 2. Each mobile home must be skirted, entirely
                                enclosing the bottom section within 60 days
                                 after placement. Skirting must be of materials
                                 compatible with siding of the mobile home.
                                 3. The transporting lights and removable
                                towing apparatus must be removed after
                                 placement on the lot and before occupancy.
 
   F.   Yard Requirements: Every lot shall have the following yard requirements
as measured from the farthest extension of the structure:
      1.   Front Yard: A twenty five foot (25') yard shall be provided on all
street frontages (as measured from the curb line, drainage swale or equivalent
drainage facility). Corner lots shall be construed as having two (2) frontages,
each of which shall allow a twenty five foot (25') yard with the exception of
corner lots located on streets with sixty foot (60') rights-of-way, which shall
allow for a twenty foot (20') yard or a yard that matches the established
building line on that block.
      2.   Side Yard: Side yards abutting interior lot lines shall not be less
than five feet (5').
      3.   Rear Yard: A rear yard of at least fifteen feet (15') shall be
provided, except where a garage is located within the rear yard, the rear yard
may be reduced to three feet (3').
   G.   Lot Area And Width: Except for existing lots of record which, because
of ownership, cannot be reassembled to conform to this requirement, the
following lot areas and widths are required:
      1.   Single-family dwellings: Each lot shall contain a minimum of seven
thousand (7,000) square feet, and be at least fifty feet (50') wide.
      2.   Multiple-family dwellings: Each lot shall contain a minimum of four
thousand (4,000) square feet per dwelling unit, and be at least fifty feet
(50') wide.
   H.   Building Height: Maximum building height shall be thirty feet (30') for
one- and two-family dwellings and forty feet (40') for multiple-family
dwellings consisting of more than two (2) units.
   I.   Signs: The following signs are permitted in this district:
      1.   For residential uses, nonilluminated signs less than eight (8)
square feet in area.
      2.   For all other uses, nonilluminated signs, including bulletin boards
at schools and churches, not exceeding sixteen (16) square feet in area,
provided the sign is located at least ten feet (10') from any street right-of-
way. (Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-2000; amd. Ord. 2017-01, 3-13-2017; Ord. 2020-01, 6-8-
2020)
12-3-5: CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (CBD):
   A.   Purpose: The Central Business District is intended to be the central
focus of the City's business, government, service and cultural activities. The
uses in this district should be those that are appropriate in a high density,
intensively developed commercial center. The area should be developed as an
attractive, functional and convenient commercial environment, and to provide
the mix of activities necessary to maintain the downtown character. (Ord. 2000-
03, 9-13-2000)
   B.   Permitted Principal Uses: The following uses are permitted within this
district:
Amusement centers, recreational facilities located in enclosed buildings.
Apartments, located above the first floor.
Assisted living facility.
Auditoriums, theaters.
Bars, taverns, lounges, nightclubs, in accordance with subsection 12-2-6J of
this title.
Building materials and equipment sales.
Clubs and lodges.
Financial institutions.
Funeral homes.
Government, educational and institutional uses.
Hotels, motels.
Libraries.
Medical and dentist offices, clinics and laboratories.
Museums and art galleries.
Nursing homes.
Offices; professional, business, administrative, services.
Parking areas.
Police and fire stations.
Recreational facilities.
Restaurants, but not drive-in eating establishments.
Retail businesses or services, whose activities primarily are conducted within
an enclosed building.
Sales, service and repair; motor vehicles (including service stations)
agricultural implements, equipment and materials.
Senior citizen centers.
Other uses commensurate with the above uses and compatible with the purpose of
this district. (Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-2000; amd. Ord. 2017-01, 3-13-2017)
   C.   Accessory And Temporary Uses:
Accessory buildings and uses incidental to the principal uses.
Sale of Christmas trees, baked goods, clothing or like products where no
permanent structure is erected.
Temporary buildings or structures used for and during construction or grading.
Temporary signs.
Temporary use of open land for meetings, circuses and carnivals.
   D.   Lot Area And Width:
      1.   Where public water and sewer service is available, no minimum lot
size is required.
      2.   Where Montana Department of Environmental Quality approval of water
or sewer facilities is required, that agency shall determine the minimum lot
size.
   E.   Building Height: Maximum building height shall be sixty five feet
(65'). In newly constructed buildings that exceed thirty feet (30') in height,
automatic sprinkler systems must be provided with a pump or lift station to
ensure sufficient water pressure to operate the sprinkler system on the top
floor.
   F.   Yard Requirements:
      1.   Front Yard: Any building or structure must be set back at least
eight feet (8') from the curb or street pavement.
      2.   Side Yard: No side yards are required.
      3.   Rear Yard: No rear yards are required.
   G.   Signs: All signs must comply with requirements of section
12-2-9 of this title.
   H.   Off-Street Parking: No off-street parking is required in the Central
Business District. (Ord. 2000-03, 9-13-2000)
12-3-6: GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (GC):
   A.   Purpose: This district is intended to accommodate general business uses
while preserving the traffic capacity of the street system and the desirability
to adjacent residential development. The area should be developed as an
attractive, functional and convenient commercial development.
   B.   Permitted Principal Uses: The following uses are permitted within this
district:
Amusement centers, recreational facilities located in enclosed buildings.
Auditoriums, theaters.
Bars, taverns, lounges, nightclubs, in accordance with subsection 12-2-6J of
this title.
Beverage bottling and distributing.
Building materials and equipment sales.
Clubs and lodges.
Financial institutions.
Funeral homes.
Government, educational and institutional uses.
Hotels, motels.
Libraries.
Medical and dentist offices, clinics and laboratories.
Multi-family dwellings.
Museums and art galleries.
Nursing homes.
Offices; professional, business, administrative, government and services.
Parking areas.
Police and fire stations.
Recreational facilities.
Restaurants, drive-in eating establishments.
Retail businesses or services.
Sales, service and repair; motor vehicles (including service stations),
agricultural implements, equipment and materials.
Senior citizen centers.
Single-family dwellings.
Other uses commensurate with the above uses and compatible with the purpose of
this district. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2009)
   C.   Conditional Uses: The following uses must comply with the additional
conditions specified below. Approval of these conditional uses must be obtained
from the zoning commission under the provisions of section
12-1-11 of this title.
Uses  Conditions
Uses                       Conditions
                           1. Streets shall be at least 10 feet wide, and wider
                           if necessary to accommodate the expected traffic.
                           2. Streets and RV lots shall be designed to permit
                           safe placement and removal of trailers and vehicles.
                           3. All parks shall provide for safe and convenient
                           access from public roads or streets.
                           4. The park shall be equipped at all times with fire
                           control equipment in good working order, and be of a
Recreational vehicle park  type prescribed by local fire authority.
                           5. Gas and electric utilities shall be installed in
                           accordance with the appropriate codes.
                           6. RV vehicles shall be separated from each other
                           and from other structures by at least 15 feet.
                           7. All RV spaces shall be located at least 25 feet
                           from a public street or highway right of way.
                           8. The density shall not exceed 25 RV spaces per
                           acre.
Shopping center            1. Conditions as specified by the zoning commission
                           pursuant to subsection 12-1-11B3 of this title.
 
   D.   Accessory And Temporary Uses:
      1.   Accessory buildings and uses incidental to the principal uses.
      2.   Temporary buildings or structures used for and during construction
or grading.
      3.   Temporary signs.
      4.   Temporary use of open land for meetings, circuses, carnivals.
      5.   Sale of Christmas trees, baked goods, clothing or like products
where no permanent structure is erected.
   E.   Lot Area:
      1.   Where public water and sewer service is available, no minimum lot
size is required.
      2.   Where Montana department of environmental quality approval is
required, that agency shall determine the minimum lot size.
      3.   Where neither of the above conditions apply, the minimum lot size
shall be one acre.
   F.   Height Requirements: No building or structure may exceed forty five
feet (45') in height. In newly constructed buildings that exceed thirty feet
(30') in height, automatic sprinkler systems must be provided with a pump or
lift station to ensure sufficient water pressure to operate the sprinkler
system on the top floor.
   G.   Yard Requirements:
      1.   Front Yard: A front yard of at least twenty feet (20') shall be on
all road frontages.
      2.   Side Yard: Side yards abutting interior lot lines shall be at least
ten feet (10').
      3.   Rear Yard: A rear yard of at least ten feet (10') shall be provided.
   H.   Signs: Signs within this district shall comply with the provisions of
section
12-2-9 of this title.
   I.   Access Onto Public Roads:
      1.   Approaches onto public roads and highways shall be at least twenty
four feet (24') wide.
      2.   Approaches onto public roads and highways shall have a grade of six
percent (6%) or less.
      3.   Approaches onto public roads or highways shall be at least one
hundred twenty five feet (125') apart. The center line of approaches from
properties on opposite sides of a public road shall be aligned at the same
point on the public road.
   J.   Grading And Drainage:
      1.   The site shall be graded and appropriate drainage facilities
installed to remove surface runoff waters in a manner that will not affect
adjacent or nearby properties, rivers or public roads.
      2.   Culverts, curbs, gutters, ditches, swales and other drainage
facilities shall be installed to assure that approaches, parking areas and
other traffic facilities do not obstruct drainage facilities or adversely
affect public road and traffic facilities.
      3.   Culverts and bridges shall be large enough to accommodate potential
runoff from upstream drainage areas.
      4.   Curbs and gutters or swales shall be required according to the
character of the area, density of development, and nature of adjoining
properties and public streets.
   K.   Screening And Buffering: Where a nonresidential use in this district
abuts a residential use or district, the screening and buffering provisions of
section
12-2-10 of this title must be met.
   L.   Fencing: The following uses must be protected by a fence not less than
six feet (6') in height: 1) outdoor storage of materials or equipment, 2)
aboveground storage of flammable liquids, gases, or other material, and 3)
electrical substations, gas regulator stations and microwave reflectors.
   M.   Lighting: Lighting must be shielded to avoid casting direct light on
adjacent residential uses or institutional uses providing human care. (Ord.
2000-03, 9-13-2000)
12-3-7: GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (I):
   A.   Purpose: This district is intended to provide for efficient and
functional operation of heavy commercial, manufacturing, processing, and other
industrial uses in appropriate locations. Industrial uses which produce noise,
smoke, dirt, vibration, glare or similarly obtrusive nuisances shall be
regulated to minimize the impact on the public health and safety. These
activities generally require reasonable access to major transportation
facilities, need extensive open storage and service areas and generate heavy
traffic. To help ensure efficiency and function of industrial uses, protection
from incompatible residential and commercial uses is necessary.
   B.   Permitted Uses:
      1.   All uses associated with operations of railroads.
      2.   Automobile, truck, farm machinery, heavy equipment repair.
      3.   Agricultural products processing, storage, loading; grain elevators.
      4.   Cement, concrete and paving products, including mixing plants.
      5.   Freight terminals, truck or rail.
      6.   Industrial laboratories.
      7.   Manufacturing or processing: a) products from organic material,
chemicals, glass, metal, minerals, stones or earth, b) foodstuffs, textiles,
electrical components, wood, leather, paper, or plastic.
      8.   Fabrication or assembly of products from prestructured materials or
compounds.
      9.   Signs, billboards.
      10.   Storage yards.
      11.   Utilities.
      12.   Welding or sheet metal shops.
      13.   Warehousing.
   C.   Conditional Uses: The following uses must comply with the additional
conditions specified below. Approval of these conditional uses must be obtained
from the zoning commission under the provisions of section
12-1-11 of this title.
 
Uses                                  Conditions
                                      1. Any building or structure used to
                                      retain animals or process animal products
                                      must be at least 300 feet from a
                                      residential district or institutional
Meatpacking, rendering plants         use.
                                      2. A solid fence at least 8 feet high
                                      must enclose the use, or a screen of
                                      evergreen shrubs or trees at least 8 feet
                                      high at maturity must be planted. The
                                      fence or screen must be maintained.
                                      1. A solid fence at least 8 feet high
                                      must enclose the use, or a screen of
Auto wrecking, scrap, salvage yards   evergreen shrubs or trees at least 8 feet
                                      high at maturity must be planted. The
                                      fence or screen must be maintained.
                                      1. All uses set back at least 300 feet
Bulk storage of flammable liquids or  from all lot lines.
gases or other hazardous materials    2. All uses shall conform with the
aboveground                           provisions for petroleum storage tanks
                                      set forth in the Forsyth municipal code.
 
   D.   Accessory And Temporary Uses Permitted:
      1.   Accommodations for caretakers, watchmen and custodians.
      2.   Outdoor storage of merchandise or inventory.
      3.   Temporary buildings or other structures for and during construction
or grading.
      4.   Use of open land for meetings, circuses or carnivals.
      5.   Sale of Christmas trees, baked goods, clothes or like products where
no permanent structure is erected.
   E.   Lot Area:
      1.   Where public water and sewer service is available, no minimum lot
size is required.
      2.   Where Montana department of environmental quality approval is
required, that agency shall determine the lot size.
      3.   Where neither of the above conditions apply, the minimum lot size
shall be one acre.
   F.   Yard Requirements:
      1.   Front Yard: A fifty foot (50') front yard must be provided along any
street frontage.
      2.   Side Yard: Side yards abutting interior lot lines must be at least
twenty five feet (25').
      3.   Rear Yard: Rear yards must be at least twenty feet (20').
   G.   Height Requirement: There is no maximum height limitation.
   H.   Signs: All signs shall conform to the provisions prescribed in section
12-2-9 of this title.
   I.   Access Onto Public Roads:
      1.   Approaches onto public roads and highways shall be at least thirty
two feet (32') wide.
      2.   Approaches onto public roads and highways shall have a grade of six
percent (6%) or less.
      3.   Approaches onto public roads or highways shall be at least one
hundred twenty five feet (125') apart. Center line of approaches from
properties on opposite sides of a public road shall be aligned at the same
point on the public road.
   J.   Grading And Drainage:
      1.   The site shall be graded and appropriate drainage facilities
installed to remove surface runoff waters in a manner that will not affect
adjacent or nearby properties, rivers or public roads.
      2.   Culverts, curbs, gutters, ditches, swales and other drainage
facilities shall be installed to assure that approaches, parking areas and
other traffic facilities do not obstruct drainage facilities or adversely
affect public road and traffic facilities.
      3.   Culverts and bridges shall be large enough to accommodate potential
runoff from upstream drainage areas.
      4.   Curbs and gutters or swales shall be required according to the
character of the area, density of development, and nature of adjoining
properties and public streets.
   K.   Screening And Buffering: Where a nonresidential use in this district
abuts a residential use of another district, the screening and buffering
provisions of section
12-2-10 of this title must be met.
   L.   Fencing: The following uses must be protected by a fence not less than
six feet (6') in height: 1) outdoor storage of materials or equipment, 2)
aboveground storage of flammable liquids, gases, or other material, and 3)
electrical substations, gas regulator stations and microwave reflectors.
   M.   Lighting: Lighting must be shielded to avoid casting direct light on
adjacent residential uses or institutional uses providing human care. (Ord.
2000-03, 9-13-2000)
12-3-8: HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (H-C):
   A.   Purpose: This district is intended to accommodate the business and
light industrial uses which require more space than is normally available in
the Central Business District, or whose operations require access to the major
transportation facilities serving the community. The district should
accommodate these uses while preserving the traffic carrying capacity of the
road system, and the desirability of abutting land for residential development.
(Ord. 2011-01, 2-28-2011)
   B.   Permitted Principal Uses: The following uses are permitted within this
district:
All uses pertaining to automobile and truck sales, service and repair,
including service station and car washes.
Amusement centers and recreational facilities located in enclosed buildings.
Assisted living facility.
Bars, taverns, lounges, nightclubs.
Beverage bottling and distributing.
Building equipment and materials - wholesale and retail, including storage
yards.
Churches or other buildings used primarily for religious purposes.
Electric equipment - assembly, repair and sales.
Fraternal lodges, clubs.
Laboratories.
Laundry and dry cleaning establishments.
Meeting halls, auditoriums, arenas, indoor theaters.
Motels, hotels, convention centers.
Multi-family dwellings.
Nursing homes.
Outdoor advertising.
Police or fire stations.
Restaurants and drive-in eating establishments.
Retail and wholesale sales, service and repair - agricultural products,
products serving agriculture, farm implements, heavy machinery, mobile homes,
travel trailers, recreational vehicles.
Single-family dwellings.
Storage yards.
Utilities, public or private.
Veterinary office, clinic, hospital.
Warehouses.
Other uses commensurate with the above uses and compatible with the purpose of
this district. (Ord. 2011-01, 2-28-2011; amd. Ord. 2017-01, 3-13-2017)
   C.   Conditional Uses: The following uses must comply with the additional
conditions specified below. Approval of these conditional uses must be obtained
from the Zoning Commission under the provisions of section
12-1-11, "Conditional Use Permits", of this title.
Uses                       Conditions
Recreational vehicle park  1. Streets shall be at least 10 feet wide, and wider
                           if necessary to accommodate the expected traffic.
                           2. Streets and RV lots shall be signed to permit
                           safe placement and removal of trailers and vehicles.
                           3. All parks shall provide for safe and convenient
                           access from public roads or streets.
                           4. The park shall be equipped at all times with fire
                           control equipment in good working order, and be of a
                           type prescribed by local fire authority.
                           5. Gas and electric utilities shall be installed in
                           accordance with the appropriate codes.
                           6. RV vehicles shall be separated from each other
                           and from other structures by at least 15 feet.
                           7. All RV spaces shall be located at least 25 feet
                           from a public street or highway right-of-way.
                           8. The density shall not exceed 25 RV spaces per
                           acre.
Shopping center            1. Conditions as specified by the Zoning Commission,
                           subsection 12-1-11B3 of this title.
 
   D.   Accessory And Temporary Uses:
Accessory buildings and uses incidental to the principal uses.
Sale of Christmas trees, baked goods, clothing or like products where no
permanent structure is erected.
Temporary buildings or structures used for and during construction or grading.
Temporary signs.
Temporary use of open land for meetings, circuses, carnivals and fireworks
stands.
All to meet City of Forsyth and State Fire Code requirements.
   E.   Lot Area:
      1.   Where public water and sewer service is available, minimum lot size
of twenty five feet (25') wide by twenty five feet (25') long.
      2.   Where Montana Department of Health and Environmental Sciences
approval is required, that agency shall determine the lot size.
      3.   Where neither of the above conditions apply, the minimum lot size
shall be one (1) acre.
   F.   Height Requirements: Maximum building height shall be sixty five feet
(65'). In newly constructed buildings that exceed thirty feet (30') in height,
automatic sprinkler systems must be provided with a pump or lift station to
ensure sufficient water pressure to operate the sprinkler system on the top
floor.
   G.   Yard Requirements: Yard requirements based on the use of the facility
with City of Forsyth regulation.
   H.   Off Street Parking And Loading:
      1.   Off street parking facilities must comply with the provisions of the
Zoning Code.
      2.   Off street loading areas must comply with the provisions of the
Zoning Code.
   I.   Signs: Signs within this district shall comply with the provisions of
the Zoning Code.
   J.   Access Onto Public Roads:
      1.   Approaches onto public roads and highways shall be at least thirty
two feet (32') wide.
      2.   Approaches onto public roads and highways shall have a grade of six
percent (6%) or less.
      3.   Approaches onto public roads or highways shall be at least one
hundred twenty five feet (125') apart. The centerline of approaches from
properties on opposite sides of a public road shall be aligned at the same
point on the public road.
   K.   Grading And Drainage:
      1.   The site shall be graded and appropriate drainage facilities
installed to remove surface runoff waters in a manner that will not affect
adjacent or nearby properties, rivers or public roads.
      2.   Culverts, curbs, gutters, ditches, swales and other drainage
facilities shall be installed to assure that approaches, parking areas and
other traffic facilities do not obstruct drainage facilities or adversely
affect public roads and traffic facilities.
      3.   Culverts and bridges shall be large enough to accommodate potential
runoff from upstream drainage areas.
      4.   Curbs and gutters or swales shall be required according to the
character of the area, density of development, and nature of adjoining
properties and public streets.
   L.   Screening And Buffering: Where a nonresidential use in this district
abuts a residential use of district, screening and buffering provisions must be
met.
   M.   Fencing: The following uses must be protected by a fence not less than
six feet (6') in height and meets State codes for the following: 1) outdoor
storage of materials or equipment, 2) aboveground storage of flammable liquids,
gases, or other hazardous material, and 3) electrical substations, gas
regulator stations and microwave reflectors. The storage of materials such as
flammable liquids, gases or other hazardous materials, must still meet other
applicable Federal, State, and local laws and permits required for their
storage.
   N.   Lighting: Lighting must be shielded to avoid casting direct light on
adjacent residential uses or institutional uses providing human care. (Ord.
2011-01, 2-28-2011)
TITLE 13
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS 1
CHAPTER 0
TITLE VIOLATIONS
SECTION
13-0-1: Violations
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 76-3-301 et seq.
13-0-1: VIOLATIONS:
Violations of this title are designated as Municipal infractions as specified
in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
CHAPTER 1
REGULATIONS
SECTION:
13-1-1: Adoption Of County Subdivision Regulations
13-1-1: ADOPTION OF COUNTY SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS:
There is hereby adopted and fully incorporated by reference herein, the Rosebud
County subdivision regulations as previously adopted by Rosebud County, dated
December 27, 2011, and any amendments thereto. Said regulations shall be
enforced by any remedy available in law or equity. (Ord. 01-2012, 2-13-2012)
TITLE 14
FLOOD CONTROL 1
CHAPTER 0
TITLE VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
14-0-1: Violations
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 76-5-301 et seq.
14-0-1: VIOLATIONS:
Violations of this title are designated as Municipal infractions as specified
in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
CHAPTER 1
TITLE AND PURPOSE
SECTION:
14-1-1: Title
14-1-2: Purpose
14-1-1: TITLE:
These regulations shall be known and cited as THE CITY OF FORSYTH FLOOD PLAIN
REGULATIONS. These regulations are in accordance with exercising the authority
of the laws of the State. (Ord. 97-01, 3-24-1997)
14-1-2: PURPOSE:
To promote the public health, safety and general welfare, to minimize flood
losses in areas subject to flood hazards and to promote wise use of the flood
plain. These regulations have been established with the following purposes
intended:
   A.   Guide Development: To guide development of the 100-year flood plain
within local jurisdiction consistent with the enumerated findings by:
      1.   Recognizing Need: Recognizing the right and need of watercourses to
periodically carry more than the normal flow of water;
      2.   Participation In Coordinated Efforts: Participating in coordinated
efforts of Federal, State and local management activities for 100-year flood
plains; and
      3.   Balance: Ensuring the regulations and minimum standards adopted,
insofar as possible, balance the greatest public good with the least private
injury.
   B.   Specific Purposes: Specifically it is the purpose of these regulations
to:
      1.   Dangerous Uses: Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to
health, safety and property in times of flood or that cause increased flood
heights and velocities;
      2.   Flood Protection: Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including
public facilities, be provided with flood protection at the time of initial
construction;
      3.   Identify Unsuitable Lands: Identify lands unsuitable for certain
development purposes because of flood hazards;
      4.   Minimize Expense To Public: Minimize the need for rescue and relief
efforts associated with flooding undertaken at the expense of the general
public;
      5.   Protect Potential Buyers: Ensure potential buyers are notified that
property is within a 100-year flood plain and subject to the provisions of
these regulations; and
      6.   Responsibility Of Occupants: Ensure that those who occupy 100-year
flood plains assume responsibility for their actions. (Ord. 97-01, 3-24-1997)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
14-2-1: Administrative Provisions
14-2-2: Permit Applications
14-2-3: Emergency Waiver
14-2-4: Review; Variances; Appeals
14-2-5: Fees
14-2-6: Compliance; Certification Required
14-2-7: Emergency Preparedness Planning
14-2-8: Violation
14-2-9: Penalty
14-2-1: ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Flood Plain Administrator: As provided in Section
14-4-6 of this Title, the Flood Plain Administrator has been designated by the
City Council and has the responsibility of such position as outlined in these
regulations.
   B.   Review Authority; Considerations: The Flood Plain Administrator is
hereby appointed with the authority to review flood plain development permit
applications, proposed uses and construction to determine compliance with these
regulations. The Flood Plain Administrator is required to ensure that all
necessary permits have been received from those governmental agencies from
which approval is required by Federal and State law and local codes, including
section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, 33 USC 1334 and
under the provisions of the Natural Streambed and Land Preservation Act. Flood
plain development permits shall be granted or denied by the Flood Plain
Administrator on the basis of whether the proposed establishment, alteration or
substantial improvement of an artificial obstruction meets the requirements of
these regulations. Additional factors that shall be considered for every permit
application are:
      1.   Danger To Life And Property: The danger to life and property due to
increased flood heights, increased flood water velocities or alterations in the
pattern of flood flow caused by encroachments;
      2.   Materials Swept Onto Other Lands: The danger that materials may be
swept onto other lands or downstream to the injury of others;
      3.   Prevention Of Disease And Unsanitary Conditions: The proposed water
supply and sanitation systems and the ability of these systems to prevent
disease, contamination and unsanitary conditions;
      4.   Susceptibility Of Facility: The susceptibility of the proposed
facility and its contents to flood damage and the effects of such damage on the
individual owner;
      5.   Importance Of Services: The importance of the services provided by
the facility to the community;
      6.   Requirement For Waterfront Location: The requirement of the facility
for a waterfront location;
      7.   Available Alternative Locations: The availability of alternative
locations not subject to flooding for the proposed use;
      8.   Compatibility: The compatibility of the proposed use with existing
development and anticipated development in the foreseeable future;
      9.   Relationship To Comprehensive Plan: The relationship of the proposed
use to the Comprehensive Plan and flood plain management program for the area;
      10.   Safety Of Access: The safety of access to property in times of
flooding for ordinary and emergency services; and
      11.   Other Factors: Such other factors as are in harmony with the
purposes of these regulations, the Montana Flood Plain and Floodway Management
Act and the National Flood Insurance Program.
   C.   Time Limit For Action On Permit Application: A flood plain development
permit application is considered to have been automatically granted sixty (60)
days after the date of receipt of the application by the Flood Plain
Administrator, unless the applicant has been notified that the permit is
denied, conditionally approved or additional information pertinent to the
permit review process is required.
   D.   Adoption Of Administrative Procedures: The Flood Plain Administrator
shall adopt such administrative procedures as may be necessary to efficiently
administer the provision of these regulations.
   E.   Records Maintenance: The Flood Plain Administrator shall maintain such
files and records as may be necessary to document nonconforming uses, base
flood elevations, floodproofing and elevation certifications, fee receipts, the
issuance of permits, agenda, minutes, records of public meetings and any other
matters related to flood plain management in the City. Such files and records
shall be open for public inspection. In matters of litigation, the City
Attorney may restrict access to specific records.
   F.   Additional Information May Be Required: The Flood Plain Administrator
may require whatever additional information is necessary to determine whether
the proposed activity meets the requirements of these regulations. Additional
information may include hydraulic calculations assessing the impact on base
flood elevations or velocities; level survey; or certification by a registered
land surveyor, professional engineer or licensed architect that the
requirements of these regulations are satisfied.
   G.   Notice To Public; Publication: Upon receipt of an application for a
permit or a variance, the Flood Plain Administrator shall prepare a notice
containing the facts pertinent to the application and shall publish the notice
at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the area. Notice shall
also be served by first class mail upon adjacent property owners and the DNRC
Flood Plain Management Section. The notice shall provide a reasonable period of
time, not less than fifteen (15) days, for interested parties to submit
comments on the proposed activity.
   H.   Distribution Of Permits Granted: Copies of all permits granted must be
sent to the Department of Natural Resources and Conservation in Helena,
Montana.
   I.   Notification To Specific Agencies: In riverine situations, notification
by the Flood Plain Administrator must be made to adjacent communities, the
Flood Plain Management Section (DNRC) and FEMA prior to any alteration or
relocation of a stream. The flood-carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any stream must be maintained. Erosion control measures
shall be incorporated to ensure stability of altered channels and stream banks.
(Ord. 97-01, 3-24-1997)
14-2-2: PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: Activities or uses that require the issuance of a
permit, including the expansion or alteration of such uses, shall not be
initiated, established or undertaken until a permit has been issued by the
Flood Plain Administrator.
   B.   Information Required: Permit applications shall be required to furnish
the following information as deemed necessary by the Flood Plain Administrator
for determining the suitability of the particular site for the proposed use:
      1.   Plans: Plans in duplicate drawn to scale (including dimensions)
showing the nature, location and elevation of the lot; existing and proposed
structure locations; fill, storage or materials site; floodproofing measures;
mean sea level elevation of the first floor of proposed structures; and
location of the channel.
      2.   Plan View: A plan view of the proposed development indicating
external dimensions of structures, street or road finished grade elevations,
well locations, individual sewage treatment and disposal sites, excavation and/
or fill quantity estimates and site plan and/or construction plans.
      3.   Specifications: Specifications for floodproofing, filling,
excavating, grading, riprapping, storage of materials and location of
utilities.
      4.   Professional Design Calculations: A professional engineer's or
registered architect's design calculations and certification that the proposed
activity has been designed to be in compliance with these regulations.
      5.   Certification: Certification of floodproofing and/or elevation shall
be provided on a standard form available from the Flood Plain Administrator.
   C.   On-Site Inspection; Required Information: To determine that the permit
specifications and conditions have been completed, applicants who have received
permits are required to furnish the following at the time of an on-site
conformance inspection:
      1.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or licensed land
surveyor of the actual mean sea level elevation of the lowest floor (including
basement) of all new, altered or substantially improved buildings.
      2.   If floodproofing techniques were used for buildings, the mean sea
level elevation to which the floodproofing was accomplished must be certified
by a structural engineer or licensed architect in the same manner.
      3.   Certification shall also be required for artificial obstructions
other than buildings, verifying that the activity was accomplished in
accordance with these regulations and the design plans submitted with the
application for the permit activity. This certification may be waived by the
Floodplain Administrator if it can be clearly ascertained by a site inspection
that the activity was accomplished in accordance with these regulations.
      4.   Certification of floodproofing and/or elevation shall be provided on
a standard form available from the Floodplain Administrator. (Ord. 97-01, 3-24-
1997)
14-2-3: EMERGENCY WAIVER:
   A.   Authority; Conditions: Emergency repair and replacement of severely
damaged public transportation facilities, public water and sewer facilities,
and flood control works may be authorized. Floodplain development permit
requirements may be waived if:
      1.   Upon notification and prior to the emergency repair and/or
replacement, the Floodplain Administrator determines that an emergency
condition exists warranting immediate action; and
      2.   The Floodplain Administrator agrees upon the nature and type of
proposed emergency repair and/or replacement.
   B.   Verbal Authorization: Authorization to undertake emergency repair and
replacement work may be given verbal if the Floodplain Administrator feels that
such a written authorization would unduly delay the emergency works. Such
verbal authorization must be followed by a written authorization describing the
emergency condition and the type of emergency work agreed upon, and stating
that a verbal authorization had been previously given. (Ord. 97-01, 3-24-1997)
14-2-4: REVIEW; VARIANCES; APPEALS:
   A.   Board Of Adjustment Created: There is hereby created a local Floodplain
Management Board of Adjustment, the membership, administration and rules of
procedure of which are identical to a Zoning Board of Adjustment. The Forsyth
City Council serves as the Board of Adjustment. (Ord. 97-01, 3-24-1997; amd.
Ord. 2017-02, 6-12-2017)
   B.   Authority To Grant Variance; Procedures: The Board of Adjustment may,
by variance, grant a permit that is not in compliance with the minimum
standards contained in these regulations according to the following procedures:
      1.   Variances shall not be issued for any activity that will cause more
than a one-half foot (1/2') increase in the base flood elevation. The
Floodplain Administrator may establish an increase of more than one-half foot
(1/2') if there will not be an increased flood hazard to existing or
foreseeable development.
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that refusal of a permit due to exceptional
circumstances would cause a unique or undue hardship on the applicant or
community involved;
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood hazards, present additional threats to public safety, be an
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud, victimize the
public or conflict with existing State and local laws;
         d.   A determination that the proposed use would be adequately
floodproofed;
         e.   A determination that a reasonable alternate location outside the
floodplain is not available;
         f.   A determination that the variance requested is the minimum
necessary to afford relief, considering the flood hazard; and
         g.   Approval of the Montana Department of Natural Resources and
Conservation, upon request from the permit issuing authority, prior to formally
approving any permit application that is in variance to these regulations.
      3.   Variances shall be issued in writing from the permit issuing
authority and shall notify the applicant that:
         a.   A specific variance is granted and certain conditions may be
attached;
         b.   The issuance of a variance to construct a building below the 100-
year floodplain elevation will result in increased premium rates; and
         c.   Such construction below the 100-year flood elevation increases
risks to life and property. The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain records
of the variance notification and actions, including justification for their
issuance, and forward copies of all variance actions to the Montana Department
of Natural Resources and Conservation and the Federal Emergency Management
Agency.
   C.   Appeal: Appeal of any decision of the permit issuing authority, its
officers or agencies may be taken by an aggrieved person, jointly or
separately, to a court of record. (Ord. 97-01, 3-24-1997)
14-2-5: FEES:
A processing fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) shall be submitted with each
permit application. (Ord. 97-01, 3-24-1997)
14-2-6: COMPLIANCE; CERTIFICATION REQUIRED:
Any use, arrangement or construction not in compliance as authorized by permit,
shall be deemed a violation of these regulations and punishable as provided in
section
14-2-9 of this chapter. An applicant is required to submit certification by a
registered professional engineer, architect, land surveyor or other qualified
person designated by the Floodplain Administrator that finished fill and lowest
building floor elevations, floodproofing, hydraulic design or other flood
protection measures were accomplished in compliance with these regulations.
(Ord. 97-01, 3-24-1997)
14-2-7: EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS PLANNING:
Disaster and Emergency Services Pre-Mitigation Plan 2013 will serve as the plan
for evacuating residents of all manufactured home parks or subdivisions located
within flood prone areas. (Ord. 2017-02, 6-12-2017)
14-2-8: VIOLATION:
The Floodplain Administrator shall bring any violation of these regulations to
the attention of the City Council, City Attorney, and the Montana Department of
Natural Resources and Conservation. (Ord. 97-01, 3-24-1997; amd. 1999 Code)
14-2-9: PENALTY:
Violations of this title are designated as Municipal infractions as specified
in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-05, 11-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
14-3-1: Definitions
14-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in these regulations
shall be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give these regulations the most reasonable application.
ACT: Montana Flood Plain and Floodway Management Act, 76-5-101 through 76-5-
406, Montana Code Annotated.
ALTERATION: Any change or addition to a structure that either increases its
external dimensions or increases its potential flood hazard.
APPEAL: A request for a review of the Flood Plain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of these regulations or a request for a
variance.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the flood plain within the community
subject to inundation by a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in
any given year, i.e., the 100-year flood plain.
ARTIFICIAL OBSTRUCTION, DEVELOPMENT: Any obstruction which is not natural and
includes any dam, diversion, wall, riprap, embankment, levee, dike, pile,
abutment, projection, revetment, excavation, channel rectification, bridge,
conduit, culvert, building, refuse, automobile body, fill or other analogous
structure or matter in, along, across or projecting into any 100-year flood
plain which may impede, retard or alter the pattern of flow of water, either in
itself or by catching or collecting debris carried by the water or that is
placed where the natural flow of water would carry the same downstream to the
damage or detriment of either life or property.
BASE FLOOD: A flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equalled or
exceeded in any given year. A base flood is the same as a 100-year flood.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The elevation above sea level of the base flood in
relation to the National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929, unless otherwise
specified in the flood hazard study.
CHANNELIZATION PROJECT: The excavation and/or construction of an artificial
channel for the purpose of diverting the entire flow of a stream from its
established course.
ESTABLISH: To construct, place, insert or excavate.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision where the construction of facilities for servicing the manufactured
homes lots is completed before the effective date of the flood plain management
regulations. This includes, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the
construction of streets and either final site grading or the pouring of
concrete pads.
FEMA: The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: The map on which FEMA has delineated both the 100-
year flood plains and the risk premium zones.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The report in which FEMA has provided flood profiles and
the water surface profiles.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry lands from the overflow of a stream or the unusual
and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD PLAIN: The areas subject to these regulations, generally adjoining a
stream, that would be covered by flood water of a base flood, except for
sheetflood areas that receive less than one foot (1') of water per occurrence
and are considered Zone B by FEMA.
LEVEE: A manmade embankment, usually earthen, designed and constructed in
accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control or divert the
flow of water to provide protection from temporary flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system that consists of a levee or levees, and
associated structures, such as drainage and closure devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: Any floor used for living purposes, storage or recreation. This
includes any floor that could be converted to such a use.
MANUFACTURED HOME: As defined by Montana Code Annotated section 76-2-301.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel or contiguous parcels of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: The National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other
datum to which base flood elevations are referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which construction, substantial improvement or
alteration commences on or after the effective date of these regulations.
OFFICIAL FLOOD PLAIN MAPS: The Flood Insurance Rate Maps provided by FEMA for
the City of Forsyth, dated January 16, 1976.
100-YEAR FLOOD: A flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equalled or
exceeded in any given year. A 100-year flood has nearly a twenty three percent
(23%) chance of occurring in a twenty five (25) year period. A 100-year flood
is the same as a base flood.
PERMIT ISSUING AUTHORITY: Forsyth City Council.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is built on a single chassis; four
hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections; designed to be self- propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and designed primarily for use as temporary living quarters for
recreation, camping, travel or seasonal use and not for use a permanent
dwelling.
RIPRAP: Stone, rocks, concrete blocks or analogous material that is placed
along the banks or bed of a stream to alleviate erosion.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Commencement of clearing, grading, filling or excavating
to prepare a site for construction.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, manufactured home, a gas or liquid
storage tank, bridge, culvert, dam, diversion, wall, revetment, dike or other
projection that may impede, retard or alter the pattern or flow of water.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage sustained by a structure where the cost of restoring
the structure to its condition before damage would equal or exceed fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either:
   A.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
   B.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred. For the purposes of this definition, substantial improvement
is considered to occur when the first construction of any wall, ceiling, floor
or other structural part of the building commences. The term does not include:
      1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
State or local Health, Sanitary or Safety Code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      2.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or State Inventory of Historic Places.
SUITABLE FILL: Fill material which is stable, compacted, well graded, pervious,
generally unaffected by water and frost, devoid of trash or similar foreign
matter, devoid of tree stumps or other organic material and is fitting for the
purpose of supporting the intended use and/or permanent structure.
SYSTEM WIDE IMPROVEMENT FRAMEWORK (SWIF): The purpose of this SWIF is to define
the overall plan for performing system wide improvements and correction of
unacceptable deficiencies, including defining what levee system is involved;
what deficiencies and/or system wide improvements are envisioned and how those
improvements optimize flood risk reduction; who are the collaborating agencies
and what is their role in the SWIF process; what regional consideration exist,
if any; interim risk reduction measures that will be implemented, including
alternate inspection standards during SWIF, overall integrated schedule and
milestones for tracing SWIF implementation progress, and in the case of the
system eligible for NFIP accreditation, proof that FEMA has been notified.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of these regulations that
would permit construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by these
regulations.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with these regulations. A structure or other development without
elevation certificate, certification by a licensed engineer or architect of
compliance with these regulations or other evidence of compliance is presumed
to be in violation until such time as documentation is provided. (Ord. 97-01,
3-24-1997; amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 2017-02, 6-12-2017)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
14-4-1: Intent
14-4-2: Statutory Authority
14-4-3: Adoption Of Regulations
14-4-4: Jurisdictional Area
14-4-5: Flood Plain District Establishment
14-4-6: Flood Plain Administrator
14-4-7: Interpretation Of Boundaries; Rules
14-4-8: Compliance; Minimum Requirements
14-4-9: Abrogation And Greater Responsibility
14-4-10: Regulation Interpretation
14-4-11: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
14-4-12: Disclosure Provision
14-4-1: INTENT:
These regulations are passed in order to comply with the Montana Flood Plain
and Floodway Management Act (title 76, chapter 5, Montana Code Annotated) and
to ensure compliance with the requirements for the continued participation by
the City in the National Flood Insurance Program. Land use regulations which
are hereby adopted are to be applied to all identified 100-year flood plains
within local jurisdiction and are included in this Title. (Ord. 97-01, 3-24-
1997; amd. 1999 Code)
14-4-2: STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
Municipalities have authority to adopt ordinances as provided for in section 7-
1-4123, Montana Code Annotated to promote the general public health and
welfare. Other authority for municipalities and counties to adopt flood plain
management regulations appears in sections 76-5-101 through 76-5-406, Montana
Code Annotated. (Ord. 97-01, 3-24-1997)
14-4-3: ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS:
These regulations adopt the set of comprehensive land use regulations included
in this Title for identified 100-year flood plains within the City.
Identification of 100-year flood plains is based on the Flood Hazard Boundary
Map H-01 Flood Insurance Study, dated January 16, 1976. All other resolutions
or ordinances are hereby repealed to the extent of any inconsistencies. (Ord.
97-01, 3-24-1997; amd. 1999 Code)
14-4-4: JURISDICTIONAL AREA:
These regulations shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the City,
shown on the Official Flood Plain Maps, as being located within a 100-year
flood plain district. (Ord. 97-01, 3-24-1997)
14-4-5: FLOOD PLAIN DISTRICT ESTABLISHMENT:
The flood plain districts established are defined by the base flood elevations
and 100-year flood plains as delineated in the Flood Insurance Study. The basis
for the Flood Insurance Study is a scientific and engineering report entitled,
The Flood Insurance Study for the City of Forsyth, Montana, dated March 8,
1974, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps. The Official Flood Plain
Maps, together with the Flood Insurance Study are on file in the office of the
Flood Plain Administrator. (Ord. 97-01, 3-24-1997)
14-4-6: FLOOD PLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The City Flood Plain Administrator has been designated to be the Director of
Public Works. The responsibilities of this position are outlined in Chapter 2
of this Title. (Ord. 97-01, 3-24-1997)
14-4-7: INTERPRETATION OF BOUNDARIES; RULES:
The maps may be used as a guide for determining the 100-year flood plain
boundary, but the exact location of the flood plain boundary shall be
determined where the base flood elevation intersects the natural ground. For
unnumbered A Zones and AO Zone flood plains, where there is a conflict between
a mapped flood plain boundary and actual field conditions, the Flood Plain
Administrator may interpret the location of the 100-year flood plain boundary
based on field conditions or available historical flood information. (Ord. 97-
01, 3-24-1997)
14-4-8: COMPLIANCE; MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
No structure or land use shall be located, extended, converted or structurally
altered without full compliance with the provisions of these regulations and
other applicable regulations. These regulations meet the minimum flood plain
development requirements as set forth by the Montana Board of Natural Resources
and Conservation and the National Flood Insurance Program. (Ord. 97-01, 3-24-
1997)
14-4-9: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESPONSIBILITY:
It is not intended by these regulations to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions or underlying zoning. However,
where these regulations impose greater restrictions, the provisions of these
regulations shall prevail. (Ord. 97-01, 3-24-1997)
14-4-10: REGULATION INTERPRETATION:
The interpretation and application of the provisions of these regulations shall
be considered minimum requirements and liberally construed in favor of the City
Council and not deemed a limitation or repeal of any other powers granted by
State statute. (Ord. 97-01, 3-24-1997)
14-4-11: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
These regulations do not imply that areas outside the delineated flood plain
boundaries or permitted land uses will always be totally free from flooding or
flood damages. These regulations shall not create a liability or cause of
action against City or any officer or employee thereof for flood damages that
may result from reliance upon these regulations. (Ord. 97-01, 3-24-1997)
14-4-12: DISCLOSURE PROVISION:
All owners of property in an identified 100-year flood plain as indicated on
the Official Flood Plain Maps must notify potential buyers or their agents that
such property is subject to the provisions of these regulations. (Ord. 97-01,
3-24-1997)
CHAPTER 5
SPECIFIC STANDARDS
SECTION:
14-5-1: Applicability
14-5-2: 100-Year Flood Plain
14-5-3: Requirement For Additional Hydraulic Data
14-5-4: Shallow Flooding (AO Zones)
14-5-1: APPLICABILITY:
The minimum flood plain development standards listed in this Title apply to the
100-year flood plain as delineated on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps. (Ord. 97-
01, 3-24-1997)
14-5-2: 100-YEAR FLOOD PLAIN:
   A.   Uses Allowed Without Permits: The following open space uses shall be
allowed without a permit within the 100-year flood plain; provided, that such
uses conform to the provisions of Chapter 7 of this Title; are not prohibited
by any other ordinance, resolution or statute; and do not require fill,
excavation, permanent storage of materials or equipment or structures, other
than portable structures:
      1.   Agricultural uses;
      2.   Accessory uses such as loading and parking areas, or emergency
landing strips associated with industrial and commercial facilities;
      3.   Private and public recreational uses such as golf courses, driving
ranges, archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching ramps, parks, wildlife
management and natural areas, game farms, fish hatcheries, shooting preserves,
target ranges, trap and skeet ranges, hunting and fishing areas, and hiking or
horseback riding trails;
      4.   Forestry, including processing of forest products with portable
equipment;
      5.   Residential uses such as lawns, gardens, parking areas and play
areas;
      6.   Irrigation and livestock supply wells; provided, that they are
located at least five hundred feet (500') from domestic water supply wells;
      7.   Fences, except permanent fences crossing channels; and
      8.   Recreational vehicles; provided, that they be on the site for fewer
than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days or be fully licensed and ready
for highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on
its wheels or jacking system with wheels intact, is attached to the site only
by quick disconnect-type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently
attached additions.
      9.   Individual or multiple-family subsurface sewage disposal systems are
allowed only when they are reviewed and approved under laws and regulations
administered by the Department of Health and Environmental Sciences or the
local health board.
   B.   Uses Requiring Permits: The following artificial obstructions and
structures may be permitted in the 100-year flood plain subject to the issuance
of a permit by the Flood Plain Administrator:
      1.   Excavation of material from pits and pools; provided, that:
         a.   A buffer strip of undisturbed land is left between the edge of
the channel and the edge of the excavation. This buffer strip must be of
sufficient width to prevent flood flows from channeling into the excavation;
         b.   The excavation meets all applicable laws and regulations of other
local and State agencies; and
         c.   Excavated material is disposed of or stockpiled outside the flood
plain.
      2.   Railroad, highway and street stream crossings, provided the
crossings are designed to offer minimum obstruction to flood flow. Stream
crossings shall not increase the elevation of the 100-year flood more than one-
half foot (1/2'), nor cause a significant increase in flood velocities.
      3.   Limited filling for highway, street and railroad embankments not
associated with stream crossings; provided, that:
         a.   Reasonable alternate transportation routes outside the designated
flood plain are not available; and
         b.   Such flood plain encroachment is located as far from the stream
channel as possible and shall not result in a cumulative increase in base flood
elevations, after allowable encroachments into the flood plain, exceeding one-
half foot (1/2').
      4.   Buried or suspended utility transmission lines; provided, that:
         a.   Suspended utility transmission lines are designed so the lowest
point of the suspended line is at least six feet (6') higher than the base
flood elevation;
         b.   Towers and other appurtenant structures are designed and placed
to withstand and minimally obstruct flood flows; and
         c.   Utility transmission lines carrying toxic or flammable materials
are buried to a depth of at least twice the calculated maximum depth of scour
for a 100-year flood. The maximum depth of scour shall be determined by
hydraulic engineering methods acceptable to the Flood Plain Administrator.
      5.   Storage of materials and equipment; provided, that:
         a.   The material or equipment is not subject to major damage by
flooding and is properly anchored to prevent flotation or downstream movement;
or
         b.   The material or equipment is readily movable within the limited
time available after flood warning. Storage of flammable, toxic, hazardous or
explosive materials shall not be permitted.
      6.   Domestic water supply wells; provided, that:
         a.   They are driven or drilled wells located on ground higher than
the surrounding ground to assure positive drainage from the well;
         b.   Well casings are watertight to a distance of at least twenty five
feet (25') below the ground surface;
         c.   Water supply and electrical lines have a watertight seal where
the lines enter the casing;
         d.   All pumps, electrical lines and equipment are either submersible
or adequately floodproofed; and
         e.   Check valves are installed on main water lines at wells and at
all building entry locations.
      7.   Buried and sealed vaults for sewage disposal in recreational areas,
provided they meet applicable laws and standards administered by the Montana
Department of Health and Environmental Sciences.
      8.   Public or private campgrounds; provided, that:
         a.   Access roads require only limited fill and do not obstruct or
divert flood waters; and
         b.   Recreational vehicles and travel trailers are licensed and ready
for highway use. They are ready for highway use if on wheels or jacking system
with wheels intact, are attached to the site with only quick disconnect-type
utilities and securing devices and have no permanently attached additions.
      9.   Structures accessory to the uses permitted in this subsection such
as boat docks, marinas, sheds, picnic shelters, tables and toilets; provided,
that:
         a.   The structures are not intended for human habitation;
         b.   The structures will have a low flood damage potential;
         c.   The structures will, insofar as possible, be located on ground
higher than the surrounding ground and as far from the channel as possible;
         d.   The floodproofing standards of Chapter 7 of this Title are met;
and
         e.   The structures will be constructed and placed so as to offer
minimal obstruction to flood flows and are anchored to prevent floatation.
      10.   The new construction, alterations and substantial improvements of
residential structures, including manufactured homes, must be constructed on
suitable fill, such that the lowest floor elevation (including basement) is two
feet (2') or more above the base flood elevation. The suitable fill shall be at
an elevation no lower than the base flood elevation and shall extend for at
least fifteen feet (15'), at that elevation, beyond the structure in all
directions.
      11.   The new construction, alteration and substantial improvement of
commercial and industrial structures can be constructed on suitable fill as
specified in subsection B10 of this Section. If not constructed on fill,
commercial and industrial structures must be adequately floodproofed to an
elevation no lower than two feet (2') above the base flood elevation.
Floodproofing must be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect that the floodproofing methods are adequate to withstand the flood
depths, hydrodynamic and hydrostatic pressures, velocities, impact, buoyancy
and uplift forces associated with the 100-year flood.
         a.   If the structure is designed to allow internal flooding of areas
below the lowest floor, use of this space shall be limited to parking, loading
areas, building access and storage of equipment or materials not appreciably
affected by flood waters. The floors and walls shall be designed and
constructed of materials resistant to flooding to an elevation no lower than
two feet (2') above the base flood elevation. Walls shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic forces by allowing for entry and exit of
flood waters. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, other
coverings or devices which permit the automatic entry and exit of flood waters.
         b.   Structures whose lowest floors are used for a purpose other than
parking, loading or storage of materials resistant to flooding shall be
floodproofed to an elevation no lower than two feet (2') above the base flood
elevation. Floodproofing shall include impermeable membranes or materials for
floors and walls and watertight enclosures for all windows, doors and other
openings. These structures shall also be designed to withstand the hydrostatic,
hydrodynamic and buoyancy effects of a 100-year flood.
         c.   Floodproofing of electrical, heating and plumbing systems shall
be accomplished in accordance with Chapter 7 of this Title.
      12.   All manufactured homes placed in the 100-year flood plain must have
the chassis securely anchored to a foundation system that will resist
floatation, collapse or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but
are not limited to, over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. The following
conditions also apply:
         a.   When a manufactured home is altered, replaced because of
substantial damage as a result of a flood or replaced on an individual site,
the lowest floor must be elevated two feet (2') above the base flood elevation.
The home can be elevated on fill or raised on a permanent foundation of
reinforced concrete, reinforced mortared block, reinforced piers or other
foundation elements of at least equivalent strength.
         b.   Replacement or substantial improvement of manufactured homes in
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be raised on a permanent
foundation. The lowest floor must be two feet (2') above the base flood
elevation. The foundation must consist of reinforced concrete, reinforced
mortared block, reinforced piers or other foundation elements of at least
equivalent strength.
         c.   Manufactured homes proposed for use as commercial or industrial
structures must be elevated and anchored, rather than floodproofed.
      13.   Structures or fill must not be prohibited by any other statute,
regulation, ordinance or resolution.
      14.   Structures or fill must be compatible with local comprehensive
plans.
      15.   Roads, streets, highways and rail lines shall be designed to
minimize increase in flood heights. Where failure or interpretation of
transportation facilities would result in danger to the public health or
safety, the facility shall be located two feet (2') above the base flood
elevation.
      16.   Agricultural structures that have a low damage potential, such as
sheds, barns, shelters and hay or grain storage structures, must be adequately
anchored to prevent floatation or collapse and all electrical facilities shall
be placed above the base flood elevation.
      17.   Recreational vehicles, if they are on the site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) consecutive days or are not ready for highway use, must
meet the elevating requirements of subsection B12 of this Section.
   C.   Permits For Flood Control Works; Conditions: Flood control works shall
be allowed, subject to the issuance of a permit by the Flood Plain
Administrator with the following conditions:
      1.   Levees and floodwalls are permitted if:
         a.   The proposed levee or floodwall is designed and constructed to
safely convey a 100-year flood;
         b.   The cumulative effect of the levee or floodwall combined with
allowable flood plain encroachments does not increase the unobstructed base
flood elevation more than one-half foot (1/2'). The Flood Plain Administrator
may establish either a lower or higher permissible increase in the base flood
elevation for individual levee projects only with concurrence from the Montana
Department of Natural Resources and Conservation and the Federal Emergency
Management Agency based upon consideration of the following criteria:
            (1)   The estimated cumulative effect of any anticipated future
permissible uses; and
            (2)   The type and amount of existing flood-prone development in
the affected area.
         c.   The proposed levee or floodwall, except those to protect
agricultural land, are constructed at least three feet (3') higher than the
base flood elevation.
      2.   Riprap, except that which is hand-placed, if:
         a.   The riprap is designed to withstand a 100-year flood;
         b.   The riprap does not increase the base flood elevation; and
         c.   The riprap will not increase erosion upstream, downstream or
adjacent to the riprap site.
      3.   Channelization projects if they do not significantly increase the
magnitude, velocity or base flood elevation in the proximity of the project.
      4.   Dams; provided, that:
         a.   They are designed and constructed in accordance with the Montana
Dam Safety Act and applicable safety standards; and
         b.   They will not increase flood hazards downstream, either through
operational procedures or improper hydrologic/hydraulic design.
   D.   Permits For Water Diversions: Permits for the establishment of a water
diversion or change in place of diversion shall not be issued if, in the
judgment of the Flood Plain Administrator:
      1.   The proposed diversion will significantly increase the upstream base
flood elevation to the detriment of neighboring property;
      2.   The proposed diversion is not designed and constructed to minimize
potential erosion from a 100-year flood; and
      3.   Any permanent diversion structure crossing the full width of the
stream channel is not designed and constructed to safely withstand a 100-year
flood.
   E.   Prohibited Uses: The following artificial obstructions and
nonconforming uses are prohibited within the 100-year flood plain:
      1.   Solid and hazardous waste disposal; and
      2.   Storage of highly toxic, flammable, hazardous or explosive
materials. Storage of petroleum products may be allowed by permit if stored on
compacted fill at least two feet (2') above the base flood elevation and
anchored to a permanent foundation to prevent downstream movement. (Ord. 97-01,
3-24-1997)
14-5-3: REQUIREMENT FOR ADDITIONAL HYDRAULIC DATA:
   A.   Authority; Included Data: A development proposed for a 100-year flood
plain, where water surface elevations are available, may not significantly
increase flood velocities or depths or generally alter patterns of flood flow.
The Flood Plain Administrator may require a permit applicant to furnish
additional hydraulic data before acting on a permit application. The data may
include, but are not limited to, any of the following:
      1.   A hydraulic study documenting probable effect on upstream,
downstream or adjacent property owners caused by the proposed development; or
      2.   The calculated increase in the 100-year flood water surface profile
caused by the proposed development.
   B.   Modification; Denial: Permits for such proposed development may be
modified or denied if the additional information shows that the proposed use
would cause an additional flood hazard to adjacent property or significantly
increase flood heights. A significant increase in flood heights is one-half
foot (1/2'), unless existing or anticipated development in the area dictates a
lesser amount of allowance increase. (Ord. 97-01, 3-24-1997)
14-5-4: SHALLOW FLOODING (AO ZONES):
   A.   Delineation; Applicable Provisions: Shallow flooding areas are
delineated as AO Zone flood plains on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps. The
provisions of Section
14-5-2 of this Chapter shall apply to any AO Zone flood plains. The depth of
the 100-year flood is indicated as the depth number on the Flood Insurance Rate
Maps. The 100-year flood depth shall be referenced to the highest adjacent
grade or stream flow line in determining which fill or floodproofing heights to
use in applying the provisions of subsections 14-5-2B10 and B11 of this
Chapter. In the absence of depth or elevation information, a minimum two foot
(2') flood depth shall be used.
   B.   Flood Plain Boundary Interpretation: The Flood Plain Administrator
shall make interpretations where needed as to the exact location of an AO Zone
flood plain boundary when there is a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions. (Ord. 97-01, 3-24-1997)
CHAPTER 6
GENERAL STANDARDS
SECTION:
14-6-1: Applicability
14-6-2: Uses Allowed Without Permits
14-6-3: Uses Requiring Permits; Conditions
14-6-4: Prohibited Uses
14-6-5: Boundary Interpretation
14-6-1: APPLICABILITY:
The minimum flood plain development standards listed in this Chapter apply to
the 100-year flood plains delineated by approximate methods and identified as
unnumbered A Zones on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps. (Ord. 97-01, 3-24-1997)
14-6-2: USES ALLOWED WITHOUT PERMITS:
All uses allowed in a 100-year flood plain, according to the provisions of
subsection 14-5-2A of this Title, shall also be allowed without a permit in
unnumbered A Zone flood plains. (Ord. 97-01, 3-24-1997)
14-6-3: USES REQUIRING PERMITS; CONDITIONS:
All uses allowed in the 100-year flood plain, subject to the issuance of a
permit, according to the provisions of subsection 14-5-2B of this Title, shall
require permits from the Flood Plain Administrator for unnumbered A Zone flood
plains. Since there are no 100-year flood water surface profiles computed for A
Zone flood plains, the following conditions also apply:
   A.   Elevation Data: Elevation data on the 100-year flood shall be provided
for subdivision proposals according to the definitions and rules of the Montana
Sanitation in Subdivisions Act, Montana Code Annotated, title 76, chapter 4,
part 1 and the rules adopted by DHES under this Act. This data shall be used in
applying subsection 14-5-2B of this Title. Subdivision proposals shall also
provide for adequate drainage to minimize potential flood hazards;
   B.   Data Available From Other Agencies: The Flood Plain Administrator may
obtain, review and reasonably use any base flood elevation and floodway data
available from Federal, State or other sources, until such data has been
provided by FEMA, to enforce subsections 14-5-2B10 and B11 of this Title;
   C.   Historical Flood Elevations: The Flood Plain Administrator may use
historical flood elevations to determine suitable fill or floodproofing
elevations as required by subsections 14-5-2B10 and B11 of this Title;
   D.   Field Review For Fill Or Elevation: If historical flood evidence is not
available, then the Flood Plain Administrator shall determine, from a field
review at the proposed development site, an appropriate fill or floodproofing
elevation to use in applying subsections 14-5-2B10 and B11 of this Title. In
the absence of depth or elevation information, a minimum two foot (2') flood
depth shall be used; and
   E.   Anchoring: Proposed structures must be anchored to prevent floatation
or collapse and must be located as far from stream channels as practicable.
(Ord. 97-01, 3-24-1997)
14-6-4: PROHIBITED USES:
Those uses prohibited in the 100-year flood plain, in accordance with
subsection 14-5-2E of this Title, shall also be prohibited within the A Zone
flood plain boundaries. (Ord. 97-01, 3-24-1997)
14-6-5: BOUNDARY INTERPRETATION:
The Flood Plain Administrator shall make interpretations where needed as to the
exact location of the unnumbered A Zone flood plain boundary when there is a
conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions. (Ord. 97-01, 3-
24-1997)
CHAPTER 7
FLOODPROOFING REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
14-7-1: Certification
14-7-2: Conformance
14-7-3: Electrical Systems
14-7-4: Heating Systems
14-7-5: Plumbing Systems
14-7-1: CERTIFICATION:
If the following floodproofing requirements are to be applied to a proposed
structure, as stipulated by the Flood Plain Administrator in accordance with
these regulations, the methods used must be certified as adequate by a
registered professional engineer or architect. (Ord. 97-01, 3-24-1997)
14-7-2: CONFORMANCE:
Permitted floodproof systems shall conform to the conditions listed below and
the floodproofing standards listed in subsection 14-5-2B11 of this Title for
commercial and industrial structures. (Ord. 97-01, 3-24-1997)
14-7-3: ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   Location Of Incoming Power Equipment: All incoming power service
equipment, including all metering equipment, control centers, transformers,
distribution and lighting panels, and all other stationary equipment must be
located at least two feet (2') above the base flood elevation.
   B.   Placement Below Base Flood Elevation; Conditions: Portable or movable
electrical equipment may be placed below the base flood elevation, if the
equipment can be disconnected by a single submersible plug-and-socket assembly.
   C.   Disconnect Equipment; Location: The main power service line shall have
automatic or manually operated electrical disconnect equipment located at an
accessible location outside the 100-year flood plain and above the base flood
elevation.
   D.   Installation Below Elevation: All electrical wiring systems installed
at or below the elevation of the 100-year flood shall be suitable for
continuous submergence and may not contain fibrous components. (Ord. 97-01, 3-
24-1997)
14-7-4: HEATING SYSTEMS:
   A.   Control Valves: Float operated automatic control valves must be
installed in gas furnace supply lines so that the fuel supply is automatically
shut off when flood waters reach the floor level where the furnace is located.
   B.   Gate Valves: Manually operated gate valves must be installed in gas
supply lines. The gate valves must be operable from a location above the
elevation of the 100-year flood.
   C.   Installation Of Electric Systems: Electric heating systems must be
installed in accordance with those provisions of Section
14-7-3 of this Chapter. (Ord. 97-01, 3-24-1997)
14-7-5: PLUMBING SYSTEMS:
   A.   Sewer Lines: Sewer lines, except those to be buried and sealed in
vaults, must have check valves installed to prevent sewage backup into
permitted structures.
   B.   Drains: All toilet stools, sinks, urinals and drains must be located so
the lowest point of possible water entry is at least two feet (2') above the
elevation of the 100-year flood. (Ord. 97-01, 3-24-1997)
