CITY OF GLENDIVE, MONTANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 03-2025, passed 2-18-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title
   
10.02   Acceptance
   
10.03   Amendments
   
10.04   Code alterations
   
10.05   Repeal of general ordinances
   
10.06   Public ways and public utility ordinances
   
10.07   Court proceedings
   
10.08   Severability clause
   
10.09   Construction of words
   
10.10   Definitions, general
   
10.11   Catchlines
   
10.12   Application of provisions
   
10.13   Liability of officers
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE.
   Upon the adoption by the Council, this city code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Glendive, Montana.
This city code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the Glendive City Code
and is hereby published by authority of the Council and shall be supplemented
to incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in §
10.03. Any reference to the number of any section contained herein shall be
understood to refer to the position of the same number, its appropriate chapter
and title heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto, as well
as to the section itself, when reference is made to this city code by title in
any legal documents.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-1)
§ 10.02 ACCEPTANCE.
   The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in §
10.05.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-2)
§ 10.03 AMENDMENTS.
   Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement that no
ordinance or any section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance sets forth the revised ordinance or amended section in full. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and such ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in its
proper place in each copy of this city code. Each such replacement page shall
be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the
city code.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-3)
§ 10.04 CODE ALTERATIONS.
   It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or
deface in any way any section or any page of this city code in such a manner
that the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement
pages may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized
by the Council. The Administrative Clerk shall see that the replacement pages
are properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the
Administrative Clerk. Any person having custody of a copy of the city code
shall make every effort to maintain said code current as to the most recent
ordinances passed. Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or
replacement pages when such are delivered or made available to such person
through the office of the Administrative Clerk. Such code books, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the city and shall be returned to the office of the
Administrative Clerk when directed so to do by order of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.05 REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES.
   All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this city
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this city code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections) and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-1)
§ 10.06 PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public
ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities,
shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by virtue of
the preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case, this city code shall be considered as amending
such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-2)
§ 10.07 COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Prior acts.
      (1)   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable.
      (2)   If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   (B)   Extend to all repeals. This section shall extend to all repeals,
either by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance
making any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   (C)   Currently pending actions. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this city code.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-3)
§ 10.08 SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
   If any section, division, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this city code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The Council hereby
declares that it would have passed each section, division, subdivision,
paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any
one or more sections, divisions, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses
or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-4)
§ 10.09 CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS.
   (A)   Whenever any word in any section of this city code importing the
plural number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or
persons, any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included,
although distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter,
party or person is referred to in this city code by words importing the
singular number only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or
persons and the opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be
included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied to
any section of this city code which contains any express provision excluding
such construction or where the subject matter or context may be repugnant
thereto.
   (B)   The word “ordinance” contained in the ordinances of the city has been
changed in the content of this city code to “title,” “chapter,” “section” and/
or “division” or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city’s ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-1)
§ 10.10 DEFINITIONS, GENERAL.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
   BOND. When a bond is required, an undertaking in writing shall be
sufficient.
   CITY. The City of Glendive, in the County of Dawson and State of Montana,
except as otherwise provided.
   CODE. The words THE CODE or THIS CODE shall mean “the code of the City of
Glendive, Montana.”
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; and if the last day
is Sunday or a legal holiday, such shall be excluded.
   COUNCIL. Unless otherwise indicated, the City Council of the City of
Glendive.
   COUNTY. The County of Dawson, State of Montana.
   EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
City of Glendive.”
   FISCAL YEAR. Starting July 1 and ending June 30 of the following year.
   GENDER. A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
persons or officers.
   KEEPER and PROPRIETOR. Persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and
copartnerships, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent or employee
of same.
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   M.C.A. Abbreviation for Montana Code Annotated.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR and CITY COUNCIL. The Mayor and the City Council of the City of
Glendive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL. The City of Glendive.
   NUISANCE. Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or
any act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
   OATH. The word OATH shall be construed to include an affirmation or
declaration in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted
for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be equivalent to
the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE. Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OFFICERS, DEPARTMENTS AND THE LIKE. Officers, departments, boards,
commissions and employees referred to in this code shall mean officers,
departments, boards, commissions and employees of the City of Glendive, unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER. As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON. Any natural person, firm, association, joint venture, joint stock
company, partnership, organization, club, fraternal organization, company,
corporation, business, trust or their manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer
or employee or any of them.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
   PRECEDING, FOLLOWING. The next before and next after, respectively.
   PREMISES. A lot or parcel of land, together with the portion of any street,
avenue, or alley lying between such lot or parcel of land and the center of
such street, avenue or alley.
   PUBLIC THOROUGHFARE. Includes streets, alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards,
public ways, public squares, public places and sidewalks.
   REAL ESTATE. Real property shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   RETAILER. Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the
consumer.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write, his
or her name being written near it and witnessed by a person who writes his or
her own name as a witness.
   STATE. The State of Montana.
   STREET. Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks within the city.
   TENANT, OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land shall include any person who
occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   WHOLESALER. The terms WHOLESALER and WHOLESALE DEALER, as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING. May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person’s proper mark.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise so indicated.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2)
§ 10.11 CATCHLINES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-3)
§ 10.12 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Application of penalty provisions.
      (1)   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this city code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section.
      (2)   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this city code and there
shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply.
   (B)   One recovery for same offense. In all cases where the same offense is
made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this city
code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more
than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense;
provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a
recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
§ 10.13 LIABILITY OF OFFICERS.
   No provision of this city code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the City Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-3)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Misdemeanor. Whenever in any provision of this code or other ordinance
of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful, a
misdemeanor or an offense, or whenever in any such provision or ordinance the
doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful, where no specific penalty is otherwise provided therefor, any person
upon conviction for the violation of any such provision of this code or
ordinances shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 or by imprisonment
not to exceed six months, or both such fine and imprisonment, for each such
offense. Each day any violation of any provision of any ordinance shall
continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Construction; interpretation. In the construction and interpretation
of this section, the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered
as a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see M.C.A. §§ 7-5-109 and 7-5-4207
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Wards
§ 11.01 WARDS.
   (A)   First Ward. All the portion of the city lying northwesterly of the
centerline of the Burlington Northern Company’s right-of-way and south of Clay
Street.
   (B)   Second Ward. All the portion of the city lying southeasterly of the
centerline of the Burlington Northern Railroad Company’s right-of-way and south
of Mann Street.
   (C)   Third Ward. All the portion of the city lying northerly of Clay
Street, from the Yellowstone River to the easterly city limits.
   (D)   Fourth Ward. All the portion of the city lying southeasterly of the
centerline of the Burlington Northern Railroad Company’s right-of-way and south
of Allen Street and north of Mann Street to the easterly city limits.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-1) (Ord. 01-2017, passed 3-7-2017)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   CITY COURT
      
33.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   ELECTIONS
      
35.   LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
      
36.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
Mayor
   
30.01   Qualifications
   
30.02   Term of office
   
30.03   Duties
   
30.04   Powers
City Council
   
30.15   Election
   
30.16   Compensation
   
30.17   Qualifications of City Council members
   
30.18   Vacancies
   
30.19   President
   
30.20   Meetings
   
30.21   Standing committees
   
30.22   Special committees
   
30.23   Duties of committees
   
30.24   Order of business
   
30.25   Voting; majority elects
   
30.26   Rules
   
30.27   General powers
   
30.28   Contracts
MAYOR
§ 30.01 QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   No person is eligible for the office of the Mayor unless he or she:
      (1)   Is at least 21 years old;
      (2)   Has been a resident of the state for at least three years; and
      (3)   Has been a resident for at least two years preceding the election
to office of the city or an area which has been annexed by the city.
   (B)   The office of Mayor is considered vacant if the individual elected as
Mayor ceases to be a resident of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1)
§ 30.02 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Mayor shall hold office for a term of four years and until the
qualification of his or her successor.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-2)
§ 30.03 DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall devote so much of his or her time to the duties of his or
her office as an efficient and faithful discharge thereof may require. He or
she shall, from time to time, give the Council such information and recommend
such measures as he or she may deem beneficial to the city; he or she shall
examine the grounds of all complaints against any of the officers of the city
to determine existence of a violation or neglect of duty, and report the
evidence thereof, if deemed sufficient for the removal of said officer, to the
Council. He or she shall require that every officer, on the expiration of his
or her term of office or resignation or removal from the same, deliver to his
or her successor all monies, books and other material and appurtenances
belonging to such office. He or she shall perform all other duties imposed by
state law upon such office.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-3)
§ 30.04 POWERS.
   The Mayor is the chief executive officer of the city and has the power to:
   (A)   Nonelective officers.
      (1)   Nominate and appoint. Nominate and, with the consent of the
Council, appoint all nonelective officers of the city, except as provided for
in M.C.A. Title 7; and
      (2)   Suspend or remove. Suspend and, with the consent of the Council,
remove any nonelective officer, stating in the suspension or removal the cause
thereof.
   (B)   Supervise subordinate officers. Supervise the discharge of official
duty by all subordinate officers;
   (C)   Require exhibit of books. Require any of the officers of the city to
exhibit such officer’s books and papers;
   (D)   Request aid. Request that the Governor call out the militia to aid in
suppressing riots or other disorderly conduct, preventing and extinguishing
fires, securing the peace and safety of the city or carrying into effect any
law or ordinance;
   (E)   Grant pardons. Grant pardons and remit fines and forfeitures for
offenses against city ordinances when in the Mayor’s judgment public justice
would be thereby subserved. The Mayor must report all pardons granted, with the
reasons therefor, to the next regular meeting of the Council;
   (F)   Enforce health and quarantine ordinances. Exercise such power as may
be vested in the Mayor by ordinance of the city, in and over all places within
five miles of the boundaries of the city for the purpose of enforcing the
health and quarantine ordinances and regulations thereof;
   (G)   Execute documents. Sign his or her name officially for and in behalf
of the city on all contracts, including deeds, bills, notes, obligations and
other agreements, documents and papers, to which the city is a party, and to
require that the conditions in said instruments are faithfully performed;
   (H)   Approve ordinances and documents. Approve all ordinances and
resolutions of the Council adopted by it and, in case the same do not meet his
or her approbation, to return the same to the next regular meeting of the
Council with his or her objections in writing. No ordinance or resolution so
vetoed by the Mayor shall go into effect unless the same be afterwards passed
by two-thirds vote of the whole number of Council members;
   (I)   Prepare budget. Prepare the budget in consultation with the Council
and department heads;
   (J)   Supervise departments. Exercise control and supervision of all
departments and boards to the degree authorized by ordinance of the Council;
   (K)   Call special meetings. Call special meetings of the Council. The Mayor
must state, by message, the object of the meeting, and the business of the
meeting must be restricted to the object stated;
   (L)   Preside at meetings; voting. Preside at meetings and decide all tie
votes of the Council but shall have no other vote; and
   (M)   Other duties. Exercise any other powers granted to a Mayor under state
law.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-4)
Statutory reference:
   For statute authority, see M.C.A. §§ 7-3-4101, 7-3-4102, 7-4-4303, 7-4-4305,
7-4-4306, 7-5-4122, 7-5-4205 and 7-5-4206
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.15 ELECTION.
   At each biennial municipal election, there shall be elected one City Council
member from the First Ward, one City Council member from the Second Ward, one
City Council member from the Third Ward and one City Council member from the
Fourth Ward.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-1)
§ 30.16 COMPENSATION.
   The compensation and/or salary for the position of City Council member shall
be set and established annually by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-2)
§ 30.17 QUALIFICATIONS OF CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   No person is eligible for the office of City Council member unless he or she
has been a resident of the city for at least 60 days preceding the election of
the office of the Ward electing him or her or of an area which has been annexed
by the city and placed in the word.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-3)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see M.C.A. § 7-4-4401
§ 30.18 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Nomination; election. When a vacancy occurs in an elective office,
this position shall be considered open and subject to nomination and election
at the next general municipal election in the same manner as the election of
any other person holding the same office, except the term of office shall be
limited to the unexpired term of the person who originally created the vacancy.
   (B)   Interim appointment. Pending such election and qualification, the
Council, by a majority vote of the members, shall appoint a person within 30
days of the vacancy to hold the office until his or her successor is elected
and qualified.
   (C)   Ward. A vacancy in the office of a City Council member must be filled
from the Ward in which the vacancy exists.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see M.C.A. § 7-4-4112
§ 30.19 PRESIDENT.
   The City Council may elect a President, who, in the absence of the Mayor, is
the presiding officer and may perform the duties of the Mayor. In the absence
of the President, the Council may appoint one of its number to act in his or
her place.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-5)
§ 30.20 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. The City Council shall hold a regular meeting for
the transaction of city business on the first Tuesday and on the third Tuesday
in each month, and such other meetings to which the City Council, by order, may
adjourn. If any regular meeting date falls on a holiday, such meeting shall be
held either the day preceding or the day following such holiday, at the
direction of the Mayor.
   (B)   Special meetings. Special meetings of the City Council may be called
by the Mayor, or at the request, in writing, signed by two members of the City
Council, at any time by including the date, time, place and object of the
meeting on the Council agenda or by having the Administrative Clerk give
reasonable notice, in writing, to all members of the City Council present in
the city, and to the Mayor when not called by him or her, of such special
meetings. The business of the special meeting must be restricted to the object
stated.
   (C)   Hour of meeting. The City Council shall convene and be called to order
by the Mayor, or in his or her absence by the President of the City Council,
and in the absence of both the Mayor and the President of the City Council, by
the senior Council person at 7:00 p.m. on the days designated for each meeting,
unless otherwise ordered. The Administrative Clerk or Finance Clerk/Treasurer
shall call the roll and record in the minutes the names of all members present.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-6)
§ 30.21 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   At the first regular meeting for the Council following their election, the
Mayor shall appoint committee members of the Council for the ensuing term for
the following committees:
   (A)   Finance, utilities, police/fire, parks and recreation;
   (B)   Streets;
   (C)   Personnel (wage and labor); and
   (D)   Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-7)
§ 30.22 SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   The Mayor may appoint such special committees as deemed necessary for the
efficient operation of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-8)
§ 30.23 DUTIES OF COMMITTEES.
   Each committee shall have referred to it all matters relating to its area of
specialization, and such committee shall investigate and report from time to
time all matters within its area as directed by the Council or the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-9)
§ 30.24 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   At all meetings of the Council, the order of business shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Pledge of Allegiance;
      (3)   Roll call;
      (4)   Minutes, approving and correcting minutes of last regular meeting
and minutes of special meetings;
      (5)   Old business;
      (6)   Public comment, limited to three timed minutes;
      (7)   New business;
      (8)   Reports; and
      (9)   Mayor’s comments.
   (B)   The Mayor may change the order of business.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-10) (Ord. 03-2024, passed 10-1-2024)
§ 30.25 VOTING; MAJORITY ELECTS.
   The ayes and nays must be called and recorded on the final passage of any
ordinance, bylaw or resolution or making of any contract and the voting on the
election or appointment of any officer must be viva voce and the majority of
the whole number of members elected is requisite to appoint or elect an
officer, and such vote must be recorded.
(M.C.A. § 7-5-4121(2)) (Prior Code, § 1-6-11)
§ 30.26 RULES.
   The Council may determine the rules of procedure for its proceedings, punish
its members for improper conduct and expel any member for the same by a two-
thirds vote of the members elected, and must cause to be kept a journal of the
proceedings, which must be open to inspection.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-12)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see M.C.A. § 7-5-4101
§ 30.27 GENERAL POWERS.
   The City Council has the power to make and pass all bylaws, ordinances,
orders and resolutions, not repugnant to the constitution of the United States
or of the state, or of the provisions of state law, necessary for the
government or management of the affairs of the city, for the execution of the
powers vested in the body corporate, and for carrying into effect the
provisions of M.C.A. Title 7, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-13)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see M.C.A. § 7-5-4101
§ 30.28 CONTRACTS.
   The City Council has the power to make any and all contracts necessary to
carry into effect the powers granted by state law, and to provide for the
manner of executing the same.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-14)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
31.01   Governed by statute
   
31.02   Enumerated
   
31.03   Residency preference and response time
   
31.04   Compensation
   
31.05   Bonds
§ 31.01 GOVERNED BY STATUTE.
   City elective or appointed officers are governed by the state statutes
relative to those positions.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-1) (Ord. 42-85, passed 2-16-1993)
§ 31.02 ENUMERATED.
   City officers consist of the Mayor, City Council member, city judge, City
Attorney (contracted), Director of Operations, City Administrative Clerk, City
Finance Clerk-Treasurer, Police Chief, assistant Police Chief, Fire Chief,
Director of Public Works, assistant Director of Public Works and Recreation
Department Director.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-2) (Ord. 42-85, passed 2-16-1993)
§ 31.03 RESIDENCY PREFERENCE AND RESPONSE TIME.
   (A)   Residency preference. When two or more persons applying for a position
of employment with the city shall have similar or equal qualifications for such
position, preference shall be afforded to such applicant who resides within the
city.
   (B)   Response time. In the event that any department in the city, and
specifically the Fire Department and Ambulance Department, deems time of the
essence in responding to calls to duty, the department head shall, with Council
approval, set such response time as is deemed necessary and make such a timely
response a requisite qualification to the hiring of such applicant.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-3) (Ord. 42-85, passed 2-16-1993)
§ 31.04 COMPENSATION.
   The salaries of the officers and employees of the city shall be as
determined from time to time by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-4)
§ 31.05 BONDS.
   Any or all city officers and employees shall be included in a blanket bond
for all officers of the city, for the faithful performance of their duties;
said bond to be executed by a duly authorized surety company, the premiums
thereon to be paid by the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-5)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COURT
Section
   
32.01   Session
   
32.02   City judge; powers and duties
   
32.03   Procedures
   
32.04   Complaints
   
32.05   Warrants
   
32.06   Jurisdiction of traffic violations by minors
   
32.07   Contempt of court
§ 32.01 SESSION.
   The city court shall have at least one session daily, Saturday, Sunday and
legal holidays excepted, commencing at such hour as the judge thereof may
designate.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-1)
§ 32.02 CITY JUDGE; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Keep docket. The judge of the city court shall keep a docket in like
manner as required by the laws of the state to be kept by justices of the
peace.
   (B)   Hear and determine suits, actions and prosecutions. The city judge
shall hear and determine all suits, actions and prosecutions instituted in the
city court before him or her under and by virtue of this code and any other
ordinances of the city. City courts do not have jurisdiction in civil actions
that might result in a judgment against the state for the payment of money.
   (C)   Fines. The city judge shall pay all fines received for the violation
thereof to the Finance Clerk-Treasurer, monthly, or more often if required. The
city judge shall provide a copy of the monthly bank statement to the Mayor.
   (D)   Report. The judge of the city court shall present to the City Council
a report monthly, in writing, giving a statement of cases tried for offenses
against this code or any other ordinances of the city, and fines and costs
collected during the preceding calendar month, which report shall be
accompanied by a receipt from the Finance Clerk-Treasurer for the amount of
such fines and costs.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-2)
Statutory reference:
   Exceptions to civil jurisdiction, see M.C.A. § 3-11-104
§ 32.03 PROCEDURES.
   All proceedings in the city court shall be conducted in the same manner as
are trials in criminal cases before the justice of the peace under the laws of
the state, and all persons tried before the city court shall have the same
remedies and right of appeal as are prescribed by the law in criminal cases
before the justices of the peace. The judge of the city court shall have the
same right and authority to punish for contempt and maintain order in his or
her court that justices of the peace have, but nothing in this section shall be
construed as allowing any party a change of venue in case of a violation of
this code or any other ordinance of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-3)
§ 32.04 COMPLAINTS.
   Action for the violation of this code or any other ordinances of the city
shall be commenced in the following manner: In all cases the complaint shall be
filed and verified by the party making the same, which shall contain the name
of the party to be arrested, if known, and if not known the complaint shall
also contain a brief statement of acts constituting the offense for which the
person is arrested, with the date of the offense, if known, and the reference
to the section of this code or of the state’s annotated code violated, which
reference shall be by number and title.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-4)
§ 32.05 WARRANTS.
   (A)   Issuance. Upon the filing of a complaint with the city court, the
judge thereof shall, if the complaint charges a violation of this code or any
other ordinance of the city, or any section of state law, issue a warrant
directed to the Chief of Police or any other police officer.
   (B)   Service. Any police officer shall serve the warrant by taking the
defendant into custody and bringing him or her before the judge of the city
court.
   (C)   Return of service. The officer making the arrest shall make due return
thereof on his or her warrant.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-5)
§ 32.06 JURISDICTION OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BY MINORS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is self-propelled and in, upon or by
which any person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon the
streets, avenues, alleys and highways within the city, except devices moved by
human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   (B)   Original jurisdiction. The city court is hereby vested with original
jurisdiction in all proceedings concerning the unlawful operation of motor
vehicles by children under the age of 18 years.
   (C)   Violation; issuance of summons. Whenever any child under the age of 18
years shall unlawfully operate a motor vehicle in the presence of any officer
of the Police Department, such officer may deliver to such child a form of
summons describing the nature of the offense, with instructions thereon to
report to the city court with parent or legal guardians, and the court shall be
informed thereof by delivery of a copy of such summons to the judge of the city
court.
   (D)   Powers of court. Whenever, after a hearing before the city court, it
shall be found that a child under the age of 18 years has unlawfully operated a
motor vehicle, the city court may do the following:
      (1)   Imposition of fine. Impose a fine, as provided in state law;
provided, that such child shall not be imprisoned for failure to pay such fine;
      (2)   Revocation of license. Revoke the driver’s license of such child or
suspend the same for such time as may be fixed by the court; and/or
      (3)   Impoundment of vehicle. Order any motor vehicle owned or operated
by such child to be impounded by the probation officer for such time, not
exceeding 60 days, as shall be fixed by the court.
   (E)   Operation without consent. If the court shall find that the operation
of such motor vehicle was without the consent of the owner, then such vehicle
shall not be impounded.
   (F)   Operation with consent. Upon nonpayment of any fine provided for in
this section, the court may order that any motor vehicle owned by such child or
operated by such child with the consent of the owner shall be impounded until
the fine is paid, may order that the driver’s license of such child be taken up
and held by the probation officer until payment of such fine, or may cause both
such motor vehicle and such driver’s license to be taken up and impounded until
such fine is paid.
   (G)   Failure to pay fine. No child shall be committed to or held in any
detention facility or jail by reason of nonpayment of such fine.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.07 CONTEMPT OF COURT.
   The following acts or omissions, in respect to the city court or proceedings
therein, are in contempt of the authority of the court:
   (A)   Disorderly conduct towards judge. Disorderly, contemptuous or insolent
behavior toward the judge while holding court, tending to interrupt the due
course of a trial;
   (B)   Interrupt trial. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct or violent
disturbance tending to interrupt the due course of a trial;
   (C)   Failure to appear. Failure of any person, without good cause shown, to
appear and attend court at the time set for hearing of a complaint signed by
such person;
   (D)   Interference. Any unlawful interference with the process or
proceedings of the court;
   (E)   Disobedience to subpoena. Disobedience to a subpoena duly served, or
refusing to be or answer as a witness; and
   (F)   Unlawfully detaining witness. Unlawfully detaining a witness while
going to, remaining at or returning from court.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-7)
CHAPTER 33: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
33.01   Planning Board
   
33.02   Police Commission
§ 33.01 PLANNING BOARD.
   (A)   Authorized. The County Planning Board is authorized to exercise its
powers in the city pursuant to and under the provisions of M.C.A. Title 76.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1)
   (B)   Powers and duties. The County Planning Board shall possess and have
all powers and authority granted by the provisions of M.C.A. Title 76 and shall
perform all duties required thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-2)
   (C)   Bylaws. The County Planning Board shall possess the powers and be
governed by the provisions of its adopted bylaws and shall abide by all
provisions thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-3)
§ 33.02 POLICE COMMISSION.
   (A)   Created; appointment. The Mayor shall nominate and with the consent of
the City Council appoint three residents of the city, who shall have the
qualifications required by law to hold a municipal office, who shall constitute
a board to be known as the Police Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-1)
   (B)   Terms of office. The members of the Police Commission shall hold
office for three years. One member shall be appointed annually at the first
regular meeting of the City Council in May of each year.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2)
CHAPTER 34: ELECTIONS
Section
   
34.01   Notice of elections
   
34.02   Precincts
§ 34.01 NOTICE OF ELECTIONS.
   Notice of every election held in the city shall be prepared as per state
law.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-1)
§ 34.02 PRECINCTS.
   The city shall be divided into precincts for the purpose of elections,
whether annual or special, as follows.
   (A)   Precinct 1 shall consist of the First Ward.
   (B)   Precinct 2 shall consist of the Second Ward.
   (C)   Precinct 3 shall consist of the Third Ward.
   (D)   Precinct 4 shall consist of the Fourth Ward.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-2)
CHAPTER 35: LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Emergency Management
   
35.01   Plan approved
   
35.02   Power and duties of Mayor in emergencies
Fire Department
   
35.15   Composition
   
35.16   Appointments; terms of office
   
35.17   Qualifications
   
35.18   Compensation
   
35.19   Suspension; removal
   
35.20   Powers and duties
   
35.21   Use of intoxicating beverages
   
35.22   Gambling on premises
Police Department
   
35.35   Governing law
   
35.36   Arrests outside city limits
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 35.01 PLAN APPROVED.
   (A)   The county and city disaster and emergency services plan is hereby
approved. This plan provided for an integrated city-county organization for
disaster and emergency services and for operation during periods of emergency
and thereby constitutes the most effective and efficient means of meeting the
disaster and emergency services needs of the city and its citizens, by making
maximum use of the existing agencies and capabilities of local government
within the county, supported by volunteers and nongovernmental personnel and
resources, to prevent or minimize loss of life and property that could be
caused by enemy attack or other catastrophe or disaster affecting the city.
   (B)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to approve such revisions of said
disaster and emergency services plan as may be reasonably necessary to meet the
disaster and emergency services needs of the city and its citizens.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-1)
§ 35.02 POWER AND DUTIES OF MAYOR IN EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   The Mayor of the city and the Board of County Commissioners shall,
during periods of emergency caused by enemy attack or other catastrophe or
disaster affecting the city, jointly direct and control the operations of the
city-county organization for disaster and emergency services established in
said disaster and emergency services plan.
   (B)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to take, during such
periods of emergency, such actions as are reasonably necessary to prevent or
minimize loss of life or property, in cooperation with said Board of County
Commissioners and the Disaster and Emergency Services Director of the county.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-2)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.15 COMPOSITION.
   The Fire Department of the city shall consist of a Chief of the Fire
Department, an assistant Chief and such number of paid and part paid
firefighters as the City Council may from time to time provide.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1)
§ 35.16 APPOINTMENTS; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Appointment. The Mayor shall nominate and, by and with the consent of
the City Council, appoint the Chief of the Fire Department, the assistant Chief
of the Fire Department and all paid and part paid firefighters.
   (B)   Probationary term. Such appointments shall first be made for a
probationary term of one year.
   (C)   Term. Thereafter, the Mayor may nominate and, with the consent of the
City Council, appoint such Chief and assistant Chief of the Fire Department and
firefighters, who shall hold their appointment during good behavior and while
they have the physical ability to perform their duties.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2)
§ 35.17 QUALIFICATIONS.
   Firefighters shall pass a physical examination by a licensed physician duly
authorized to practice in the state. The results of such examinations shall be
in writing and filed with the Fire Department. Such examinations shall disclose
the ability of the applicant to perform the physical work usually required of
firefighters in the performance of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3) (Ord. 06-2009, passed 6-2-2009)
§ 35.18 COMPENSATION.
   The salary and compensation of the Fire Chief, assistant Fire Chief and
firefighters shall be fixed from time to time, by resolution or motion of the
City Council, and such salary and compensation shall be paid monthly by
warrants drawn upon the City Treasury.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4)
§ 35.19 SUSPENSION; REMOVAL.
   (A)   Suspension. The Mayor may suspend the Fire Chief, assistant Fire Chief
or any firefighters of the Fire Department for neglect of duty or violation of
any of the rules and regulations of the Fire Department.
   (B)   Notice of suspension. The Mayor and/or Fire Chief shall follow M.C.A.
§ 7-33-4124 for all suspensions.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5)
§ 35.20 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Fire Chief of the Fire Department shall have sole control over all
persons connected with the Fire Department of the city and shall possess full
power and authority over its organization, government and discipline and to
that end from time to time shall establish such disciplinary rules and
regulations as he or she may deem advisable, subject to the approval of the
City Council. He or she shall have charge of, and be responsible for, all
property or apparatus connected with the Fire Department, and see that at all
times they are ready for their intended use.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6)
§ 35.21 USE OF INTOXICATING BEVERAGES.
   No intoxicating beverages shall be brought into any house or premises of the
Fire Department, and any member who while on duty or when about the premises of
the Fire Department is intoxicated, or absent from duty because of
intoxication, shall be discharged.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-7)
§ 35.22 GAMBLING ON PREMISES.
   No gambling shall be allowed in any building occupied by the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-8)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.35 GOVERNING LAW.
   The Police Department of the city shall be governed by the metropolitan
police law as set forth in state law.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1)
§ 35.36 ARRESTS OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   The police of the city are authorized and this section does authorize and
empower the police to make arrests of persons charged with crimes or violations
of city ordinances within the limits of the city and within five miles thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1)
CHAPTER 36: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
   
36.01   Property safety water supply service charge
   
36.02   Capital Improvement Fund
§ 36.01 PROPERTY SAFETY WATER SUPPLY SERVICE CHARGE.
   In order that the city may provide water hydrant services for fire
protection, the City Council shall annually fix, levy and assess a water supply
charge upon all of the real property in the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-1)
§ 36.02 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Established. There are hereby established capital improvement programs
for the city.
   (B)   Funding objectives and goals. It shall be the duty of the City Council
to set the yearly funding objectives and capital improvement goals in
conjunction with the establishment of the annual budget.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-2) (Ord. 14-85, passed 5-18-1987)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
51.   SEWER AND WATER SYSTEMS
      
52.   WATER REGULATIONS
      
53.   PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
Regulation and Fees
   
50.001   Residential garbage fees
   
50.002   Residential-commercial combination garbage fees
   
50.003   Business, commercial and other nonresidential fees
   
50.004   Types of businesses
   
50.005   Commercial rate
   
50.006   Residential adjustments
   
50.007   Director of Public Works determination
   
50.008   Removal of bulky items
   
50.009   Certain matter not to be placed in receptacles
   
50.010   Unauthorized use of receptacles; duty of owner or occupant to remove
refuse from adjacent right-of-way
   
50.011   Owner/occupant responsibility
   
50.012   Unusual locations, types and accumulations
   
50.013   Simultaneous service
   
50.014   Parking interfering with containers
   
50.015   Damaging containers provided for refuse collections
   
50.016   Doors and lids to be kept closed
   
50.017   City to provide sufficient containers
   
50.018   Removal of containers from rights-of-way
   
50.019   Responsibility for containers and area
Collection and Disposition
   
50.030   Definitions
   
50.031   Supervision
   
50.032   Hiring of garbage collectors
   
50.033   Cost charged to real estate
   
50.034   List of lots and buildings
   
50.035   New buildings and additions
   
50.036   Unplatted areas
   
50.037   Tax for collection; levy
   
50.038   Hearing
   
50.039   Final determination; collection
   
50.040   Assessments
   
50.041   Change in assessment
   
50.042   Garbage Fund
   
50.043   Separate unit
   
50.044   Charge for hauling waste material other than garbage
   
50.045   Failure to pay when due
   
50.046   Procedure for suspending services
   
50.047   Use of containers after suspension
Garbage and Refuse
   
50.060   Use of containers required
   
50.061   Dumping prohibited
   
50.062   Outdoor burning
   
50.063   Bonfires and outdoor rubbish fires
   
50.064   Burning brush, trash, papers, rubbish and garbage
   
50.065   Burning leaves
   
50.066   City not required to collect
   
50.067   Hauling of garbage and refuse
Landfill
   
50.080   Definitions
   
50.081   Dumping in unlicensed areas prohibited
   
50.082   Permitted hours for dumping
   
50.083   Supervision by landfill operator
   
50.084   Burning
   
50.085   Animal carcasses
   
50.086   Car bodies
   
50.087   Fees
 
   
50.999   Penalty
REGULATION AND FEES
§ 50.001 RESIDENTIAL GARBAGE FEES.
   (A)   Divided into types. The residences of the city are hereby divided into
fair and reasonable types according to their structure and use for the purpose
of garbage and trash accumulation.
   (B)   Collection location. All collections will be either made from the
alley, where alleys exist, or from a place easily accessible to the street from
which the collections are made. Collections will not be made from inside
structures or enclosures unless approved by the Director of Public Works.
   (C)   Base rate.
      (1)   Minimum. The minimum residential refuse collection base rate shall
be established by resolution by the City Council as required and shall be
applied to the following categories.
 
Apartment buildings      Base rate for the first unit and 3/4 of the base rate
                         for each subsequent unit
Mobile homes             Base rate per year per unit
Motels and hotels        Usage class and relative usage level established plus
                         1/12 of the base rate per room
Rooming houses           Base rate for the first unit and 1/12 of the base rate
                         for each additional room
Single-family residences Base rate per year
Two-family residences    Base rate per year per unit
 
      (2)   Rate change. The base rate refuse collection fee may be changed
from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-1) (Ord. 02-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 50.002 RESIDENTIAL-COMMERCIAL COMBINATION GARBAGE FEES.
   Refuse fees at residences where a portion of the building or premises is
used for commercial or business purposes shall be increased by the minimum
amount of the commercial user class.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-2) (Ord. 02-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 50.003 BUSINESS, COMMERCIAL AND OTHER NONRESIDENTIAL FEES.
   (A)   Divided into types. The business, commercial, educational and other
nonresidential buildings and other institutions are hereby divided into fair
and reasonable types for the purpose of collection of garbage and trash
accumulation.
   (B)   Collection location. Collections will not be made from inside
structures or enclosures.
   (C)   Relative use table. All business, commercial, educational and other
nonresidential buildings shall be placed in a user class and usage level within
the relative use table below.
Relative Use Table
Relative Use Units Usage Level
User Class AA A BB B C D E F
Relative Use Table
Relative Use Units Usage Level
User Class AA    A  BB    B  C  D  E  F
I          1/2   1  1-1/2 2  3  4  5  6
II         1-1/2 2  2-1/2 3  4  5  6  8
III        2     3  4     4  6  8  9  12
IV         3     4  5     6  8  10 12 16
V          4     5  7     8  10 13 15 20
VI         5     6  8     9  12 15 18 24
VII        6     7  9     11 14 18 21 28
VIII       7     8  11    12 16 20 24 32
IX         8     9  12    14 18 23 27 36
X          9     10 13    15 20 25 30 40
XI         10    11 14    17 22 28 33 44
XII        11    12 16    18 24 30 36 48
 
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-3) (Ord. 02-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 50.004 TYPES OF BUSINESSES.
   (A)   User classes. The following businesses, commercial, educational and
other nonresidential users shall be placed in the user class as defined in the
listing below.
Type Of Business User Class
Type Of Business                           User Class
Accountant office                          I
Antique dealer                             I
Appliance/furniture store                  VI
Appliance repair (small appliance)         I
Armories                                   II
Arts and crafts shop                       I
Attorney offices                           I
Automobile dealer (with parts and service) VI
Auto sales only                            I
Auto garages                               III
Automotive body and repair shop            III
Auto parts store                           II
Bakery                                     II
Banks                                      III
Bars                                       VI
Barbers                                    I
Beauty shops                               I
Beer and food                              VI
Beer and pizza                             VI
Beer bar (no food)                         III
Bookstore                                  I
Bowling alley                              II
Business office (corporate)                III
Business office (single client)            I
Business supply                            I
Cabinet shop                               I
Carpet sales                               III
Car wash                                   II
Chain/discount store                       XII
Churches                                   I
Clothing store                             II
Coffee and sandwich shop                   III
Community center                           II
Convenience store                          V
Dairy                                      II
Distributors (no service provided)         III
Drapery store                              I
Dress shop/mens store                      I
Drug (high volume, sundry, chain store)    VIII
Drug pharmacy                              III
Discount/grain store                       XII
Elevator/grain                             III
Fairgrounds                                II
Fast food (inside seating)                 IX
Fast food (limited seating1)               III
Florists                                   II
Fraternal club (liquor license)            VI
Fraternal hall (no liquor license)         I
Freight lines                              I
Furniture store                            VI
Garage (small repair only)                 II
Gas station/convenience store              V
Gas station (service garage)               IV
Gift and card stores                       III
Glass shop with installation               II
Grocery store                              X
Grocery store (small volume neighborhood)  II
Grocery store (super markets)              X, XI, XII
Hardware store                             VI
Hospital                                   X
Hotel/motel                                III
Implement, farm garage/dealer              VIII
Industrial/manufacturing                   X, XI, XII (determined by director)
Insurance offices                          I
Jails/prisons                              X, XI, XII
Jewelry stores                             I
Laundromats                                II
Liquor store                               I
Lumber yards                               IV
Machine shops                              II
Manufacturing/industrial                   X, XI, XII
Medical clinics and offices                I
Mens store/dress shop                      II
Mercantile store                           VI
Mortuary                                   II
Motel/hotel                                III
Motorcycle/snowmobile sales and service    III
Neighborhood market (small volume)         II
Newspaper office                           II
Novelty shops                              I
Nursing home                               III
Offices (general business)                 I
Office supply                              I
Oil field service                          II
Paint shop                                 II
Pharmacy                                   III
Pizza/beer                                 VI
Plumbing shops                             III
Post office                                IV
Print shop                                 II
Prisons/jails                              X, XI, XII
Professional offices                       I
Radiator repair                            II
Radio stations                             II
Radio/TV repair                            II
Ready mix                                  III
Real estate office                         I
Recreation center                          VI
Restaurant                                 VI
Retirement homes                           VI
RV sales service                           II
Schools                                    IV
Second hand store                          I
Shoe repair                                II
Small appliance repair                     I
Snowmobile/motorcycle sales service        II
Specialty store                            I, II, III
Sporting goods store                       II
Supermarkets                               X, XI, XII
Theater                                    II
Tire repair and sales                      III
Trucking                                   IV
Variety stores                             VI
Veterans hospitals                         X
Warehouses                                 I, II, III
Welding                                    II
Woodworking shop                           I
Note:
1. Limited seating defined as less than 12.
 
   (B)   Classified in two or more classes. Business and commercial users
classified into two or more classes will be placed in the highest user class,
or a combination of classes to be determined by the Director of Public Works.
   (C)   Usage level. Usage level may be reviewed by the Director of Public
Works upon request of the business or commercial user, but no more than once a
calendar year.
   (D)   Director of Public Works determination. The Director of Public Works
will make the determination of the user class for any business, commercial,
educational or other nonresidential building and other institutions which are
not categorized in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-4) (Ord. 02-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 50.005 COMMERCIAL RATE.
   The calendar year refuse collection fee for businesses, commercial,
educational and other nonresidential buildings and other institutions shall be
equal to the relative use unit in the table set forth in §
50.003, multiplied by the minimum annual base rate.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-5) (Ord. 02-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 50.006 RESIDENTIAL ADJUSTMENTS.
   When application has been received for a reduced base rate charge for an
unoccupied residence during winter months, the application shall be reviewed
and the determination made by the Director of Public Works and the appropriate
committee of the City Council. At no time shall a base rate for partial
occupancy be less than one-half of the established base rate.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-6) (Ord. 02-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 50.007 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Usage level. Each business commercial, educational and other
nonresidential building and institution shall be placed in a usage level of the
table set forth in §
50.003, by the Director of Public Works after determination of the type of
garbage, the amount of usage and the required pick ups of the user. The minimum
fee for a business, commercial, educational and other nonresidential buildings
and institutions classified under §
50.004, in a user class shall be determined by the relative use level
multiplied by the base rate.
   (B)   Request for review. Usage level may be reviewed by the Director of
Public Works upon request of the business or commercial user, but no more than
once a calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-7) (Ord. 02-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 50.008 REMOVAL OF BULKY ITEMS.
   (A)   The regular collection service shall not remove such items such as
tires, crates, refrigerators, stoves, air conditioners, sofas, chairs, pipe,
auto parts, mufflers, tree limbs, trees and shrubbery cuttings (unless these
cuttings are cut in two-foot lengths and placed in receptacles capable of
having the lid closed) and other like items.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any building, house, structure or land shall
have these prohibited items removed and deposited in the city disposal area or
other approved disposal area at his or her own expense within three days.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-8) (Ord. 02-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 50.009 CERTAIN MATTER NOT TO BE PLACED IN RECEPTACLES.
   Dead animals, or fish, feces, materials impregnated with urine, poisons,
explosives, dangerous or corrosive chemicals, clothing taken from persons with
infectious diseases, heavy metals or metal parts, lumber, dirt, rocks, bricks,
shingles, concrete blocks, waste concrete pieces, tires, crates, hot ashes and
other refuse from construction or remodeling, shall not be placed in
receptacles used for regular collection service.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-9) (Ord. 02-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 50.010 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF RECEPTACLES; DUTY OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT TO REMOVE
REFUSE FROM ADJACENT RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Use of container restricted to premises. It shall be unlawful for any
person to place, or permit another to place any garbage or trash in any
receptacle at any refuse collection point or in any refuse container used in
the city container collection service unless the refuse is from the premises
served by the container or from the premises at which the receptacle or
collection point is located.
   (B)   City service containers. City service containers in city areas are
provided for refuse from apartment house areas, businesses and institutions
within the city limits, and refuse from outside the city limits shall not be
placed in the city service containers.
   (C)   Prohibited refuse, placement on ground. It shall be unlawful for any
person to place or deposit or permit another to place or deposit prohibited
refuse in city service containers or to put anything on the ground at these
locations.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-10) (Ord. 02-2002, passed 5-21-2002) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.011 OWNER/OCCUPANT RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner or occupant of any buildings, house, structure or land shall cause
to be removed all refuse items of the nature which are prohibited to the
regular collection service, and any such items which are located, owned or
deposited on the property or on the public right-of-way shall be prima facie
evidence that such owner or occupant failed to remove, as provided by this
subchapter, at his or her own expense, the refuse or other item or items so
stored or located thereon. Removal within three days of notice by the city is
required.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-11) (Ord. 02-2002, passed 5-21-2002) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.012 UNUSUAL LOCATIONS, TYPES AND ACCUMULATIONS.
   Refuse collection and disposal service may be provided within the
capabilities of the Department to installations with unusual locations, types
or accumulations of refuse at a charge established by the Director of Public
Works based on actual cost.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-12) (Ord. 02-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 50.013 SIMULTANEOUS SERVICE.
   (A)   The Public Works Department shall provide regular collection or
container collection system services according to the type and volume of refuse
to be removed, economics of operations and capability within the Department.
   (B)   Normally, refuse container and regular collection service will be
provided to the same installation only at the discretion of the Director of
Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-13) (Ord. 02-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 50.014 PARKING INTERFERING WITH CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle of any nature within
20 feet of any container used in the city container collection service in such
a manner which would interfere with the removal of refuse from such containers,
or block the approach to such containers. Proof of ownership of any vehicle
violating this section shall be prima facie proof that such owner parked such
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-14) (Ord. 02-2002, passed 5-21-2002) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.015 DAMAGING CONTAINERS PROVIDED FOR REFUSE COLLECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, either willfully or through
negligence, any property of the city used in the city container service.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-15) (Ord. 02-2002, passed 5-21-2002) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.016 DOORS AND LIDS TO BE KEPT CLOSED.
   Except when refuse is being loaded into containers, the lids shall be kept
closed except at certain locations approved by the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-16) (Ord. 02-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 50.017 CITY TO PROVIDE SUFFICIENT CONTAINERS.
   The city shall provide sufficient containers for all businesses and
residences. It shall be unlawful for any person other than a duly authorized
employee of the city or law enforcement and their designees to collect or
remove any garbage or trash from garbage and trash receptacles used in the
regular city collection services or from any container utilized in the city
collection services.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-17) (Ord. 05-2009, passed 6-2-2009) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.018 REMOVAL OF CONTAINERS FROM RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of each residence, business,
commercial, educational and other nonresidential building or other institution
served by an individual roll-out container to remove such container to a place
off the public right-of-way the same day service is provided.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-18) (Ord. 02-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 50.019 RESPONSIBILITY FOR CONTAINERS AND AREA.
   Every person shall have the duty of maintaining premises or equipment under
his or her supervision, or of maintaining containers and collection areas in
compliance with the requirements of this chapter, county health regulations and
all applicable provisions of state law. All refuse generators shall maintain
their alleys and keep the area surrounding the refuse and garbage containers
free from refuse, garbage and other potential hazards to the public health,
safety or welfare. Those individuals and commercial establishments using city
owned containers shall bear the complete responsibility of keeping the
containers in a sanitary condition at all times.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-19) (Ord. 02-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
COLLECTION AND DISPOSITION
§ 50.030 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DELINQUENT PROPERTY. Assessed property within the city for which
insufficient payment has been made toward satisfaction of city garbage
assessments within the time as required by law.
   GARBAGE. All refuse, animal and vegetable matter, ashes, store sweepings,
paper, rubbish and other putrescible waste matter, but it shall not be
construed to mean or include manure, basement or lawn excavations, trees, house
wreckage or other like debris.
   OWNER. The person, firm or corporation which appears on the most current
county assessment list.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-1) (Ord. 12-85, passed 11-3-1986; Ord. 04-2001, passed 3-
20-2001)
§ 50.031 SUPERVISION.
   The collection, removal and disposal of garbage shall be done and performed
under the supervision, direction and control of the Director of Public Works in
strict conformity with the provisions of this chapter and with the additional
rules and regulations that may be made from time to time by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-2)
§ 50.032 HIRING OF GARBAGE COLLECTORS.
   The Director of Public Works, with the approval of the Mayor and City
Council, shall have the power to hire and discharge the collectors and such
additional labor as is found necessary to collect and remove all garbage in the
proper manner.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-3)
§ 50.033 COST CHARGED TO REAL ESTATE.
   The cost of collection of garbage from streets, alleys and private premises
in the city shall, in all cases, be assessed and taxed against the real estate
from which such garbage is removed. Each lot from which garbage is removed
shall, as far as is practicable, bear its share of the expense of collecting
and disposing of the garbage in proportion to the amount of garbage removed
therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-4)
§ 50.034 LIST OF LOTS AND BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Preparation. The Director of Public Works shall prepare a list of all
lots or premises in the city upon which there are buildings or other
improvements.
   (B)   Contents. Such list shall show, in connection with each building, the
nature of business or occupation for which the same is used, except private
residences, and, if used or occupied by an apartment house, the number of
apartments into which it is divided. Such list shall also show the number of
stories of each building, other than residences, and the character of business
carried on the different floors of the building so far as necessary for fixing
the rate of taxation set out in this subchapter.
   (C)   Filing. Such list shall be filed in the Finance Clerk-Treasurer’s
office and constitute the list of lots upon which garbage tax shall be
collected each year, unless modified and revised.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-5)
§ 50.035 NEW BUILDINGS AND ADDITIONS.
   The Director of Public Works shall, each year on or before April 1, prepare
a list of all lots, fractions of lots or other real estate in the city not
previously taxed upon which buildings or improvements have been erected or
constructed, necessitating the removal of garbage, since the last assessment,
and additions to buildings or changes in the business carried on in the same
which shall affect the rate of taxation as set forth in this subchapter. The
Director of Public Works shall make the necessary changes in the list of lots
liable for garbage taxes.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-6)
§ 50.036 UNPLATTED AREAS.
   An area of 25 feet by 150 feet upon any unplatted premises within the city,
upon which is situated a building or part of a building which necessitates the
removal of garbage under this subchapter, shall constitute a unit for the
purpose of taxation under this subchapter and shall be assessed in the same
proportion and in the same manner as lots or portions of lots upon which there
are buildings or parts of buildings necessitating the removal of garbage.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-7)
§ 50.037 TAX FOR COLLECTION; LEVY.
   (A)   Resolution. The City Council shall estimate, as nearly as practicable,
the cost of collecting and disposing of garbage in the city. Before the second
Monday in August of each year, the City Council shall pass a resolution levying
and assessing a basic tax upon all lots or portions of lots occupied for
business purposes, which shall include all purposes other than private
residences, apartment houses which shall not be considered private residences,
and a basic tax for all lots or portions of lots occupied as private residences
and apartment houses situated in buildings in which there is no business
conducted from which garbage is removed as, in the Council’s opinion, will be
sufficient, with the added percentages for uses and occupations set forth in
this subchapter, to defray the cost of collection and disposing of garbage in
the city.
   (B)   Report of Director of Public Works. Due to the nature of the different
kinds of business conducted, the amount of business of the various business
houses and to the fact that some businesses require more service than others,
the Director of Public Works shall report to the City Council the amount of
garbage service required each year by the various individual business units,
and from such report the City Council shall pass a resolution each year which
will establish a fair and equitable rate for individual business
establishments.
   (C)   Apartment defined. Two or more rooms occupied together shall
constitute an apartment in the determination of basic taxes.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-8)
§ 50.038 HEARING.
   The Finance Clerk-Treasurer, each year immediately after the resolution
fixing the basic garbage taxes for the year is introduced, shall extend on the
list of lots liable for the tax the total amount to be taxed against each lot
or portion of a lot under the provisions of this subchapter, and at least ten
days before the date set for final adoption, shall publish in the official
paper of the city, a notice to all lot owners of the passage of such
resolution, the time and place when and where the resolution will come up for
hearing of objections and final adoption, that such list is on file in his or
her office for inspection and that any person having any objections to offer
wherefore such tax should not be levied and collected, shall file the same with
the Finance Clerk-Treasurer not less than 15 days from the date of such notice.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-9)
§ 50.039 FINAL DETERMINATION; COLLECTION.
   At the regular meeting of the City Council after the expiration of the
notice to lot owners prescribed by §
50.009, the City Council shall pass upon all objections filed and make such
changes in the assessment as it shall find necessary and proper, after hearing
such objections. Thereafter, the Finance Clerk-Treasurer shall incorporate such
changes in the list of taxes as extended by him or her and shall certify the
taxes on such amended list to the County Treasurer, to be collected by him or
her in the same manner as other special taxes and assessments.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-10)
§ 50.040 ASSESSMENTS.
   All special assessments made and levied under this subchapter shall be made,
levied and collected annually in the same manner, so far as practicable, as are
other special assessments and levies of the city; shall be a lien against the
property against which they are severally assessed and levied, until paid and
discharged; and shall be subject to the same penalties for delinquency in
payment when due and payable as are other special assessments and levies made
by the city and as authorized by the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-11)
§ 50.041 CHANGE IN ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Change in service. If the service for which an assessment was made
changes, whether because of quantity of refuse, lack of sufficient number of
receptacles or a requested change in service by the property owner or agent,
and the assessment made against the property is no longer proper for the
service provided, an additional assessment or a refund of a portion of the
prior assessment, as appropriate, will be made for the period beginning from
the first day of the month following the date of the change until the last day
of the fiscal year for which the assessment is being changed.
   (B)   Additional assessment. If there is an additional assessment, the
additional amount will be billed by the city direct for the balance of the
assessment period. The additional assessment shall be due and payable upon
billing. Service to property requested after assessment has been certified
shall be billed directly by the city from the month requested to the end of the
fiscal year.
   (C)   Application for change. Applications for changes in service or refunds
shall be considered only if requested on the form provided by the city, signed
by the owner of the property paying the specials. The form shall be accompanied
by a copy of the receipt of payment of specials for the time requested.
   (D)   Consideration for refund. No refund shall be considered for a period
of time less than six months nor more than two fiscal year periods.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-12) (Ord. 04-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 50.042 GARBAGE FUND.
   All special assessments and levies and all other monies collected, received
or paid under the provisions of this subchapter shall be kept in a separate
fund to be known as the Garbage Fund and shall be paid out only on warrants
drawn against such fund and signed as are other warrants of the city for the
disbursements of its funds and upon claims duly executed, presented, ordered
and allowed, all as required by law.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-13) (Ord. 04-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 50.043 SEPARATE UNIT.
   In the resident areas where there is more than one residence on a lot or
group of lots, each residence shall constitute a separate unit and be assessed
accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-14) (Ord. 04-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 50.044 CHARGE FOR HAULING WASTE MATERIAL OTHER THAN GARBAGE.
   Whenever it becomes necessary for the Garbage Department to haul waste
material or rubbish that does not come under the classification of garbage, as
described in this subchapter, from any lot or parcel of land where such waste
material or rubbish has been placed at or in the alley adjacent thereto, the
cost of such service shall be assessed as an extra assessment against the lot
or property from which it has been hauled, unless paid at the time of such
service.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-15) (Ord. 04-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 50.045 FAILURE TO PAY WHEN DUE.
   Regular garbage collection service to property which receives city garbage
collection service shall be suspended when the property becomes delinquent
property.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-16) (Ord. 04-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 50.046 PROCEDURE FOR SUSPENDING SERVICES.
   (A)   Notice of suspension. On January 1 of each year, the Finance Clerk-
Treasurer shall notify all owners and occupants of delinquent property, in
writing, that city garbage service will be suspended to each delinquent
property 30 days after mailing of notice of delinquency.
   (B)   Suspension; reinstatement. City garbage service shall be suspended
following January 31, to all delinquent property, and shall not be reinstated
until all garbage assessment delinquencies have been cured.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-17) (Ord. 04-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 50.047 USE OF CONTAINERS AFTER SUSPENSION.
   It shall be unlawful for owners or occupants of delinquent property for
which city garbage collection has been suspended to utilize city owned garbage
containers for the deposit of garbage and such person will be subject to
prosecution for a misdemeanor and punishable as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-18) (Ord. 04-2001, passed 3-20-2001) Penalty, see §
50.999
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
§ 50.060 USE OF CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   Every person having garbage on his or her premises shall place the same in
garbage containers provided for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 4-2C-1)
§ 50.061 DUMPING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall throw or empty any paper, ashes, slop, garbage, boxes,
barrels, cans or refuse of any kind on the sidewalks or in the streets, alleys
or avenues of the city. The disposal of garbage upon the premises or property
of another without the express permission and consent of the owner or occupant
is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 4-2C-2) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.062 OUTDOOR BURNING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FIRE. Shall not be construed to mean or include a fire in a furnace,
stove, boiler, fireplace or recreational device such as a barbecue grill.
      OPEN BURNING. Combustion of any material directly into the air other than
from a furnace, stove, boiler, fireplace or recreational device such as a
barbecue grill.
   (B)   Prohibited materials. It shall be unlawful to burn rubbish of any
kind, other than papers, paper goods, cardboard or leaves, anywhere in the city
except in a stove, furnace or incinerator inside a building. There is hereby
adopted and incorporated herein by reference 40 C.F.R. part 261 defining
HAZARDOUS WASTE MATERIALS as follows, and the same shall not be disposed of by
open burning:
      (1)   Animal droppings;
      (2)   Any material resulting from a salvage operation;
      (3)   Any waste which is moved from the premises where it was generated,
including that moved to a solid waste disposal site;
      (4)   Asphalt shingles;
      (5)   Automobile bodies and interiors;
      (6)   Chemicals;
      (7)   Dead animals or dead animal parts;
      (8)   Food waste;
      (9)   Insulated wire;
      (10)   Pathogenic wastes;
      (11)   Poultry litter;
      (12)   Rubber materials;
      (13)   Styrofoam and other plastics;
      (14)   Tarpaper;
      (15)   Tires;
      (16)   Treated timbers and lumber; and
      (17)   Waste generating noxious odors.
   (C)   Arrestor screen. It shall be unlawful to burn leaves or paper goods
anywhere in the city excepting in a stove, furnace, incinerator or fireplace so
constructed and used as to prevent the spread of fire by a spark arrestor
screen or similar device which prevents the escape of ignited particles or
burning material therefrom; provided, that leaves may be burned in the open if
properly piled away from any structure and attended; and provided, further,
that this may not be done on a windy day.
   (D)   Vegetation. It shall be unlawful to burn off the leaves or vegetation
from any area in the city.
   (E)   Hours. It shall be unlawful to burn paper goods or leaves anywhere in
the city excepting during daylight hours.
   (F)   Conditions. It shall be unlawful, within the fire limits of the city,
to light or maintain any fire to burn papers, paper goods and cardboard except
under the following conditions.
      (1)   Proximity to building or structure. No such fire shall be lit
within 50 feet of any building or structure nor within 15 feet of a fence or
property line.
      (2)   Location of incinerator. The area in which the incinerator to be
used is located shall have a surface of gravel, cinders, cement or similar
incombustible material, and this area shall extend at least five feet from each
side of such stove or incinerator.
      (3)   Specifications of incinerator. Such burning shall be done in an
incinerator no larger than two feet in width and no more than five feet in
height. It shall be constructed of 12-gauge steel or firebrick. The top of such
incinerator shall be equipped with a spark arrestor screen having openings of
not more than three-fourths inch.
      (4)   Noncompliance. Any person, firm or corporation maintaining or using
an incinerator not complying with this section shall, upon written notice from
the Fire Chief, cease to use such incinerator until said incinerator is altered
or repaired to comply with this section.
      (5)   Use of sidewalk or asphalt pavement. No fire shall be built or
allowed to burn on any sidewalk or asphalt pavement.
(Prior Code, § 4-2C-3) (Ord. 47-85, passed 7-6-1993) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.063 BONFIRES AND OUTDOOR RUBBISH FIRES.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   Public property. No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or
rubbish fire or authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained on or in
any public street, alley, road or other public ground without a permit from the
Fire Department.
      (2)   Private property. No person shall kindle or maintain any open fire
or authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained on any private land
without first having obtained a permit from the Fire Department.
      (3)   Construction or demolition. During construction or demolition of
buildings or structures, no waste materials or rubbish shall be disposed of by
burning on the premises or in the immediate vicinity without having obtained a
permit from the Fire Department.
      (4)   Outdoor containers. No fire shall be kindled or maintained in any
outdoor container unless such container has been approved by and a permit
issued by the Fire Department.
   (B)   Issuance of permits. Such permits shall be issued at the Fire
Department between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. daily to individuals
applying therefor in person.
   (C)   Burning regulations. The Fire Department shall provide each permittee
with a copy of the open burning regulations.
   (D)   Notice required. Prior to the use of the permit, the individual
permittee shall call the Fire Department and advise the time of the start of
the burn in addition to calling at the completion of the burn to advise the
Fire Department of such completion.
   (E)   Suppression equipment. It is the responsibility of all permit holders
to provide adequate fire suppression equipment to contain all open burning
appropriate to the area and material as specified in the application for
permit.
   (F)   Noxious odors. The burning of garbage or refuse that smolders or gives
off noxious odors is prohibited.
   (G)   Curtailment. Open burning may be curtailed at any time by the City
Council or by the Fire Department when it is determined to be in the best
interest of the public. Such curtailment may be whole or in part.
(Prior Code, § 4-2C-4) (Ord. 47-85, passed 7-6-1993) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.064 BURNING BRUSH, TRASH, PAPERS, RUBBISH AND GARBAGE.
   (A)   Outdoor burning prohibited. No person, firm or corporation shall burn
any wood, brush, trash, papers, rubbish or garbage out of doors anywhere in the
city. This division (A) shall not prohibit the use of an outdoor fire for
cooking or for recreation.
   (B)   Other burning prohibited. No person shall burn any trash, paper,
rubbish or garbage anywhere indoors in the city except in an incinerator
complying with all applicable laws and ordinances.
   (C)   Heating and cooking stoves. Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed
to prohibit the use of wood in stoves used for cooking, the use of wood in
fireplaces for decorative fires or the use of wood in fireplaces or stoves
designed for heating.
(Prior Code, § 4-2C-5) (Ord. 47-85, passed 7-6-1993) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.065 BURNING LEAVES.
   The open burning of leaves within the city limits is prohibited except as
follows.
   (A)   Period permitted. The open burning of leaves shall be permitted only
during the period from October 1 through November 30.
   (B)   Private property. The open burning of leaves shall be permitted on
private property with the consent of the owner or person in charge of the
property.
   (C)   Public rights-of-way. The open burning of leaves is permitted on
public rights-of-way except upon sidewalks and roadway traffic lanes, parking
areas, alleys and all paved areas.
   (D)   Proximity to structure. No person shall burn any leaves unless any
such fire is at least 20 feet from any structure.
   (E)   Attendance required. Any fire resulting from the open burning of
leaves shall be constantly attended by a competent person until such fire is
extinguished.
   (F)   Power of Fire Chief to prohibit. The Fire Chief shall prohibit the
open burning of leaves when the atmospheric conditions or other conditions at
the location of the fire constitute a hazard.
   (G)   Conflict. This section shall control in case of conflict with any
other city ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 4-2C-6) (Ord. 47-85, passed 7-6-1993) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.066 CITY NOT REQUIRED TO COLLECT.
   (A)   Power containers and placement required. The employees of the city on
the city garbage truck need not remove any garbage unless in proper containers
properly placed by the occupants of a lot or parcel of land.
   (B)   No relief from assessment. The failure to haul or remove garbage where
the occupant has failed to comply with the provisions of this subchapter shall
not release or relieve the occupant or owner of such lot or parcel land from
the payment of the regular assessment for hauling garbage, but the same shall
be charged whether any garbage is hauled or not.
(Prior Code, § 4-2C-7) (Ord. 47-85, passed 7-6-1993)
§ 50.067 HAULING OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      GARBAGE or REFUSE. Includes every accumulation of animal matter, manure,
fruit or vegetable matter, ashes, dry waste or sweepings, slop, tin cans,
bottles, rags, paper, dead animals, weeds or lawn trimmings, tree trimmings,
building materials or scrap, trash, filth and all other offensive matter.
   (B)   Requirements. No person hauling or controlling any cart or vehicle
used for the purpose of hauling or removing garbage shall cause or permit any
such cart or vehicle to be so loaded, in such defective condition, so out of
repair, of such faulty construction or to be so improperly driven or managed
that any garbage or refuse with which such cart or vehicle is loaded shall drop
or fall upon or in any street, public way or other place. Such cart or vehicle
in which garbage or refuse is carried shall be so constructed as to have the
bed of the box, the end gates and sideboards tight so as to prevent any part of
the load from falling or spilling therefrom. The sideboards and end gates of
the box shall be of the same height, not less than two feet in height, and
always kept in place. The box shall be completely covered with canvas or other
similar material which will prevent any substance from falling off such load.
   (C)   Repairs. Every person in charge, possession or control of any cart or
vehicle used for the hauling of garbage or refuse shall replace at once on such
cart or vehicle any part of the contents thereof which shall or may have
fallen, dropped or been spilled from such cart or vehicle upon any street,
public way or other place.
(Prior Code, § 4-2C-8) (Ord. 47-85, passed 7-6-1993)
LANDFILL
§ 50.080 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPOST. The product resulting from the decomposition of leaves, straw,
grasses and other such vegetable matter mixed or unmixed with well-rotted
manure, or mixed or unmixed with inorganic materials ordinarily forming a part
of the soil such as sand or lime, loam and used, usable or intended to be used
as a fertilizer and soil conditioner.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   PERSON. An individual, group of individuals, partnership, firm, corporation,
association, company, county or city improvement district.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid waste, except body waste,
including garbage, rubbish, street cleaning, dead animals, yard clippings and
solid market and solid industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid waste consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, abandoned automobiles, tin
cans, wood, grass, crockery and similar materials.
(Prior Code, § 4-2D-1) (Ord. 03-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 50.081 DUMPING IN UNLICENSED AREAS PROHIBITED.
   Dumping in any unlicensed areas in the city is prohibited. No person shall
hereafter dispose of any garbage, refuse, rubbish or any other like material in
any place, specifically including streets, alleys and vacant lots, except as
permitted under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-2D-2) (Ord. 03-2002, passed 5-21-2002) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.082 PERMITTED HOURS FOR DUMPING.
   Dumping of any material in the city landfill will be permitted only during
the hours designated by the City Council. The entry to said landfill will be
fenced, and the gate thereto will be locked at all times, except during
specified hours.
(Prior Code, § 4-2D-3) (Ord. 03-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 50.083 SUPERVISION BY LANDFILL OPERATOR.
   (A)   Supervision and authority. A landfill operator is hereby authorized to
be present at all times the city sanitary landfill is open for use. The
operator shall have full supervision and authority to designate where dumping
of garbage, refuse, rubbish, compost or other like material shall take place.
   (B)   Enforcement. It shall be the duty of the landfill operator and city
police officers to enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Compliance with state and federal rules. All material shall be
confined to an area which can be effectively maintained and operated in
accordance with all state and federal rules and regulations.
   (D)   Salvage or removal.
      (1)   Prohibited. Except as provided below, the salvage or other removal
of material deposited at the city sanitary landfill is prohibited.
      (2)   Allowed. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to prohibit
authorized personnel and law enforcement authorities from salvaging or removing
material deposited at the city sanitary landfill when necessary for the
sanitary and efficient operation of the sanitary landfill or when necessary for
health, safety and welfare, or when required for purposes of law enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 4-2D-4) (Ord. 03-2002, passed 5-21-2002) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.084 BURNING.
   Setting fire to materials dumped or accumulated at the sanitary landfill
site at any time is prohibited by unauthorized personnel. Burning shall be
conducted only by authorized personnel with appropriate permits by local and
state authorities.
(Prior Code, § 4-2D-5) (Ord. 03-2002, passed 5-21-2002) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.085 ANIMAL CARCASSES.
   Carcasses of dead animals, including those of dogs, cats or similar small
animals, offal from slaughtered animals and large carcasses may be disposed of
at the city sanitary landfill; provided, that immediate burial shall be
effected by the party disposing of the same, in an area designated by the
landfill operators.
(Prior Code, § 4-2D-6) (Ord. 03-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 50.086 CAR BODIES.
   Car bodies will be disposed of only in the area designated for junk vehicles
by the County Program Director. Car bodies will not be incorporated into the
areas for Class II disposal.
(Prior Code, § 4-2D-7) (Ord. 03-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 50.087 FEES.
   Charges will be made for all dumping at the city sanitary landfill according
to a schedule established by resolution of the City Council. Payment of all
landfill fees required by this section by private refuse haulers shall be by
monthly billing. Any account which is delinquent more than 60 days shall be
refused the right to dispose of any refuse at the city landfill until the
account is paid in full.
(Prior Code, § 4-2D-8) (Ord. 03-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
50.060 through
50.067 shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 4-2C-9)
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
50.080 through
50.087 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished as prescribed in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 4-2D-9)
(Ord. 47-85, passed 7-6-1993; Ord. 03-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER AND WATER SYSTEMS
Section
Sewer System Rates and Charges
   
51.01   Operation and maintenance
   
51.02   Premises to be charged
   
51.03   Commercial premises
   
51.04   Residential premises
   
51.05   Water from sources other than municipal water system
   
51.06   Special circumstances
   
51.07   Payment of charges; compliance with rules and regulations
   
51.08   Disconnection for late payment
Public and Private Sewers and Drains
   
51.20   Definitions
   
51.21   Use required
   
51.22   Private sewage disposal
   
51.23   Building sewers and connections
   
51.24   Use of public sewers
   
51.25   Inspectors
 
   
51.99   Penalty
SEWER SYSTEM RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.01 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Rates established. For the purpose of providing adequately for the
operation and maintenance of the municipal sanitary sewer system, for the
making of necessary capital improvements and additions thereto and the payment
and security of all bonds issued to finance such improvements and additions,
and for the depreciation and replacement of parts thereof required to maintain
it in efficient operation condition, the rates and charges set forth in this
subchapter are established and directed to be paid as their joint and several
obligation, by the owners and occupants of each and all premises to which the
service of said system is furnished or made available.
   (B)   Modification of rates. The right is reserved to modify said rates and
charges by the administrative procedure herein set forth; provided that as so
modified they shall always be sufficient in each year to provide income and
revenues adequate for the payment of the reasonable expense of operation and
maintenance and for the payment of the sums required to be paid into the
sinking fund and for the accumulation of such reserves and the making of such
expenditures for depreciation and replacement of said system as shall be
determined necessary from time to time or as shall have been covenanted in the
ordinances and resolutions authorizing the outstanding bonds.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-1) (Ord. 05-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 51.02 PREMISES TO BE CHARGED.
   The premises to be charged for sewer services shall include each premises
connected to the system or abutting on a street, alley or other public place in
which a municipal sewer main is situated. Every dwelling place occupied by more
than two families and having not more than one connection to the sewer system
together with the lot or parcel of land on which it stands and any auxiliary
building or buildings on such lot or parcel, shall be deemed a single premises
to which service is made available. For any premises having more than one
connection or occupied as a dwelling place by more than two families, the
minimum monthly charge shall be multiplied, as the case may be, by the number
of such connections or by one-half the number of families occupying the same.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-2) (Ord. 05-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 51.03 COMMERCIAL PREMISES.
   The owner or occupant of each commercial premises connected to the sewer
system shall pay whichever is higher each month of a minimum base charge
according to a schedule established by resolution of the City Council, as
provided in M.C.A. Title 69, Chapter 7, part 1; provided, that said resolution
shall not have an effective date until ten days after the date of resolution,
and a usage rate charge according to a schedule established by resolution of
the City Council, as provided in M.C.A. Title 69, Chapter 7, part 1; provided,
that said resolution shall not have an effective date until ten days after the
date of resolution, based on the monthly 100 cubic feet of water usage which is
registered by the water meter installed on such premises.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-3) (Ord. 05-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 51.04 RESIDENTIAL PREMISES.
   (A)   Residential premises defined. Residential premises are those used
exclusively for dwelling purposes whether owned or rented by the occupant or
occupants. All other premises shall be deemed commercial for the purpose of
this subchapter.
   (B)   Base rate and usage rate. The owner or occupant of each residential
premises connected to the sewer system shall pay a base rate and usage rate
according to a schedule established by resolution of the City Council, as
provided in M.C.A. Title 69, Chapter 7, part 1; provided, that said resolution
shall not have an effective date until ten days after the date of adoption. The
usage rate shall be applied to the average monthly water usage consumed in the
months of January through April in such year as registered by the water meter
installed on such premises.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-4) (Ord. 05-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 51.05 WATER FROM SOURCES OTHER THAN MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Report to Council. The Superintendent of the Sewer Department shall
report to the Council any premises where he or she has reason to believe any
substantial amount of water from sources other than the municipal water system
is discharged into the sanitary sewer system.
   (B)   Meter required. The Council, in its discretion may, by resolution,
direct that a water meter be installed to measure the water so discharged,
which shall then be added to any other water metered on the premises in
computing charges payable under §
51.03 or §
51.04, or may, by resolution and upon hearing as provided in §
51.06, fix a special service charge for such premises in such amount as it
shall deem just and equitable.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-5) (Ord. 05-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 51.06 SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES.
   Any person who is of the opinion that by reason of special circumstances any
of the foregoing rates and charges are inequitable as applied to premises owned
or occupied by him or her may file with the Administrative Clerk on a written
application for revision thereof, setting forth such circumstances. The Council
shall then at its next regular meeting, or at a subsequent regular meeting if
requested by the applicant, hear the views of the application and all other
persons interested and may, in its discretion, by resolution fix a special
service charge in such amount as shall be deemed just and equitable, for the
period during which such special circumstances shall exist.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-6) (Ord. 05-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 51.07 PAYMENT OF CHARGES; COMPLIANCE WITH RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Liability for charges. The owner and occupant of each premises to
which municipal sewer service is rendered or made available shall be jointly
and severally liable for all charges imposed for such service.
   (B)   Bills combined with other statement. All bills for such service shall
be made a part of the statements, if any, for water service to the same
premises, and no payment of water or sewer charges so billed shall be accepted
without payment of both of said items.
   (C)   Due date. Sewer charges shall become due and payable on the tenth day
of each month.
   (D)   Noncompliance. If any bill is not paid on or before the thirtieth day
of the month when due, or upon failure of customer to comply with all rules and
regulations established for the sewer system within seven days after written
notice of violation thereof, the water service to the premises involved shall
be discontinued and shall not be resumed until payment of all past due bills
for water and sewer service and compliance with all such rules and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-7) (Ord. 05-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 51.08 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall have
a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person and
by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present orally or
in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city official in charge
of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the
customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a
final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of an amount as set forth by resolution of the City Council.
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SEWERS AND DRAINS
§ 51.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (1.5 m) outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and stormwater
or surface water.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   ENGINEER. The City Engineer or the official performing functions of the City
Engineer, or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. Wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
   INDUSTRIAL USER (IU). A source of indirect discharge.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade or
business as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive. (See definition of SHALL).
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface water
or groundwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of seven and a hydrogen-ion
concentration of ten to seven.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 cm) in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions together
with minor quantities of groundwater, stormwater and surface waters that are
not admitted intentionally.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM DRAIN/STORM SEWER. A drain or sewer for conveying water, groundwater,
subsurface water or unpolluted water from any source.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in water, wastewater or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
   WASTEWATER/STORMWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes
required to collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and
dispose of the effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT, WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or WATER POLLUTION
CONTROL PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-1) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 51.21 USE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Prohibited deposits. It shall be unlawful for any person to place,
deposit or permit to be deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or
private property within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said
city, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   Prohibited discharge. It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural
outlet within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes or other polluted waters, except where
suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions
of this subchapter.
   (C)   Privy, septic tank, cesspool and the like prohibited. Except as
hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy,
privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the
disposal of wastewater.
   (D)   Connection required. The owners of all houses, buildings or properties
used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purpose, situated
within the city and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which
there is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or
combined sewer of the city, is hereby required at the owner’s expense to
install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter, within 90 days after date of official notice to do so; provided,
that said public sewer is within 100 feet of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-2) (Ord. 65-85, passed 6-3-1996) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.22 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Public system unavailable. Where a public sanitary or combined sewer
is not available under the provisions of §
51.21, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   County permit.
      (1)   Required. Before commencement of construction of a private sewage
disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
County Sanitarian.
      (2)   Application; additional information. The application for such
permit shall be supplemented by plans, specifications and other information as
deemed necessary by the Sanitarian.
      (3)   Permit becomes effective. A permit for a private sewage disposal
system shall not become effective until the installation is completed to the
satisfaction of the Engineer.
      (4)   Inspections. The Engineer shall be allowed to inspect the work at
any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the Engineer when the work is ready for final inspection and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours
of the receipt of notice by the Engineer.
   (C)   Specifications.
      (1)   The type, capacity, location and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Department
of Public Health. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal
system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the
lot is less than 15,000 square feet.
      (2)   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
public sewer or natural outlet.
   (D)   Public system becomes available. At such time as a public sewer
becomes available to a property served by a private sewage disposal system as
provided in §
51.21(D), a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this subchapter; and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private
sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
   (E)   Costs. The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the
city.
   (F)   Additional requirements. No statement contained in this section shall
be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed
by the health officer.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-3) (Ord. 65-85, passed 6-3-1996)
§ 51.23 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Permit required. No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the
Engineer.
   (B)   Classes of permits. There shall be two classes of building sewer
permits:
      (1)   For residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (C)   Application. In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the Engineer.
   (D)   Permit and inspection fee. A permit and inspection fee shall be levied
as determined from time to time by the City Council.
   (E)   Costs and expenses. All costs and expenses incident to the
installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
   (F)   Indemnification. The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or
damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the
building sewer.
   (G)   Separate sewer required; exception. A separate and independent
building sewer shall be provided for every building; except, where one building
stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is
available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining
alley, courtyard or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be
extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer,
but the city does not and will not assume any obligation or responsibility for
damage caused by or resulting from any such single connection aforementioned.
   (H)   Old building sewers. Old building sewers may be used in connection
with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the
Engineer, to meet all requirements of this subchapter.
   (I)   Materials. The building sewer shall be constructed of materials as
allowed by the plumbing codes and regulations of the state.
   (J)   Specifications. The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction
of all sanitary sewers, including building sewers, and methods to be used in
excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the trench
shall all conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes or
other applicable rules and regulations of the city and the state. In the
absence of suitable code provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials
and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and WPCF
Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (K)   Elevation; location; slope. Whenever possible, the building sewer
shall be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. No
building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within three feet of any bearing
wall which might thereby be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford
protection from frost. The building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in
straight alignment insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only
with properly curved pipe and fittings.
   (L)   Lifters. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain
shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building
sewer.
   (M)   Surface runoff. No person shall make connections of roof downspouts,
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer unless such connection is
approved by the Engineer and the State Department of Health for purposes of
disposal of polluted surface drainage.
   (N)   Compliance required. The connection of the building sewer into the
public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing
codes or other applicable rules and regulations of the city and the state, or
the procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF
Manual of Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and
watertight and verified by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed
procedures and materials must be approved by the Engineer before installation.
The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at the
“Y” branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location.
   (O)   Inspection; connection. The applicant for the building sewer permit
shall notify the Engineer when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the Engineer or his or her representative.
   (P)   Excavations. All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-4) (Ord. 65-85, passed 6-3-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Trench backfill and street restoration, see §§
151.080 through
151.094
§ 51.24 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   Protection of sewage system. No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any unpolluted water such as stormwater, surface water, groundwater,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage or cooling water to any sewer; except,
stormwater runoff from limited areas, which stormwater may be polluted at
times, may be discharged to the sanitary sewer by permission of the Engineer
and the State Department of Environmental Quality.
   (B)   Unpolluted drainage. Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage
shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as combined
sewers or storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the Engineer and the
State Department of Environmental Quality.
   (C)   Prohibited discharges. Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall
discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following described waters or
wastes to any public sewer:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard, including, but
not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of less than 140°F
or 60°C using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21. These wastes
include, but are not limited to, gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil and the
like in solid, liquid or gaseous form;
      (2)   (a)   Toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient
quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to contaminate the
sludge of any municipal system, to injure or interfere with any sewage
treatment process or equipment, constitute a hazard to humans or animals,
create a public nuisance or result in the passthrough of inadequately treated
wastes to receiving waters.
         (b)   Each user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an
increase in the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge of the city
treatment works shall pay for such increased costs.
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like, either
whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (D)   Harmful materials/substances. The following described substances,
materials, waters and wastes shall be limited in discharges to municipal
systems to concentrations or quantities which will not harm either the sewers,
the sludge of any municipal system, the wastewater treatment process or
equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or will not
otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. The
Engineer may set limitations lower than the limitations established in the
regulations below if, in his or her opinion, such more severe limitations are
necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his or her opinion as to the
acceptability, the Engineer will give consideration to such factors as the
quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction for the sewers, the wastewater treatment process
employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment plant, and other pertinent
factors. The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of
waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be
violated without approval of the Engineer are as follows:
      (1)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Wastewater containing petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils
or product of mineral oil origin;
      (3)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fat or
grease;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly removed by screen or
shredded. Garbage grinders or screen systems may be required to connect
sanitary sewers from homes, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering
establishments or similar places where garbage originates on the premises or
when served by caterers;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or deleterious substances to
such degree that any such material received in the composite wastewater at the
wastewater treatment works exceeds the limits established by the Engineer for
such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing pollutants which result in the
presence of toxic or obnoxious gases, vapors or fumes within the POTW in
quantities which may cause acute worker health and safety concerns or public
nuisance;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Engineer in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Quantities of flow, concentrations or both, which constitute a
“slug” as defined herein;
      (9)   Waters and wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over the receiving waters;
      (10)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes;
      (11)   Pollutants which cause corrosive structural damage to the POTW but
in no case discharges with pH lower than 5.0 unless the POTW is specifically
designed to accommodate such discharges; and
      (12)   Any trucked or hauled wastes unless the POTW is designed to
adequately treat the wastes and the facility has points designated for such
discharges.
   (E)   Interceptors.
      (1)   Required. Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when,
in the opinion of the Engineer, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand and other harmful ingredients; except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units.
      (2)   Type; capacity. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity
approved by the Engineer and shall be located on the exterior of the building
whenever possible as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
      (3)   Construction. Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped
with easily removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gaslight and
watertight.
      (4)   Maintenance. Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors
shall be maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously
efficient operation at all times. The owner(s) shall be responsible for
maintaining records of the dates and means of disposal which are subject to
review by the city. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not
performed by owner(s) personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste
disposal firms.
   (F)   Review and approval required. The admission into the public sewers of
any waters or wastes having:
      (1)   A five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 300 parts per
million by weight;
      (2)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended
solids;
      (3)   Containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics
described above; or
      (4)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average daily
sewage flow of the city, shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Engineer.
   (G)   Pretreatment. Industrial users will be required to abide by Chapter
53. Industrial users will be determined based on the information that may be
requested in division (L) below.
   (H)   Surcharge rate.
      (1)   The city, or its City Engineer, will determine the average total
suspended solids (TSS) and biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) daily loadings for
the average nonindustrial user. The city, or its City Engineer, will assess a
surcharge rate for all industrial users discharging wastes with BOD and TSS
strengths greater than the average nonindustrial user. Such users will be
assessed a surcharge sufficient to cover the costs of treating such users’
above normal strength wastes. Nonindustrial strength wastes are considered to
be 187 ppm BOD and 243 ppm TSS.
      (2)   The city will review the user charge system as necessary to assure
equity of the system and to assure that sufficient funds will be collected from
the system to adequately operate and maintain the wastewater treatment works.
   (I)   Manhole. When required by the Engineer, the owner of any property
served by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable
control manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the waste. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessible and
safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with the plans approved
by the Engineer. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
   (J)   Measurement of characteristics. All measurements, tests and analysis
of the characteristics of water and wastes to which references are made in the
above sections shall be determined in accordance with Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Sewage and shall be determined at the control manhole
provided for in division (I) above or upon suitable samples taken at said
control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been required, the
control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the
public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
   (K)   Special agreement and/or agreements. No statement contained in this
section shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement
between the city and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment,
subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern.
   (L)   Information. The city may require a user of sewer services to provide
information needed to determine compliance with this subchapter. These
requirements may include:
      (1)   Wastewater discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
      (2)   Chemical analysis of wastewater;
      (3)   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
      (4)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent
or other materials important to sewer use control;
      (5)   A plot plan of sewers of the user’s property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location;
      (6)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and
      (7)   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the municipal sewer.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-5) (Ord. 65-85, passed 6-3-1996; Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-
2016) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.25 INSPECTORS.
   The Engineer and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon all properties
for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing
in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-6) (Ord. 65-85, passed 6-3-1996)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Notice of violation. Any person found to be violating any provision of
this chapter shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Misdemeanor. Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the
time limit provided for in division (A) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in the amount as specified in §
10.99 per each day of violation.
   (C)   Liability for expense, loss or damage. Any person violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall become liable to the city for any expense,
loss or damage occasioned the city by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-7) (Ord. 65-85, passed 6-3-1996; Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-
2016)
CHAPTER 52: WATER REGULATIONS
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Service connections
   
52.03   Rate schedule
   
52.04   Flat rates; furnishing water without permission
   
52.05   Meters
   
52.06   Secondary meters
   
52.07   Temporary meters for construction sites
   
52.08   Location and installation of meters
   
52.09   Access to property
   
52.10   Interference with meter
   
52.11   Service interruptions
   
52.12   Application for water service
   
52.13   Consumer information
   
52.14   Billing information
   
52.15   Adjustment of bills
   
52.16   Complaints
   
52.17   Discontinuance of service
   
52.18   Refusal to serve applicant
   
52.19   Sprinkling regulations
   
52.20   Prevention of freezing
   
52.21   Hydrants
   
52.22   Private fire protection service
   
52.23   Extension of mains
   
52.24   Guarantee
   
52.25   Damage to utility facilities
   
52.26   Underground utility information
   
52.27   Abandoned water service lines
   
52.28   Water service line stubouts
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER or CUSTOMER. Any individual, partnership, association, firm, public
or private corporation or governmental agency receiving water service. In the
case of property occupied by a tenant, the property owner is and shall be
considered the ultimate CUSTOMER and responsible for payment of service.
   CURB BOX. A cast iron or plastic tube like device to provide easy access to
curb valves which are located underground.
   CURB VALVE. A valve installed in the water service line and accessible for
operation from the surface of the ground for routinely interrupting flow
through the service line.
   CUSTOMER SERVICE PIPE. The portion of the service pipe from the distribution
main to the structure or premises supplied, installed at the cost and expense
of the customer.
   DISTRIBUTION MAIN. Water pipe owned, operated or maintained by the Water
Department which is used for the purpose of distribution of water and from
which service connections with customers are taken.
   EXTENSION. The act or process of extending, adding to or enlarging the city
water supply system to provide water service to a customer or a group of
prospective customers.
   METER. The instrument, including all auxiliary devices and equipment, owned
and used by the city to measure the amount of water delivered to a customer.
   POINT OF DELIVERY. The point at which the city water supply system connects
physically to the customers’ facilities, which point is located at the
corporation stop which is normally attached to the public water main located in
the public right-of-way that abuts the property to be served.
   PRIVATE FIRE SERVICE CONNECTION. One which is attached to fixtures from
which water is taken only for extinguishment of fire.
   WATER DEPARTMENT. Those who own, operate or control any plant or equipment,
any part of a plant or equipment or any water right within the state for the
projection, delivery or furnishing for or to other persons, firms, associations
or corporations, private or municipal, of water for business, manufacturing or
household use within the limits of the city.
   WATER SERVICE LINE. All service pipe, curb stop, curb box, meter box or
vault, backflow prevention device, pressure reducing valve, inside piping,
appliances and other apparatus on the customer’s side of the point of delivery,
except the Water Department’s water meter and any other equipment owned by the
city.
   WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. Any devices, facilities, structures, equipment, land or
works controlled by the city for the purpose of the processing, treatment,
transmission, storage, distribution, pumping and measurement of water supplied
to customers.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-1) (Ord. 03-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 52.02 SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Costs.
      (1)   Tapping. Where an application for water service has been granted by
the Water Department, the Water Department shall tap the main up through a two-
inch service line tap.
      (2)   Service pipes. All expense of laying and maintaining the service
pipes from the mains to the consumer’s premises shall be borne by the customer.
The Water Department will specify the kind, quality and the location of all
materials used in the service line. The service pipe shall be laid below the
final street grade and on the consumer’s premises at a depth of six and one-
half feet to prevent freezing. If shallower at the water main, insulation shall
be used to protect the service pipe from freezing until the standard depth is
obtained.
   (B)   Service pipe materials. Water services three-fourths inch through two
inches shall be of Type K soft copper, or polyethylene ASTM D2737 CTS SDR 9 200
psi NSF certified or better and of copper tube size from the corporation stop
(connection to the main) to the curb stop at the property line. The
polyethylene pipe shall be of continuous construction in rolls of the
manufacturer’s standard length. Pipe ends shall be cut square and joined using
brass or reinforced insert compression type fittings recommended by the
manufacturer. The water service line shall be a continuous run of pipe from the
water main to the curb stop, no joints shall be allowed. From the curb stop to
the meter valve, any material acceptable under State Plumbing Codes is
acceptable.
   (C)   Shutoff. Within two feet of the point of service entrance to a
building, and from one to three feet above the floor, an approved valve of good
quality and good hydraulic characteristics must be placed so that the water can
be readily shut off from the building. Fullway gate valves or rotary valves,
which include ball, cone and plug types are recommended. However, better
quality compression stops or globe valves are permissible.
   (D)   Taps in excess of two inches; costs. All expenses associated with
making taps in excess of two inches or for extra capacity or special taps for
fire lines, lawn sprinkling systems and the like, shall be made at the
customer’s sole expense. All other such work, such as, but not limited to, any
trench backfilling and compaction work and any surface restoration work shall
be performed by and at the expense of the person installing the water service
line, fire line or combination thereof in question.
   (E)   Safe trench conditions. The person installing a water service line,
fire line or combination thereof, shall be responsible for providing safe
trench conditions for the employees of the city when making a tap to the public
water main. Failure to provide safe trench conditions shall be cause for
immediate refusal by the Water Department to perform any such tapping work.
   (F)   Water from other sources. No person shall make or maintain a
connection with any pipes or private services connected with the city water
supply system so as to obtain water from any source other than the water supply
of the city.
   (G)   Inspection. The customer’s service pipe and all connections and
fixtures attached thereto shall be subject to the inspection of the utility
before the water will be turned on, and all premises receiving a supply of
water and all services pipes, meter and fixtures, including any and all
fixtures within said premises, shall at all reasonable hours be subject to
inspection by any duly authorized employees of the utility. No inspections or
taps will be made after regular working hours, on Saturday, Sunday or city
holidays. Persons requesting an inspection and/or tap to the public water main
shall be ready to have the inspection and/or tap at the time designated by such
persons.
   (H)   Curb box. The curb box shall be set at a location approved by the
utility and shall be accessible at all times.
   (I)   Service pipes passing through or across other premises. Service pipes
supplying premises shall not pass through or across any premises or property
other than that to be supplied, nor across any portion of the property that
could practicably be sold separately from the immediate premises supplied, and
no water pipes or plumbing in any premises shall be extended therefrom to
adjacent or other premises. At no time will it be allowed to extend a water
service which is intended to supply water to a property facing one avenue or
street to another property facing another avenue or street if said water
service has to cross a public right-of-way, such as an avenue, street or alley.
   (J)   Attachment of fixtures. No fixture shall be attached to, or any branch
made in, the service pipe between the meter and the distribution system.
   (K)   Separate service lines. Service pipes shall be so arranged that each
separate building and/or house shall be supplied by a separate service line
from the city main. A valve or curb stop (with box) shall be installed in each
service line so that the supply may be controlled from the street side of the
property line. This curb valve and box must be kept in repair by the owner of
the premises and easily accessible to city utility crews.
   (L)   Ownership; maintenance. Water service lines, fire lines or
combinations thereof, are owned by the owner of the property served. Said
owners shall keep their water service lines, fire lines or combinations thereof
in good repair and condition at all times and in addition to other penalties if
not repaired within ten days after receipt of notice by the Water Department to
do so, water service to the property involved may be discontinued. Except as
otherwise provided herein, all costs and expenses incidental to the
installation of water service lines, fire lines or combinations thereof, or
making connections of same with the public water mains, or making repairs,
alterations or extensions to such facilities, shall be borne by the owners of
said facilities. Water service lines, fire lines or combinations thereof, are
nontransferable and shall run with the property originally served by said
facilities.
   (M)   Permissions required. No plumber or other person shall make
connections with any water main, pipe or other fixture connecting therewith,
connect pipes when they have been disconnected, or turn water on or off on any
premises without permission of the Water Department.
   (N)   Permits issued only to licensed plumbers. Permits for the installation
and repair of service pipes shall be issued to regular licensed plumbers only.
Such work shall conform with the rules and specifications of the Water
Department and other ordinances of the city. All water plumbing work shall be
under the supervision and subject to inspection of the Water Department. The
words “service pipe” as used in this section shall embrace that potion of the
water supply pipe laying between the main and the outlet side of the meter.
   (O)   Curb valves or stops. Curb valves or stops shall be provided with a
stop to enable the operator to tell whether the stop is full open or closed.
The top of the valve may be threaded to attach to the curb box.
   (P)   Single service.
      (1)   Multiple users. Where water is now supplied through one service to
several houses, families or persons such as a trailer court, the Water
Department may decline to furnish water until separate services are provided,
or may continue to furnish water under the conditions that one person shall pay
for all on the same service, and assume full responsibility for the maintenance
and repair of the entire service line.
      (2)   Metering point. Certain multiple building complexes such as trailer
courts, apartment complexes and the like, under one ownership may be metered at
one metering point at the option of the Water Department.
   (Q)   Trenches. All trenches shall be dug at right angles to the main
whenever possible. The trenches shall be of sufficient depth to furnish six and
one-half feet of cover for the pipe. All excavation, backfilling and compaction
shall comply with §§
151.080 through
151.094 for trench backfill and street restoration.
   (R)   Inspections; tests.
      (1)   Excavation permit required. A permit for excavation shall be
obtained from the Public Works Department before any excavation is made in a
dedicated right-of-way.
      (2)   Inspection and approval required. The Public Works Department shall
inspect and approve all water service work for water service pipes two inches
and smaller.
      (3)   Materials and installation. All materials and installation shall
conform to all applicable codes and statutes.
      (4)   Pressure tests. Before any trench is filled, or pipes covered, all
pressure tests shall be conducted satisfactorily.
      (5)   Pressure, leakage and bacteriological tests. For fire lines and
domestic lines larger than two inches in diameter, pressure, leakage and
bacteriological tests shall be conducted in accordance with the Montana Public
Works Standard Specifications, current edition, before acceptance.
      (6)   Inspections.
         (a)   Water service or fire line work. The Director of Public Works,
or authorized representative, shall inspect and approve all water service or
fire line work for lines larger than two inches in diameter from the water main
to the building entrance valve.
         (b)   Piping beyond entrance valve. The Fire Chief or other authorized
representative shall inspect and approve all piping beyond the entrance valve.
         (c)   Replacement pavement, landscaping. The Director of Public Works
or authorized representative shall inspect and approve all replacement of
pavement, right-of-way landscaping, concrete curb box, curb and gutter and
sidewalk removed for the construction or maintenance of water service or fire
lines.
      (7)   Reexcavation. Any trench backfilled before any inspection is
conducted will necessitate the reexcavation of the trench.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-2) (Ord. 03-2001, passed 3-20-2001; Ord. 01-2012, passed 3-
20-2012; Ord. 01-2014, passed 4-1-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Trench backfill and street restoration, see §§
151.080 through
151.094
§ 52.03 RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Water and sewer rates and service charge. Every customer shall pay
water and sewer rates and other water service charges according to the schedule
established by resolution of the City Council, as provided in M.C.A. Title 69,
Chapter 7, part 1; provided, that said resolution shall not have an effective
date until ten days after the date of adoption.
   (B)   Hydrant charge. A hydrant charge shall be assessed yearly against all
taxable property in the city according to a schedule set down by the City
Council, in writing, as provided in M.C.A. Title 69, Chapter 7, part 1.
   (C)   Rate schedule. The City Water Department may adopt either a flat rate
schedule, meter rate schedule, or both, according to such schedule being
established by the City Council, as provided in M.C.A. Title 69, Chapter 7,
part 1.
   (D)   Free water. The Water Department shall not supply free water to any
customer.
   (E)   Connection/disconnection fee. Should the owner of a premises request
to temporarily discontinue the use of the water, or should the premises become
vacant, the city, after receiving a signed request, will shut off the water at
the curb box, if operational. The City Water Department shall charge a fee for
such connection/disconnection of water meters according to a schedule
established by the City Council in accordance with M.C.A. Title 69, Chapter 7,
part 1.
   (F)   Reestablishment fee. The City Water Department shall charge a
reestablishment fee, according to a schedule established by resolution of the
City Council, in accordance with M.C.A. Title 69, Chapter 7, part 1, for
turning off/on the curb stop if the disconnection is caused by the delinquent
payment of water rate fees by the customer or because of damage to the water
meter, or connections thereto, because of the customer’s failure to maintain
water service lines and fire lines, as set forth in §
52.02(L), or to provide appropriate precautions to prevent the freezing of
water meters.
   (G)   Water and sewer connection fees. The City Council shall adopt water
and sewer connection fee schedules by resolution as deemed necessary. Fee
schedules shall be available to the public at the City Hall.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-3) (Ord. 03-2001, passed 3-20-2001; Ord. 01-2012, passed 3-
20-2012)
§ 52.04 FLAT RATES; FURNISHING WATER WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   (A)   Flat rate. Flat rates will cover the use of water for domestic use
where impractical to meter.
   (B)   Furnishing water without permission. If a customer furnishes other
people with water without permission from the Water Department or uses water
for purposes other than those the consumer is paying for, it is a violation of
the consumer’s contract with the utility.
   (C)   Notice of violation; discontinuance of service. Ten days after the
consumer in violation has received written notice from the Water Department,
the Water Department may have the water shut off and service discontinued.
   (D)   Service reestablished. When the unauthorized service has been paid
for, together with payment of the reconnecting charge, service will be
reestablished.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-4) (Ord. 03-2001, passed 3-20-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.05 METERS.
   (A)   Owned, maintained and operated by city. The Water Department shall
provide meters and shall continue to own, maintain and operate equipment
necessary for the regulation and measurement of water. Where additional meters
are requested by the customer and are furnished by the Water Department for the
convenience of the customer, a charge for such meters shall be made.
   (B)   Replacement. The Water Department may replace any meter at such time
as it may see fit and shall be the judge of the size of any meter installed.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-5) (Ord. 03-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 52.06 SECONDARY METERS.
   (A)   The Water Department will not make collections for any secondary
meters, and all water charges for any single building must be paid by one
consumer when water is supplied by meter measurement through one service.
   (B)   In no case will the Water Department furnish water from one meter to
two or more houses, whether the same are owned by one person or not.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-6) (Ord. 03-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 52.07 TEMPORARY METERS FOR CONSTRUCTION SITES.
   Water for construction purposes will be furnished through temporary meters
and paid for at the regular meter rates. In addition to the cost of the water,
the customer will be required to pay the actual cost of setting and removing
the temporary meter. In case it is not possible or practical to set a temporary
meter, the cost will be determined by applying the regular meter rates to a
quantity of water estimated by the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-7) (Ord. 03-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 52.08 LOCATION AND INSTALLATION OF METERS.
   (A)   Removal and replacement of obstruction. The removal and replacement of
any obstruction which interferes with the installation of the water meter is
the responsibility of the property owner.
   (B)   Insufficient space. When insufficient space is available in existing
water piping to accept a proper meter installation, the cost of plumbing
modifications or special meter setting equipment shall be charged to the
property owner.
   (C)   New construction. For new construction, the permittee shall fully
install the meter and appurtenances. The meter shall be furnished by the city.
   (D)   Leaking or defective water shutoff valve. A leaking or otherwise
defective water shutoff valve must be replaced in order to facilitate meter
installation. The property owner must replace this valve with all costs and
installation to be charged to the property owner. Curb box locations and
shutoff services to accommodate valve replacement will be provided by the city
at no charge during normal working hours.
   (E)   Installation. Every displacement meter, compound meter and turbo meter
shall be installed level in a horizontal plane with register or registers
facing upward.
   (F)   Valve on inlet side of meter. Every meter setting shall include an
approved valve at the inlet side of the meter thereby enabling service or
replacement of the meter. It is recommended that a valve be placed on the
outlet side of the meter to prevent back flooding during meter replacement.
   (G)   Meter box or meter vault. When required by the Water Department, an
easily accessible outside meter box or meter vault shall be installed by and at
the customer’s expense on each service line serving each separate building. The
location of the meter box or vault shall be designated by the Water Department.
All meter boxes or meter vaults shall be constructed in accordance with plans
and specifications approved by the Water Department and Public Works Director.
Pursuant to conditions of this chapter, customers must keep their meter boxes
or meter vaults in good repair and condition at all times.
   (H)   Frost protection. In all cases where meters are installed, the
customer shall furnish proper protection from frost or other damage. Cost of
parts replaced on meters damaged due to customer neglect or misuse shall be
borne by the customer.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-8) (Ord. 03-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 52.09 ACCESS TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   Location of meter. The meter must be located where it is easily
accessible for reading purposes and repair.
   (B)   Remote receptacle.
      (1)   When required. Where a meter is located inside a home or building
where access is not readily available, the Water Department may install a
remote receptacle on the exterior of a home or building accessible for meter
reading.
      (2)   Location. The location of the remote receptacle shall be determined
by the Water Department for convenience of reading. Receptacles shall not be
placed behind any shrub or vegetation and the city may relocate if fences or
structure changes block direct access to the receptacle.
      (3)   Height. The remote receptacle height shall be determined by the
Water Department, but in no case shall it be less than 30 inches above ground
level.
   (C)   Department access. The Water Department with proper credentials and
identification shall at all reasonable times have access to meters and other
property owned by it on the customer’s premises, for purpose of maintenance,
operation, inspection, sampling and testing. Where reasonable notice by the
Water Department has been given, neglect or refusal on the part of customers to
provide reasonable access to their premises for the above purposes shall be
deemed to be sufficient cause for discontinuance of service on the part of the
Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-9) (Ord. 03-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 52.10 INTERFERENCE WITH METER.
   (A)   Meter seal broken; damage to working parts. Water consumers are not
permitted to interfere in any way with the meter and appurtenances thereto
after it is set in place. In case the meter seal is broken or the working parts
of the meter have been tampered with or the meter damaged, the city may render
a bill for the current month, based on an average of the previous quarter or
the same quarter of the previous year, if available, whichever the city
determines more accurately reflects water usage for the inaccurate period,
together with the full cost of such damage as has been done to the meter, and
may refuse to furnish water until account is paid in full.
   (B)   Liability to utility. A person who bypasses or tampers, either for his
or her own benefit or the benefit of another, with any metering device is
liable to the utility as provided in M.C.A. §§ 69-4-1101 through 69-4-1104.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-10) (Ord. 03-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 52.11 SERVICE INTERRUPTIONS.
   (A)   Reasonable effort to avoid. The Water Department shall make reasonable
effort to avoid interruptions of service and, when interruptions occur, shall
reestablish service with reasonable diligence.
   (B)   Liability. The Water Department shall not be liable to the customer or
others for failure or interruption of water service due to acts of God,
governmental regulations, court or commissioner orders, acts of a public enemy,
strikes or labor difficulties, accidents, weather conditions, acts of third
parties, droughts or, without limitation by the foregoing, any other cause
beyond the reasonable control of the Water Department.
   (C)   Notice of interruption. Wherever possible, the Water Department shall
give individual notice of service interruption; however, general advice by
newspaper in the affected area or radio or television announcement shall meet
the notice requirement.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-11) (Ord. 03-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 52.12 APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   Written application. All customers desiring water service must make
written application at the office of the Water Department on printed forms
provided therefor, setting forth in said application all purposes for which
water will be used upon their premises. In cases where the customer is not the
owner of the premises, the customer is primarily liable for payment for his or
her water service and the property owner is ultimately liable for such payment.
   (B)   Signature of property owner required. All applications for the
introduction of water service to any premises must be signed by the property
owner.
   (C)   Change of contracting customer. Any change in the identity of the
contracting customer at a premises will require a new application for water
service.
   (D)   Deposit required. All customers applying for water service who are
tenants shall pay a deposit upon application as set forth by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-12) (Ord. 03-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 52.13 CONSUMER INFORMATION.
   (A)   Provided by Department. The Water Department shall, upon request give
its customers such information and assistance as is reasonable, in order that
customers may secure safe and efficient service.
   (B)   Explanation of rates. The Water Department shall explain to the
customer at the beginning of service, or whenever the customer shall request,
the Water Department rates applicable to the type of service furnished. The
Water Department shall also supply the customer, upon request, a copy of the
Water Department rate or rates applicable to the type of service to be
furnished.
   (C)   Records maintained for inspection. The Water Department shall maintain
in its office for inspection by the public, the following:
      (1)   A copy of the rates, rules and regulations of the Water Department
and forms of applications; and
      (2)   A copy of these rules and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-13) (Ord. 03-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 52.14 BILLING INFORMATION.
   (A)   Meter readings. Bills shall show the readings of the meter at the
beginning and end of the period for which the bill is rendered, the date of the
meter readings, the number of cubic feet or gallons of water supplied and the
authorized rate or approved flat rate.
   (B)   Opening and closing bills. Opening and closing bills, monthly or
quarterly, for water service rendering for periods of five days or more or five
days less than the normal billing period will be computed in accordance with
the rate applicable to that service, by the amount of water blocks.
   (C)   Reading of meters.
      (1)   The Water Department shall normally read meters for all urban
customers at monthly or bimonthly intervals. The day of the month for reading
any meter as determined by the Water Department shall as closely as practicable
be the same for each reading.
      (2)   The Water Department, at its option, and subject to the approval of
the City Council, may read the meters at less frequent intervals if in the
opinion of the Water Department such procedure contributes to certain operating
economics, but in no instance shall a meter be read less than once in six
months.
   (D)   Readings by customer. In months when meters are not read, the Water
Department may provide the customer with a postcard and request the customer to
read the meter and return the card to the Water Department. If such postcard is
not received by the utility in time for billing, the Water Department may
estimate meter readings and render a bill accordingly.
   (E)   Delinquency. Each bill shall be delinquent on the thirtieth of each
month and service shall be discontinued by the tenth of the following month.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-14) (Ord. 03-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 52.15 ADJUSTMENT OF BILLS.
   In case of a dispute as to the accuracy of a meter, the consumer, upon
depositing the estimated cost of making a test, may demand that the meter be
removed and tested as to accuracy, in his or her presence.
   (A)   Meter working correctly. In case the meter is found to be registering
correctly or in favor of the consumer, the cost of such testing and replacing
of the meter shall be borne by the consumer.
   (B)   Incorrect reading. In case the meter is found to be recording
incorrectly and against the consumer, the amount deposited by the consumer will
be refunded and a reasonable adjustment made for overcharges during a period of
not exceeding 60 days previous to the demand of the consumer for such test.
   (C)   Meter stopped. In case a meter is found stopped for any reason, so
that it is not correctly recording the consumption of water, the Water
Department may average the amount due for the current month, using the past two
months as a basis for such average.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-15) (Ord. 03-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 52.16 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Investigation of complaints. The Water Department shall make a full
and prompt investigation of all complaints made to it by its customers. In the
event that the complaint is not adjusted, the Water Department will notify the
customer that he or she has the privilege of appeal to the consumer service
representative of the Public Service Commission.
   (B)   Billing disputes. In the event of a dispute between the customer and
the utility respecting any bill, the Water Department shall make forthwith such
investigation as shall be required by the particular case and report the result
thereof to the customer. In the event that the complaint is not adjusted, the
Water Department shall notify the customer that he or she has the privilege of
appeal to the consumer service representative of the Public Service Commission.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-16) (Ord. 03-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 52.17 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Customer discontinuance.
      (1)   Notice required. Every customer who is about to vacate any premises
supplied with service by the Water Department, or who for any reason wishes to
have service discontinued, shall give at least 24 hours’ notice thereof to the
Water Department, specifying the date on which it is desired that service be
discontinued. Until the Water Department shall have such notice, the customer
shall be held responsible for all service rendered.
      (2)   Temporary discontinuance. Should the consumer desire to discontinue
the use of water temporarily, the Water Department, when notified to do so in
writing, will shut off the water at the curb. No deduction in bill will be made
for the time any service pipes may be frozen.
   (B)   Utility discontinuance.
      (1)   Notice of discontinuance.
         (a)   Attempt for compliance. The Water Department shall not
discontinue service to any customer for violation of rules and regulations for
nonpayment of bills without first having tried diligently to induce the
customer to comply with its rules and regulations, or to pay his or her bills.
A record of such effort shall be maintained.
         (b)   Notice. Service shall be discontinued after seven days’ written
notice has been given to the customer by the utility that bills are delinquent
or that violation of rules must cease; provided, however, that where fraudulent
use of water is detected, or where the Water Department’s regulating or
measuring equipment has been tampered with, or where a dangerous condition is
found to exist on the customer’s premises, the water may be shut off without
notice in advance.
      (2)   Charge for reconnection.
         (a)   Turned off due to violation. Whenever the supply of water is
turned off for the violation of rules and regulations, nonpayment of bills or
fraudulent use of water, the Water Department may make a charge as set forth in
its regulations for reestablishing service.
         (b)   Turned off for nonpayment. After service has been turned off
because of nonpayment, service shall not be turned on again until all back
water bills have been paid or an agreeable pay arrangement has been made,
together with a turn on charge as set forth in its regulations.
         (c)   Discontinued at request of customer. If service is discontinued
at the request of the customer, the Water Department may refuse service to such
customer, at the same premises, unless it shall first receive payment as set
forth in its regulations for the reconnecting charge.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-17) (Ord. 03-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 52.18 REFUSAL TO SERVE APPLICANT.
   (A)   Compliance with rules and regulations. The Water Department may
decline to serve an applicant until he or she has complied with the rules and
regulations governing water service.
   (B)   Installation of piping equipment. The Water Department may refuse to
serve an applicant if, in its judgment, the applicant’s installation of piping
equipment is regarded as hazardous, illegal or of such character that
satisfactory service cannot be given.
   (C)   Duty to inform. In the event that the utility shall refuse to serve an
applicant under the provisions of this rule, the utility must inform the
applicant that the request may be submitted to the commission for decision.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-18) (Ord. 03-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 52.19 SPRINKLING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Power to regulate use; publication of notice. In the interest of
preventing waste and promoting conservation of water during periods of high
usage and water shortage, the Water Department may specify the hours and days
during which sprinkling will be permitted and will publish notice thereof in
newspapers at the start of the sprinkling restriction period.
   (B)   Waste.
      (1)   Power to determine. The Water Department may make a reasonable
determination based upon existing facts whether a customer is using water in a
wasteful manner.
      (2)   Notice to customer. When the Water Department discovers any
customer failing to observe the hours and days for sprinkling service or
wasting water, it shall deliver to such customer a copy of the notice of hours
and days of sprinkling and shall advise the customer of the conservation fee
which is to be charged if water is wasted or the specified sprinkling hours or
days are not observed by the customer. If the customer is not at home at the
time the Water Department discovers the customer’s waste of water or failure to
observe the specified sprinkling times, then the Water Department shall leave a
notice of the violation at the customer’s door and it shall be deemed the
customer has been adequately notified.
      (3)   Conservation fee. If this customer is found to be wasting water or
failing to observe specified sprinkling times at a subsequent time during the
sprinkling restriction, the Water Department may charge and bill the customer a
“conservation fee” equal to the current average cost which would be incurred
had the Water Department actually disconnected and connected the customer’s
water service.
      (4)   Discontinuance of service. If the customer does not pay the charge
(s) within seven days’ written notice, the Water Department may discontinue
service until paid.
      (5)   Extraordinary expense. Extraordinary expense incurred by the Water
Department to discontinue service and subsequent reconnecting shall be paid by
the customer.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-19) (Ord. 03-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 52.20 PREVENTION OF FREEZING.
   If there is a general danger of freezing of the Water Department mains or of
customer’s service lines, the Water Department may inform its customers that
the water may be run to prevent freezing at no additional cost. The water then
will be billed only for the amount based on average use rather than actual
amounts determined by meter readings until the danger of freezing has passed.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-20) (Ord. 03-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 52.21 HYDRANTS.
   (A)   All fire hydrants not installed on private lines or systems shall be
the property of the Water Department. Those hydrants installed in newly
developed areas shall be the type specified by the Water Department.
   (B)   All hydrants owned by the Water Department shall be properly
maintained, and said cost of maintenance and operation shall be charged to the
city tax rolls where the distribution of costs will be based upon the taxable
value of the property.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-21) (Ord. 03-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 52.22 PRIVATE FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE.
   (A)   Special application. Service connections for water taken for the
extinguishment of fires shall be made only under the terms of and conditions
contained in the “Special Application” for such service, a copy of which is on
file in the Water Department.
   (B)   Advance approval required. The customer must agree to obtain in
advance the approval of the Water Department for any change, alteration or
addition in the fixtures, openings and uses specified in the applications.
   (C)   Connection. The Water Department shall determine the location of any
connections made to its distribution mains for private fire protection service.
Size of service shall be made by a qualified sprinkler design company. At the
cost and expense of the customer, the connection to the distribution system
shall be made by a plumber licensed to practice in the state.
   (D)   Materials. Fire lines and domestic lines over two inches in diameter
shall be C900 Class 200 PVC or ductile iron. When C900 Class 200 pipe is used,
it can run to a point ten feet outside the building foundation. From that
point, the material used shall be of ductile iron the remainder of the way into
the building up to the water meter or fire system apparatus.
   (E)   Extent of rights. The extent of the rights of the private fire
protection service customer is to receive, but only at times of fire on his or
her premises, such supply of water as shall then be available. The Water
Department shall not be considered in any manner an insurer of property or
persons, or to have undertaken to extinguish fire or to protect any persons or
property against loss or all claims for damages on account of any injury to
property or persons by reason of fire, water, failure to supply water or
pressure, or for any other cause whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-22) (Ord. 03-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 52.23 EXTENSION OF MAINS.
   (A)   Service outside corporate limits. The Water Department shall not
furnish water to consumers outside the corporate limits of the city. Upon
annexation of any tract to the city, the developer or developers shall provide
the Water Department with complete plans and specifications and an engineering
report accepted by the State Department of Environmental Quality.
   (B)   New system or major alteration or extension.
      (1)   Review and approval of Department of Health and Environmental
Services. Before any construction of a new system or major alteration or
extension of any existing public water system, an engineering report along with
necessary plans and specifications for the public water system shall be
submitted to the Department of Environmental Quality for review and approval.
The acceptance of plans will be completed before construction commences.
      (2)   Costs. Cost of the design, engineering study and all material for
the extension shall be borne by the area receiving service or the developer
thereof.
      (3)   Acceptance of system; maintenance. Upon acceptance of the new
system, or extension of existing mains by the Water Department, maintenance of
the main line will be provided by the Water Department and will become part of
the overall water system.
      (4)   Reservation of right. The Water Department shall reserve the right
to specify the necessary size of main for any and all extensions and new
systems.
   (C)   Specifications. All water main line and appurtenances design, service
line design, fire line design and combinations thereof, along with the
installation of all water main line, service line, fire line and combinations
thereof shall meet all specifications as set forth in the most current edition
of Montana Public Works Standard Specifications.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-23) (Ord. 03-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 52.24 GUARANTEE.
   (A)   Required. Persons who contract to make connections to public water
mains, or to install water service lines, fire lines or combinations thereof,
or to make repairs, alterations or extensions to such facilities, shall
guarantee all materials and equipment furnished and work performed for a period
of one year from the date of completion of said work.
   (B)   Defects.
      (1)   Necessary corrections. Said persons warrant guarantee for a period
of one year from the date of completion of the work that said completed work is
free from all defects due to faulty materials or workmanship, and such persons
shall promptly make such corrections as may be necessary by reason of such
defects, including the repairs of any damage to the public water main resulting
from such defects.
      (2)   Notice of defects. The city shall give notice of observed defects
with reasonable promptness.
      (3)   Failure to correct defects. In the event the persons performing
such work should fail to make such repairs, adjustments or the work that may be
made necessary by such defects, the city may make arrangements for the
performance of such work by others and charge such persons the cost thereby
incurred.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-24) (Ord. 03-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 52.25 DAMAGE TO UTILITY FACILITIES.
   (A)   The person installing water service lines, fire lines or combinations
thereof, shall cause to be immediately repaired at his or her expense, any
damage to the public mains occasioned by his or her operations.
   (B)   No person(s) shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the utility facilities of the Water Department.
Any person(s) violating this provision shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   It is an offense punishable pursuant to the general penalty provided
in §
10.99 for any person to do the following:
      (1)   To open, close, turn or interfere with, or attach to, or connect to
a fire hydrant, stop valve or main line valve belonging to the Water Department
without proper permission; and
      (2)   To throw any deleterious matter into the river within 3,000 feet of
the inlet pipes to the water treatment plant pumping works.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-25) (Ord. 03-2001, passed 3-20-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.26 UNDERGROUND UTILITY INFORMATION.
   The state statutes set forth certain procedures for obtaining information
concerning underground utilities prior to making or beginning any excavation in
any public street, alley, right-of-way dedicated to public use or utility
easement. The statutes also set forth penalties for failure to comply with the
provisions enumerated therein. Persons making excavations within the city
limits must comply with the provisions of said state statutes when making
connections to public water mains, or installing water service lines, fire
lines or combinations thereof, or making repairs, alterations or extensions to
such facilities.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-26) (Ord. 03-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 52.27 ABANDONED WATER SERVICE LINES.
   Property owners desiring to abandon water service lines, fire lines or
combinations thereof, or who are removing structures from property, shall cause
such water service lines, fire lines or combinations thereof, to be
disconnected at their expense at the point of delivery or connection with the
public water main if the material used in such line is not of acceptable
material. If the service line is copper from the curb stop to the city water
main, it shall be physically disconnected from the building side of the
controlling curb stop. The curb box shall be reset over curb stops for live
water services remaining. The corporation cock, tapping valve or service valve
at the public water main shall be sealed by the Water Department when same is
exposed and the person disconnecting the water service line, fire lines or
combinations thereof, has disconnected same. Old water service lines, fire
lines or combinations thereof, may be used in connection with new buildings
only when they are found on examination and/or test by the Water Department to
meet the requirements of these and all other applicable rules and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-27) (Ord. 03-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 52.28 WATER SERVICE LINE STUBOUTS.
   Pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of M.C.A. § 7-12-4133, as
amended, connections from the public water main to the property line of the
adjacent property shall be made prior to the permanent improvement of the
streets whereon they are located. The making of such connections on streets
already improved, or on unimproved streets, shall be in accordance with all
applicable provisions of these rules and regulations. In case the owners of the
property on such streets fail to make such connections prior to the
commencement of such street improvements, the city may cause such connections
to be made and shall assess against the property in front of which said
connections are made the entire cost and expense thereof. All assessments
levied under the provisions of this section shall be enforced and collected in
the same manner as other special assessments provided for in M.C.A. Title 7,
Chapter 6, part 44, and amendments thereof.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-28) (Ord. 03-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
CHAPTER 53: PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Purpose and policy
   
53.002   Administration
   
53.003   Abbreviations
   
53.004   Definitions
General Sewer Use Requirements
   
53.015   Prohibited discharge standards
   
53.016   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
53.017   Site-specific limits
   
53.018   Best management practices (BMPs)
   
53.019   Confidential business information
   
53.020   Dilution
   
53.021   Slug discharge control
Pretreatment of Wastewater
   
53.035   Pretreatment facilities
   
53.036   Additional pretreatment and monitoring requirements
Notification and Reporting
   
53.050   Industrial user questionnaire
   
53.051   Notification of change in discharge
   
53.052   Notification of hazardous waste discharge
   
53.053   Report of potential problems
   
53.054   Authorized signature for reports
   
53.055   Recordkeeping
Compliance and Enforcement
   
53.070   Time for compliance
   
53.071   Additional information
   
53.072   Right of entry
Administration and Enforcement
   
53.085   Notification of violation
   
53.086   Suspension of service
   
53.087   Administrative order
   
53.088   Judicial enforcement remedies
Trucked and Hauled Waste
   
53.100   Hauled wastewater
   
53.101   RV disposal stations
 
   
53.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for industrial users
(“IUs”) of the publicly owned treatment works (“POTW”) for the city related to
pretreatment. It is intended to enable the POTW to comply with its national
pollutant discharge elimination system (“NPDES”) permit from the State
Department of Environmental Quality as well as all applicable state and federal
laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.) and the general
pretreatment regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403). The objectives of this chapter
are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will
interfere with its operation;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will
pass through the POTW, inadequately treated, into receiving waters or otherwise
be incompatible with the POTW;
      (3)   To protect both POTW personnel, who may be affected by wastewater
and sludge in the course of their employment, and the general public;
      (4)   To promote and protect the reuse and recycling of wastewater and
sludge from the POTW; and
      (5)   To enable the POTW to comply with its NPDES permit conditions,
sludge use and disposal requirements, and any other federal or state laws to
which the POTW is subject.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all IUs of the POTW.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-1-1) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 53.002 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the POTW shall administer, implement
and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to or duties
imposed upon the POTW may be delegated to a duly authorized municipality
employee.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-1-2) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 53.003 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings.
BMPs   Best Management Practices
BOD    Biochemical oxygen demand
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
CIU    Categorical industrial user
COD    Chemical oxygen demand
EPA    U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
gpd    Gallons per day
IU     Industrial user
mg/l   Milligrams per liter
NPDES  National pollutant discharge elimination system
POTW   Publicly owned treatment works
SIU    Significant industrial user
TSS    Total suspended solids
U.S.C. United States Code
 
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-1-3) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 53.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE IU. An authorized or duly authorized
representative of an IU may be: municipality designate or Wastewater
Superintendent as the minimum supervisory level, to be charged with duties and
responsibilities by this chapter. The term also means a duly authorized
representative of the Wastewater Superintendent.
      (1)   If the IU is a corporation:
         (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision making functions for the corporations; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production or
operating facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management
decisions which govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment recommendations,
and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure long-term
environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can ensure
that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather complete
and accurate information for control mechanism requirements; and where
authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the IU is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
      (3)   If the IU is a federal, state or local government facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the governmental facility or their
designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in divisions (1) through (3) of this
definition may designate another authorized representative if the authorization
is in writing, the authorization specifies the individual or position
responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge
originates or having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the
company, and the written authorization is submitted to the city.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). Schedules of activities, prohibition of
practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions listed in 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(a)(1) and (b) and §
53.015. BMPs also include treatment requirements, operating procedures and
practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste
disposal or drainage from raw materials storage or sector control programs to
control pollutants from certain non-domestic sectors.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20°C, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/l).
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER (CIU). Any IUs subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard or categorical standard.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with §
307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) that apply to a specific category
of IUs and that appear in 40 C.F.R. Chapter 1, subchapter N, parts 405 through
471.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). A measure of the oxygen required to oxidize
all compounds, both organic and inorganic, in water.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The term refers to:
      (1)   The POTW if the POTW’s pretreatment program has been submitted and
approved in accordance with the requirements of 40 C.F.R. § 403.11; or
      (2)   The EPA if the POTW’s pretreatment program has not been approved.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA). The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water Management Division Director,
the Regional Administrator or other duly authorized official of said Agency.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The introduction of any pollutant into the
POTW from any non-domestic source regulated under § 307(b), (c) or (d) of the
Act.
   INDUSTRIAL USER (IU). A source of indirect discharge.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, both:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
      (2)   Therefore, is a cause of a violation of the city’s NPDES permit
(including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation) or of the
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the
following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any
more stringent state or local regulations: § 405 of the Act; the Solid Waste
Disposal Act, being 42 U.S.C. Chapter 82, including Title II, commonly referred
to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), being 42 U.S.C. §§
6901 et seq.; any state regulations contained in any state sludge management
plan prepared pursuant to subtitle D of the Solid Waste Disposal Act; the Clean
Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.; the Toxic Substances Control Act,
being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.; and the Marine Protection, Research and
Sanctuaries Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.
   LOCAL LIMIT. Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the POTW
upon industrial or commercial facilities (IUs) to implement the general and
specific discharge prohibitions listed in 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(a)(1) and (b) and §
53.016.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis
wastes.
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling that does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or
finished product.
   PASSTHROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the city’s NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state and local governmental
entities.
   pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in
standard units.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, flow,
TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity or odor).
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW which is designed to provide
treatment (including recycling and reclamation) of municipal sewage and
industrial waste.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, a discharge of such pollutants into the
POTW. This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or
biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants, unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment imposed on an IU, other than a pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards and local limits, including BMPs.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain pollutants; these prohibitions
appear in §
53.015.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works, as defined by §
212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned by a state or municipality
(as defined by § 502(4) of the Act). This definition includes any devices and
systems used in the storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal
sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It also includes sewers, pipes
and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to a POTW treatment plant.
The term also means the municipality, as defined in § 502(4) of the Act, which
has jurisdiction over the indirect discharges to and the discharges from such a
treatment works.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers and septic tanks.
   SEWAGE. Human excrement and gray water (as from showers, dishwashing
operations, sinks, baths or washing machines).
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU). All IUs subject to categorical
pretreatment standards under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6 and 40 C.F.R. Chapter I,
subchapter N; and any other IU that:
      (1)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of process
wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling water and boiler
blowdown wastewater);
      (2)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up 5% or more of the
average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment plant;
or
      (3)   Is designated as such by the control authority on the basis that
the IU has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation
or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement (in accordance with
40 C.F.R. § 403.80(f)(6)).
   SLUG LOAD or SLUG DISCHARGE. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration,
which could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in §
53.015. A SLUG DISCHARGE is any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature,
including, but not limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary batch
discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or
passthrough, or in any other way violate the POTW’s regulations, local limits
or pretreatment requirements.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS, SUSPENDED SOLIDS or TSS. The total suspended matter
that floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other
liquid, and that is removable by laboratory filtering.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried pollutants from residential dwellings,
commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing facilities, and
institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are contributed to the POTW.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-1-4) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016)
GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 53.015 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No IU shall introduce or cause to be introduced
into the POTW any pollutant which causes passthrough or interference. These
general prohibitions and the specific prohibitions in division (B) below apply
to all IUs of the POTW whether or not they are subject to categorical
pretreatment standards or any other national, state or local pretreatment
standards or requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions.
      (1)   No IU shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the POTW the
following pollutants:
         (a)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
         (b)   Wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or otherwise causing
corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
         (c)   Solid or viscous pollutants in amounts which will cause
obstruction of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference. Solid or viscous
pollutants shall not be discharged whole or ground by garbage grinders. This
includes, but is not limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, oil and grease from food
service establishments, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers,
tar, plastics, wood, underground garbage, paunch manure, hair and flesh,
entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like;
         (d)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like), released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause
interference with the POTW;
         (e)   Heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the
POTW resulting in interference, but in no case heat in such quantities that the
temperature at the POTW treatment plant exceeds 40°C (104°F) unless the
approval authority, upon request of the POTW, approves alternate temperature
limits;
         (f)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or passthrough;
         (g)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
         (h)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW in accordance with § 53.0100;
         (i)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
         (j)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
POTW treatment plant, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the POTW treatment
plant’s effluent, thereby violating the city’s NPDES permit;
         (k)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
         (l)   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the city;
         (m)   Sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
         (n)    Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the POTW treatment plant’s effluent to fail toxicity tests;
         (o)   Detergents, surface-active agents or other pollutants that might
cause excessive foaming in the POTW or receiving waters;
         (p)   Fats, oils or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations which could cause a problem to the collection system or the POTW
(e.g., restricted flow in pipes, sewage backups, lift station operation issues,
decreased treatment and the like);
         (q)   Wastewater causing a reading on an explosion hazard meter at the
point of discharge into the POTW, or at any point in the POTW;
         (r)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage
grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions,
restaurants, hospitals, catering establishment or similar places where garbage
originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of
consumption on the premises or when served by caterers. However, garbage
grinders shall only be used to grind small amounts of garbage incidental to
cleaning of plates, cookware and the like, and not to dispose of large
quantities of waste. Waste must be scraped into a garbage can prior to
cleaning;
         (s)   Unusual biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), chemical oxygen demand
(COD) or total suspended solids (TSS) in quantities as to constitute a
significant additional load on the POTW;
         (t)   Wastewater containing pollutants which are not amenable to
transport, treatment or reduction in concentration by the POTW and POTW
treatment plant processes employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such a
degree that the POTW treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of
regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over discharge of effluent to the
receiving waters;
         (u)   Wastewater which, by interaction with other wastewater in the
POTW, releases obnoxious gases, forms suspended solids which interfere with the
collection system or creates a condition deleterious to structures and
treatment processes; and/or
         (v)   Wastewater causing two readings on an explosion hazard meter at
the point of discharge into the POTW, or at any point in the POTW of more than
5% or any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive limit of the meter.
      (2)   Liquid wastes from chemical toilets, trailers, campers or other
recreational vehicles which have been collected or held in tanks or other
containers shall not be discharged into the POTW except at locations authorized
by the city to collect such wastes.
      (3)   Pollutants, substances or wastewater prohibited by this division
(B) shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be
discharged to the POTW.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-2-1) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.016 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Categorical industrial users (CIUs) must comply with applicable categorical
pretreatment standards found at 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, subchapter N, parts 405
through 471. In order to facilitate notification from the POTW to the control
authority regarding discharges from CIUs, CIUs shall notify the city at least
90 days prior to discharge. CIUs also have additional sampling, reporting and
notification requirements to the control authority.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-2-2) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 53.017 SITE-SPECIFIC LIMITS.
   The POTW may establish local limits, additional site-specific pollutant
limits, best management practices or additional pretreatment requirements when,
in the judgment of the city, such limitations are necessary to implement the
provisions of this chapter, including the discharge prohibitions in §
53.015. These additional limits shall require public notice prior to
implementation by the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-2-3) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 53.018 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS).
   (A)   The POTW may develop BMPs to implement the prohibitions of §
53.015. BMPs shall be considered pretreatment standards and local limits for
purposes of this chapter and § 307(d) of the Act.
   (B)   The POTW may establish specific sector control programs for industrial
users to control specific pollutants, as necessary, to meet the objectives of
this chapter. Pollutants subject to these sector control programs will
generally be controlled using BMPs or by permits, as determined by the POTW.
These sector control programs shall not limit the POTW’s authority to inspect,
sample, require reports, enforce or otherwise carry out its responsibility
under this chapter.
   (C)   The specific sector control program BMPs and requirements shall be
developed and documented in a policy, which shall be public noticed. Elements
of a BMP-based sector control program may include, but are not limited to the
following:
      (1)   Installation of appropriately-sized treatment;
      (2)   Requirements for prohibitions on certain practices or discharges;
      (3)   Requirements for the operation and maintenance of treatment
equipment; and
      (4)   Procedures for compliance certification, reporting and records
retention.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-2-4) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 53.019 CONFIDENTIAL BUSINESS INFORMATION.
   (A)   All records, reports, data or other information supplied by any person
or industrial user as a result of any disclosure required by this chapter or
information and data from inspections shall be available for public inspection
except as otherwise provided in this section, 40 C.F.R. § 403.14 and applicable
statutes of state law. These provisions shall not be applicable to any
information designated as a trade secret by the person supplying such
information. Materials designated as a trade secret may include, but shall not
be limited to, processes, operations, style of work or apparatus or
confidential commercial or statistical data. Any information and data submitted
by the industrial user which is desired to be considered a trade secret shall
have the words “Confidential Business Information” stamped on each page
containing such information. The industrial user must demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the POTW that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade
secrets of the industrial user.
   (B)   Information designated as a trade secret pursuant to this section
shall remain confidential and shall not be subject to public inspection. Such
information shall be available only to officers, employees or authorized
representatives of the POTW charged with implementing and enforcing the
provisions of this chapter and properly identified representatives of the EPA
and the State Department of Environmental Quality. Effluent data from any
industrial user whether obtained by self-monitoring, monitoring by the POTW or
monitoring by any state or federal agency, shall not be considered a trade
secret or otherwise confidential. All such effluent data shall be available for
public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-2-5) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 53.020 DILUTION.
   No IU shall increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt to
dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment
to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly authorized
by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The POTW may impose mass
limitations on IUs who are using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment
standards or requirements, or in other cases when the imposition of mass
limitations is appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-2-6) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 53.021 SLUG DISCHARGE CONTROL.
   (A)   Each industrial user shall provide protection from accidental
discharges and slug loads of pollutants regulated under this chapter.
Facilities to prevent the discharge of spills or slug loads shall be provided
and maintained at the industrial user’s expense.
   (B)   The POTW may evaluate whether each industrial user needs a spill
prevention and control plan or other action to control spills and slug
discharges. The POTW may require an industrial user to develop, submit for
approval and implement a slug/spill plan or take such other action that may be
necessary to control spills and slug discharges.
   (C)   A slug/spill plan shall include, at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   Detailed plans (schematics) showing facility layout and plumbing
representative of operating procedures;
      (2)   Description of contents and volumes of any process tanks;
      (3)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (4)   Listing of stored chemicals, including location and volumes;
      (5)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of any spill or slug
discharge. It is the responsibility of the industrial user to comply with the
reporting requirements in §
53.018;
      (6)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response; and
      (7)   Any other information as required by the POTW.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-6) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016)
PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER
§ 53.035 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   IUs shall provide wastewater treatment, as necessary, to comply with
this chapter and shall achieve compliance prior to discharge. Any facilities
necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated and maintained at the IU’s
expense. Detailed plans describing such facilities and operating procedures
shall be submitted to the POTW for review and shall be acceptable to the POTW
before such facilities are constructed. Acceptance by the POTW of any such
facilities shall not be construed as a guarantee or agreement by the POTW that
such facilities will achieve compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   The review of such plans and operating procedures shall in no way
relieve the IU from the responsibility of modifying such facilities, as
necessary, to produce a discharge acceptable to the POTW under the provisions
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-3-1) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 53.036 ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT AND MONITORING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, the POTW may require an IU to restrict its
discharge, designate that certain wastewater be discharged only into specific
sewers, relocate and/or consolidate points of discharge, separate domestic
wastestreams from non-domestic wastestreams and impose such other conditions as
may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine the IU’s compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The POTW may require any persons discharging into the POTW to install
and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable storage and
flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow.
   (C)   (1)   The POTW may require any person discharging into the POTW to
install at the owner’s or operator’s own expense suitable monitoring facilities
or equipment which isolates appropriate wastewater discharges into the
wastewater system and facilitates accurate observation, sampling and
measurement of discharges. The equipment shall be maintained in proper working
order and kept safe and accessible without restriction to POTW personnel at all
times.
      (2)   Where practical, the monitoring equipment shall be located and
maintained on the industrial user’s premises outside of the building.
   (D)   IUs with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-3-2) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016)
NOTIFICATION AND REPORTING
§ 53.050 INDUSTRIAL USER QUESTIONNAIRE.
   If the POTW deems it necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of
this chapter, any IU of the POTW may be required to submit a wastewater
discharge permit application, questionnaire or other reports and notifications
in a format and timeframe specified by the POTW. In cases where the
pretreatment standard requires compliance with a BMP or pollution prevention
alternative, the industrial user must submit documentation required by the POTW
or the pretreatment standards to determine the compliance status of the
industrial user. Any industrial user subject to this reporting requirement
shall submit a completed report no later than 30 days after receipt of the
notification and appropriate forms.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-4-1) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 53.051 NOTIFICATION OF CHANGE IN DISCHARGE.
   All industrial users shall promptly notify the POTW in advance of any
substantial change in the volume or character of pollutants in their discharge,
including the listed or characteristic hazardous wastes for which the
industrial user has submitted initial notification under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(p).
Additionally, significant industrial users are required to notify the POTW
immediately of any changes in their facilities affecting potential for a slug
discharge.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-4-2) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 53.052 NOTIFICATION OF HAZARDOUS WASTE DISCHARGE.
   Industrial users shall notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management
Division Director, and the state hazardous waste authorities in writing of any
discharge into the POTW of any substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would
be considered a hazardous waste under 40 C.F.R. part 261. Each industrial user
shall notify the POTW in advance of any substantial change to such discharge.
The specific information required to be reported and the time frames in which
it is to be reported are found at 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(p).
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-4-3) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 53.053 REPORT OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to, spills,
accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-
customary batch discharge, a slug discharge or a discharge that may cause
potential problems for the POTW, the industrial user shall immediately
telephone and notify the POTW of the incident. This notification shall include:
      (1)   Name of the facility;
      (2)   Location of the facility;
      (3)   Name of the caller;
      (4)   Date and time of the discharge;
      (5)   Date and time discharge was halted;
      (6)   Location of the discharge;
      (7)   Type of waste;
      (8)   Estimated volume of the discharge;
      (9)   Estimated concentration of pollutants in the discharge;
      (10)   Corrective actions taken to halt the discharge; and
      (11)   Method of disposal, if applicable.
   (B)   Within five working days following such discharge, the industrial user
shall, unless waived by the POTW in writing, submit a detailed written report
describing the cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the
industrial user to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall
not relieve the industrial user of any expense, loss, damage or other liability
which might be incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, natural resources or
any other damage to person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the
industrial user of any fines, penalties or other liability which may be imposed
pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-4-4) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 53.054 AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE FOR REPORTS.
   All reports and questionnaires required to be submitted by the above
provisions shall bear the signature of an authorized representative of the
discharging entity and shall include the following certification statement as
set forth in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(2)(ii).
 
   I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to ensure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system or
the persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the information
submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate and
complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false
information, including the possibility of a fine and imprisonment for knowing
violations.
 
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-4-5) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 53.055 RECORDKEEPING.
   All records (including documentation associated with BMPs) shall be retained
by the user for a minimum period of three years, shall be made immediately
available upon request of the POTW at any time during the three-year period or
so long as actually retained.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-5) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016)
COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.070 TIME FOR COMPLIANCE.
   All existing IUs must come into compliance with the terms of this chapter
upon the effective date.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-7-1) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 53.071 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   If the POTW deems it necessary to assure compliance with the
provisions of this chapter, any IU of the POTW may be required to submit a
wastewater discharge permit application, questionnaire or other reports and
notifications in a format and timeframe specified by the POTW. These
requirements may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Wastewater discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
      (2)   Chemical analysis of wastewater;
      (3)   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
      (4)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent
or other material important to sewer use control;
      (5)   A plot plan of sewers on the IU’s property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility locations;
      (6)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities;
      (7)   Details of system to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the POTW; and
      (8)   Signed certification by the authorized representative of the IU.
   (B)   The POTW will evaluate the data furnished by the IU and may require
additional information to determine compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. The POTW may deny the request to discharge non-domestic wastewater to
the POTW or allow discharge under conditions determined by the POTW to protect
against passthrough or interference.
   (C)   The POTW may require IUs to install monitoring equipment as necessary,
per §
53.017. The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at
all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the IU at its expense.
All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality shall be calibrated to
ensure their accuracy.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-7-2) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 53.072 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The POTW shall have the right to enter the premises of any IU to
determine whether the IU is complying with all requirements of this chapter.
IUs shall allow the POTW ready access to all parts of the premises for the
purposes of inspection (including the use of digital photography to gather
information), sampling, records examination and copying and the performance of
any additional duties.
   (B)   Denial of access shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-7-3) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016) Penalty, see §
53.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.085 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   When the POTW finds that an IU has violated, or continues to violate,
any provision of this chapter or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the POTW may serve upon that IU a written notice of violation.
Within five working days of the receipt of such notice, an explanation of the
violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to
include specific required actions, shall be submitted by the IU to the city.
Submission of such a plan in no way relieves the IU of liability for any
violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation. If the
plan for correction submitted by the IU is not satisfactory to the city, the
POTW may take further action, including potentially suspending service as
provided for in §
53.086.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the POTW to take
any action, including emergency actions or any other enforcement action,
without first issuing a notice of violation.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-8-1) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 53.086 SUSPENSION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The POTW may suspend water service and/or wastewater treatment service
in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may
present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons, the environment, causes passthrough or interference, causes the POTW
to violate any condition of its NPDES permit or for violations of this chapter.
Any IU notified of a suspension of the water service and/or wastewater
treatment service shall immediately stop or eliminate the discharge.
   (B)   In the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily with the
suspension order, the POTW shall take such steps as deemed necessary, including
immediate physical severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize
damage to the POTW system or endangerment to individuals or the environment.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-8-2) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.087 ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER.
   (A)   When the POTW finds that an industrial user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the POTW may issue an order to the industrial user responsible for
the discharge directing that the industrial user immediately come into
compliance or within a time specified by the POTW.
   (B)   If the industrial user does not come into compliance within the time
provided, sewer service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment
facilities, devices or other related appurtenances are installed and properly
operated. Compliance orders also may contain other requirements to address the
noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring and management practices
designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A
compliance order may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a
pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the
industrial user of liability for any violation, including any continuing
violation during the time it takes the industrial user to come into compliance.
Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the industrial user.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-8-3) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 53.088 JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   When the POTW finds that an industrial user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, and individual wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the POTW may petition the municipal court for the issuance of a
temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels
the specific performance of the order, or other requirement imposed by this
chapter on activities of the industrial user.
   (B)   The POTW may also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal
and/or equitable relief, including a requirement for the industrial user to
conduct environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not
be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against an
industrial user.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-8-5) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016)
TRUCKED AND HAULED WASTE
§ 53.100 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   The POTW may prohibit the discharge of trucked/hauled septic tank
waste, industrial waste and RV waste to the POTW.
   (B)   Trucked/hauled waste may be discharged into the POTW only at locations
designated by the POTW, and at such times established by the POTW. Such waste
shall not violate §§
53.015 through
53.020 or any other requirements established by the POTW. The discharge of
hauled waste is subject to all other requirements of this chapter. The POTW may
require the following:
      (1)   Septic tank waste haulers to obtain individual wastewater discharge
permits;
      (2)   The POTW may collect samples of each hauled load to ensure
compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements; and
      (3)   The POTW may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste
analysis of any load prior to discharge.
   (C)   (1)   Any person discharging septic tank waste and industrial waste
must provide a waste-tracking form for every load.
      (2)   This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
waste hauler (individual person and company), permit number (if applicable),
truck identification, names and addresses of sources of waste and volume and
characteristics of waste. The form shall identify the type of industry, known
or suspected waste constituents and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous
wastes.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-9-1) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 53.101 RV DISPOSAL STATIONS.
   (A)   The POTW may allow RV disposal sites in its service area if the
quality or quantity of the RV waste does not impact the POTW, including the
collection system.
   (B)   The POTW will require RV disposal sites in the service area to ensure
adequate controlled access to its disposal site including locked access, sign-
in records for persons discharging from the RV, record keeping by the RV
disposal site and other information as deemed appropriate by the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-9-2) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   When the POTW finds that an industrial user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the POTW may fine such industrial user in an amount not to exceed
$5,000 per day per violation. Such fines shall be assessed on a per violation,
per day basis. In the case of monthly or other long-term average discharge
limits, fines shall be assessed for each day during the period of violation.
   (B)   The POTW may, in addition to fines, collect charges to pay for damage
to the POTW, fines issued to the POTW, and any other costs incurred by the POTW
as a result of the IU’s noncompliance.
   (C)   A lien against the industrial user’s property shall be sought for
unpaid charges, fines and penalties.
   (D)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the industrial user.
(Prior Code, § 10-2A-8-4) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 7-5-2016)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   TRAINS
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Authority to install traffic control devices
   
70.02   Regulations for erection of signals and the like
   
70.03   U-turns
   
70.04   Stopping and parking restricted
   
70.05   Driving on sidewalk
   
70.06   Funeral processions
   
70.07   Parade permit required; exception
   
70.08   City parks
   
70.09   Play streets
   
70.10   Fire Department officers to assist
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The City Engineer or authorized representative shall place and maintain
traffic control signs, signals, markings and devices when and as required under
the traffic ordinances of the city to make effective the provisions of the
ordinances, and may place and maintain such additional traffic control devices
as the City Council may designate.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1) (Ord. 01-2003, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 70.02 REGULATIONS FOR ERECTION OF SIGNALS AND THE LIKE.
   All regulatory and directory traffic signs and signals, all crosswalks and
safety zones, all street lane lines, all posted speed signs, all passenger,
commercial and hotel loading zones, all taxicab and bus stands and zones, all
restricted parking zones, all curb painting, all speed zones, heretofore
posted, established and done, by the City Engineer or authorized
representative, Police Department, Street Department and City Council shall be
presumed to have been lawfully done, posted and established and by this chapter
are reestablished. It is the purpose of this section to confirm and ratify all
acts of departments enumerated with regard to traffic regulations and control,
and the specification of those enumerated is not intended to exclude others.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2) (Ord. 01-2003, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 70.03 U-TURNS.
   (A)   Prohibited at certain intersections. The driver of any vehicle shall
not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any
street other than at an intersection, except that no such turn shall be made at
any of the following intersections:
      (1)   Any intersection in the Business District;
      (2)   Any signalized intersection;
      (3)   Any intersection where stop signs are erected;
      (4)   Any intersection of any alley with a street;
      (5)   Any intersection on a curve; and
      (6)   Any intersection upon or within 100 feet of the crest of the grade.
   (B)   Obedience to signs. Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating
that no right, left or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall
disobey the directions of any such sign.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-4) (Ord. 01-2003, passed 5-20-2003) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 STOPPING AND PARKING RESTRICTED.
   In addition to those places restricted to parking under state law, no person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions of a police
officer or traffic control device in any of the following places:
   (A)   Within three feet of, or in front of, a public or private driveway;
   (B)   In an alley, except while loading or unloading;
   (C)   Within the traveled portion of a street;
   (D)   On a boulevard owned by the city; and
   (E)   On any front or side yard unless asphalt or cement driveways and
parking spaces are provided, except that this prohibition shall not be
construed to prevent or make unlawful the existence or construction of a gravel
driveway equal in width to the maximum width of the curb cut serving the
property, or maximum allowed width allowed for driveways.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-5) (Ord. 01-2003, passed 5-20-2003) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 DRIVING ON SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway except in the performance of maintenance or
repair of said sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-6) (Ord. 01-2003, passed 5-20-2003) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Driving through procession prohibited. No driver of a vehicle shall
drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession
while they are in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously designated as
required in this chapter. This provision shall not apply at intersections where
traffic is controlled by traffic control signal or police officers.
   (B)   Driving in procession. Each driver in a funeral or other procession
shall drive as near to the right-hand edge of the roadway as practicable and
shall follow the vehicle ahead as closely as practicable and safe.
   (C)   Identification of funeral procession vehicles. A funeral procession or
a procession of vehicles shall be identified as such by the display upon the
outside of such vehicles of a pennant or other identifying insignia or by such
other method as may be determined.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-8) (Ord. 01-2003, passed 5-20-2003) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 PARADE PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   No procession or parade except the forces of the United States Army or Navy,
the military forces of this state and the forces of the Police or Fire
Departments shall occupy, march or proceed along any street except in
accordance with a permit authorized by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-9) (Ord. 01-2003, passed 5-20-2003) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 CITY PARKS.
   No person shall operate or otherwise be in control of a motor vehicle or
bicycle within the confines of any city park, except on established roadways or
parking areas within the city parks. This section shall not apply to duly
authorized vehicles for purposes of maintaining the parks.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-10) (Ord. 01-2003, passed 5-20-2003) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 PLAY STREETS.
   (A)   Authority to establish. The City Council shall have authority to
declare any street or part thereof a play street and to place appropriate signs
or devices in the roadway indicating and helping to protect the same.
   (B)   Driving on play streets. Whenever authorized signs are erected
indicating any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a
vehicle upon any such street or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles
having business or whose residences are within such closed area, and then any
such driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such street or
portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-11) (Ord. 01-2003, passed 5-20-2003) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICERS TO ASSIST.
   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may direct or
assist the police in directing traffic thereat, or in the immediate vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-12) (Ord. 01-2003, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter for which another
penalty has not been set forth shall be punishable, upon conviction, as
provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-13) (Ord. 01-2003, passed 5-20-2003)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Erection of signs
   
71.03   Parking in violation of duly erected signs
   
71.04   Parallel parking
   
71.05   Angle parking
   
71.06   Parking restricted
   
71.07   No parking zones
   
71.08   Time limited zones
   
71.09   Permit for loading or unloading
   
71.10   Restrictions and time limits to load or unload
   
71.11   Stopping in loading zones
   
71.12   Public carrier, bus and taxicab stands; restricted use
   
71.13   Designation of parking spaces
   
71.14   City controlled parking lots
   
71.15   Parking trucks in residential districts
   
71.16   Trucks with offensive odors
   
71.17   Parking for camping purposes
   
71.18   Responsibility of registered owners
   
71.19   Duties of city police
   
71.20   Officers authorized to remove vehicles
   
71.21   Parking citations
   
71.22   Disposition of abandoned vehicles
   
71.23   Removal and storage of parked vehicles
   
71.24   Reserved parking; illegal use thereof
   
71.25   Handicapped parking
   
71.26   Establishment of fire lane
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARKING CONTROL OFFICER. Any person employed by the city with the authority
given to such person to issue notices or citations for violations of the
parking ordinances.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for use by
pedestrians.
   STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every publicly
maintained way when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic.
   VEHICLE. A conveyance propelled by motor power.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1) (Ord. 02-2003, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 71.02 ERECTION OF SIGNS.
   (A)   Provisions of this chapter and of any ordinance or act of the City
Council limiting parking time or prohibiting parking at designated locations
shall not be effective until appropriate signs giving notice thereof are
erected and in place at the time of any alleged offense; provided, that the
provisions of this section shall not apply to the provisions of: §
72.06 regarding the parking of bicycles; §
70.04 regarding parking in specified places; §
71.06 regarding restricted parking; §
71.15 regarding the parking of trucks in residential districts; §
71.16 regarding the parking of trucks giving off offensive odors; §
71.17 regarding parking for camping purposes; §
71.10 regarding loading or unloading of vehicles; §
71.11 regarding loading zones; §
71.12 regarding public carrier stands; and other locations where parking is
otherwise limited or prohibited by ordinance or law.
   (B)   The office of the Public Works Director shall be responsible for the
proper signing of streets as required herein.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2) (Ord. 02-2003, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 71.03 PARKING IN VIOLATION OF DULY ERECTED SIGNS.
   Whenever any signs are erected by the city which prohibit parking, establish
limited time parking zones or in any way limit or restrict parking, no person
shall park, stop, stand or park in violation of the provisions indicated in
such signs.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-3) (Ord. 02-2003, passed 5-20-2003) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 PARALLEL PARKING.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement
with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway or in cases of one-way roadways, the left-hand wheels of the
vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4) (Ord. 02-2003, passed 5-20-2003) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 ANGLE PARKING.
   Angle parking shall be permitted only upon those streets that have been
signed or marked or otherwise indicated for angle parking. No person shall park
or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway
indicated by such signs or markings and at an angle of 60 degrees with the flow
of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-5) (Ord. 02-2003, passed 5-20-2003) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 PARKING RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No person shall park any motor vehicle upon any street, roadway or
thoroughfare or on and in any other public place for the principal purpose of:
      (1)   Displaying such motor vehicle for sale;
      (2)   Greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs necessitated by
an emergency; and
      (3)   Storing such motor vehicle not then in transit or actual use and
service.
   (B)   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of
the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
   (C)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle within an alley for a
period of time longer than is necessary for the reasonably expeditious loading
or unloading of such vehicle.
   (D)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such
a position as to block the driveway or entrance to any abutting property.
   (E)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in a yellow or no
parking zone.
   (F)   No owner or person in charge of a motor vehicle shall park or permit
to be parked on any street, avenue or alley any motor vehicle in excess of five
days.
   (G)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
   (H)   No person shall stand or park any wheeled trailer of any size on city
owned streets or boulevards from November 1 to April 1. From April 1 to October
31, wheeled trailers may be parked for a period not exceeding five days
consecutively on city street. From April 1 to October 31, any trailer must be
moved off the city street after five days. Construction related trailers may be
parked for five days consecutively during all months of the year. Construction
related trailers must obtain a permit from the City Building Department if they
are to be parked on a city street for a period exceeding five days. The permit
shall allow a construction related trailer to be parked for a consecutive
period of 30 days on a city street for a fee as set by resolution and must be
posted on that trailer. Any wheeled trailer must not block any sidewalk or
boulevard owned by the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-6) (Ord. 02-2003, passed 5-20-2003; Ord. 05-2015, passed 5-
19-2015) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 NO PARKING ZONES.
   No person, other than authorized drivers, shall stop or park a vehicle upon
a street or ally in an area where signs are erected giving notice that said
area has been designated a no parking zone.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-7) (Ord. 02-2003, passed 5-20-2003) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 TIME LIMITED ZONES.
   (A)   Ten-minute zones. No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle longer
than ten minutes at any time between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on
any day, except Sunday and public holidays, upon any of the streets or portions
of the street which are so marked or posted by signs erected such as to give
proper notice.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-8)
   (B)   Thirty-minute zones. No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for
longer than 30 minutes at any time between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
of any day, except Sunday and public holidays, upon any of the streets or
portions of the street which are so marked or posted by signs erected such as
to give proper notice.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-9)
   (C)   One-hour zones. No persons shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for
longer than one hour at any time between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
of any day, except Sunday and public holidays, upon any of the streets or
portions of the street which are so marked or notified by signs erected such as
to give proper notice.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-10)
   (D)   Two-hour zones. No persons shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for
longer than two hours at any time between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
of any day, except Sunday and public holidays, upon any of the streets or
portions of the street which are so marked or notified by signs erected such as
to give proper notice.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-11)
   (E)   Four-hour zones. No persons shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for
longer than four hours at any time between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
of any day, except Sunday and public holidays, upon any of the streets or
portions of the street which are so marked or notified by signs erected such as
to give proper notice.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-12)
(Ord. 02-2003, passed 5-20-2003) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 PERMIT FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING.
   The Chief of Police is authorized to issue special permits to allow the
backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or unloading
merchandise or materials subject to the terms and conditions of such permit.
Such permits may be issued either to the owner or lessee of real property or to
the owner of the vehicle and shall grant to such person the privileges as
therein stated and authorized herein, and it shall be unlawful for any
permittee or other person to violate any of the special terms or conditions of
any such permit.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-14) (Ord. 02-2003, passed 5-20-2003) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10 RESTRICTIONS AND TIME LIMITS TO LOAD OR UNLOAD.
   (A)   Permission granted under the provisions of this section to stop or
stand a vehicle for purposes of loading or unloading of materials shall apply
only to commercial vehicles and shall not extend beyond the time necessary
therefor, and in no event for more than 20 minutes.
   (B)   The loading or unloading of materials shall apply only to commercial
deliveries and to the delivery or pick up of express and parcel post packages
and United States mail.
   (C)   Permission granted under the provisions of this section to stop or
park for purposes of loading or unloading of personal baggage but shall not
extend beyond the time necessary therefor and in no event for more than three
minutes.
   (D)   Within the total time limits specified, the provisions of this section
shall be enforced so as to accommodate necessary and reasonable loading or
unloading but without permitting abuse of the privileges hereby granted.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-15) (Ord. 02-2003, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 71.11 STOPPING IN LOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any loading zone for any
purpose other than loading or unloading passengers or materials for such time
as is permitted by §
71.10.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-16) (Ord. 02-2003, passed 5-20-2003) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.12 PUBLIC CARRIER, BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS; RESTRICTED USE.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus stop
or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any such stop or stand has been
officially designated and appropriately signed, except that the driver of a
passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter such zone.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-17) (Ord. 02-2003, passed 5-20-2003) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.13 DESIGNATION OF PARKING SPACES.
   The Director of Public Works shall direct the placing of lines or marks on
the curb or on the streets to designate the parking space to be used, and each
vehicle shall park within the lines or markings so established. It shall be
unlawful to park any vehicle across any such line or mark or to park such
vehicle in such a way that the same shall not be within the area so designated
by such lines or markings.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-18) (Ord. 02-2003, passed 5-20-2003) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.14 CITY CONTROLLED PARKING LOTS.
   The City Council is hereby authorized to establish and maintain parking lots
for the public convenience and such parking lots shall be operated and
maintained consistent with the terms of this chapter of the city codes.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-19) (Ord. 02-2003, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 71.15 PARKING TRUCKS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   No person shall stand or park any truck with a gross vehicle weight in
excess of 14,000 pounds, truck tractor, trailer, semitrailer or bus on any
street in a residential district for any purpose or period of time other than
for the expeditious loading or unloading of such vehicles, except that the
provisions of this section shall not apply to the driver of a truck with a
gross vehicle weight in excess of 14,000 pounds, truck tractor, trailer or
semitrailer while such vehicle is being used in connection with the
construction or repair of buildings, service calls or the moving of household
goods and shall not be applicable to the driver of a bus while such vehicle is
parked in a designated bus stop.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-20) (Ord. 02-2003, passed 5-20-2003) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.16 TRUCKS WITH OFFENSIVE ODORS.
   It shall be unlawful at any time to park a truck giving off an offensive or
disagreeable odor or containing disagreeable and offensive matter or any truck
engaged in hauling gasoline, oil or other explosive matter, whether the truck
is loaded or empty within the Business District.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-21) (Ord. 02-2003, passed 5-20-2003) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.17 PARKING FOR CAMPING PURPOSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle or trailer for
camping purposes within the city limits, except in an authorized tourist park
for a period of time not to exceed 48 hours in any one 30-day period.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-22) (Ord. 02-2003, passed 5-20-2003) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.18 RESPONSIBILITY OF REGISTERED OWNERS.
   Every person in whose name a vehicle is registered or licensed shall be held
legally accountable for any parking in violation of city ordinances. It shall
be no defense to such charge that the vehicle was illegally parked by another,
unless it is proven that at such time the vehicle was being used without the
consent of the registered or licensed owner thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-23) (Ord. 02-2003, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 71.19 DUTIES OF CITY POLICE.
   (A)   Enforcement. It shall be the responsibility of the Chief of Police to
enforce the provisions of this chapter and to cause reports to be filed and
citations issued in accordance with this section and §
71.21; and in this regard, he or she may employ such persons and delegate such
authority as is necessary to carry out the provisions and intent of this
chapter.
   (B)   Citation forms. The Chief of Police shall provide in duplicate
suitable serially numbered forms for notifying a violator to appear and answer
to charges of violating traffic laws and ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-24) (Ord. 02-2003, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 71.20 OFFICERS AUTHORIZED TO REMOVE VEHICLES.
   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle which is illegally parked, such
officer is hereby authorized to move such vehicle, or require the driver or the
person in charge of the vehicle to move the same so as to eliminate a
continuous violation.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-25) (Ord. 02-2003, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 71.21 PARKING CITATIONS.
   Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked or stopped in
violation of any of the restrictions imposed by ordinance of this city or by
state law, the police officer or parking control officer observing such vehicle
shall take its registration number and may take any other information displayed
on the vehicle which may identify its user and shall conspicuously affix to
such vehicle a notice in writing, on a form provided by the Chief of Police for
the driver to answer to the charge within the time and during the hours and at
a place specified in the notice.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-26) (Ord. 02-2013, passed 11-5-2013)
§ 71.22 DISPOSITION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Authority to remove. Members of the Police Department are hereby
authorized to remove a vehicle from a street or highway to the nearest garage
or other place of safety or to a garage designated or maintained by the Police
Department, or otherwise maintained by this city under the circumstances
hereinafter enumerated:
      (1)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any bridge, viaduct or
causeway or in any tube or tunnel where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction
to traffic;
      (2)   When a vehicle upon a street is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person in charge of the vehicle is unable by
reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal; and
      (3)   Whenever any vehicle is found by a police officer parked or left
standing in the streets or alleys of the city in violation of the provisions of
this code.
   (B)   Notice to Sheriff. Whenever an officer removes a vehicle from a street
as authorized in this section, such officer shall immediately notify the
Sheriff’s office of such removal, such notice shall include a complete
description of the vehicle, the date, time and place from which removed, the
reasons for such removal and the name of the garage or other place where such
vehicle is stored.
   (C)   Removal; impoundment. Any police officer is hereby authorized to take
possession of any motor vehicle owned by any person that has violated any of
the provisions of this chapter, and has authority to remove such vehicle from
the street, alley or other public places, where the violation occurs, and to
store and keep possession thereof until the owner of such vehicle appears and
claims the same.
   (D)   Costs. The cost of towing or removing such vehicle and costs of
storing the same shall be chargeable against the vehicle and shall be paid by
the owner of the vehicle before the same shall be released. The vehicle may be
stored in a public or private place. Storage fees of such vehicle are set by
resolution.
   (E)   Filing of complaint. The taking of possession of a vehicle for
violation of a traffic ordinance shall not prohibit the filing of a complaint
for the violation of a traffic ordinance as herein above provided.
   (F)   Liability for damages. The city or the Police Department of the city,
or any member thereof, shall not be liable for any damages or loss of said
removed vehicle, except in the case of gross negligence.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-29) (Ord. 02-2003, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 71.23 REMOVAL AND STORAGE OF PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Authority to remove. The Police Department and all members thereof
assigned are authorized to remove and tow away, or have towed away by
commercial towing service, any car or other vehicle parked in any place where
such parked vehicle creates or constitutes a hazard, blocks the use of a fire
hydrant or obstructs or may obstruct the movement of any emergency vehicle.
   (B)   Storage. Vehicles so towed away shall be stored in a public or private
place and returned to the owner or operator of such vehicle upon payment of
towing charges plus storage fees as set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-30) (Ord. 02-2003, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 71.24 RESERVED PARKING; ILLEGAL USE THEREOF.
   The City Council may, by appropriate resolution, fix and designate certain
parking spaces in said city which are located on public property as reserved
parking spaces. Such reservations shall be made according to regulations which
may be currently in effect or fixed by the City Council. The City Council
shall, furthermore, by appropriate resolution, fix an appropriate fee for the
rental thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-31) (Ord. 02-2003, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 71.25 HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   The City Council may, by appropriate resolution, fix and designate certain
parking spaces in said city which are located on public property as parking
spaces reserved for the exclusive use of the handicapped displaying a special
parking permit issued in accordance with M.C.A. §§ 49-4-301 through 49-4-306.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-32) (Ord. 02-2003, passed 5-20-2003)
§ 71.26 ESTABLISHMENT OF FIRE LANE.
   (A)   Designation. Fire lanes shall be designated by the city by the use of
a yellow painted curb and by proper signing to the effect that the yellow zone
represents a fire lane.
   (B)   Established fire lane. The lane immediately adjacent to the curb and
sidewalk bordering the front of the stores and shops at the West Plaza Shopping
Center is hereby designated a fire lane.
   (C)   Authority. When the city has established the appropriate fire lane(s),
the Police Department has the authority as outlined in §
71.23.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-33) (Ord. 01-2006, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter for which
another penalty has not been set forth shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished in accordance with §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-34)
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate, permit or allow anyone to violate
§
71.08 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined as
set by resolution.
      (2)   Any person who shall violate, permit or allow anyone to violate §§
71.04 through
71.07, 71.11 or 71.24 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be fined as set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-28)
   (C)   Any person parking illegally in such a reserved space shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, be punished by a fine as set by
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-31)
   (D)   Any person parking illegally in such a reserved space shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, be punished by a fine as set by
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-32)
(Ord. 02-2003, passed 5-20-2003; Ord. 01-2006, passed 7-18-2006)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
72.01   Applicability
   
72.02   Compliance required
   
72.03   License required; fee
   
72.04   Plates
   
72.05   Emerging from alley or driveway
   
72.06   Parking
   
72.07   Riding on sidewalks
 
   
72.99   Penalty
BICYCLES
§ 72.01 APPLICABILITY.
   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a bicycle is
operated upon any public thoroughfare.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1)
§ 72.02 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-2) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   Required. No person who resides within the city shall ride or propel a
bicycle on any street unless such bicycle has been licensed and such license is
attached thereto.
   (B)   Application; fee. Application for bicycle license shall be made upon a
form provided by the city and shall be made to the Chief of Police; a license
fee as provided by resolution shall be paid to the city before each license or
transfer thereof is granted.
   (C)   Issuance; term. The Chief of Police or persons designated by him or
her upon receiving proper application for a license as provided by division (B)
above is authorized to issue a bicycle license which shall be effective from
the date of issue. License period is January 1 through December 31. Bicycles
must be licensed upon purchase.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-3) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 PLATES.
   (A)   Sticker issued. The Chief of Police, or other designated person, upon
issuing a bicycle license, will also issue a sticker bearing the license number
assigned to the bicycle and the name of the city. The Chief of Police or other
designated person shall cause such sticker to be firmly attached to the
bicycle. No person shall remove such sticker except upon a transfer of
ownership or in the event the bicycle is dismantled and no longer operated upon
any street in the city.
   (B)   Sale or other transfer. Upon the sale or other transfer of a licensed
bicycle, the licensee shall remove such sticker and either surrender the same
to the Chief of Police or, upon proper application and with payment of the fee
provided for by resolution, have the plate assigned to another bicycle owned by
the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-4) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk
or sidewalk area and, upon entering the roadway, shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-5)
§ 72.06 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-6) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall ride a bicycle on sidewalks in the downtown Business
District, as defined in §
112.006(A). Operators of bicycles will yield the right-of-way to all
pedestrians when riding on any other sidewalks in the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-7) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Every person who shall violate the provisions of §§
72.01 through
72.07 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
punished in accordance with §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-8)
CHAPTER 73: TRAINS
Section
   
73.01   Speed limit
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 SPEED LIMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any engineer, firefighter, conductor, firm,
corporation or other person in charge or control of a railroad train to run or
permit to be run such railroad train at a rate in excess of 30 mph within the
city limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-1) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, be punished in accordance with §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-1)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Enforcement of traffic laws in certain privately owned parts of the city
      
II.   One-way traffic through certain alley
SCHEDULE I. ENFORCEMENT OF TRAFFIC LAWS IN CERTAIN PRIVATELY OWNED PARTS OF THE
CITY.
   Officials for the city are authorized to enforce all traffic laws, including
those enacted by state statute as well as those enacted by city ordinance, in
the following privately owned parts of the city:
   (A)   Casitas Del Rio mobile home park in West Glendive;
   (B)   Glendive Plaza in West Glendive;
   (C)   West Plaza Shopping Center, including parking lots owned by and
adjacent to 1515 W. Bell Street space M; and
   (D)   The city-leased parking lot located at 100 block of North Merrill
Avenue with the following restrictions:
      (1)   Cars and light trucks only with light trucks not to exceed load
rating in excess of one ton;
      (2)   Trucks in excess of one ton load rating will be allowed for
unloading with a 30-minute time limit;
      (3)   Parking time limit of five days; and
      (4)   No trailers of any type allowed.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3) (Ord. 01-2003, passed 5-20-2003; Ord. 02-2016, passed 10-
4-2016)
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY TRAFFIC THROUGH CERTAIN ALLEY.
   The flow of one-way traffic through the alley between Merrill Avenue and
Kendrick Avenue from Slocum Street to Power Street is changed and redirected to
run from south to north.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-7) (Ord. 01-2003, passed 5-20-2003)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Street sweeping district
SCHEDULE I. STREET SWEEPING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Parking prohibited. No person shall park a motor vehicle on the
following streets between the hours of 4:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Tuesday and
Friday:
      (1)   Bell Street from Merrill Avenue West to Clough Street;
      (2)   Benham Street from Merrill Avenue West to the alley in the 200
block of West Benham;
      (3)   Kendrick Avenue from Clement Street South through Valentine Street;
      (4)   Merrill Avenue from Clement Street South through the 400 block of
South Merrill Avenue;
      (5)   Power Street from Merrill Avenue West to the alley in the 100 block
of Power Street;
      (6)   Towne Street from Merrill Avenue West to Kendrick Avenue; and
      (7)   Valentine Street from Merrill Avenue West to Kendrick Avenue.
   (B)   Penalty. Every person who is convicted of a violation of this section
shall be fined in a sum provided by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-13) (Ord. 02-2003, passed 5-20-2003) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   NUISANCES
      
91.   NOISE CONTROL
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   ANIMALS
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   “Nuisance” defined
   
90.02   Summary abatement; lien procedure
   
90.03   Lien procedures for abatement of nuisance
   
90.04   Notice of hearing before City Council
   
90.05   Hearing by City Council; finding of nuisance
   
90.06   Abatement
   
90.07   Hearing by City Council; statement of expense
   
90.08   Recordation of certificate; when nuisance is abated
Weeds
   
90.20   Definition
   
90.21   Uncontrolled plant growth; uncontrolled weeds
   
90.22   Duty of owner
   
90.23   Inspection; notice to owner
   
90.24   Publication of public notice
   
90.25   Service of notice
   
90.26   Forced compliance; assessment
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 “NUISANCE” DEFINED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to health, or is a life safety
issue or hazard, or is an obstruction to the free use of another’s property, so
as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property of another;
or including, but not limited to, placement and/or maintenance of any motor
vehicle, motorcycle, trailer, camp trailer or mobile home on any property in
the city in violation of any zoning regulation or other city ordinance; or any
residential structure (including all appurtenant structures) to remain vacant
for more than one year where its condition constitutes a hazard or where the
property is maintained so as to obstruct the free passage or use, in the
customary manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin,
or any public park, square, street or highway.
   (B)   This declaration of nuisance by the City Council is made pursuant to
M.C.A. § 7-5-4104.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1) (Ord. 01-2011, passed 12-6-2011; Ord. 01-2025, passed 1-
7-2025)
§ 90.02 SUMMARY ABATEMENT; LIEN PROCEDURE.
   The City Council declares that it is in the public interest to establish a
summary abatement procedure utilizing a lien process to abate any nuisance, as
defined in §
90.01. The expense of abatement of nuisances shall be a lien against the
property on which it is maintained and a personal obligation shall exist as
against the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2) (Ord. 01-2011, passed 12-6-2011)
§ 90.03 LIEN PROCEDURES FOR ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   The City Zoning Coordinator or other city personnel specifically
designated by the City Council shall examine or cause to be examined whether
any property or thing has been maintained so as to constitute a nuisance, as
defined in §
90.01. With owner’s consent, city personnel may enter upon private premises at
any reasonable time to perform an inspection or if such consent cannot be
obtained, resort to other legal process inclusive of a search warrant.
   (B)   If city personnel find that a nuisance does exist, they shall obtain a
preliminary title report on the real property where the nuisance exists, which
shall identify all owners of record, lessees of record, holders of mortgages,
deed of trust or other liens and encumbrances of record. They shall serve upon
each such person by personal service or by certified mail, postage prepaid,
return receipt requested, a written notice stating the nature of the nuisance
and requiring the owner to commence either the required repairs, demolition,
removal or other appropriate action within ten days and to complete such work
within 30 days from the date of notice. Such notice shall contain the office,
address, phone number of city personnel empowered to review the subject matter
and the days and hours the same may be contacted. The notice shall be sent to
each such person at his or her address as it appears on the last equalized
assessment roll of the county as known to city personnel. If no address of any
such person so appears, then a copy of the notice shall be mailed and addressed
to such person at the address of the real property where the nuisance is found
to exist.
      (1)   The service by certified mail shall be effective on the date of
mailing. City personnel shall cause at least one copy of the notice to be
posted conspicuously on the building, structure or on the real property or
thing alleged to be a nuisance.
      (2)   Proof of service notices shall be certified to at the time of
service by written declaration executed by the person effecting service,
declaring the time, date and manner in which service was made. The declaration,
together with any receipt care, returned acknowledgment or receipt by certified
mail, shall be affixed with a copy of the notice and order by city personnel.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-3) (Ord. 01-2011, passed 12-6-2011)
§ 90.04 NOTICE OF HEARING BEFORE CITY COUNCIL.
   If the property owner does not comply with the notice prescribed by §
90.03 by commencing the required work within the time allowed, or makes such
other arrangements as may be satisfactory, city personnel shall thereupon send
a notice, by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the
owner, mortgage holder, deed of trust holder or holder of any other lien,
encumbrance, estate or legal interest of record as disclosed by the preliminary
title report obtained pursuant to §
90.03. The cost of said title report shall be charged to the owner.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4) (Ord. 01-2011, passed 12-6-2011)
§ 90.05 HEARING BY CITY COUNCIL; FINDING OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   At the time fixed on the notice, the City Council shall proceed to
hear the testimony of the city personnel and the testimony of any other
interested party who may be present and desire to testify respecting the
condition of the property or thing, the estimated cost of repair, demolition,
removal or other appropriate action.
   (B)   Upon the conclusion of the hearing, the City Council will by
resolution, declare its findings and in the event it so concludes, it may
declare the property or thing to be a nuisance and direct the owner to obtain
the proper permits and physically commence abatement of the nuisance within ten
days, and to complete said abatement within 30 days by having the property
repaired, demolished, removed or other appropriate act necessary to cure the
nuisance.
   (C)   Such resolution shall further notify the owner of the property that if
the nuisance is not abated, the property will be the subject of repair,
demolition, removal or other appropriate act, as the case may be, by the city,
and the expenses thereof shall remain a lien on the property.
   (D)   The city personnel shall send copies of the resolution to the person
owning the property or thing, as such person’s name and address appears on the
last equalized assessment roll or as known to the city personnel, and to each
lessee, mortgage holder, deed of trust holder or other holder of any other
lien, encumbrance, estate or legal interest of record as shown on the
preliminary title report obtained pursuant to this chapter, at the last known
address of each such person.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall file a certified copy of any resolution declaring
real property a nuisance with the County Clerk and Recorder.
   (F)   The City Council will consider any extension of time limits set by
resolution, if the owner posts a cash deposit, in an amount fixed by the City
Council, within three days from the date of the grant of extension request.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-5) (Ord. 01-2011, passed 12-6-2011)
§ 90.06 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   In the event the owner does not commence the abatement of the nuisance
located on the real property within ten days prescribed, city personnel are
authorized to undertake the appropriate action such as demolition, repair or
removal necessary to cure the nuisance in accordance with the resolution of the
City Council or have the work done pursuant to purchase order or contract.
   (B)   City personnel shall keep an itemized account of all expenses involved
in the repair, demolition, removal or other appropriate act necessary to cure
the nuisance.
   (C)   City personnel shall mail a copy of the statement to the property
owner and to any holder of any interest of record, along with a notice of time
and place when and where the statement shall be submitted to the City Council
for approval and confirmation.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-6) (Ord. 01-2011, passed 12-6-2011)
§ 90.07 HEARING BY CITY COUNCIL; STATEMENT OF EXPENSE.
   (A)   Objections; protests. At the time fixed for the hearing of the
statement of expense, the City Council shall consider the statement together
with any objection or protest which may be raised by any of the property owners
liable to be assessed for the work and any other interested person and the same
shall be confirmed as stated, revised, corrected or modified by the City
Council.
   (B)   Payment of expenses. If said statement is not paid within five days of
the adoption of the resolution, it shall constitute a lien upon the real
property and shall be collected as a special assessment against the real
property.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-7) (Ord. 01-2011, passed 12-6-2011)
§ 90.08 RECORDATION OF CERTIFICATE; WHEN NUISANCE IS ABATED.
   When the City Council has by resolution declared that such property or thing
is being maintained as a nuisance, and such resolution has been recorded and
thereafter such nuisance is abated, city personnel shall prepare and file with
the County Clerk and County Recorder a certificate stating that such nuisance
has been abated and indicating the method of abatement.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-8) (Ord. 01-2011, passed 12-6-2011)
WEEDS
§ 90.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WEED. Any plant which is ordinarily grown without cultivation and is not
grown for the purpose of landscaping or food production, except that lawns
shall be included in the term WEEDS for the purposes of height control as set
out in §
90.22.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1) (Ord. 04-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 90.21 UNCONTROLLED PLANT GROWTH; UNCONTROLLED WEEDS.
   It shall be unlawful and it is hereby declared a nuisance for any owner of
real property within the city to maintain, permit or suffer to exist in or upon
any real property within the city, any uncontrolled plant growth of any nature
which obstructs the view of motorists, creates a fire hazard or provides cover
for wild animals or reptiles, or any uncontrolled weed growth.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-2) (Ord. 04-2002, passed 5-21-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.22 DUTY OF OWNER.
   It shall be the duty of every owner of real property to cut, destroy or
remove or cause to be cut, destroyed or removed, all weeds in excess of 12
inches in height, growing thereon and upon any one-half of any street or alley
abutting his or her property to a height of four inches or less.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-3) (Ord. 04-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 90.23 INSPECTION; NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   Inspection. Whenever the Director of Public Works or his or her agents
have reason to believe that uncontrolled plant growth is present upon property
within the city in violation of this subchapter, he or she shall forthwith
inspect the premises.
   (B)   Notice. If such growth is found, the Director of Public Works shall
cause written notice to be served upon the owner of the property on which such
growth exists, directing the owner to comply with the provisions of this
subchapter by removing said conditions within seven days after service of
notice. Such notice shall advise the owner of what steps are required to come
into compliance with the provisions of this subchapter. The owner shall be
determined from the last completed assessment roll of the County Assessor.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-4) (Ord. 04-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 90.24 PUBLICATION OF PUBLIC NOTICE.
   The City Administrative Clerk shall give notice to destroy weeds within the
city limits by publishing notice to the public at least once each week for two
consecutive weeks. Such notice shall advise the public as follows.
   (A)   Responsibility to destroy, remove or cut. All owners of real property
or agents having control thereof are responsible for destroying, removing or
cutting all weeds not later than 14 days from the date of the last publication
and to keep such property free of weeds through the end of the year.
   (B)   Failure to comply. Failure to remove weeds may cause the city to
remove the weeds and charge the cost thereof against the real property together
with an administrative cost and penalty for each time the city provides the
removal.
   (C)   Removal by city. If the owner or agent of the property continues to
neglect to maintain the prohibited areas free from weeds, the city may, at its
sole discretion, exterminate, remove or cut the weeds again as needed without
additional notice of any kind. Charges, including penalty, will be assessed for
each time the city removes the weeds.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-5) (Ord. 04-2002, passed 5-21-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.25 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Except for the notice to destroy weeds, which shall be deemed to be
completed to all property owners upon the second publication thereof, any
notice required to be given shall be sufficient if served personally or mailed
regular mail to the last known address or the last address shown on the tax
rolls of the county. Notice shall be deemed given when deposited in a United
States postal service receptacle.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-6) (Ord. 04-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 90.26 FORCED COMPLIANCE; ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Failure of owner to comply. The owner must take appropriate steps to
bring such property into compliance with the provisions of this subchapter
pursuant to the notice within seven days after service of such notice.
   (B)   Removal by city. If the notice shall not be obeyed within the time
specified, the Director of Public Works shall cause such work to be done and
make report thereof to the Clerk with an itemized account of the expenses
incurred in bringing such property into compliance and a description of the
land involved and shall include such necessary costs.
   (C)   Statement of costs; lien. The Finance Clerk-Treasurer shall promptly
send a statement of such account requesting payment to the owner of the
property. If such statement is not paid prior to the time that the city tax
assessments are submitted to the County Treasurer’s office, the Administrative
Clerk shall place such account as a special assessment on the property and such
special assessment shall be levied and collected in the same manner as other
special assessments by the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-7) (Ord. 04-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
CHAPTER 91: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
91.01   Policy
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Noise prohibited
   
91.04   Maximum permissible levels
   
91.05   Measurement of noise
   
91.06   Action to abate
   
91.07   Permit for relief
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 POLICY.
   It is hereby declared to be the public policy of the city to regulate the
ambient noise levels in the city so as to preserve, protect and promote the
public health, safety and welfare and the peace and quiet of the inhabitants of
the city. It is the public policy of the city that every person is entitled to
live in an environment where ambient noise levels are not detrimental of life,
health and enjoyment of his or her property and community. It is hereby
declared that the making, creation and maintenance of excessive and unnecessary
noise within the city affect and are a menace to public health, comfort,
convenience, safety, welfare and prosperity of the people of the city. For the
purpose of controlling and reducing such noise, the city shall hereby set
necessary noise standards.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-1)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   dB(A). Sound levels in decibels measured on the A scale of a standard sound
level meter having characteristics defined by the American National Standards
Institute in their application standard.
   DECIBEL. A unit used to express the magnitude of the change in sound
intensity or some pressure level. The difference in decibels between a measured
sound pressure level and a reference sound pressure level is 20 times the
logarithm of their ration (i.e., SPL (dB) = 20 log Pa/Po, e.g., an increase of
six decibels (dB) represents a doubling of the sound pressure level, and a
decrease of six dB represents a halving of the sound pressure level (SPL)).
   GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT. All those areas designated as Business Districts
according to the city zoning laws and including those areas zoned C-1.
   GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT and HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL. All those areas designated
as Commercial Districts and Highway Commercial Districts according to the city
zoning laws and including those areas zoned C-2 and C-3.
   HEALTH. An optimal state of physical, mental and emotional well being and
not merely the absence of disease.
   INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS. All those areas designated as industrial districts
according to the city zoning laws and including those areas zoned M.
   RESIDENTIAL ZONE. All those areas designated as essentially residential
districts according to the city zoning laws and including those areas zoned R-
1, R-2, R-3, R-4 and RP.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-2)
§ 91.03 NOISE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The making and creating of an excessive or unusually loud noise within
the city as heard without measurement or as measured in the manner prescribed
in §
91.05 is hereby declared to be unlawful except when made under and in
compliance with a permit issued pursuant to §
91.07.
   (B)   No person shall operate any vehicle, machine or device or carry on any
other activity in such a manner as violates this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-3) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE LEVELS.
   (A)   Time periods and zones. Sound levels of noise radiating to a distance
of 25 feet or more from a source within the public right-of-way or from a
private or public property line in excess of the dB(A) levels established for
the time periods and zones listed in this section shall constitute prima facie
evidence such noise is a public nuisance and a violation of this chapter.
 
Zone                    8:00 a.m. to Next 8:00 p.m. 8:00 p.m. to Next 8:00 a.m.
Business District       86 dB(A)                    65 dB(A)
Commercial District and 86 dB(A)                    65 dB(A)
Light Industrial
Industrial District     86 dB(A)                    65 dB(A)
Residential             86 dB(A)                    65 dB(A)
 
   (B)   Allowable increase. In the hours between 8:00 a.m. and the next 8:00
p.m., the noise levels permitted in division (A) above may be increased by ten
dB(A) for a period not to exceed 15 minutes in any one-hour period.
   (C)   Construction projects. Construction projects shall be subject to the
maximum permissible noise levels specified for industrial zones for the period
within which construction is to be completed pursuant to any applicable
construction permit issued by proper authority. If no time limitation is
imposed, then for a reasonable period for completion of project.
   (D)   Speed or endurance events. This chapter is applicable to the use of
property for purposes of conducting speed or endurance events involving motor
or other vehicles, except during the specific period or periods of time within
which such use of the property is authorized by the jurisdictional authorities.
   (E)   Vehicles for off highway use. Except for such vehicles as are designed
exclusively for racing purposes, no person shall sell or offer for sale a new
motor vehicle or any self-propelled vehicle designed for off highway use which
produces a maximum noise exceeding the following noise limits as measured at a
distance of 25 feet from the center of the lane of travel or 25 feet from said
vehicle designed for off highway use, under test procedures established by the
City Council or its designee.
Any cycle, including motor driven cycle, manufactured before July 1,   93 dB(A)
1973
Any cycle, including motor driven cycle, manufactured after July 1,    91 dB(A)
1973
Any motor vehicle with gross vehicle weight rating of 6,000 pounds or  93 dB(A)
more manufactured before July 1, 1973
Any motor vehicle with gross vehicle weight rating of 6,000 pounds or  91 dB(A)
more manufactured after July 1, 1973
Any other motor vehicle manufactured before July 1, 1973               91 dB(A)
Any other motor vehicle manufactured after July 1, 1973                89 dB(A)
Any self-propelled vehicle for off highway use manufactured before     90 dB(A)
July 1, 1973
Any self-propelled vehicle for off highway use manufactured after July 80 dB(A)
1, 1973
 
   (F)   Exceptions. The requirements, prohibitions and terms of this chapter
shall not apply to the following uses:
      (1)   Emergency vehicles. Warning signal devices of any authorized
emergency vehicles acting in time of emergency;
      (2)   Civil defense. Civil defense warning signal devices when sounded
either for testing purposes or in time of actual emergency; and
      (3)   Temporary duration. Activities of a temporary duration permitted by
law and for which a license or permit has been granted by the city, including,
but not limited to, parades and fireworks displays.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-4) (Ord. 04-2006, passed 7-18-2006) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 MEASUREMENT OF NOISE.
   For the purpose of determining and classifying any noise as excessive or
unusually loud, as prohibited by this chapter, the following test measurements
and requirements may be applied; but a violation of §
91.03 may occur without the following measurements.
   (A)   A-weighted scale. The noise shall be measured on a sound level meter
meeting current American National Standard Institute standards operated on the
A-weighted scale.
   (B)   Wind velocity. Measurements with sound level meters shall be made when
the wind velocity at the time and place is not more than five mph.
   (C)   Ambient noise level. In all sound level measurements, the ambient
noise shall be at least ten dB(A) below the specific noise source being
measured.
   (D)   Environment. In all sound level measurements, consideration shall be
given to the effect of the ambient noise level created by the encompassing
noise of the environment from all sources at the time of said sound level
measurement.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-5)
§ 91.06 ACTION TO ABATE.
   Whenever there is a reason to believe a nuisance exists as defined in §
91.04, any resident of the city may maintain an action in equity in the
district court to abate and prevent such nuisance and to perpetually enjoin the
person conducting or maintaining the same, and the owner, lessee or agent of
the building or place in or upon which such nuisance exists, from directly or
indirectly maintaining or permitting such nuisance. The court may stay the
effect of any order issued hereunder for such time as is reasonably necessary
for the defendant to come into compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-6)
§ 91.07 PERMIT FOR RELIEF.
   (A)   Application. Applications for a permit for relief from the noise level
designated in this chapter, on the basis of undue hardship, may be made to the
City Council or its duly authorized representative.
   (B)   Conditions for issuance; term. Any permit so granted shall contain all
conditions upon which it has been granted and shall specify a reasonable time
that the permit shall be effective.
   (C)   Criteria for approval. The City Council, or its duly authorized
representative, may grant the relief as applied for if it finds:
      (1)   Additional time is necessary for applicant to alter or modify his
or her activity or operation to comply with this chapter;
      (2)   The activity, operation or noise source will be of temporary
duration and cannot be done in a manner complying with §
91.04;
      (3)   No other reasonable alternative is available to applicant; and
      (4)   The City Council may prescribe any conditions or requirements it
deems necessary to minimize adverse effects upon the community or the
surrounding neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-7)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, partnership, association or corporation violating the provisions
of this chapter shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $300. Each
offense or violation of this chapter shall be deemed a separate and distinct
offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-8) (Ord. 52-85, passed 5-16-1994)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Fire Code
   
92.01   Adoption
   
92.02   Duties of Fire Department
   
92.03   Definitions
   
92.04   Storage of flammable or combustible liquids outside or inside
aboveground tanks
   
92.05   Bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gases
   
92.06   Underground storage
   
92.07   New materials, processes or occupancies
   
92.08   Appeals
Restricted Areas at Fires
   
92.20   Established
   
92.21   Enforcement
   
92.22   Breaking through limits prohibited
Fireworks
   
92.35   Definition
   
92.36   Storage
   
92.37   Sale
   
92.38   Public display
   
92.39   Discharge of fireworks restricted
   
92.40   Age restriction
   
92.41   Special events
 
   
92.99   Penalty
FIRE CODE
§ 92.01 ADOPTION.
   The current edition of the Fire Code and all accompanying appendices,
amendments and modification adopted by the Fire Marshal’s Bureau, State
Department of Justice (or its successor), as set out in the administrative
rules of the state, as amended from time to time by the Department of Justice,
shall be adopted by reference by administrative order of the City Council as
authorized by M.C.A. § 50-61-102(2) except for any exceptions noted in this
chapter or any regulations not applicable to local government jurisdictions.
These codes are applicable to all buildings within the code enforcement area of
the city.
   (A)   The adopted Fire Code shall regulate the fire safety/engineering in
the erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal,
demolition, conversion, occupancy, equipment, use, height, area and maintenance
of all buildings and/or structures in the city and its jurisdictional area.
   (B)   One copy of each code shall be on file in the office of the Fire
Chief.
   (C)   Any codes or amendments adopted by the Fire Marshal’s Bureau which
apply to local government jurisdictions, including the adoption of the latest
editions of the model technical codes or applicable administrative rules of the
state, shall become effective in the city upon order of the City Council within
ten days after the date that they are approved by a resolution at a City
Council meeting.
   (D)   City amendments thereto: In order to hear and decide appeals of
orders, decisions or determinations made by the Fire Chief relative to the
application and interpretation of this code, there shall be and is hereby
created a Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment proceedings will be in
accordance with §§
155.295 through
155.308.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1) (Ord. 02-2004, passed 6-15-2004)
§ 92.02 DUTIES OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The 1997 Uniform Fire Code as adopted and amended herein shall be enforced
by the City Fire Department which is hereby established and be operated under
the supervision of the Chief of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2) (Ord. 02-99, passed 2-1-1999)
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department, see §§ 35.30 through 35.37
§ 92.03 DEFINITION.
   Wherever the word JURISDICTION is used in the Uniform Fire Code, it means
the City of Glendive.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3) (Ord. 02-99, passed 2-1-1999)
§ 92.04 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE OR COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS OUTSIDE OR INSIDE
ABOVEGROUND TANKS.
   (A)   Limits established. The limits referred to in Article 79 of the
Uniform Fire Code in which storage of flammable or combustible liquids in
outside or inside aboveground tanks is allowed are hereby established as
follows:
      (1)   Three hundred feet south of Allard Street from Sargent Avenue to
the centerline of the Burlington Northern Railroad tracks, 300 feet wide north
of Allard Street from the centerline of the Burlington Northern Railroad
mainline tracks to a point east in line with a projected line of the center of
Sargent Avenue;
      (2)   Areas designated as C-3 Highway Commercial as specified in Chapter
155 with minimum setback as specified in tables 7902.2-A through 7902.2-G and
7902.3-A of the Uniform Fire Code; and
      (3)   An area 600 feet north of the north right-of-way line of the Belle
Prairie Frontage Road in the Sunrise Division and east of the east property
line of Arizona Avenue, more particularly described as follows: tracts 10A,
10B, 10C, 10D, 10E, 11A and certificate of survey no. 216 of the amendment of
tracts 2, 8, 9, 10, 11, 1H, 1I, 1J of Sunrise Subdivision as those tracts are
recorded in the Clerk and Recorder’s office in Dawson County, Montana, under
book A131, page 284 and book A133, page 256.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   This section shall not apply to the storage of flammable or
combustible liquids used for the heating of structures; however, nothing in
this division (B) shall be construed to permit the storage of flammable or
combustible liquids for the purpose of sale except as provided in division (A)
above. The storage tank or reservoir permitted herein must comply fully with
any applicable sections of the Uniform Fire Code, Uniform Building Code,
Uniform Mechanical Code and NFPA and all storage reservoirs or tanks permitted
in this division (B) must be underground and in conformity with the uniform
codes stated above.
      (2)   If natural gas is readily available, bulk storage shall not be
allowed except as allowed in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-4) (Ord. 19-85, passed 8-17-1987)
§ 92.05 BULK STORAGE OF LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES.
   (A)   Limits established. The limits referred to in Article 82 of the
Uniform Fire Code in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is allowed
is hereby established as follows:
      (1)   Three hundred feet south of Allard Street from Sargent Avenue to
the centerline of the Burlington Northern Railroad tracks, 300 feet wide north
of Allard Street from the centerline of the Burlington Northern Railroad
mainline tracks to a point east in line with a projected line of the center of
Sargent Avenue;
      (2)   Areas designated as C-3 Highway Commercial as specified in Chapter
155 with minimum setback as specified in table 8204-A of the Uniform Fire Code;
      (3)   An area 600 feet north of the north right-of-way line of the Belle
Prairie Frontage Road in the Sunrise Division and east of the east property
line of Arizona Avenue, more particularly described as follows: tracts 10A,
10B, 10C, 10D, 10E, 11A and Certificate of Survey No. 216 of the amendment of
tracts 2, 8, 9, 10, 11, 1H, 1I, 1J of Sunrise Subdivision as those tracts are
recorded in the Clerk and Recorder’s Office in Dawson County, Montana, under
Book A131, Page 284 and Book A133, Page 256; and
      (4)   Tract 1-2 description:
         (a)   A tract of land located within Tract “A” of Certificate of
Survey No. 827, within the south half of the Southwest Quarter of Section 25,
Township 16 North, Range 55 East, Principal Meridian Montana, City of Glendive,
Dawson County, Montana, being more particularly described as follows:
Commencing at the southwest corner of Tract “A” of COS No. 827 of Block 155 of
Kean’s Second Addition; thence S56 39'27"E a distance of 69.00 feet along the
west side of Tract “A” of COS No. 827; thence N33 20'49"E a distance of 34.00
feet to a rebar and cap set, the point of beginning; thence N33 20'49"E a
distance of 50.00 feet to a rebar and cap set; thence S56 39'27"E a distance of
50.00 feet to a rebar and cap set; thence S33 20'49"W a distance of 50.00 feet
to a rebar and cap set; thence N56 39'27"W a distance of 50.00 feet to a rebar
and cap set, the point of beginning.
         (b)   Said above described parcel contains 2,500 square feet or 0.06
acres more or less and is subject to any previous easements, agreements,
conveyances and surveys. Together with a 20-foot access and easement described
as follows: Commencing at the southwest corner of said Tract A-1; thence
easterly along the south line of said Tract A-1, N33 20'49"E a distance of 34
feet to the point of beginning of a 20-foot wide access easement with 20 being
on the right side of the following described centerline, thence N58 39'11"W a
distance of 31.17 feet to the southwest corner of Tract A-2, which is also the
point of ending.
         (c)   Said above described access easement contains 623 square feet or
0.01 acres more or less and is subject to any previous easements, agreements,
conveyances and surveys.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   This section shall not apply to the storage of liquefied petroleum
gases used for the heating of structures; however, nothing in this division (B)
shall be construed to permit the storage of liquefied petroleum gases for the
purposes of sale except as provided in division (A) above. The storage tank or
reservoir permitted herein must comply fully with any applicable sections of
the Uniform Fire Code, Uniform Building Code, Uniform Mechanical Code and NFPA
58.
      (2)   If natural gas is readily available, bulk storage shall not be
allowed except as allowed in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-5) (Ord. 01-2013, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 92.06 UNDERGROUND STORAGE.
   No underground storage reservoir or tank as permitted herein shall be
installed or set in place or used until permission is first obtained from the
Fire Chief and the City Engineer or his or her representative.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-6)
§ 92.07 NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES.
   (A)   The Mayor and the Chief of the Fire Department shall act as a
committee to determine and specify, after giving affected persons an
opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes or occupancies which
shall require permits in addition to those now enumerated in said code.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall post such list in a conspicuous
place in his or her office and distribute copies thereof to interested persons.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-7)
§ 92.08 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Fire Chief disapproves an application or refuses to grant a
permit applied for, or when it is claimed the provisions of the code do not
apply, or the true intent and meaning of the code have been misconstrued or
wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision of the Fire
Chief to the City Council within 30 days from the date of the decision
appealed.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-8) (Ord. 02-99, passed 2-1-1999)
RESTRICTED AREAS AT FIRES
§ 92.20 ESTABLISHED.
   Whenever a fire incident occurs within the city, the senior fire officer of
the Fire Department may prescribe the boundaries in the vicinity of any fire
incident within which no person except those admitted by order of the senior
fire officer shall be permitted to enter.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1)
§ 92.21 ENFORCEMENT.
   The senior fire officer is hereby authorized to request of the Chief of
Police or other police officer to detail special officers, sufficient in his or
her judgment therefor, who for the time being shall act under the instructions
of the senior fire officer at any fire incident.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2)
§ 92.22 BREAKING THROUGH LIMITS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall break through or attempt to break through the boundaries as
so designated by the Chief of the Fire Department or officer in charge.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-3) Penalty, see §
92.99
FIREWORKS
§ 92.35 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. As defined in M.C.A. § 50-37-101.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-1) (Ord. 80-85, passed 5-18-1998)
§ 92.36 STORAGE.
   No person, firm or corporation shall store any fireworks meant for public
sale anywhere within the city limits except as necessary for the performance of
a public exhibition to be held pursuant to a permit issued as hereinafter
provided. Such storage shall be in a safe place, securely locked or guarded so
that no unauthorized person shall have access thereto, and protected from fire
hazards. The Fire Chief shall inspect the storage to determine whether the same
complies with the terms of this section.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-2) (Ord. 80-85, passed 5-18-1998)
§ 92.37 SALE.
   No person, firm or corporation shall sell any fireworks anywhere within the
city limits.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-3) (Ord. 80-85, passed 5-18-1998)
§ 92.38 PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   (A)   Permit required. A permit for a public display of fireworks shall be
issued by the City Fire Chief. No such permit shall be issued if it appears
from the information available to the Fire Chief that there are substantial
dangers to people or property due to the location, the fireworks proposed to be
used and the procedures to be used.
   (B)   Examination for permit. No person shall discharge fireworks at any
public display without a permit therefor issued by the Fire Chief. The City
Fire Chief shall issue the permit if the applicant demonstrates an ability to
provide a safe fireworks program.
   (C)   Indemnification. Any person who applies for such a permit, as a
condition therefor, shall agree to indemnify and hold harmless the city for any
damages caused as a result of such public display.
   (D)   Bond; certificate of insurance. No person, firm or corporation shall
discharge fireworks at any public exhibition held pursuant to a permit issued
as provided herein unless he or she shall have furnished a bond or certificate
of insurance in the amount of $1,000,000 for the payment of all damages which
may be caused either to a person or persons or to property by reason of the
permitted public exhibition and arising from any acts of the person so
obtaining a permit, his or her agents, employees or subcontractors.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-4) (Ord. 80-85, passed 5-18-1998) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.39 DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Except as permitted in division (B) below, no person shall combust,
detonate or display any kind of fireworks within the city limits.
   (B)   (1)   The City Council, at a time as designated in §
30.20, shall determine by resolution the appropriate permissible times of
detonation, combustion or display of legally authorized fireworks within the
city limits. The resolution must be approved no later than 15 days prior to the
permissible time periods authorized for the use of fireworks.
      (2)   Failure of the Council to pass such a resolution for a specific
year, in an appropriate timely manner, will revert the prior year’s resolution
as current policy for the present year.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-6) (Ord. 03-2009, passed 4-21-2009) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.40 AGE RESTRICTION.
   Anyone 15 years of age and younger shall have adult supervision at all times
when combusting or detonating fireworks.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-7) (Ord. 03-2003, passed 12-16-2003)
§ 92.41 SPECIAL EVENTS.
   Any special celebrations shall be coordinated through the Fire Department
and approved by the City Council prior to the event.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-8) (Ord. 03-2003, passed 12-16-2003)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the codes
adopted in §
92.01, or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with
any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detailed
statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved, and from which no
appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as
affirmed or modified by the City Council or by a court of competent
jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall, severally for each and every
such violation and noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500 or by
imprisonment for not less than three days nor more than 180 days or by both
such fine and imprisonment. The imposition of one penalty for any violation
shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; all of such persons
shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a
reasonable time; and when not otherwise specified, each ten days that
prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense. The
application of the penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of
the prohibited conditions.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1)
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of the 1997 Uniform Fire Code as
adopted and amended herein or fails to comply therewith, or who violates or
fails to comply with any order made thereunder, or who builds in violation of
any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved
thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no
appeal has been taken, or who fails to comply with such an order as affirmed or
modified by the City Council or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within
the required time, shall, severally for each and every such violation and
noncompliance, respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine
of not less than $50 nor more than $500 or by imprisonment for not less than
seven days nor more than 180 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. The
imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or
permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required to correct or
remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when not
otherwise specified, each ten days that prohibited conditions are maintained
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-9)
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
92.35 through
92.41 shall be punished in accordance with §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-5)
   (E)   Any person committing such an offense as provided in §
92.39(A) shall be deemed guilty of committing a misdemeanor punishable by a
fine of not less than $25 and not exceeding $500 or imprisoned for a term not
to exceed six months, or both.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-6)
(Ord. 80-85, passed 5-18-1998; Ord. 02-99, passed 2-1-1999; Ord. 02-2004,
passed 6-15-2004; (Ord. 03-2009, passed 4-21-2009)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
93.01   Boundaries
   
93.02   Destruction of property, structures or improvements
   
93.03   Swimming pool; children under age
   
93.04   Animals
§ 93.01 BOUNDARIES.
   There shall be a map or maps on file in the office of Director of Public
Works designating the exterior boundaries of all dedicated parks and other park
property in the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-1)
§ 93.02 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY, STRUCTURES OR IMPROVEMENTS.
   No person shall intentionally remove from its place, break, destroy, injure,
mar, cut or interfere with or deface any sign, image, fixture or ornament,
sidewalk, shrubbery, hedge, trees, lawn, grass, flowers, goods, chattels or any
other improvements or property in or about any city park.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 SWIMMING POOL; CHILDREN UNDER AGE.
   No person who has not attained the age of five years shall enter or be in
the bathing pool of Lloyd Park, unless such person is accompanied by his or her
parent or legal guardian.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-3)
§ 93.04 ANIMALS.
   No person shall bring or have in his or her possession, custody or control
any unleashed dog or animal within the confines of all city parks, except such
parts as are used for public highways and are unimproved for park purposes.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-4)
CHAPTER 94: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Defecation
   
94.02   Running at large
   
94.03   Keeping livestock
   
94.04   Cruelty to animals
   
94.05   Vicious, ferocious animals
   
94.06   Freeing animals for purpose of impoundment
Dogs
   
94.20   Definitions
   
94.21   Running at large
   
94.22   License required
   
94.23   License fees
   
94.24   Certificates required
   
94.25   Issuance of license
   
94.26   License tags
   
94.27   Term
   
94.28   Transferability
   
94.29   Records
   
94.30   Police dogs
   
94.31   Rabies, dogs suspected to be rabid
   
94.32   Nuisance dogs
   
94.33   Vicious dogs
   
94.34   Impoundment
Cats
   
94.45   License required
   
94.46   License fees
   
94.47   Certificates required
   
94.48   Issuance of license
   
94.49   License tags
   
94.50   Term
   
94.51   Records
   
94.52   Transferability
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 DEFECATION.
   (A)   Removal. An owner or person having custody of any dog or any other
animal shall not permit said dog or other animal to defecate on any school
ground, public street, alley, sidewalk, tree bank, boulevard, park or any other
public ground or any private property within the city other than the premises
of the owner or person having custody of said dog or other animal unless such
defecation is removed immediately.
   (B)   Disposal. No defecation or manure shall be dumped or left on any
street, alley, sidewalk, boulevard, tree bank, park, public grounds nor on any
open area or lot in any portion of the city, and any private property within
the city other than the premises of the owner or person having custody of such
dog or other animal; provided, however, that this provision shall not be
construed to prohibit the use of manure as fertilizer for lawns and gardens in
keeping with ordinary and customary practices in a manner that does not create
a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-1) (Ord. 75-85, passed 9-15-1997) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of any
horses, cattle, swine, sheep, goats or other animals to allow any of such
animals to run at large in any of the streets, alleys or public places of the
city.
   (B)   Fowl; rabbits included. No owner or keeper of any chickens, ducks,
geese, turkeys, pigeons, domestic fowl or rabbits shall permit them to run at
large upon any street, alley, avenue, boulevard or public park or to trespass
upon the premises of another person within the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-1) (Ord. 04-2002, passed 5-21-2002) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 KEEPING LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   Prohibited. No person owning or having control of any goats, cattle,
horses, swine or sheep shall keep the same within the city, except to bring the
same to market for commercial or exhibition purposes and when brought therein
for that purpose the same shall be kept and cared for by the owner or person in
charge thereof.
   (B)   Exception. This section shall not preclude the stabling of animals at
the fairgrounds, livestock sales arena or a veterinary clinic.
   (C)   Agricultural or residential zoning districts.
      (1)   Permitted. Areas located within certain agricultural or residential
zoning districts as shown in the residential district regulations shall be
permitted to have livestock and/or fowl. However, the standards outlined below
must be satisfied, depending upon the size of the property.
      (2)   Criteria for allowing. The allowance of livestock and/or fowl in
agricultural and agricultural residential districts, situated within the limits
of the city, may be permitted when the regulations established in this division
(C)(2). However, if the number of animals requested exceeds the allowed limit
in below divisions, then the property must conform to the uses allowed by right
or conditional use application, as shown in the zoning regulations of the city.
         (a)   Lots two and a half to five net acres. Lots which are two and
one-half to five net acres in size are allowed to have livestock and/or fowl;
provided, that all of the following regulations are met.
            1.   One livestock and/or fowl unit is allowed per 20,000 square
feet of land devoted exclusively to the raising of the animal(s). Livestock or
fowl that are listed in the livestock and/or fowl unit table(s) below are
allowed types of animals under this division (C)(2)(a).
            2.   Supplemental feeding of the animal(s) is required.
            3.   Any keeping of animal(s) in this section shall be secondary
and accessory to the primary residential use of the property. Commercial
breeding and/or commercial raising of any type of animal or fowl shall be
prohibited, except as allowed by right or through conditional use in the zoning
regulations matrix.
            4.   All accessory structures used for the purpose of housing,
keeping or sheltering livestock or fowl shall be set back a distance of 50 feet
from any property line and 50 feet from any dwelling.
            5.   No accessory building or structure used for the housing of
livestock or fowl shall occupy any portion of a required front yard in any
district, except in the Agricultural Zoning District.
         (b)   Lots five acres to nine and ninety nine hundredths (9.99) acres.
Lots which are five to nine and ninety hundredths (9.99) net acres in size and
zoned agricultural are allowed to have livestock and/or fowl; provided, that
all of the following regulations are met:
            1.   One livestock and/or fowl unit per one acre of land devoted
exclusively to the raising of the animal(s), in which the animal(s) is
supplementally fed and/or is on irrigated pasture land.
            2.   One livestock and/or fowl unit per four acres of land devoted
exclusively to the raising of the animal(s), in which there is no supplemental
feeding and/or the animal is on unirrigated pasture land.
            3.   All accessory structures used for the purpose of housing,
keeping or sheltering livestock or fowl shall be set back a distance of 100
feet from any property line and 50 feet from any dwelling.
            4.   No accessory building or structure used for the housing of
livestock or fowl shall occupy any portion of a required front yard in any
district, except in the Agricultural Zoning District.
         (c)   Lots over nine and ninety nine hundredths (9.99) acres. Lots
which are greater than nine and ninety nine hundredths (9.99) net acres and
zoned agricultural shall be exempt from this section.
   (D)   Livestock and fowl units.
      (1)   Livestock and fowl units, for the purpose of this section, shall be
defined as follows.
Livestock Class Livestock Units
Livestock Class                 Livestock Units
Bull - mature                   1.00
Bull - yearling                 0.50
Calf - weaned or under 6 months 0.50
Colt - weaned                   1.00
Cow - mature                    1.00
Cow with calf                   1.00
Ewe - mature                    0.50
Ewe with lamb                   0.50
Goat - mature                   0.50
Goat with kid                   0.50
Heifer - one year or older      1.00
Horse - mature                  1.50
Horse with colt                 1.50
Kid - weaned or under 6 months  0.50
Lamb - weaned or under 6 months 0.50
Llama                           1.00
Ram - mature                    0.50
Steer - one year or older       1.00
Fowl Class                      Fowl Units
Hens, roosters or ducks         0.25 each
Turkeys or geese                0.50 each
 
      (2)   Livestock and/or fowl units for animals not listed herein shall be
determined if allowable by the Zoning Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-2) (Ord. 04-2002, passed 5-21-2002) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   No person shall wantonly or cruelly injure, abuse or torture any animals
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-3) (Ord. 04-2002, passed 5-21-2002) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 VICIOUS, FEROCIOUS ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful and a nuisance for any person to keep, feed or harbor
or allow to stay about the premises occupied by him or her within this city,
any vicious, unruly or ferocious animal.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-4) (Ord. 04-2002, passed 5-21-2002) Penalty, see §
94.99
Cross-reference:
   Vicious dogs, see §
94.33
§ 94.06 FREEING ANIMALS FOR PURPOSE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   No person shall take or drive any animal out of any enclosure, stable or
other building, or from outside of the city into the city, with the intent that
such animal shall be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-5) (Ord. 04-2002, passed 5-21-2002) Penalty, see §
94.99
DOGS
§ 94.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOGS. Both male and female dogs, including those neutered or spayed.
   OWNER. Any person owning, having in possession or custody of or harboring or
giving shelter or refuge to any dog.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-1)
§ 94.21 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Prohibited. No owner of a dog shall allow such dog to be on any public
street, alley, sidewalk or any public way or public place within the city;
provided, that this shall not prevent the owner from having the dog on the
streets in public places of the city when the dog is controlled either by chain
or leash.
   (B)   Dog shows, exhibitions and training courses. The Mayor may, upon
application of any person, authorize within the city, dog shows, exhibitions
and dog training courses, allowing the dogs participating therein to be
controlled only by competent attendants.
   (C)   Consent required. No owner of a dog shall allow such dog to run upon
any property in the city without the consent of the owner or tenant in
possession of such property.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-2) (Ord. 02-2023, passed 12-5-2023) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.22 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Required. In the event any dog, excepting those under the age of five
months, is brought within the city within the license year, the owner or person
having possession or custody of or harboring or giving shelter or refuge to
such dog shall obtain a license for such dog as provided in this subchapter. It
shall be unlawful to have possession or custody of or harbor or give shelter or
refuge to any dog without a valid dog license, excepting those under the age of
five months.
   (B)   Exception. The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to any
person visiting the city for a period not exceeding 30 days, and owning, having
in possession or custody of or harboring or giving shelter to a dog currently
licensed and bearing a license issued by another licensing authority.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-3) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.23 LICENSE FEES.
   All dog licenses obtained after April 1 of each year shall be double the
amount as set forth by resolution; except that this provision of double license
fee shall not apply to dogs brought into the city after April 1, or those
ineligible for licensing prior to that date.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-4)
§ 94.24 CERTIFICATES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Rabies vaccination. No license shall be issued for any dog until the
Finance Clerk-Treasurer has been furnished with a certificate of a licensed
veterinarian that such dog has been vaccinated against rabies within two years
immediately preceding the application for such license; provided, that such a
license may be issued for a dog under the age of six months with the
requirement that such dog be vaccinated for rabies as soon as such dog reaches
the age of six months.
   (B)   Spayed or neutered. No license shall be issued for a spayed female dog
or a neutered male dog until the Finance Clerk-Treasurer has been furnished
with a certificate from a licensed veterinarian that such dog has been so
altered.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-5) (Ord. 27-85, passed 5-15-1989)
§ 94.25 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon the delivery to the Finance Clerk-Treasurer of a veterinarian’s
certificate, as required in this subchapter, and the payment of the required
license fee, it shall be the duty of the Finance Clerk-Treasurer to issue a
license to the person applying therefor, bearing the number as provided in this
subchapter. The license shall give the date of issue, the date of expiration,
the amount paid, the name and address of the person to whom issued and the name
and sex of the dog.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-6)
§ 94.26 LICENSE TAGS.
   (A)   Metal tag issued. The Finance Clerk-Treasurer shall furnish with each
dog license issued pursuant to this subchapter a metal tag which shall be
stamped with the number corresponding with the number of the license and the
year for which issued.
   (B)   Display required. Such metal tag shall be conspicuously displayed on a
collar, strap or other device placed on such dog.
   (C)   Duplicate tag. If the metal tag is lost, a duplicate tag shall be
obtained by making application to the Finance Clerk-Treasurer who shall issue
such duplicate tag upon payment by the applicant of a fee as provided by
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-7)
§ 94.27 TERM.
   Dog licenses shall expires at 12:00 a.m. on December 31 of each and every
year, regardless of the date of issuance.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-8)
§ 94.28 TRANSFERABILITY.
   Dog licenses shall be issued in the name of the person having possession or
custody of or harboring or sheltering or giving refuge to the dog and shall be
serially numbered. Such license shall not be transferable or used to the
benefit of any other person than the person to whom issued, except upon
transfer of ownership of the dog for whom the license was purchased.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-9)
§ 94.29 RECORDS.
   The Finance Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a suitable record of the licenses
issued under the provisions of this subchapter and shall record all of the
facts required to be stated in the licenses.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-10)
§ 94.30 POLICE DOGS.
   (A)   Exempt from licensing. Dogs used by the Police Department are exempt
from all and any license fees established with respect to the regulation of
dogs kept within the city prescribed in §
94.22.
   (B)   Cruelty to police dogs. It shall be unlawful for any person at any
time to willingly or maliciously, aggravate, torment, disturb, incite, torture,
beat, kick, strike, mutilate, injure, disable or kill any dog used by the
Police Department of the city in the performance of the functions or duties of
such department, or to interfere with, distract or meddle with any such dog
while the dog is being used by said Police Department or any member thereof in
the performance of any of the functions or duties of said department or of said
officer or member.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-11) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.31 RABIES, DOGS SUSPECTED TO BE RABID.
   (A)   Authority to order impoundment. Any police officers, dogcatcher or the
poundmaster shall have the authority to order the owner of any dog showing
symptoms of rabies, or any dog which has bitten any person so as to cause an
abrasion of the skin, to subject such dog to the pound for a period not to
exceed 15 days.
   (B)   Alternative to impoundment. In lieu of submitting such dog to the
pound, the owner may, at his or her own expense, admit such dog to a licensed
veterinarian for examination.
   (C)   Uninfected animals; impoundment fees. If such dog shall be determined
free of rabies the same shall be returned to the owner upon payment of pound
fees as prescribed in §
94.34 for each day that the dog was impounded as and for boarding of same.
   (D)   Disposal of afflicted animals. Any dog found to be afflicted with
rabies shall be disposed of immediately either by the poundmaster or other
designated person.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-12)
§ 94.32 NUISANCE DOGS.
   (A)   Nuisance declared. It is hereby declared a public nuisance for any dog
to destroy property or other pets, to bite or chase after persons not
trespassing on the property of, or injuring or attempting to injure the person,
family or property of the owner, to chase vehicles in public streets or way; or
by prolonged howling, yelping, barking or by any other means causing annoyance
or disturbance to any person.
   (B)   Citations; complaints. No person shall own, harbor, keep or maintain
any such nuisance animal and it shall be the duty of the police, poundmaster or
other designated person to issue citations or file complaints for all such
violations occurring in their presence. Any person aggrieved by a nuisance
animal may file a complaint in the police court charging the owner with the
violation of this section, where the offense is not committed in the presence
of the police, poundmaster or other designated person.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-13)
§ 94.33 VICIOUS DOGS.
   On proper complaint filed in police court by or on behalf of any person
bitten by any dog within the city, brought against the person who owns, keeps
or harbors such dog at the time of the filing of the complaint, and upon due
proof, in the judgment of the court, that such dog bit such person without
provocation and not in defense of person or property, it shall be within the
discretion of the court that such dog be destroyed, and the poundmaster or
other designated person shall forthwith destroy such dog.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-14) (Ord. 02-2023, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 94.34 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Licensed dogs.
      (1)   Duty to impound. It shall be the duty of all police officers,
poundmaster and the dogcatcher to seize and impound any properly licensed dog
as defined in §
94.26 found to be running at large in violation of this subchapter.
      (2)   Notice of impoundment. Such dogs shall be retained in the pound.
The owner or an adult member of the owner’s family of every such dog so seized
shall be notified by the Police Department, poundmaster or dogcatcher of such
seizure within 48 hours of such seizure by personal notice or is sent by
registered or certified mail to the owner’s last known address.
      (3)   Redemption. The same may redeem such dog upon payment of pound fees
and all costs incurred, as provided by resolution.
      (4)   Unredeemed animals. At the expiration of 72 hours after impounding
any dog, and after a reasonable and diligent effort has been made to locate the
dog’s owner, the poundmaster is authorized to sell any such dog to any such
person not the owner thereof for the best price obtainable, and the sum
received shall be paid by the poundmaster in the office of the Finance Clerk-
Treasurer; or, if the dog cannot be sold, the dog shall be disposed of in any
humane and lawful manner.
   (B)   Unlicensed dogs.
      (1)   Nuisance declared; duty to impound. All dogs not licensed as
provided in this subchapter are declared to be a public nuisance, whether or
not they are running at large, and it is the duty of all police officers, the
poundmaster or the dogcatcher to take up and impound any dog not so licensed.
      (2)   Detention; attempt to notify owner. Every dog so seized shall be
retained in the pound for a period of 72 hours, during which time a reasonable
and diligent search shall be made by the poundmaster, police or dogcatcher to
locate and notify the owner of such dog.
      (3)   Redemption. At any time during the 72 hour period of detention, the
owner of such dog may redeem the same by procuring the required dog license and
by paying, in addition, a fee as provided by resolution to the Finance Clerk-
Treasurer, poundmaster or dogcatcher, plus the fees for impoundment established
by resolution. Such money shall be paid to the office of the Finance Clerk-
Treasurer by the poundmaster or dogcatcher.
      (4)   Unredeemed animals. At the expiration of the 72 hours after
impounding any dog, and after a reasonable and diligent effort has been made to
locate the dog’s owner, the poundmaster is authorized to sell any such dog to
any such person not the owner thereof for the best price obtainable, and the
sum received shall be paid by the poundmaster in the office of the Finance
Clerk-Treasurer, or the dog shall be disposed of in any humane and lawful
manner.
      (5)   Penalty. Any owner of any unlicensed dog running at large shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
as provided in §
94.99
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-15) (Ord. 23-85, passed 8-1-1988)
Cross-reference:
   Vicious animals generally, see §
94.05
CATS
§ 94.45 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Required. In the event any cat, excepting those under the age of six
months, is brought within the city within the license year, the owner or person
having possession or custody of or harboring or giving shelter or refuge to
such cat shall obtain a license for such cat as provided in this subchapter. It
shall be unlawful to have possession or custody of or harbor or give shelter or
refuge to any cat without a valid cat license excepting those under the age of
six months.
   (B)   Exception. The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to any
person visiting the city for a period not exceeding 30 days and owning, having
in possession or custody of or harboring or giving shelter to a cat currently
licensed and bearing a license issued by another licensing authority.
(Prior Code, § 5-3C-1) (Ord. 43-85, passed 2-1-1993) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.46 LICENSE FEES.
   The fees for all cat licenses are set forth by resolution. The fees for all
cat licenses obtained after April 1 of each year shall be double the amount as
set forth herein; except that the provision of double license fee shall not
apply to cats brought into the city after April 1 or those ineligible for
licensing prior to that date.
(Prior Code, § 5-3C-2) (Ord. 43-85, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 94.47 CERTIFICATES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Rabies vaccination. All persons residing in the city and owning or
having in their possession any cat shall be required to have said cat
inoculated for rabies, distemper and other dangerous disease, and no license
shall be issued for any cat until the Finance Clerk-Treasurer has been
furnished with a certificate of a licensed veterinarian that such cat has been
inoculated as set forth above within two years immediately proceeding the
application for such license; provided, however, that such a license may be
issued for a cat under the age of six months with the requirement that such cat
be vaccinated as soon as such cat reaches the age of six months.
   (B)   Spayed or neutered. No license shall be issued for a spayed female cat
or a neutered male cat until the Finance Clerk-Treasurer has been furnished
with a certificate from a licensed veterinarian that such cat has been so
altered.
(Prior Code, § 5-3C-3) (Ord. 43-85, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 94.48 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon the delivery to the Finance Clerk-Treasurer of a veterinarian
certificate, as required in this subchapter, and the payment of the required
license fee, it shall be the duty of the Finance Clerk-Treasurer to issue a
license to the person applying therefor, bearing the number as provided in this
subchapter. The license shall give the date of issue, the date of expiration,
the amount paid, the name and address of the person to whom issued and the name
and sex of the cat.
(Prior Code, § 5-3C-4) (Ord. 43-85, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 94.49 LICENSE TAGS.
   (A)   Metal tag issued. The Finance Clerk-Treasurer shall furnish with each
cat license issued pursuant to this subchapter a metal tag which shall be
stamped with the number corresponding with the number of the license and the
year for which issued.
   (B)   Display required. Such metal tag shall be conspicuously displayed on a
collar, strap or other device placed on such cat.
   (C)   Duplicate tag. If the metal tag is lost, a duplicate tag shall be
obtained by making application to the Finance Clerk-Treasurer who shall issue
such duplicate tag upon payment by the applicant of a fee as provided by
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 5-3C-5) (Ord. 43-85, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 94.50 TERM.
   Cat licenses shall expire at 12:00 a.m. on December 31 of each and every
year regardless of the date of issuance.
(Prior Code, § 5-3C-6) (Ord. 43-85, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 94.51 RECORDS.
   The Finance Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a suitable record of the licenses
issued under the provisions of this subchapter and shall record all of the
facts required to be stated in the licenses.
(Prior Code, § 5-3C-7) (Ord. 43-85, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 94.52 TRANSFERABILITY.
   Cat licenses shall be issued in the name of the person having possession or
custody of or harboring or sheltering or giving refuge to the cat and shall be
serially numbered. Such license shall not be transferrable or used to the
benefit of any other person than the person to whom issued except upon transfer
of ownership of the cat for whom the license was purchased.
(Prior Code, § 5-3C-8) (Ord. 43-85, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
94.30 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and punished in accordance with §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-11)
   (C)   Any person violating §
94.32 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and punished in accordance with §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-13)
   (D)   In addition to the dog in §
94.33 being subject to destruction, the dog’s owner(s) shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and punished with a fine of up to $500.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-14)
   (E)   The owner of any dog running at large shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a penalty as
provided in division (F) below.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-15)
   (F)   The penalty for violation of §§
94.21 and
94.34 shall be in the following amounts.
      (1)   First violation. For the first violation, the fine shall be $100.
      (2)   Second violation. For the second violation occurring within one
year of the first violation, the penalty shall be $200.
      (3)   Third and subsequent violations. For the third and any additional
violation within one year, the fine shall be $300.
      (4)   Imprisonment. In addition to the fines as herein provided, a
penalty not to exceed 30 days’ imprisonment in the city jail shall be imposed.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-16)
(Ord. 23-85, passed 8-1-1988; Ord. 03-2015, passed 2-3-2015; Ord. 01-2020,
passed 5-5-2020; Ord. 02-2023, passed 12-5-2023)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   AMUSEMENTS
      
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND    SOLICITORS
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Gaming
   
110.01   Short title
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Closing hours
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GAMING
§ 110.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter may be cited as the Glendive Gaming Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-1)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED CARD GAME. Card games known as poker.
   GAMING DEVICE. An apparatus or machine used for the playing of the games
commonly referred to as keno, bingo or poker.
   MINOR. An individual under the age of 18 years.
   PERSON. Every individual, copartnership, corporation, nationally recognized
veterans’ organization or nationally recognized fraternal organization.
   PREMISES. Any building, structure, lot or parcel of real property under the
control of any person.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-2) (Ord. 15-85, passed 5-18-1987)
§ 110.03 CLOSING HOURS.
   (A)   Card game. No authorized card game may legally be played from 2:00
a.m. to 8:00 a.m. on Monday through Friday of each week. Authorized card games
may be played during any hour on Saturdays and Sundays.
   (B)   Gaming device. All gaming devices shall be shut off each day during
the hours from 2:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-3) (Ord. 15-85, passed 5-18-1987; Ord. 02-2009, passed 3-17-
2009)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a
penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-4)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
   
111.09   City policy on soliciting
   
111.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
111.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
111.12   Prohibited solicitation
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the city.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for service to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not a
peddler.
(Ord. 02-2025, passed 2-18-2025)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity in the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be set from
time to time by the City Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof. (Ord. 02-2025, passed 2-18-2025) Penalty see §
111.99 
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Finance Clerk-Treasurer. This application shall be
signed by the applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership,
or the president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which said individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
an applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods and serviced
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the lime of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has
been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each
offense and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the city, credentials from the person, if any
for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to
act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of the application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious
or communicable disease.
(Ord. 02-2025, passed 2-18-2025) Penalty, see §
111.99 
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful; misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
(Ord. 02-2025, passed 2-18-2025)
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Finance Clerk-Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in
§
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at the last known address,
at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Ord. 02-2025, passed 2-18-2025)
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
(Ord. 02-2025, passed 2-18-2025)
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the City Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the ground for appeal. The City Council shall set the
time and the place for a hearing, and notice of such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the City Council after the hearing shall be final.
(Ord. 02-2025, passed 2-18-2025)
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Finance Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler
or solicitor licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words
“Licensed Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license,
and the number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee
during such time they are engaged in the business licensed.
(Ord. 02-2025, passed 2-18-2025) Penalty, see §
111.99 
§ 111.09 CITY POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that the occupants of the
residences in the city shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
(Ord. 02-2025, passed 2-18-2025)
§ 111.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows: “NO SOLICITORS INVITED.”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third-inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
(Ord. 02-2025, passed 2-18-2025)
§ 111.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the city upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
111.10, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states: “NO SOLICITORS INVITED” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
(Ord. 02-2025, passed 2-18-2025) Penalty, see §
111.99 
§ 111.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create and sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of § 110.10.
(Ord. 02-2025, passed 2-18-2025) Penalty, see §
111.99 
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall,
upon conviction thereof, be punished as set forth in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-5)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.001   Definitions
   
112.002   Approval of location required
   
112.003   Lighting
   
112.004   Admission after hours
   
112.005   Minors
   
112.006   Public drinking, display and exhibition
Beer and Wine
   
112.020   Definitions
   
112.021   Statute adopted
   
112.022   License required
   
112.023   Application
   
112.024   Fees
   
112.025   State license prerequisite
   
112.026   Investigation; issuance
   
112.027   License
   
112.028   Term of license
   
112.029   Renewal; transferability
   
112.030   Regulations
   
112.031   Hours of operation
   
112.032   Operation in residential districts
   
112.033   Inspections
   
112.034   Suspension; revocation
Liquor
   
112.045   Definitions
   
112.046   License required; exceptions
   
112.047   Application
   
112.048   Qualified applicants
   
112.049   Additional licenses required
   
112.050   Fees
   
112.051   Issuance
   
112.052   License
   
112.053   Term of license
   
112.054   Restrictions
   
112.055   Hours of operation
   
112.056   Prohibited sales
   
112.057   Inspections
   
112.058   Suspension; revocation
Special Beer and Table Wine Permit
   
112.070   Special permit required
   
112.071   Application
   
112.072   State permit required
   
112.073   Fee
   
112.074   Term
 
   
112.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the words LIQUOR, BEER and WINE shall be
defined in accordance with the definitions given in the State Alcoholic
Beverage Code.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1)
§ 112.002 APPROVAL OF LOCATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   No license shall be issued or transferred to any person for the sale
of liquor, wine or beer unless the location of the place and/or the building in
which the liquor, wine or beer is to be sold at retail is approved by a vote of
two-thirds of the City Council, which vote shall be held at a regular session
of the City Council with all members of the City Council present, and after a
full hearing upon the application. This section applies to both on- and off-
premises licenses.
   (B)   The decision of the City Council shall be conclusive.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2)
§ 112.003 LIGHTING.
   All places where beer or intoxicating liquors are sold, served or given away
shall maintain, during business hours, lights in such place of business of at
least one-fourth candlepower as determined by standard gauges for measuring
light.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-3)
§ 112.004 ADMISSION AFTER HOURS.
   No person shall be permitted in any place where beer or intoxicating liquors
are sold, served or given away during the hours or times when such places of
business are required under law or ordinance to be closed, except the owner or
employees thereof occupied in the lawful discharge of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.005 MINORS.
   (A)   Frequenting liquor establishments.
      (1)   Prohibited. Minors under the age of 18 years shall not frequent,
loiter, go or remain in any premises which derives its principal business from
the sale of alcoholic beverages or which advertises as an establishment whose
principal business is the sale of alcoholic beverages, unless the minor is upon
some lawful errand and sent under the direction, consent and knowledge of the
parent or guardian; where, under this section, a minor’s presence in such an
establishment is permitted, the minor, under no circumstances, shall purchase,
possess or consume any alcoholic beverage.
      (2)   Unlawful to allow. No owner, proprietor or agent or employee of an
owner may allow or permit any such minor to frequent, loiter or remain within
the premises in violation of this section.
      (3)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to those premises which
serve food or permit recreation or amusement as the principal business and
would serve alcoholic beverages only incidentally. This section shall also not
apply to those premises, otherwise restricted, during hours that said premises
do not sell or make available alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   Sale to minors. No licensee under this chapter or his or her employees
shall sell, deliver or give away or cause or permit to be sold, delivered or
given away any liquor, beer or wine to any person under the age of 21 years.
   (C)   Purchase. No person under the age of 21 years shall purchase any
liquor, beer or wine, and no person shall sell or purchase for a person under
the age of 21 years any liquor, beer or wine.
   (D)   Misrepresentation of age. No person who is prohibited by state law
from purchasing alcoholic beverages shall knowingly misrepresent his or her age
by a written card or document for the purpose of obtaining liquor, beer or wine
even though the purchase and sale is not consummated.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-5) (Ord. 18-85, passed 6-15-1987; Ord. 32-85, passed 5-7-
1990) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.006 PUBLIC DRINKING, DISPLAY AND EXHIBITION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BEER.
         (a)   1.   A malt beverage containing not more than 8.75% of alcohol
by volume; or
            2.   Aan alcoholic beverage containing not more than 14% alcohol by
volume:
               a.   That is made by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion
or decoction, or a combination of both, in potable brewing water, of malted
cereal grain; and
               b.   In which the sugars used for fermentation of the alcoholic
beverage are at least 75% derived from malted cereal grain measured as a
percentage of the total dry weight of the fermentable ingredients.
         (b)   The term does not include a caffeinated or stimulant-enhanced
malt beverage.
      BUSINESS DISTRICT. The portion of the city which comprises the following
designated areas:
         (a)   The portion of Merrill Avenue from West Brennan Street to Clough
Street and one-half block on either side of said portion of Merrill Avenue;
         (b)   The portion of Kendrick Avenue from West Clement Street to South
Douglas Street and one-half block on either side of said portion of Kendrick
Avenue; and
         (c)   The portion of Meade Avenue from West Clement Street to South
Douglas Street and one-half block on either side of said portion of Meade
Avenue.
      LIQUOR or LIQUORS. Any alcoholic, spirituous, vinous, fermented, malt or
other liquor, but which shall not mean or include BEER or TABLE WINE as those
terms are defined in the State Alcoholic Beverage Code.
      PUBLIC DISPLAY OR EXHIBITION OF BEER OR LIQUOR. The carrying or
exhibiting of open cans or bottles of beer or liquor, or the carrying or
exhibiting of glasses or other types of containers, either empty or containing
beer or liquor within a public place, as defined herein; but does not include
carrying or transporting beer or liquor in sacks, cases, boxes, cartons or
other similar containers that conceal the contents, provided such beer or
liquor has not been opened and seals have not been broken; it further does not
include the collection and transportation of empty containers for salvage or
refuse collection purposes in those portions of vehicles not used for passenger
purposes.
      PUBLIC DRINKING. The drinking or consuming of beer or liquor in any
public place, as defined herein.
      PUBLIC PLACES. All streets, avenues, alleys, parking lots and sidewalks,
not including the inside of any buildings, within the Business District of the
city, as defined in this section, and within 80 feet of any doorway of any
retail liquor or beer establishment in the city, and within 80 feet of any
portion of public or private school property in the city.
   (B)   Prohibited. Public drinking and public display or exhibition of beer
or liquor, as defined in division (A) above, are hereby prohibited, and it
shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to engage in public
drinking, as herein defined within the limits of the city. It shall be unlawful
and a misdemeanor for any person to engage in any public display or exhibition
of beer or liquor, as herein defined within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-6) (Ord. 33-85, passed 5-7-1990) Penalty, see §
112.999
BEER AND WINE
§ 112.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the definition of words and terms
contained in the State Alcoholic Beverage Code are adopted as fixing the
meaning of the words and terms as used in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-1A-1)
§ 112.021 STATUTE ADOPTED.
   All the prohibitory and regulatory provisions of the State Alcoholic
Beverage Code are hereby adopted as provisions of this subchapter, except the
provisions of the Act relating to the licensing of common carriers. It is the
duty of all city officials, and particularly of the city police force, to aid
in the enforcement of the State Alcoholic Beverage Code. All licenses issued
under the provisions of this subchapter shall be subject to all applicable
prohibitory and regulatory provisions of the State Alcoholic Beverage Code in
addition to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-1A-2) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.022 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person to whom a license is issued by the State Department of Revenue for
the manufacture, sale or distribution of beer and wine within the city shall
engage in such manufacture, sale or distribution of beer and wine within the
city without first obtaining from the Finance Clerk-Treasurer a city license
and paying for the same as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-1A-3)
§ 112.023 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Required. The applicant for a license required by this subchapter
shall present to the Finance Clerk-Treasurer an application for a city license
to dispense beer and wine subject to the provisions of the State Alcoholic
Beverage Code and this code and any other ordinances of the city applicable
thereto.
   (B)   Form. The application shall be on an official form to be furnished by
the Finance Clerk-Treasurer, which shall be in substantially the following
language.
 
   CITY OF GLENDIVE
   APPLICATION FOR LICENSE TO DISPENSE BEER AND WINE
 
To the Finance Clerk-Treasurer of Glendive, Montana:
 
   The undersigned hereby makes application for a license to dispense beer and wine within the City of Glendive pursuant to the
provisions of the State Alcoholic Beverage Code and the applicable ordinances of the city.
 
   My name is                                                                    
   Sex                             
   Age                              
 
I am the holder of a license from the State of Montana under the State Alcoholic Beverage Code as a                        . The date
of said license is                     ; its number is                 ; and it expires                                 . My residence
is                                                        ; and I have resided there                                               .
 
The location in the City of Glendive at which I desire a license to dispense beer and wine is                                      .
 
I understand that this license is issued subject to the terms and conditions of the State Alcoholic Beverage Code as well as those of
the city ordinances of Glendive applicable thereto;
 
I also understand that the revocation, withdrawal or suspension of any license granted to me by the State of Montana pursuant to the
State Alcoholic Beverage Code shall simultaneously and without further action of the City, operate as a revocation, withdrawal or
suspension of any city license created pursuant to this application.
 
STATE OF MONTANA
             ss.
COUNTY OF DAWSON
 
                                       , the applicant above named, being first duly sworn on his or her oath, says:
 
   That he or she has read the above and foregoing application for a city license and knows the contents thereof and that the same is
true.
 
   Subscribed and sworn to before me this          day of                  ,       .
 
                                                                  
         Notary Public for the State of Montana
         Residing at                                          
         My Commission Expires:
 
(Prior Code, § 3-1A-4)
§ 112.024 FEES.
   The fees for licenses under this subchapter shall be payable in advance in
the amounts specified by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 3-1A-5)
§ 112.025 STATE LICENSE PREREQUISITE.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall authorize the manufacture,
possession or sale of beer and wine within the city by any person not holding a
state license as required by the State Alcoholic Beverage Code unless such
manufacture, possession or sale shall be permitted by the laws of the United
States of America.
(Prior Code, § 3-1A-6)
§ 112.026 INVESTIGATION; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Issuance by Finance Clerk-Treasurer. Upon the filing of an application
for a license under this subchapter, it shall be the duty of the Finance Clerk-
Treasurer to pass originally upon the moral qualifications of the applicant.
The fact that a certificate of good moral character has heretofore been issued
to the same applicant by the state shall not be conclusive of such fact upon
the Finance Clerk-Treasurer, but the Finance Clerk-Treasurer shall have
authority and it shall be his or her duty to ascertain and pass upon the moral
qualifications of the applicant. In the event the Finance Clerk-Treasurer shall
determine that the applicant is of good moral character, he or she shall issue
such license forthwith.
   (B)   Investigation. In case he or she shall determine that the applicant is
not a person of good moral character, or for any other reason is not qualified
to receive such license, the Finance Clerk-Treasurer shall refer the
application to a Board consisting of the Chief of Police and the Fire and
Police Committee for an investigation and for report to the City Council. The
Committee shall thereupon investigate the applicant and may for the purpose
receive testimony from the applicant or from any other source as to the moral
qualifications and standing of the applicant.
   (C)   Council action. The Board shall report its findings to the City
Council and the City Council shall, by an order entered upon its minutes,
either grant or deny the license applied for and shall direct the Finance
Clerk-Treasurer accordingly.
   (D)   Denial; return of fee. If a license is refused, the fee tendered shall
be returned to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 3-1A-7)
§ 112.027 LICENSE.
   (A)   Form; contents. Licenses issued under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be in substantially the following form.
 
   State Alcoholic Beverage Code
   CITY OF GLENDIVE LICENSE
 
   The City of Glendive hereby licenses                                            as a                                               under
and subject to all the provisions of the State Alcoholic Beverage Code and the ordinances of Glendive applicable to the subject. The
business authorized under this license shall be carried on only at the premises known as
                                                                in Glendive, Montana, and at no other place unless otherwise authorized by
the City Council. The license expires                                   unless sooner suspended or revoked.
 
   This license shall be prominently posted at the premises herein described and is subject to suspension or revocation as provided by the
laws of Montana and the ordinances of the City of Glendive.
 
      Dated this           day of                               ,       .
 
                                                           
          Finance Clerk-Treasurer
 
   (B)   Record. The Finance Clerk-Treasurer shall keep an accurate record of
all licenses issued under this subchapter indicating all essential details
thereto.
(Prior Code, § 3-1A-8)
§ 112.028 TERM OF LICENSE.
   All licenses issued in any year shall expire June 30 at 12:00 a.m. of such
year.
(Prior Code, § 3-1A-9) (Ord. 02-2020, passed 7-2-2020)
§ 112.029 RENEWAL; TRANSFERABILITY.
   (A)   Renewal. Any person holding a license issued pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter may renew the same for the ensuing year by paying
the Finance Clerk-Treasurer, in advance, the license fee provided by this
subchapter.
   (B)   Transfer of license. Whenever any licensee shall transfer a state
license issued under the State Alcoholic Beverage Code, the transferee shall
not be permitted to manufacture, sell or handle beer or wine within the city
without first procuring from the Finance Clerk-Treasurer a license in the same
manner as required by this subchapter for the issuance of an original license;
provided, that in the event a city license is issued to such transferee, no
charge shall be made for the same by the city for the unexpired period for
which the original license was issued.
(Prior Code, § 3-1A-10)
§ 112.030 REGULATIONS.
   The following provisions shall apply to all sales of beer and wine by all
licensees.
   (A)   Sale to minors; minors frequenting premises. No licensee shall sell or
furnish beer or wine to any person under the age of 21 years. In any
prosecution for the violation of this provision, the burden of proof shall be
upon the licensee to establish the fact that the person to whom beer or wine
was sold or furnished by such licensee was over the age of 21 years. No person
under the age of 21 shall misstate or misrepresent his or her true age to the
licensee or to any other person for the purpose of inducing such licensee to
sell or furnish beer or wine to any person under the age of 21.
   (B)   Sale to habitual drunkards. No licensee shall sell or furnish beer or
wine to any habitual drunkard or to any person who shall appear to be visibly
intoxicated or who is acting in a disorderly manner.
   (C)   Possessing intoxicating beverages on-premises. No licensee shall sell,
furnish or possess at his or her licensed place of business any intoxicating
liquor of any sort or kind whatsoever, or any whiskey, beer, wine, gin or
brandy or any other alcoholic beverage of any sort or kind, except beer, wine
or other beverages as are authorized to be sold and possessed under the terms
of the State Alcoholic Beverage Code.
   (D)   Purchase from persons other than licensed wholesalers. No licensee
shall purchase or otherwise acquire beer or wine from anyone except a brewer or
a wholesaler duly licensed under the State Alcoholic Beverage Code.
   (E)   Permitting alcoholic beverages on premises. No licensee shall
knowingly permit any intoxicating liquor or any alcoholic beverage of any sort
or kind, except beer or wine authorized by the State Alcoholic Beverage Code to
be brought into or consumed upon the place of business of such licensee. No
person shall bring or in any manner introduce into the place of business of any
such licensee any such intoxicating liquor or alcoholic beverage.
   (F)   Disturbing the peace. It shall be the duty of every person licensed
under this subchapter to conduct his or her place of business in a quiet,
peaceable manner, and no such licensee shall knowingly permit any disturbance
of the peace or other improper or disorderly conduct to occur in or about the
premises operated by such licensee.
   (G)   Violation. For a violation of divisions (C) and (D) above, in addition
to any penalty as provided for in §
10.99, the offender may suffer the forfeiture of his or her city license to
dispense beer and wine. Upon a second conviction, it shall be mandatory upon
the court to order the immediate cancellation of such license, and no renewal
of the same shall be had by such offender for a period of one year thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 3-1A-11) (Ord. 16-82, passed 5-21-1984) Penalty, see §
112.999
Cross-reference:
   Minors, see §
112.005
§ 112.031 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Retail sale. Places licensed under the State Alcoholic Beverage Code
and under this subchapter to sell beer and wine at retail shall be closed and
shall not sell or serve beer or wine between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00
a.m. of each day.
   (B)   Hotel, restaurant or club. Places licensed under the hotel, restaurant
or club provisions of the State Alcoholic Beverage Code and this subchapter
shall not sell or serve beer or wine between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00
a.m. of each day.
(Prior Code, § 3-1A-12)
§ 112.032 OPERATION IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   No license under this subchapter shall be granted to any person to sell beer
or wine at any location within a residential district of the city. The
determination of the City Council as to what constitutes a “residential
district” shall be conclusive for all applicants for license under this
subchapter. This section supplants M.C.A. § 16-3-306(1) and the prohibition set
forth thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 3-1A-13) (Ord. 77-85, passed 12-15-1997) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.033 INSPECTIONS.
   Every place of business operated under authority of this subchapter and
under authority of the State Alcoholic Beverage Code shall be subject to
regulation, inspection, control and supervision under the general police powers
of the city and shall be subject to this code and all ordinances of the city
adopted in aid of such police powers and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 3-1A-14)
§ 112.034 SUSPENSION; REVOCATION.
   The City Council shall have the same power and authority with respect to
licensees under the terms of this subchapter as are set forth in §
112.058.
(Prior Code, § 3-1A-15)
LIQUOR
§ 112.045 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLUB. A national fraternal organization, except college fraternities, or an
association of individuals organized for social purposes and not for profit,
with a permanent membership and in existence for two years prior to making
application for a license, with permanent quarters or rooms.
   CODE. Montana Code Annotated or State Alcoholic Beverage Code.
   INTERDICTED PERSON. A person to whom the sale of liquor is prohibited under
the laws of the state.
   LICENSE. A license issued by the city to a qualified person, under which it
shall be lawful for the licensee to sell and dispense liquor at retail as
provided in this subchapter.
   LICENSEE. The person to whom a license is issued.
   LIQUOR. All kinds of liquor sold by or in a state liquor store.
   STATE LIQUOR STORE. A liquor store established by the Department of Revenue
under the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 3-1B-1)
§ 112.046 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Required. No person shall sell at retail within the city any liquors
until such person shall have procured a license therefor as provided in this
subchapter.
   (B)   Exceptions. Nothing in this subchapter shall apply to those engaged in
the sale of liquor as follows:
      (1)   State liquor stores. At the various state liquor stores; and
      (2)   Railroad dining or buffet car. In any dining or buffet car operated
by any railroad in connection with regularly operated train service, when the
person serving such liquor is in the employ of the railroad and is acting
within the scope of his or her employment in so doing; provided, that a license
has been issued to the railroad by the Department of Revenue, and the same, or
a duplicate thereof, is displayed in such car.
(Prior Code, § 3-1B-2) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.047 APPLICATION.
   Prior to the issuance of a license under this subchapter, the applicant
therefor shall file with the Finance Clerk-Treasurer an application, in
writing, signed by the applicant and directed to the City Council, which
application shall specify the location by street and number and the part of the
premises where the business is to be carried on under the license applied for;
and the names of the persons conducting the business if the same is a
partnership. If the same is a fraternal order, such fact shall be therein set
forth. The application shall be accompanied by satisfactory evidence that the
applicant has the licenses required by §
112.049. Such application shall be accompanied with the license fee as provided
in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-1B-3)
§ 112.048 QUALIFIED APPLICANTS.
   Licenses under this subchapter may be issued to qualified applicants,
whereby the licensee shall be authorized and permitted to sell liquor at retail
in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. Qualified applicants
shall include persons, hotels, clubs and fraternal organizations.
(Prior Code, § 3-1B-4)
§ 112.049 ADDITIONAL LICENSES REQUIRED.
   No person, club, or fraternal organization shall be entitled to a license
under this subchapter unless such person, club or fraternal organization shall
have, in respect to the same premises for which a license under this subchapter
is sought, the following:
   (A)   State liquor license. A subsisting license issued by the Department of
Revenue;
   (B)   State beer and wine license. A subsisting beer and wine license,
issued under the laws of the state; and
   (C)   City beer and wine license. A subsisting beer and wine license issued
under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-1B-5)
§ 112.050 FEES.
   (A)   Annual fee. Each licensee under the provisions of this subchapter
shall pay an annual license fee for each license as provided by resolution.
   (B)   Disposition of funds. All receipts from license fees and fines
collected under the provisions of this subchapter shall be deposited to the
credit of the General Fund of this city.
(Prior Code, § 3-1B-6)
§ 112.051 ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Issuance by Finance Clerk-Treasurer. Upon the filing of an application
under this subchapter, accompanied by the evidence required, and upon payment
of the necessary and required license fee to the Finance Clerk-Treasurer, it
shall be the duty of the Finance Clerk-Treasurer to issue and deliver to the
applicant a license to carry on the business for which the applicant owns and
holds a subsisting license in respect to the premises for which such license is
applied, as provided in §
112.049.
   (B)   Council review. The Finance Clerk-Treasurer, in his or her discretion,
may hold the application for a license so delivered to him or her until the
next regular meeting of the City Council, at which time he or she shall submit
such application to the City Council so that the City Council may, in its
discretion, decline to authorize such license, if, in the judgment of the City
Council, it will be for the best interests of the city to refuse such license.
   (C)   Denial; return of fee. Upon such refusal, the license fee paid by the
applicant and all documents filed by him or her, other than such application,
shall be returned to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 3-1B-7)
§ 112.052 LICENSE.
   (A)   Contents. Every license issued under this subchapter shall set forth
the name of the person to whom issued; the location by street and number of the
premises where the business is to be carried on under the license; and the
number of the license issued by the Department of Revenue to the applicant. If
it is a partnership, it shall set forth the names of the persons conducting the
business.
   (B)   Transferability. Such license shall be signed by the licensee and
shall be nontransferable; provided, that a transfer of any such license may be
made on application to the City Council accompanied by satisfactory evidence of
the consent of the Department of Revenue to such transfer of the license by it.
No charge shall be made in such a transfer of license for the unexpired period
for which the original license was issued.
   (C)   Posting. Such license shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises in respect to which it is issued and shall be exhibited to any member
of the Police Department whenever the same is requested.
   (D)   Licenses separate and distinct as to licensee and premises. Every
license issued under the provisions of this subchapter is separate and
distinct, and no person, except the licensee therein named, shall exercise any
of the privileges granted thereunder; and all licenses are applicable only to
the premises in respect to which they are so issued.
(Prior Code, § 3-1B-8)
§ 112.053 TERM OF LICENSE.
   All licenses issued in any year shall expire on December 31, at 12:00 a.m.
of such year.
(Prior Code, § 3-1B-9)
§ 112.054 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Restricted to licensee. No business shall be carried on under any
license issued under this subchapter except in the name of the licensee.
   (B)   Operation in residential districts. No liquor license shall be issued
for any premises situated in the residential district of the city. The
determination of the City Council as to what constitutes a “residential
district,” shall be conclusive for all applicants for licenses under this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-1B-10) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.055 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No liquor shall be sold, offered for sale or given away upon any premises
licensed to sell liquor at retail during the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
of each day.
(Prior Code, § 3-1B-11) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.056 PROHIBITED SALES.
   No licensee under this subchapter shall sell, deliver or give away or cause
or permit to be sold, delivered or given away any liquor to the following
persons:
   (A)   Any minor under the age of 21 years;
   (B)   Any habitual drunkard;
   (C)   Any interdicted person; and
   (D)   Any intoxicated person or person actually, apparently or obviously
intoxicated.
(Prior Code, § 3-1B-12) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.057 INSPECTIONS.
   The City Council, or duly authorized representative thereof, or the Mayor,
Chief of Police or any member of the Police Department shall have the right at
any time to make an examination of the premises of a licensee under this
subchapter as to whether this subchapter is being compiled with.
(Prior Code, § 3-1B-13)
§ 112.058 SUSPENSION; REVOCATION.
   (A)   Power to suspend or revoke. The City Council may, upon its own motion,
and shall, upon a written verified complaint of any other person, investigate
the action and operation of any licensee under this subchapter, and shall have
the power to temporarily suspend or permanently revoke a license issued under
this subchapter for violation of any provision of this subchapter.
   (B)   Complaint.
      (1)   Issuance of citation. Upon the filing with the City Council of a
verified complaint within one year prior to the date of filing the complaint,
charging the licensee with the commission of any act which would be cause for
the suspension or revocation of a license, the City Council shall forthwith
issue a citation directing the licensee to appear before the City Council
within 20 days after the date of the service of the citation, and by filing his
or her verified answer to the complaint show cause, if any, why his or her
license should not be suspended or revoked.
      (2)   Service. Service of the citation may be effected by mailing a true
copy thereof, with a true copy of the complaint, by registered mail addressed
to the licensee at his or her last address of record, or by the Chief of
Police.
      (3)   Failure to answer. Failure of the licensee to answer shall be an
admission by him or her of the truthfulness of the charge made, and, thereupon,
the City Council shall be authorized to suspend or revoke the license.
   (C)   Hearing; notice.
      (1)   Scheduled. Upon the filing of the answer, the City Council shall
fix the time and place of the hearing on the charges made, which hearing shall
be in the City Council chamber of the City Hall. Not less than five days’
notice of the hearing shall be given to the complainant and licensee.
      (2)   Notice of hearing. The notice of hearing shall be served in the
same manner as is the citation. With the notice of the hearing to the
complainant, there shall be attached a true copy of the answer of the licensee.
If either party has appeared by counsel, the notice shall be given in like
manner to the counsel of the party.
      (3)   Evidence; testimony. At the hearing, the City Council shall hear
the evidence presented which may be in the form of oral testimony or
affidavits, or both.
   (D)   Decision of Council.
      (1)   Written decision. After the hearing has been concluded, the City
Council shall, within ten days, render its decision, in writing, stating the
reasons therefor.
      (2)   Notice of decision. Notice of the decision, with a copy thereof,
shall be served upon the parties, or their counsel, in the manner provided in
this section as to other notices. When the City Council shall have revoked or
cancelled a license previously issued by it, the City Council shall notify the
licensee, in writing, by registered mail, to the address of such licensee, of
its action, giving reasons therefor.
   (E)   Appeal. Should the action of the City Council be arbitrary or
capricious, anyone aggrieved thereby shall, by mandamus or other appropriate
proceeding, be entitled to have the action of the City Council reviewed by the
district court of the state in and for the county.
   (F)   Power to renew. After suspension or revocation of a license, the City
Council shall have the power to renew the same if, in its discretion, a proper
showing therefor has been made.
   (G)   Notice to state. Any suspension or revocation by the City Council
shall be immediately reported to the State Department of Revenue with a request
that the Department of Revenue suspend or revoke the liquor license issued by
the state.
(Prior Code, § 3-1B-14)
SPECIAL BEER AND TABLE WINE PERMIT
§ 112.070 SPECIAL PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any association or corporation conducting a picnic, convention, fair, civic
community enterprise, or sporting event, in the city, shall, in the discretion
of the Finance Clerk-Treasurer be entitled to a special permit to sell beer and
table wine to the patrons of such event to be consumed within the enclosure
wherein the event is held.
(Prior Code, § 3-1C-1)
§ 112.071 APPLICATION.
   The application of any such association or corporation shall be presented
five days in advance and shall describe the location of such enclosure where
such event is to be held, the nature of the event and the period when it is
contemplated that the event will be held. The application shall be accompanied
by the amount of the permit fee.
(Prior Code, § 3-1C-2)
§ 112.072 STATE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Upon application for said permit, the applicant shall present to the Finance
Clerk-Treasurer, proof that the applicant has received a special permit to sell
beer and table wine from the liquor division of the State Department of
Revenue, pursuant to M.C.A. § 16-4-301.
(Prior Code, § 3-1C-3)
§ 112.073 FEE.
   The fee for said permit is 100% of the fee charged by the division for a
state beer or beer and wine license. This fee shall be paid upon presentation
of the application to the Finance Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 3-1C-4)
§ 112.074 TERM.
   The permit issued to such association or corporation is a special permit,
but shall not authorize the sale of beer and table wine, except starting one
day in advance of the regular period when events are being held upon such
grounds and during the period described in the application and for one day
thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 3-1C-5)
§ 112.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of §
112.005 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and punished according to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-5)
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
112.006 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-6)
   (D)   (1)   No licensee under the provisions of §§
112.020 through
112.034 shall violate any of the terms or provisions of the State Alcoholic
Beverage Code within the city. Any violation of such Code shall be unlawful and
shall constitute a violation of §§
112.020 through
112.034.
      (2)   Violations of §§
112.020 through
112.034 shall be punished as set forth in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 3-1A-16)
   (E)   Violations of §§
112.045 through
112.058 shall be punished as set forth in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 3-1B-15)
(Ord. 18-85, passed 6-15-1987; Ord. 32-85, passed 5-7-1990)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Curfew
   
130.02   Dangerous weapons
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CURFEW HOURS.
         (a)   11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday
until 6:00 a.m. of the following day; and
         (b)   12:01 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any Saturday or Sunday.
      EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a fire, natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a court.
      MINOR. Any person under 18 years of age.
      OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
      PARENT. A person who is:
         (a)   A natural parent, adoptive parent or step-parent of another
person; or
         (b)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care and custody of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but not limited to, streets, highways and the
common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
      REMAIN.
         (a)   Linger or stay; or
         (b)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
office or the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   (B)   Offenses. 
      (1)   A minor commits an offense if they remain in any public place or on
the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he or she
knowingly permits or by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment within the city during
curfew hours.
      (3)   The owner, operator or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if they knowingly allow a minor to remain upon the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   It is an exemption to division (B) above that the minor was:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian;
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor’s presence;
         (g)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization
or similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to or
returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school, religious
or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization or other similar entity that take responsibility for the
minor;
         (h)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly; or
         (i)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (B)(3) above that the
owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly notified the Police
Department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment during
curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (D)   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a police officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and the reason for being
in a public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, including
investigation additional to the actions required by this division (D) as a
reasonable person would deem necessary, no exemption in division (C) above is
present.
(Ord. 03-2025, passed 2-18-2025) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DANGEROUS WEAPONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a peace officer in the
discharge of his or her duties or a citizen in the protection of his or her
life or that of his or her family or his or her property, to discharge any
firearm, air gun, pistol, slingshot or bow and arrow within the corporate
limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punished
in accordance with §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-2)
TITLE 15: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
152.   TREES
      
153.   RADIO, TELEVISION AND WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
      
154.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Codes Adopted
   
150.01   Building codes
   
150.02   National Electrical Code adopted
Plumbing
   
150.15   Applicability
   
150.16   Plumber’s license required
   
150.17   Compliance to state codes
   
150.18   Connection required
Trailers and Trailer Courts
   
150.30   Compliance with statute
   
150.31   Plumbing
   
150.32   Electricity
   
150.33   Occupied trailers
Swimming Pools
   
150.45   Applicability; compliance
   
150.46   Permit required
   
150.47   Application
   
150.48   Connection required
   
150.49   Fences
   
150.50   Nuisance prohibited
   
150.51   Board of Adjustments
   
150.52   Enforcement
 
   
150.99   Penalty
CODES ADOPTED
§ 150.01 BUILDING CODES.
   The current editions of the Building Codes and all accompanying appendices,
amendments and modifications adopted by the Building Codes Bureau, State
Department of Labor and Industry (or its successor), as set out in the
administrative rules of the state, as amended from time to time by the Building
Codes Bureau, shall be adopted by reference by administrative order of the City
Council as authorized by M.C.A. § 50-60-301(1)(b), except for any exceptions
noted in this chapter or any regulations not applicable to local government
jurisdictions. These codes are applicable to all buildings within the Building
Code enforcement area of the city, including, but not limited to, commercial
buildings, residential buildings, or their attached-to structures, and any
private garage or private storage structure used only for the owner’s own use
as provided by M.C.A. § 50-60-102(1)(a).
   (A)   The adopted Building Codes shall regulate the erection, construction,
enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal, demolition, conversion,
occupancy, equipment, use, height, area and maintenance of all buildings and/or
structures in the city and its jurisdictional area, providing for issuance of
permits and collection of fees and penalties.
   (B)   One copy of each code shall be on file in the office of the Fire
Chief.
   (C)   Any codes or amendments adopted by the Building Codes Bureau which
apply to local government jurisdictions, including the adoption of the latest
editions of the model technical codes or applicable administrative rules of the
state, shall become effective in the city upon order of the City Council within
ten days after the date that they are approved by a resolution at a City
Council meeting.
   (D)   City amendments thereto are as follows.
      (1)   Schedule of permit fees. Schedule of permit fees for use by the
city will be established by resolution.
      (2)   Appeals. In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions
or determinations made by the Building Official relative to the application and
interpretation of this code, there shall be and is hereby created a Board of
Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment proceedings will be in accordance with §§
155.295 through
155.308.
      (3)   Debris. The city requires that all buildings that have been
removed, demolished or destroyed must have all the debris removed, including
the basements and/or foundations.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1) (Ord. 03-2004, passed 6-15-2004; Ord. 02-2023, passed 12-
5-2023)
§ 150.02 NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing
electrical work, that certain code known as the National Electrical Code, being
particularly the code that is currently adopted by the state’s electrical
inspector, and the pertinent parts thereof are hereby adopted and incorporated
herein as fully as if set out at length, and from the date of which this
chapter shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within
the limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-1)
PLUMBING
§ 150.15 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall not apply to or affect plumbing or pipe fitting in any
railroad or oil industry.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-1)
§ 150.16 PLUMBER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person working at the business of plumbing in the city as a master
plumber who, while working at the business of plumbing, shall connect plumbing
to or disconnect plumbing from a water or sewer system of the city, shall first
secure a master plumber’s license from the state.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-2) (Ord. 11-85, passed 4-21-1986)
§ 150.17 COMPLIANCE TO STATE CODES.
   All plumbing in residential and nonresidential buildings shall conform to
all current State Plumbing Codes and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-3)
§ 150.18 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   All buildings in which there is human occupancy or employment located within
100 feet of a public sewer shall be connected to such public sewer.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-4)
TRAILERS AND TRAILER COURTS
§ 150.30 COMPLIANCE WITH STATUTE.
   Tourist campgrounds and trailer courts shall comply with M.C.A. §§ 50-52-101
through 50-52-303 and 70-24-311.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-1)
§ 150.31 PLUMBING.
   All plumbing in each trailer court shall comply with city and state plumbing
laws and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-2)
§ 150.32 ELECTRICITY.
   An electrical outlet supplying at least 110 volts shall be provided for each
trailer coach space. Such installation shall be in compliance with all city and
state electrical codes and resolutions. Such electrical outlets shall be
weatherproof. No power line shall be permitted to lie on the ground or to be
suspended less than ten feet above the ground.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-3) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.33 OCCUPIED TRAILERS.
   No person shall permit, maintain or allow an occupied trailer coach to be
parked, located or stationed within the city except in a duly authorized
trailer court.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-4) Penalty, see §
150.99
SWIMMING POOLS
§ 150.45 APPLICABILITY; COMPLIANCE.
   No person shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, improve, convert,
equip, use or maintain any private swimming pool in the city, or cause or
permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-1) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.46 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No private swimming pool shall be erected, constructed, altered or
maintained, except as provided by this subchapter, without first having
obtained a permit for the same as issued by the building inspector.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-2)
§ 150.47 APPLICATION.
   An application for a permit for a private swimming pool shall be made, in
writing, to the building inspector. The application shall contain the location,
by street and number, of the proposed swimming pool, the name and address of
the owner together with a description of the proposed swimming pool.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-3)
§ 150.48 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   All private swimming pools shall be connected with the city sanitary sewer
system for the purpose of draining.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-4)
§ 150.49 FENCES.
   All private swimming pools shall be fenced by a suitable fence of not less
than six feet in height with a gate thereto of the same height. Such gate shall
be provided with a self-closing, self-locking catch or lock and placed at a
height sufficient to keep small children from opening the gate. The fence shall
be of such material as to render it difficult for small children to scale or
climb the same.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-5)
§ 150.50 NUISANCE PROHIBITED.
   No private swimming pool shall be permitted to become a private or public
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-6) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.51 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS.
   In order to provide reasonable interpretation of the provisions of this
subchapter, there is hereby established a Board of Adjustments.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-7)
§ 150.52 ENFORCEMENT.
   The building inspector shall enforce all the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-8)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the codes
adopted in this chapter, or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or
fail to comply with any order made there under, or who shall build in violation
of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved
there under, or any certificate or permit issued there under, and from which no
appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as
affirmed or modified by the City Council or by a court of competent
jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall severally for each and every
such violation and noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500 or by
imprisonment for not less than three days nor more than 180 days or by both
such fine and imprisonment. The imposition of one penalty for any violation
shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all of such
persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects
within a reasonable time; and when not otherwise specified, each ten days that
prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense. The
application of the penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of
the prohibited conditions.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1) (Ord. 03-2004, passed 6-15-2004; Ord. 02-2023, passed 12-
5-2023)
CHAPTER 151: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Depositing materials on public ways
Sidewalks and Curb
   
151.015   Construction supervision
   
151.016   Concrete specifications
   
151.017   Locations and dimensions of sidewalks
   
151.018   Existing sidewalk location
   
151.019   Repair to sidewalks
   
151.020   Location of curbing
   
151.021   Curb specifications
   
151.022   Responsibility of abutting property owners
   
151.023   Failure to comply
   
151.024   Public Works Director to record costs
   
151.025   Special assessments
   
151.026   Notice of meeting regarding special assessments
   
151.027   Lien for special assessments
   
151.028   Pay period, interest
   
151.029   Costs to be extended upon tax rolls
   
151.030   Special fund created
Construction of Curb Cuts and Driveways
   
151.045   Definitions
   
151.046   Permit required; inspection
   
151.047   Allowable curb cut lengths
   
151.048   Regulations generally
   
151.049   Restrictions
Sidewalk Requirements
   
151.060   Awnings
   
151.061   Duty of occupant
   
151.062   Obstructions
   
151.063   Littering
   
151.064   Building materials
   
151.065   Advertisements
   
151.066   Restrictions on subway
   
151.067   Clearance above sidewalks and streets
Trench Backfill and Street Restoration
   
151.080   Definitions; references; standard drawings
   
151.081   Permit required; fee
   
151.082   Pipe bedding materials
   
151.083   Trench backfill materials
   
151.084   Protection of existing utilities
   
151.085   Privately owned utilities
   
151.086   Pavement removal and stripping
   
151.087   Trench excavation
   
151.088   Pavement damage caused by equipment
   
151.089   Excavation stability and safety
   
151.090   Trench filling and backfilling
   
151.091   Pavement restoration
   
151.092   Traffic control
   
151.093   Cleanup and inspection
   
151.094   Proof of insurance
Poles, Wires and Pipes
   
151.105   Designation of location
   
151.106   Streets and alleys
   
151.107   Notice of intention to install
   
151.108   Restoration of surfaces
   
151.109   Indemnification
   
151.110   Additional rules and regulations
Special Improvement Districts
   
151.125   Application
   
151.126   Requirements
   
151.127   Revolving Fund and District Reserve Account
   
151.128   Definitions
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 DEPOSITING MATERIALS ON PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   Permit required. Any person, firm, association or corporation,
desiring to place, dump, push upon or deposit any material, including ice and
snow, upon any street, avenue or alley within the corporate limits of the city,
must first file an application with the City Engineer and obtain a written
permit.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-1)
   (B)   Excluded material. This section is to be so construed that the
material herein referred to does not include any of the material set forth and
included in Chapter 50, more commonly referred to as the garbage ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-2)
SIDEWALKS AND CURB
§ 151.015 CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION.
   The construction of concrete driveways and concrete crosswalks used for
private purposes, constructed, reconstructed or laid within the street rights-
of-way of the city shall be under the supervision and direction of the Director
of Public Works, authorized assistant or duly appointed inspector. The design
and concrete mixture shall conform to standard specifications for concrete
sidewalks and driveways on file in the Director of Public Works office of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1) (Ord. 01-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 151.016 CONCRETE SPECIFICATIONS.
   All sidewalks laid, constructed or reconstructed on any street shall be
uniformly constructed of concrete four inches thick, poured in place, and such
concrete and construction shall conform to specifications set forth in the most
current edition of Montana Public Works Standard Specifications for concrete
sidewalks and structural concrete.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2) (Ord. 01-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 151.017 LOCATIONS AND DIMENSIONS OF SIDEWALKS.
   All sidewalks constructed, reconstructed or laid within the city shall be
located and be of the following dimensions.
   (A)   Twelve feet wide (green). Sidewalks abutting or adjacent to those lots
or parcels of land, the outside lot lines of which are colored green on the map
thereof on file in the Office of Public Works, reference to which is hereby
made and by this reference is made a part hereof, are to be 12 feet in width
and are to be located immediately adjacent to the inside line of the curb.
   (B)   Ten feet wide.
      (1)   Brown. Sidewalks abutting or adjacent to those lots or parcels of
land, the outside lot lines of which are colored brown on such map are to be
ten feet in width and are to be located immediately adjacent to the inside of
the curb.
      (2)   Purple. Sidewalks abutting or adjacent to those lots or parcels of
land, the outside lot lines of which are colored purple on such map are to be
ten feet in width and are to be located immediately adjacent to the inside line
of the curb.
   (C)   Five feet wide.
      (1)   Red. Sidewalks abutting those lots or parcels of land, the outside
lot lines of which are colored red on such map are to be five feet in width and
are to be located so that the inside line of such sidewalk shall be one foot
out from the adjacent property line.
      (2)   Blue. Sidewalks abutting or adjacent to those lots or parcels of
land, the outside lot lines of which are colored in blue on such map are to be
five feet in width and are to be located immediately adjacent to the inside
lines of the curb.
   (D)   Grade. All sidewalks shall rise one-fourth inch to the foot from the
curb grade to the property line.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3) (Ord. 01-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 151.018 EXISTING SIDEWALK LOCATION.
   If more than one-half of the block of the sidewalk is in place and built to
acceptable grades and in serviceable condition, then the remaining sidewalks in
the same block shall conform to the location of the sidewalks already
installed. If less than one-half of the existing sidewalk is in place, the
location of the walk will be determined by §
151.017. Areas not designated in this section will be determined by considering
good design principles, wishes of the affected property owners, the costs
involved and other existing conflicts such as trees, shrubs, light fixtures,
fire hydrants and other utilities.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-4) (Ord. 01-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 151.019 REPAIR TO SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be the duty of the owners and tenants of any premises within the
city limits to keep the sidewalk in front of and adjoining their premises in
good, safe and substantial condition, and the owners shall see that all breaks
or unsoundness of any character resulting from natural deterioration, or from
any cause whatsoever, is repaired with all dispatch. All the repairing of
sidewalks laid and constructed shall be the responsibility of the abutting
property owner.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-5) (Ord. 01-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 151.020 LOCATION OF CURBING.
   The outside of the curbing which is the side nearest the center of the
street shall be at the distance as shown on the official street plats on file
in the office of the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-6) (Ord. 01-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 151.021 CURB SPECIFICATIONS.
   All curbs shall be so constructed as to conform with Montana Public Works
Standard Specifications, most current edition. When curbs are replaced or built
anew, provisions must be made for handicap accessible ramps at all
intersections. All curbs replaced or installed as new construction shall be of
integral curb and gutter.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-7) (Ord. 01-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 151.022 RESPONSIBILITY OF ABUTTING PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   Whenever any street or avenue in the city shall be ordered improved by
the City Council by the construction, repair or removal of sidewalks or curbs,
or the removal of any obstruction, along either or both sides thereof, the
duties, burden or expense of constructing, maintaining, repairing or removing
of such curb or sidewalk, or the removal of any obstruction, shall devolve upon
and be paid for by the owner of the property directly abutting on that side of
such street or avenue along which such sidewalk or curb has been ordered
constructed, repaired or removed, or the obstruction removed therefrom.
   (B)   Such a construction, repair or removal of a sidewalk or curb, or the
removal of an obstruction therefrom, shall require a written notice thereof
shall be given by the Director of Public Works to the owners or agent of the
owners of the lots or parcels of land along which such sidewalks or curb may be
ordered built or repaired or removed or the obstruction removed therefrom;
which notice shall specify the nature of the work to be done and the time
within which the same shall be commenced, that if the work is not commenced by
the owner of the property within 30 days after the date of service of such
notice to cause such work to be done, that the owner of such property and the
property itself shall be liable for the cost and assessment of the same and
that if such work will be done by the city, and under its authority and
supervision, and the costs thereof assessed against such property and the owner
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-8) (Ord. 01-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 151.023 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If the owner of any lot or parcel of land fronting or abutting where any
curb or sidewalk shall have been ordered constructed, repaired or removed or
obstruction removed therefrom shall refuse, fail or neglect to have the work
specified done or commenced within 30 days, as notified, the city shall procure
the same to be done either by a contractor or by its duly authorized officers.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-9) (Ord. 01-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 151.024 PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR TO RECORD COSTS.
   Whenever any curb or sidewalk shall have been constructed, repaired or
removed, or any obstruction removed therefrom by the city as provided by this
subchapter, the Director of Public Works shall keep an account of all costs or
expenses incurred in his or her office in connection with any work under any
such order or notice, which shall include the costs of preparation of plats,
plans, specifications, maps, engineering, superintendence and inspection and
preparation of any assessment rolls, and cost of the work performed, and the
Director of Public Works shall certify all such costs to the Administrative
Clerk, whose duty it shall be to prepare all necessary schedules and
resolutions levying any taxes or assessments against the property abutting any
curb or sidewalk which has been constructed, repaired or removed, or has had an
obstruction removed therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-10) (Ord. 01-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 151.025 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The Administrative Clerk shall certify to the City Council the costs of any
improvements or work required by this subchapter, and the City Council shall
thereupon proceed by resolution to assess a special tax or assessment upon each
lot or parcel of land for such sum of money as may be required for the purpose
of paying the costs of such improvements, and such resolution shall contain a
list of the assessment and apportionment, which shall, as nearly as
practicable, contain a correct description of the real property on which such
tax or assessment is assessed or apportioned, with the name of the person
owning the same, if known, and the amount of such special tax as assessed or
apportioned against such property.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-11) (Ord. 01-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 151.026 NOTICE OF MEETING REGARDING SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Hearing scheduled. The resolution referred to in §
151.025 shall fix the time and place at which the City Council will hear and
consider objections to such assessment or apportionment.
   (B)   Publication of notice. Notice of the time and place of the meeting of
the City Council for the purpose of hearing objections to such resolution
making the assessment for the purpose of paying such construction, repair or
removal of such curb or obstructions as provided for in this subchapter shall
be given by the Administrative Clerk by one publication in a newspaper, which
notice shall be published at least five days preceding the date upon which the
City Council will hear and consider such objections.
   (C)   Hearing. At the meeting referred to in this section the parties
interested may appear in person or by their agents or attorneys. The City
Council shall consider all objections that may be made to the assessment or
apportionment and shall make such provisions, amendments and changes therein as
shall seem to them right and equitable and may adjourn from time to time until
all objections shall have been considered. When such resolution shall have been
finally amended and adopted, the City Council shall levy such special tax as
therein assessed and apportioned.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-12) (Ord. 01-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 151.027 LIEN FOR SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   All special taxes for the construction of curbs or sidewalks shall be a lien
upon the real estate upon which the same are assessed or apportioned from the
date of such assessment or apportionment until the same are paid or such real
estate shall have been sold therefor as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-13) (Ord. 01-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 151.028 PAY PERIOD, INTEREST.
   The payment of costs of construction, repair or removal of such curbs or
sidewalks or obstructions therefrom may be spread over a term of years not to
exceed 12 years, payments to be made in equal annual installments. Each
installment shall be payable on or before January 1 of each year, and all
deferred payments shall bear interest at a rate pursuant to M.C.A. § 17-5-102
per annum from the date of the passing of the resolution referred to in this
subchapter until the final payment of the last installment.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-14) (Ord. 01-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 151.029 COSTS TO BE EXTENDED UPON TAX ROLLS.
   (A)   Certification. Within three days after the resolution levying and
assessing the special tax or assessment for the costs of construction, repair
or removal of any curb or sidewalk or obstruction therefrom shall have been
adopted and approved, the resolution shall be certified by the Administrative
Clerk.
   (B)   Extended to tax rolls. If such resolution shall be certified to the
Administrative Clerk so that the same may be certified to the proper officers
of the county, to extend upon the tax rolls, with other city taxes, for the
current year, then, and in that event, the Administrative Clerk shall certify
such tax or assessment to the proper officer of the county.
   (C)   Unable to extend for current year. If such resolution is adopted and
approved at a time when it cannot be certified so as to be extended upon the
tax rolls for the current year, it shall be the duty of the Administrative
Clerk to mail a notice to each owner, containing a description of their
property and the amount of the assessment, which may be contained in such
special assessment roll for the construction, repair or removal of such curb or
sidewalk, and the further fact that the taxes to be due and payable at the
office of the Administrative Clerk within a period of 30 days, specifying the
date upon which such special tax or assessment will be due, which date shall
not be less than 30 days nor more than 45 days from the date of such notice.
   (D)   Deferred payments. It shall be the duty of the Administrative Clerk
each year after the time referred to in this section to certify at the proper
time, to the proper officers of the county, the amount of the annual differed
payment due at the coming tax paying time so that it may be extended upon the
tax rolls of the county with other city taxes and collected by the County
Treasurer at the time that other city taxes or assessments are collected by the
County Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-15) (Ord. 01-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 151.030 SPECIAL FUND CREATED.
   There is hereby authorized and created a fund to be known as the Special
Sidewalk and Curb Fund in which shall be placed any money collected from any
owner of property for any taxes or assessments levied for the purpose of
constructing, repairing or removing any curbs or sidewalks or obstructions
therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-16) (Ord. 01-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
CONSTRUCTION OF CURB CUTS AND DRIVEWAYS
§ 151.045 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A narrow public thoroughfare providing access to the rear of the
abutting property.
   ALLEY APPROACH. A curb cut and driveway apron at each end of the alley
intended to benefit all property in the entire block.
   CURB CUT. The portion of the street curbing that is removed excluding curb
return to provide ingress or egress from abutting property.
   CURB OPENING. The total street curbing that is removed to place a curb cut
and slopes.
   CURB RETURN. The curved portion of a street curb at drive approaches.
   DRIVEWAY. The area on private property which solely serves a building, such
as a house or garage, where vehicles are operated, parked or allowed to stand.
   DRIVEWAY APRON. The area, construction or improvement between the curb
opening or proposed curb line and the back edge of walk or proposed walk.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if not, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
which join each other at, or approximately at right angles, or the area within
which vehicles traveling upon different roadways joining at any other angle may
come into conflict.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or
corporation.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Public property dedicated for streets, alleys or other public
uses.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed and customarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulder.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between curb lines or the outer lateral
lines of roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for use by
pedestrians.
   STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of the right-of-way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, vehicles and other conveyances, either singly or
together, while using any street, alley or roadway for purposes of travel.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1) (Ord. 02-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 151.046 PERMIT REQUIRED; INSPECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person either as owner, agent contractor or
employee to cut, break, remove or alter any curbing, driveway apron or sidewalk
or cause to have cut, broken or removed any curbing, driveway apron or
sidewalk, or to install or cause to have installed any driveway on any public
right-of-way in the city without a permit. The city shall provide an inspection
for alignment, grade and materials and to see that work is done in accordance
with the specifications of the city. The city shall be notified at least 24
hours in advance of the time the work is proposed to be started.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2) (Ord. 02-2001, passed 3-20-2001) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.047 ALLOWABLE CURB CUT LENGTHS.
   (A)   Single-family residential districts. In single-family residential
districts (R-1, R-2), the maximum curb cut length shall be 24 feet.
   (B)   Multi-family residential districts. In multi-family residential
districts (R-3, R-4), the maximum curb cut length shall not exceed 30 feet.
   (C)   Commercial and industrial districts. In all commercial and industrial
districts, the maximum curb cut length shall not exceed 40 feet.
   (D)   Minimum distance between curb cuts. The minimum distance between all
curb cuts in all districts shall be not less than 30 feet.
   (E)   Frontage. Frontage of 60 feet or less shall be limited to one curb cut
with not more than two curb cuts to be provided to any single tract or business
establishment, except where the property frontage exceeds 250 feet.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-3) (Ord. 02-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 151.048 REGULATIONS GENERALLY.
   Every curb cut and driveway apron constructed or altered in the street
right-of-way shall conform to the following regulations.
   (A)   Location. Driveways shall be so located at the discretion and by the
approval of the Director of Public Works as to result in no undue interference
with or hazard to the free movement of normal traffic or interfere with the
placement and proper functioning of highway signs, signals, lighting or other
devices that affect traffic operation. Any necessary adjustments to utility
facilities, light standards, fire hydrants, catch basins, street signs,
signals, underground conduits for street lighting or other public improvements
or installations shall be done without cost to the city.
   (B)   Construction. All driveways shall be so constructed so as not to
impair drainage within the street or highway right-of-way nor alter the
stability of the roadway subgrade and at the same time not impair or materially
alter drainage of the adjacent areas. All drainage structures required within
the public right-of-way and under the driveways as a result of the property
being developed shall be installed in accordance with the standards of the
Director of Public Works.
   (C)   Transition from street to driveway. All driveways shall have the back
of curb dropped a minimum of four and one-half inches for the width of the
driveway. The minimum driveway transition distance shall be from the back of
the curb to the property line and shall occur in a uniform manner. Curb fillets
constructed by filling in the curb and gutter are prohibited as a means of
transition from the street to the driveway.
   (D)   Distance between two adjacent driveways. The distance between two
adjacent driveways to the same frontage shall be not less than 30 feet.
   (E)   Corner clearance. At an intersecting street or highway, the dimension
measured along the edge of the traveled way to provide adequate corner
clearance shall be measured a minimum distance of ten feet from the
intersection property line, except at intersections where there are traffic
signals, the nearside clearance shall be two or more times this distance.
   (F)   Curb openings. No curb opening shall be made between the points of
curvature of any curvature at intersections, or between the points of curvature
of any curb return of short radius, if deemed hazardous by the city.
   (G)   Commercial and industrial off-site parking lots. In all commercial and
industrial off-site parking lots, the designs shall be such that vehicles
egressing shall not be required to back out into a roadway or driving lane.
   (H)   Curb cuts and driveway aprons. All curb cuts and driveway aprons are
to be constructed of Portland cement concrete of a quality and type as
specified by the Director of Public Works, and in accordance with city
specifications in effect at the time of such work. Curb cuts shall be permitted
only with construction of adjoining Portland cement concrete aprons having a
minimum depth of five feet.
   (I)   Driveway approach.
      (1)   Construction across sidewalk. No driveway approach shall be
constructed across any sidewalk unless such sidewalk is constructed or
reconstructed in accordance with specifications pertaining to the construction
of sidewalks to be used as driveway approaches.
      (2)   Interference with gutter flow line or sidewalk grade. No driveway
approach shall be constructed in a manner so as to change or interfere with the
gutter flow line or sidewalk grade where such driveway approach crosses any
such gutter or sidewalk.
   (J)   No existing sidewalk. Where no sidewalk exists, the portion of the
driveway approach adjacent to the property line shall be constructed as though
a sidewalk did exist.
   (K)   City street rights-of-way. City street rights-of-way may not be used
for private or commercial purposes. A permit for the construction of a curb cut
driveway shall not be issued unless vehicles which will use said driveway can
be parked entirely within the private property lines.
   (L)   Abandoned or unused curb cut or driveway apron. Any curb cut or
driveway apron which has become abandoned or unused through a change of the
conditions for which it was originally intended shall be closed and the owner
shall replace any curb cut and/or driveway apron with a standard curb and
sidewalk to be constructed according to the city’s specifications in effect at
the time of such work. This division (L) shall be applicable to any existing
driveway, the use of which is presently discontinued. Upon the failure or
refusal of the owner to restore the sidewalk and curbing as provided in this
section, the City Council may order the restoration of the sidewalk and curbing
and the cost of such replacement be at the expense of the owner.
   (M)   Joints. The sidewalk and curb shall, insofar as possible, be cut and
removed at the nearest joint. Upon replacement and reconstruction of a sidewalk
as a driveway approach, the construction of the curb return and any pavement in
connection with a driveway approach, suitable joints shall be provided and all
such spaces shall be filled with a bituminous fibrous compound in accordance
with the specifications of the city. When it is not possible to cut and remove
at an existing joint, such cutting shall be performed by using a concrete saw.
   (N)   Interference with intersecting sidewalks, utility facilities. No curb
cut shall be closer than five feet to, nor shall it be so located as to
interfere with intersecting sidewalks, utility facilities, light standards,
fire hydrants, catch basin, street signs, signals or other public improvements
or installations.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-4) (Ord. 02-2001, passed 3-20-2001) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.049 RESTRICTIONS.
   In addition to the general regulations prescribed in §
151.048, curb cuts and driveway aprons to be constructed or altered in all
zoning districts must conform to the following.
   (A)   Property abutting more than one city street and/or alley. Where a
property abuts more than one city street and/or alley, the maximum curb cut
permitted on each street and/or alley shall be considered separately and shall
be governed by the frontage of the property on that street and/or alley only.
   (B)   Property 60 feet wide or less. Where a property width is 60 feet or
less, joint curb cut with an adjoining property of 60 feet or less may be
constructed at a maximum width of 30 feet. Both property owners must be in
agreement to a joint curb cut.
   (C)   Encroachment on adjacent property. To prevent encroachment on adjacent
property, the entire driveway approach, including the flared portions for
turning purposes, must be constructed on the petitioner’s property frontage
extended. Exceptions may be allowed by written consent of any adjacent affected
property owners. Extension of property frontage is to be determined by
projecting lines at right angles from the street centerline to the intersection
of the abutting property lines with the street right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-5) (Ord. 02-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
SIDEWALK REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.060 AWNINGS.
   (A)   Required height. All awnings hung so as to project over any part of
sidewalks or other walks or roads used for travel by pedestrians shall be at
least eight feet above any such sidewalk, walk or road, in the clear.
   (B)   Declared nuisance. Every awning hung at a lower level than that
prescribed in division (A) above shall be considered an obstruction to traffic
and be declared a nuisance, and such awnings shall be removed immediately.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1)
§ 151.061 DUTY OF OCCUPANT.
   (A)   Duty to keep clear. It shall be the duty of the occupant of any
premises within the city, or in the case the same are unoccupied, then of the
owner or his or her agent, to keep the sidewalks in front of and adjoining his
or her premises clean and safe for pedestrians and to repair the same from time
to time. Such occupant, owner or agent shall, with all responsible dispatch,
remove snow, ice, slush, mud or other impediment to safe and convenient foot
travel and prevent the accumulation of the same.
   (B)   Failure to comply. Every person failing to comply with the provisions
of this section shall be deemed guilty of committing a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.062 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   The streets, avenues, alleys and sidewalks in the city shall be kept free
and clear of all obstructions, encumbrances or encroachments upon their use by
the public and shall not be used and occupied in any other way than is provided
in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-3)
§ 151.063 LITTERING.
   (A)   Prohibited. No person shall throw or deposit empty boxes of any kind
whatsoever, straw, dirt, filth, chips, shavings, paper, cans, bottles or other
rubbish on any sidewalk or in any street, alley, avenue or any public place.
   (B)   Exception. No person shall spill, drop, place or leave any gravel,
sand, dirt, coal, oil or grease whatsoever on any pavement or sidewalk within
the city except when necessary for safe movement of traffic and pedestrians and
when necessary and routine maintenance is being performed.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-4) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.064 BUILDING MATERIALS.
   No person shall encumber or obstruct or cause to be encumbered or
obstructed, any street, avenue, alley or public place in the city by placing
therein or thereon any building material or any articles or things whatsoever
without first having obtained written permission from the Public Works
Director.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-5) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.065 ADVERTISEMENTS.
   No person shall paste, paint or otherwise affix any sign or advertisement on
any sidewalk or pavement within the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-6) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.066 RESTRICTIONS ON SUBWAY.
   (A)   Designated foot thoroughfare. The subway built and constructed under
the tracks of the Northern Pacific Railway Company and extending in an easterly
direction thereunder from the intersection of the easterly line of Merrill
Avenue and Power Street to the intersection of the westerly line of Anderson
Avenue and Power Street is hereby designated as a foot thoroughfare only.
   (B)   Animals, vehicles prohibited. The leading, driving, riding, moving or
conveying of any animal, bicycle or any vehicle propelled by steam, motor or
gas power through such subway is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-7) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.067 CLEARANCE ABOVE SIDEWALKS AND STREETS.
   (A)   Electrical cords or conduits. It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation to place or maintain an electrical cord or conduit over a
public sidewalk or walkway used for travel by pedestrians unless such cord or
conduit is placed a minimum of seven feet above the surface of such sidewalk or
walkway.
   (B)   Trees, bushes or shrubs. All trees, bushes or shrubs or any part
thereof that project beyond the established or proposed curb line and over
public sidewalks or walkways shall be maintained to allow an unobstructed
height of seven feet as measured from the surface of the adjacent sidewalk,
walkway or top of curb.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-8) Penalty, see §
151.999
TRENCH BACKFILL AND STREET RESTORATION
§ 151.080 DEFINITIONS; REFERENCES; STANDARD DRAWINGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation
Officials.
      ALTERNATE METHODS. Any one of the methods designated as alternate are
acceptable and can be used at the contractor’s option.
      IMPROVED AREAS. The areas that lie within the area from the centerline of
a road or street to the back of the sidewalk lines (either existing or
proposed, within two years) and any area lying within the right-of-way of an
alley (either existing or proposed, within two years).
      MUTCD. Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
      TRENCH EXCAVATIONS. The method of construction generally employing the
open cut method of placing underground utilities and not including boring,
jacking or other recognized construction methods that do not disturb the
surface or require backfilling.
   (B)   References.
      AASHTO T11 (ASTM C117). Materials finer than 75 millimeters (No. 200)
sieve in mineral aggregates by washing.
      AASHTO T27 (ASTM C136). Sieve analysis of fine and coarse aggregate.
      AASHTO T89. Determining the liquid limit of soils.
      AASHTO T90. Determining the plastic limit and plasticity index of soils.
      AASHTO T99. Moisture-density relations of soils and soil aggregate
mixtures using five-pound (2.5 kg) rammer and 12-inch (305 mm) drop.
      AASHTO T191 (ASTM D1556). Density of soil in-place by the sand-cone
method.
      AASHTO T238 (ASTM D2922). Density of soil and soil aggregate in place by
nuclear methods (shallow depth).
      AASHTO T239 (ASTM D3017). Moisture content of soil and soil aggregate in
place by nuclear methods (shallow depth).
      ASTM D698. Moisture-density relations of soils and soil aggregate
mixtures using five-pound (2.5 kg) rammer and 12-inch (305 mm) drop.
      ASTM D4318. Test method for liquid limit, plastic and plasticity index of
soils.
   (C)   Standard drawings. Standard drawings applicable to this subchapter are
as follows:
      (1)   Standard Drawing No. 02221-1. Typical utility trench detail; and
      (2)   Standard Drawing No. 02221-2. Pipe bedding alternate.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-1) (Ord. 74-85, passed 6-2-1997)
§ 151.081 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   Permit required. No person, association or corporation, except public
utilities, shall excavate any material from any street, avenue or alley in the
city without first securing a permit from the Public Works Department.
   (B)   Deposit. At the time of applying for said permit, the person applying
shall make a deposit in the amount set by resolution with said Public Works
Department for the purpose of surface restoration.
   (C)   Responsibility for backfilling and restoration. All persons,
associations or corporations making excavations in any street, avenue or alley
shall be responsible for refilling and compacting in accordance with
specifications set forth in this subchapter and shall be responsible for
surface restoration within 14 days from the date of making said excavation.
   (D)   Failure to restore. If said restoration is not made within said time,
the city shall cause said street to be resurfaced and shall retain said trench
deposit to resurface said street. The party making excavation is responsible
for all costs incurred in the resurfacing.
   (E)   Refund of deposit; additional costs. In the event the contractor
satisfactorily makes surface restoration, his or her deposit will be refunded.
In all events, any excess money deposited over the cost of resurfacing said
excavations shall be refunded to the party making said deposit, and any
additional charges incurred in surface restoration will also be billed to the
party making said deposit.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-2) (Ord. 74-85, passed 6-2-1997)
§ 151.082 PIPE BEDDING MATERIALS.
   (A)   Type 1 pipe bedding. Type 1 pipe bedding includes the material placed
from four inches (100 mm) below the bottom of the pipe, around the pipe and up
to the springline of the pipe. Provide Type 1 bedding consisting of sand, sandy
gravel or fine gravel having a maximum three-fourths inch size (19 mm) and a
maximum plasticity index of six, determined by AASHTO T89 and T90 or by ASTM
D4318. Where trench excavation encounters wet or unstable material, Type 1
bedding must be free draining and nonplastic. Refer to Standard Drawing 02221-
1.
   (B)   Select Type 1 bedding. Select Type 1 bedding includes the material
placed from the spring line of the pipe to six inches (15 cm) over the pipe.
Select Type 1 bedding shall consist of soil, sand or fine gravel, free from
clods, lumps or frozen material, or rock exceeding one and one-half inches (38
mm) in its greatest dimension. Excavated trench material may be screened or
sorted for use as backfill subject to approval of the Public Works Department.
Where trench excavation encounters wet or unstable material, select Type 1
bedding must be free draining and nonplastic.
   (C)   Pipe bedding alternative. Pipe bedding alternative material is
described on Standard Drawing 02221-2 and is applicable only if specified.
   (D)   Type 2 pipe bedding. Type 2 pipe bedding is used as directed by the
Public Works Department to replace unsuitable material encountered in the
trench bottom. Place Type 2 pipe bedding from the bottom of the Type 1 bedding
material to the depth required to adequately support the pipe. The Type 2
bedding consists of granular material meeting the following gradation.
 
Sieve Opening % Passing
3-inch        100
No. 4         0-25
No. 8         0-10
 
(Prior Code, § 8-4-3) (Ord. 74-85, passed 6-2-1997)
§ 151.083 TRENCH BACKFILL MATERIALS.
   Backfill material obtained from trench excavations must be free of cinders,
ash, refuse, organic or frozen material, boulders or other deleterious
materials. Backfill materials and placement are further described in this
section.
   (A)   Imported backfill material. Imported backfill material is from borrow
sources outside the area and is used when, in the opinion of the Public Works
Department, an adequate volume of suitable backfill material is not available.
Imported backfill materials must comply with the requirements above for
backfill material.
   (B)   Flowable fill. Flowable fill may be required for certain areas or
trenches that do not allow for sufficient compaction. Flowable fill will be
required in all rights-of-way controlled by the State Department of
Transportation. Specifications for flowable fill shall be specified by the
State Department of Transportation in Guidelines For Utility Occupancy On
Highway Right-of-Way and the standard trench replacement section for roadway
cuts.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-4) (Ord. 74-85, passed 6-2-1997)
§ 151.084 PROTECTION OF EXISTING UTILITIES.
   (A)   Protection required. Precautions shall be taken to protect all
adjoining private and public property and facilities, including underground and
overhead utilities, curbs, sidewalks, driveways, structures and fences. It
shall be the responsibility of the contractor to replace all disturbed or
damaged facilities to their original condition.
   (B)   State one call system. The contractor shall contact utility owners
using the state’s one call system as required by state law for utility locates
before starting work.
   (C)   Responsibility for protection. It shall be the responsibility of the
contractor to protect the utilities exposed during the work and prevent
damaging underground utilities adjacent to excavations and immediately notify
the utility owner of any construction damage.
   (D)   Cost of repairs or damage. The cost of repairs or damage to marked
utilities are at the expense of the contractor. Failure to locate such
utilities or property or failure to show on the plans shall not relieve the
contractor’s liability for all damage to existing utilities at his or her own
expense.
   (E)   Locations not shown or incorrect. Any delay or extra cost to the
contractor caused by pipe lines or other underground structures or obstructions
not shown on the plans or found in locations different from those indicated
shall not constitute a claim for extra work or additional payment of damages.
   (F)   Disruption of service. Adequate provisions shall be made for
maintaining the flow of sewers, drains and watercourses encountered during
construction. Structures which may have been disturbed shall be satisfactorily
restored upon completion of the work.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-5) (Ord. 74-85, passed 6-2-1997)
§ 151.085 PRIVATELY OWNED UTILITIES.
   If any existing private utility interferes with the work in either alignment
or grade and has to be moved, the work will be performed by the appropriate
utility owner unless otherwise specified. Such private utilities may include
gas mains, underground electrical and telephone cables, telephone poles, light
poles and the like. If, however, such private utility relocation is done by the
contractor, an adjustment in payment will be made at a price agreed upon, in
writing, before the work is started if it is determined to be a change from the
original contract work scope. Extreme caution shall be exercised to avoid
conflict, contact or damage to overhead utilities during the work.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-6) (Ord. 74-85, passed 6-2-1997)
§ 151.086 PAVEMENT REMOVAL AND STRIPPING.
   (A)   Cutting.
      (1)   Where trench excavation or appurtenant structure excavation
requires removing curb and gutter, concrete sidewalks, asphalt concrete
pavement or Portland cement concrete pavement, cut the concrete or pavement in
a straight line parallel to the excavation’s edge using a spade bitted air
hammer, concrete saw or other suitable equipment to produce a straight, square
and clean break. Recut edges broken during construction before concrete or
paving operations.
      (2)   For trenches passing through existing pavement, cut the pavement
along a neat vertical line at least 12 inches (30 cm) from the trench edge.
Where the neat line cut is less than three feet (0.9 m) from the edge of the
existing pavement, remove and replace the entire pavement section between
trench and edge of pavement. Dispose of the asphalt concrete and/or Portland
cement concrete debris off-site according to applicable state and local
regulations.
   (B)   Removal of surface material.
      (1)   Gravel street or developed surface. When excavating across existing
gravel streets or other developed surfaces, remove the surfacing material full
depth and stockpile for inclusion as trench backfill or legally dispose of the
surfacing material.
      (2)   Cultivated or sodded areas. When excavating across cultivated or
sodded areas, remove topsoil full depth or to a maximum 12-inch (30 cm) depth,
whichever is less, and stockpile for possible use.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-7) (Ord. 74-85, passed 6-2-1997)
§ 151.087 TRENCH EXCAVATION.
   (A)   Standards. Trench excavation shall meet current OSHA safety and health
standards for all excavation, trenching, shoring and related work.
   (B)   Crossing under sidewalks or curbs. Crossing under sidewalks or curbs
may be made by tunneling. If a portion of a sidewalk or curb is removed, use a
concrete saw to make joints, compact the backfill as specified and replace the
removed section with new concrete sidewalk or curb.
   (C)   Stockpiling backfill. During excavation, stockpile backfill materials
away from the trench banks to assure trench wall stability. Stockpile excavated
materials on only one side of the trench without obstructing existing fire
hydrants, valves, manholes and other appurtenances. Contractors shall ensure
surface drainage of adjoining areas is unobstructed.
   (D)   Surface water. Contractors shall prevent surface water from flowing
into excavations. Promptly remove all water accumulating in trench excavations.
Do not permit water to accumulate in any open trench. Pipe that is out of
alignment or grade caused by trench flooding shall be removed and relaid.
   (E)   Trench bottoms. Trench bottoms shall be graded to the specific lines
and grades. Bedding material shall provide uniform bearing and support for each
pipe section along its entire length. Joints and bells shall be excavated for,
with the excavation limited to the length, depth and width for the particular
type of joint used. Backfill over excavations with Type 2 bedding material.
   (F)   Hand methods. If trenching operations are likely to cause damage to
existing structures or features, hand methods are to be employed.
   (G)   Excavation. The trench shall be excavated as required for the invert
grade or pipe bury as specified plus four inches (ten cm) for the Type 1 pipe
bedding. If bedrock, boulders or large stones are encountered at the bottom of
the trench, excavate at least six inches (15 cm) below the bottom of the pipe
for backfilling with Type 1 pipe bedding.
   (H)   Soft or unstable material. When soft or unstable material is
encountered at the trench subgrade which will not uniformly support the pipe,
excavate the material to a depth sufficient and backfill to trench subgrade
elevation with Type 2 pipe bedding.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-8) (Ord. 74-85, passed 6-2-1997)
§ 151.088 PAVEMENT DAMAGE CAUSED BY EQUIPMENT.
   All track mounted equipment operated on pavement surfaces shall be equipped
with pads to prevent pavement damage. All pavement damaged by construction
shall be restored to original condition by the contractor at his or her
expense.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-9) (Ord. 74-85, passed 6-2-1997)
§ 151.089 EXCAVATION STABILITY AND SAFETY.
   (A)   Standards. The contractor shall provide all shoring, bracing and tight
sheeting required to prevent caving and protect workers, meeting current
Occupational Safety and Health Act, 29 U.S.C. §§ 651 - 678 requirements and all
other local, state and federal laws and regulations, and to protect adjacent
property and structures.
   (B)   Responsibility of contractor. The stability of construction
excavations and associated worker safety, including slope geometry and shoring/
bracing considerations, are the responsibility of the contractor and shall meet
current OSHA and all other applicable local, state and federal laws and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-10) (Ord. 74-85, passed 6-2-1997)
§ 151.090 TRENCH FILLING AND BACKFILLING.
   All trenches shall be backfilled immediately after grade, alignment and pipe
jointing has been inspected and approved. Backfill materials shall not be water
jetted or ponded. Limit water in the backfill material to that required to
provide adequate moisture for compaction.
   (A)   Pipe bedding placement.
      (1)   Place Type 1 bedding material four inches (ten cm) under the pipe,
around the pipe and up to the springline of the pipe. Place in maximum lifts of
six inches (15 cm), using hand or other compaction methods without damaging or
disturbing the pipe. Thoroughly compact each layer. Use special care to assure
compaction under the pipe haunches. Place backfill material in equal lifts on
both sides of the pipe for the full trench width. Take care to prevent
migration of Type 1 bedding into surrounding soils during placement and
compaction.
      (2)   Select Type 1 bedding material shall be placed from the springline
to six inches (15 cm) over the pipe. Where wet or unstable material exists,
ensure the material is free draining and nonplastic. Place in maximum lifts of
six inches (15 cm) using hand or other compaction methods without damaging or
disturbing the pipe. Thoroughly compact each layer. Place backfill in equal
lifts on both sides of the pipe for the full trench width. Take care to prevent
migration of select Type 1 bedding into surrounding soils during placement and
compaction.
      (3)   Use Type 2 pipe bedding material as described in the Montana Public
Works Standard Specifications Manual, current edition, to replace unsuitable
material encountered in the trench bottom, placing it from the bottom of the
Type 1 bedding material to the depth required to adequately support the pipe.
   (B)   Trench backfill.
      (1)   After the pipe bedding materials are placed and compacted as
specified, backfill the trench. Use backfill material free of cinders, ash,
refuse, organic or frozen material, boulders or other deleterious materials.
From the top of the select Type 1 pipe bedding to six inches (15 cm) below the
ground surface, or the subgrade elevation, material containing rock up to eight
inches (20 cm) in the greatest dimension may be used.
      (2)   Trench backfill from the top of the pipe bedding to ground surface
or the street subgrade is separated into three classifications. Type A trench
backfill is compacted backfill typically used in streets or paved areas. Type B
trench backfill is typically used for alleys, cultivated areas, borrow pits,
unimproved streets or other unsurfaced areas, and other areas where compaction
is less critical. Type C trench backfill is typically used in open and
unimproved areas outside of the public right-of-way. The contractor shall meet
the backfill and compaction requirements for all of the backfill types
described in the contract documents.
      (3)   Where any settlement has occurred, the contractor shall remove,
replace and recompact the backfill in trenches at his or her expense.
      (4)   Type A trench backfill: Place trench backfill in maximum eight-inch
compacted lifts within 3% of optimum moisture content and compact to at least
95% of maximum dry density determined by AASHTO T99 or by ASTM D698.
      (5)   Type B trench backfill: Place backfill in maximum eight-inch (205
cm) lifts, within 3% of optimum moisture content, and compact to at least 90%
of maximum dry density as determined by AASHTO T99 (ASTM D698). Cultivated
areas are to be backfilled with Type B trench backfill.
      (6)   In cultivated areas, place stripped topsoil uniformly over the
backfilled trench to the original depth. Do not compact the topsoil, but grade
to provide a smooth surface conforming to the adjoining ground surfaces.
Remediate any settlement of the trench surface below final surface grade
throughout the contract warranty period.
      (7)   Type C trench backfill: Place and compact Type C trench backfill in
maximum 12-inch lifts at densities equal to or greater than the densities of
adjoining undisturbed soil. Mound earth over the trench top if so directed.
   (C)   Replacement of unsuitable backfill materials. Remove and dispose of
excavated soils that are saturated, contain deleterious materials or have
characteristics that render the soils unsuitable as backfill. If suitable
replacement material is not available within project limits, obtain material
from an approved borrow source. Place and compact all imported material
according to the applicable backfill specification requirements.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-11) (Ord. 74-85, passed 6-2-1997)
§ 151.091 PAVEMENT RESTORATION.
   (A)   Replacement. The pavement section shall be replaced with a section and
material equal to or better than that removed from the street as noted below
and shall be placed in a workmanlike manner that will produce a smooth surface
street cross-section and prevent any puddling of runoff on either side or the
middle of the restored section.
   (B)   Specifications. The replacement surfacing section will not be less
than three inches of asphaltic hot mix and six inches of one and one-half
inches uniformly graded gravel. In no case will the new replacement section be
less than the existing roadway section. The gravel shall have optimum moisture
and compacted to 95% proctor density or to the satisfaction of the inspector.
Tack coat shall be applied to all square cut edges of existing asphalt. The
asphaltic hot mix shall be placed and compacted so as to leave no noticeable
dip or depression. In emergency conditions, cold mix can be used but will be
replaced by hot mix as soon as the weather will permit. Trenches will be
restored a minimum of 12 inches beyond the trench walls.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-12) (Ord. 74-85, passed 6-2-1997)
§ 151.092 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   Minimum interference. The contractor shall conduct his or her work so
as to interfere as little as possible with public travel, whether vehicular or
pedestrian.
   (B)   Temporary expedients. Whenever it is necessary to cross, obstruct or
close roads, driveways and walks, whether public or private, the contractor
shall obtain approval from the governing party and shall, at his or her own
expense, provide and maintain suitable and safe bridges, detours and other
temporary expedients for the accommodation of public and private drives before
interfering with them.
   (C)   Traffic control devices. All traffic control devices shall meet the
requirements of the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices and the Traffic
Control Devices Handbook and all other local, state and federal laws and
regulations.
   (D)   Signs and barricades. All signs and barricades shall be reflectorized
and all nighttime traffic control devices shall meet MUTCD lighting
requirements.
   (E)   Placement. All traffic control devices as planned shall be placed
before permitting people or equipment on the traveled way.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-13) (Ord. 74-85, passed 6-2-1997)
§ 151.093 CLEANUP AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   Cleanup. It is the contractor’s responsibility to remove from the
project any excess material and ensure that the premises are left in a clean
and presentable condition.
   (B)   Inspection. Before backfilling, the contractor will notify the Public
Works Department so that an authorized representative will be present to
perform necessary tests and inspections to assure that all work is in
compliance with these specifications.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-14) (Ord. 74-85, passed 6-2-1997)
§ 151.094 PROOF OF INSURANCE.
   Any person, association or corporation or public utility who has cause to
excavate any street, avenue or alley in the city shall file a certificate of
insurance or its equivalent with the city providing public liability coverage
which limits are set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-15) (Ord. 74-85, passed 6-2-1997)
POLES, WIRES AND PIPES
§ 151.105 DESIGNATION OF LOCATION.
   All poles, pipes, conduits or mains of any description which shall be
placed, located in, along, under or upon any of the streets, avenues or public
places of the city, by any person, shall be placed and located where designated
by the City Engineer under and in conformity and in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-1)
§ 151.106 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Width. Any person placing or locating any poles, pipes, conduits or
mains within the city shall place such poles, pipes, conduits or mains in the
alleys of the city where the alleys are of sufficient width to permit the
placing of such poles, pipes, conduits or mains therein without causing any
inconvenience to the public in its travel along or upon such alleys. Where the
alleys are not of sufficient width to permit the placing of such poles, pipes,
conduits or mains therein without causing unnecessary inconvenience to the
public in the use thereof, such poles, pipes, conduits or mains are to be
placed and erected along and upon such streets and avenues of the city as shall
be designated by the City Engineer and in conformity with the provisions of
this subchapter. The City Engineer shall be the sole judge of what alleys are
of sufficient width to permit of the placing of such poles, pipes, conduits or
mains therein and that all poles, pipes, conduits or mains are to be placed and
erected in, along, under or upon any of the streets, avenues, alleys or public
places in the city, shall be so placed and erected therein, under the general
supervision and subject to the approval of the City Engineer.
   (B)   Location. Where poles, pipes, conduits or mains are located upon or
under any of the streets or avenues of the city, they shall be located on the
outside edge of the sidewalk immediately inside the curbstone and on the line
dividing the lots, one from the other, as far as practicable. Poles, pipes,
conduits or mains shall be placed in the alleys as near the sides thereof as
practicable and in such manner as to occasion no unreasonable inconvenience to
the public or to the adjoining property owners. In no case are poles, pipes,
conduits or mains to be placed so as to interfere with any sewer or any part of
the drainage system of the city or with any water main or pipe, nor shall any
poles, pipes, conduits or mains be placed so as to interfere with free access
to the entrances or exits of any building or buildings, public places or
established entrances to any premises.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-2)
§ 151.107 NOTICE OF INTENTION TO INSTALL.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to install telephone lines, pipes,
conduits and mains along or under any streets, avenues or alleys in the city
shall file a notice and a plat or map showing the proposed location of such
desired installation with the City Engineer for approval before any such
installation of telephone lines, pipes, conduits or mains is allowed.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-3)
§ 151.108 RESTORATION OF SURFACES.
   When any excavation is made in any street, avenue or alley for the erection
of poles or the placing of pipes, conduits or mains underground, or for any
other purpose in connection with the erection, construction, maintenance and
operation of any public utility in such city, as provided in this subchapter,
such street, avenue or alley shall be restored to its former condition without
unnecessary delay.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-4)
Cross-reference:
   Trench backfill and street restoration, see §§
151.080 through
151.094
§ 151.109 INDEMNIFICATION.
   Any person who shall construct, own, operate or control any public utility
within the city under the provisions of this subchapter shall save the city
harmless from any damage or claim for damages to any person or property which
may accrue, be caused or occasioned from the construction, operation or
maintenance of any public utility within the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-5)
§ 151.110 ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The city reserves the right to make, by resolution or ordinance, other and
further regulations and rules governing the erection of poles in and the
stringing of wires along, in, upon or through its streets, avenues or alleys
and the laying, maintenance and operation of pipes, conduits or mains under any
of its streets, avenues or alleys as may from time to time appear necessary.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-6)
SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS
§ 151.125 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Form. Applications for consideration for approval by the City Council
of special improvement districts shall be made in the form and according to the
procedure set down by the Finance Department for the city.
   (B)   Fees and deposits. The application shall be accompanied by an
administrative fee and deposit. The administrative fee for an accepted SID
shall be 3% of the SID total construction cost and shall be allocated to the
General Fund for costs incurred by the city for formation of the district and
sale of bonds. There shall be a required nonrefundable deposit in the amount of
$5,000 to cover costs, including, without limitation, city administrative
costs, legal fees and costs and other costs associated with a proposed special
improvement district. In the event the proposed special improvement district
fails to be established, the city shall receipt such deposit into its General
Fund to reimburse such costs. In the event the proposed special improvement
district is established, the deposit shall be applied to administrative fees
and funding the District Reserve Account in that order.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-1) (Ord. 04-2012, passed 8-21-2012)
§ 151.126 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Creation of special improvement districts and issuance of bonds
secured by the Revolving Fund. In accordance with the provisions of M.C.A.
Title 7, Chapter 12, parts 42 and 43, the city may create special improvement
districts (SIDs) for financing improvements upon a determination that the
creation of the district and the installation of the improvements are in the
public interest. The city may issue special improvement district bonds for
financing the costs of construction and installing the improvements and paying
incidental costs related thereto as follows.
      (1)   Developed districts. The maximum amount that may be financed
through an SID shall be $200,000 for residential properties and $300,000 for
commercial properties. The foregoing maximum amounts shall be the maximum total
for all infrastructure related to the property.
      (2)   Developed previously platted/subdivided property. The maximum
amount that may be financed through an SID shall be $200,000 for residential
properties and $300,000 for commercial properties. The foregoing maximum
amounts shall be the maximum total for all infrastructure related to the
property.
      (3)   Developed annexed property. The maximum amount to be financed
through an SID shall be $200,000 for residential properties and $300,000 for
commercial properties. The foregoing maximum amounts shall be the maximum total
for all infrastructure related to the property.
      (4)   Undeveloped districts. The city will not finance undeveloped
districts through an SID.
      (5)   Undeveloped previously platted/subdivided property. The city will
not finance undeveloped previously platted/subdivided property through an SID.
      (6)   Undeveloped annexed property. The city will not finance undeveloped
annexed property through an SID.
   (B)   Costs of improvements. Any costs of the improvements, including,
without limitation, engineering, survey and legal work incurred prior to the
issuance of the bonds, deposits to the Revolving Fund and city expenses, may be
eligible for financing by the district as defined in M.C.A. § 7-12-4169(1) if
the reimbursement is in compliance with United States Treasury regulations.
   (C)   Amount of improvements to be financed. The determination of which
improvements to finance by special improvement districts will be made by the
city in consultation with the developer, where appropriate. In making its
determination, the city will consider the nature of the improvements and the
ability to finance them on a tax exempt basis.
   (D)   Delinquent developers. It is the general policy of the city that any
person requesting the creation of a special improvement district shall, as a
condition of approval of said district, be current in the payment of all
existing city special improvement district assessments for which said person is
responsible on all properties owned by said person. Additionally, as a
condition of approval of said district, such person shall not have been
delinquent on any prior special improvement district assessments with the city.
   (E)   Annexed property. Annexed property shall waive the right to protest
special improvement districts for infrastructure improvements required as a
condition of and relative to the property being annexed into the city.
   (F)   Amortization of bonds. All special improvement bonds shall be
amortized over a period not to exceed 15 years.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-2) (Ord. 04-2012, passed 8-21-2012)
§ 151.127 REVOLVING FUND AND DISTRICT RESERVE ACCOUNT.
   (A)   Deposit to the Revolving Fund.
      (1)   For districts for which the city issues bonds secured by the
Revolving Fund, the costs of the improvements shall include a deposit to the
Revolving Fund of at least 5% and not more than 10% of the principal amount of
the bonds to be issued. As allowed in M.C.A. § 7-12-4169(3), the city will also
require the establishment of a District Reserve Account in addition to the
deposit to the Revolving Fund.
      (2)   The District Reserve Account will be in the amount of 5% of the
principal amount of the bonds, will be created and maintained in the district
fund, will be accounted for separately from the deposits into the Revolving
Fund and will be designated for the district which it secures. Deposits to the
District Reserve Account shall be made from sources other than proceeds of the
bonds issued for such district financing.
   (B)   Bonds not secured by the Revolving Fund. For districts for which the
city issues bonds not secured by the Revolving Fund, the city will require the
establishment of a District Reserve Account. The deposit into the District
Reserve Account will be in the amount of 5% of the principal amount of the
bonds. The District Reserve Account will be created and maintained in the
district fund, will be available only for use in connection with payments of
principal and interest on the bonds issued in connection with that district and
will be designated for the special improvement district which it secures.
Deposits to the District Reserve Account shall be made from sources other than
proceeds of the bonds issued for such district financing.
   (C)   Payments from revolving and District Reserve Account for delinquent
assessments. At any time an assessment becomes delinquent, the District Reserve
Account and/or Revolving Fund, in that order, shall provide funds, if
available, to meet the current payment of principal, interest and other amounts
due with respect to the bonds.
   (D)   Amounts remaining in Revolving Fund and District Reserve Account. Any
amounts, specific to a particular bond, remaining in the District Reserve
Account shall be applied to the final bond payment(s). Any amount remaining in
the Revolving Fund, specific to a particular bond and not required to be kept
or maintained in the Revolving Fund shall be deposited into the city’s General
Fund.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-3) (Ord. 04-2012, passed 8-21-2012)
§ 151.128 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANNEXED PROPERTY. Property annexed into the city after January 1, 2010.
   COMMERCIAL PROPERTY. Property zoned R-3 (multiple-family dwelling), R-4
(multiple-family dwelling and townhouses), C-1 (general commercial), C-2
(central business), C-3 (highway commercial) and M-1 (light industrial).
   COSTS OF IMPROVEMENTS. The incidental expenses and costs described in M.C.A.
Title 7, Chapter 12, parts 41 and 42.
   COSTS OF ISSUANCE. All items of cost or expense directly or indirectly
payable by or reimbursable to the city and related to the authorization, sale
and issuance of bonds, including, without limitation, the city’s fees, bond
discount fees, costs of preparation and reproduction of documents, initial fees
and charges of a trustee, if any, legal fees and charges, fees and charges
related to authorization and issuance of the bonds, fees and costs of financial
consultants and underwriters and fees for preparation, execution and
safekeeping of the bond.
   DEVELOPED ANNEXED PROPERTY. Property which has been annexed in which 51% or
more of the lots, tracts or parcels have occupied structures located thereon
and where 51% or more of the costs of any district will be assessed against
such improved lots, tracts or parcels.
   DEVELOPED DISTRICT. A special improvement district in which 51% or more of
the costs of the district will be assessed against lots, tracts or parcels
which have occupied structures located thereon.
   DEVELOPED PREVIOUSLY PLATTED/SUBDIVIDED PROPERTY. Property located within
the city limits in which 51% or more of the lots, tracts or parcels have
occupied structures located thereon, which was platted and/or subdivided prior
to January 1, 2010, and where 51% or more of the costs of any district will be
assessed against such improved lots, tracts or parcels.
   DEVELOPER. Any person requesting the creation of a special improvement
district for undeveloped property.
   DISTRICT RESERVE ACCOUNT. An account authorized under M.C.A. § 7-12-4169(3)
and funded by the developer requesting the creation of a special improvement
district from sources other than bond proceeds, and used specifically to fund
deficiencies in principal, interest and other payments within the district
requested.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Public improvements authorized by M.C.A. § 7-12-4102 to be
constructed and financed through the creation of special improvement districts.
   ON-SITE IMPROVEMENTS. The improvements located within the boundaries of a
special improvement district.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, firm, partnership, limited liability
company, organization or other entity.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Property zoned R-1 (one-family residential) and R-2
(one-family and two-family residential).
   REVOLVING FUND. The fund established by the city pursuant to M.C.A. §§ 7-12-
4221 et seq.
   SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT BONDS or BONDS. Bonds issued by the city
pursuant to M.C.A. Title 7, Chapter 12, parts 41 and 42 for the purpose of
financing improvements within special improvement districts and paying
incidental costs, as defined in M.C.A. § 7-12-4101, related to the creation of
the districts and the issuance of the bonds.
   SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT OR DISTRICT (SID). The districts established or
proposed to be established pursuant to M.C.A. Title 7, Chapter 12, parts 41 and
42 for the purpose of constructing and installing improvements for the special
benefit of properties located within such districts.
   UNDEVELOPED ANNEXED PROPERTY. Property in which less than 51% of the lots,
tracts or parcels have occupied structures located thereon.
   UNDEVELOPED DISTRICT. A special improvement district in which less than 51%
of the costs of the district will be assessed against lots, tracts or parcels
which have occupied structures located thereon.
   UNDEVELOPED PREVIOUSLY PLATTED/SUBDIVIDED PROPERTY. Property located within
the city limits in which less than 51% of the lots, tracts or parcels have
occupied structures located thereon and which was platted and/or subdivided
prior to January 1, 2010.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-4) (Ord. 04-2012, passed 8-21-2012)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of §§
151.045 through
151.049, or failure to comply with any of its requirements, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates §§
151.045 through
151.049 or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined as specified in §
10.99 and, in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case.
Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-6)
   (B)   Violation of the provisions of §§
151.080 through
151.094 or failure to comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates §§
151.080 through
151.094 or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined as specified in §
10.99, and in addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case.
Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-16)
   (C)   Any person, firm, association or corporation who shall refuse or
neglect to comply with any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished in accordance
with §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-3)
(Ord. 74-85, passed 6-2-1997; Ord. 02-2001, passed 3-20-2001)
CHAPTER 152: TREES
Section
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Nuisance declared
   
152.03   Dead or diseased trees
   
152.04   Planting of elm trees and other species
   
152.05   Trimming of trees
   
152.06   Injury to trees or shrubbery
   
152.07   Boulevards; regulation of trees
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOULEVARD. The strip of land abutting on either side of the streets of the
city lying between the outside edge of the sidewalks and the curb along such
streets or that area between the inside edge of sidewalks and the lot lines in
areas having curbed sidewalks.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person owning such property as is shown by the County
Clerk and Recorder.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. A condition which endangers safety or health, is offensive
to the senses or obstructs the free use of property so as to interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property by an entire community or
neighborhood or by any considerable number of persons, or a condition which
renders dangerous for passage any public highway or right-of-way or waters used
by the public.
   STREET. The entire width between property lines of every way or place of
whatsoever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the public as a
matter of right-of-way for the purpose of vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-1) (Ord. 60-85, passed 8-7-1995)
§ 152.02 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   The following conditions are public nuisances whenever they may be found
within the city:
   (A)   Diseased or infected elm trees. Any living or standing elm tree or
part thereof infected to any degree with the Dutch elm disease fungus,
Ceratocystis ulmi, and which harbors any of the elm bark beetles, Scolytus
multistriatus or Hylurgpoinus rufipes; and
   (B)   Projections over public ways. All limbs of trees, shrubs, bushes and
plants which project over any public sidewalks, streets or alleys and which are
less than eight feet above the surface of said public sidewalks and less than
14 feet above the surface of any such street or more than one foot from the
property line for a distance of 14 feet above the alley surface.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-2) (Ord. 60-85, passed 8-7-1995; Ord. 07-2002, passed 5-21-
2002)
§ 152.03 DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   (A)   Notice to remove. Whenever the Public Works Director becomes aware of
existence of any dead or diseased tree or part thereof located within the city
limits, or the existence of any trees or parts thereof that constitute a hazard
to life and/or property, or pose a threat to harbor insects or disease which
may constitute a potential threat to other trees within the city limits, he or
she shall notify, in writing, the owner of the property where said tree is
located of the condition and direct that said tree or any part thereof be
removed.
   (B)   Removal; disposal. Removal shall be done by said owner at their own
expense within 30 days after the date of service of said notice. The removed
tree shall be transported to the city landfill for disposal by burial or
burning.
   (C)   Stumps. All stumps of trees shall be removed below the surface of the
ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of the
ground or the entire stump shall be stripped of the bark upon cutting of the
tree.
   (D)   Removal by city; costs.
      (1)   In the event the owner fails to remove said tree within the 30-day
period in the manner provided herein, the city shall have the authority to
remove said tree and charge the cost of removal to the real property in
question by billing or special assessment if not paid in the manner prescribed
by law.
      (2)   Said costs and expenses shall become a lien on said premises and
shall be certified and collected as other taxes or the City Attorney may begin
a civil action in the city court in the name of the city and against any owner,
occupant or agent of said premises for the collection of said costs and
expenses and the cost of the action.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-3) (Ord. 60-85, passed 8-7-1995)
§ 152.04 PLANTING OF ELM TREES AND OTHER SPECIES.
   In order to prevent Dutch elm disease, the planting of elm trees (American,
Siberian, Dropmore and any and all other elm selections of Ulmus species) shall
be prohibited on boulevards, public property and city rights-of-way. In
addition, Carolina poplar, Canadian poplar, Lombardy poplar, Silver Leaf
poplar, willows, Box elder, aspen, cottonwoods and birch trees shall not be
planted in streets, avenues, boulevards or alleys or other public ways of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-4) (Ord. 07-2002, passed 5-21-2002) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 TRIMMING OF TREES.
   (A)   Duty to trim. All owners and occupants of real property located within
the city limits shall keep trimmed all trees located on their property which
overhang on any public thoroughfare so that the branches thereon do not
interfere with pedestrians or public travel.
   (B)   Public nuisance prohibited. It shall also be the duty of the owners of
all real property located within the city, as well as the duty of all persons
in possession of such property, to cause all trees, shrubs, bushes and plants
located on their property to be trimmed, so as not to constitute a public
nuisance, as defined above.
   (C)   Notice to abate. The Public Works Director shall have the authority to
make determinations as to whether a condition exists so as to constitute a
public nuisance. Upon determination that such a condition does exist, the
Public Works Director shall then notify, in writing, the property owner or
person in possession of said property.
   (D)   Contents of notice. Such notice shall inform the property owner or
person in possession of said property that the public nuisance condition must
be corrected within 30 days or the Public Works Director will direct the
trimming of said trees, shrubs, bushes and plants which constitute the
nuisance. The necessary expense of such trimming or maintenance shall be
charged against the real property in question by billing or special assessment
if not paid in the manner prescribed by law. Said costs and expenses shall
become a lien on said premises and shall be certified and collected as taxes or
the City Attorney may begin a civil action in the city court in the name of the
city and against any owner, occupant or agent of said premises for the
collection of said costs and expenses and the cost of the action.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-5) (Ord. 60-85, passed 8-7-1995) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 INJURY TO TREES OR SHRUBBERY.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person who is not the owner thereof
or who is without lawful authority so to do, to willfully injure, deface,
disfigure or destroy any tree or shrub, or to injure, destroy, cut or pick any
flower or plant located either on private property or on any public property or
thoroughfare.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-6) (Ord. 60-85, passed 8-7-1995) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.07 BOULEVARDS; REGULATION OF TREES.
   (A)   Responsibility of owner. The owner of the real property adjoining a
boulevard shall be responsible for the care and maintenance of the boulevard,
and he or she shall keep the tree, shrubs, bushes and plants located thereon
trimmed and in condition so the same shall not constitute a public nuisance.
   (B)   Trees. Trees shall be spaced 30 to 50 feet apart depending on the
mature height and width of the tree type planted and shall be located so as not
to interfere with pedestrian or vehicular traffic or vision.
   (C)   Shrubs. No shrub shall be planted within five feet of a fire hydrant
or within a clear view triangle if its mature height will exceed three feet.
   (D)   Removal by city. If it becomes necessary for the city to remove any
trees, shrubs, bushes and plants from said boulevard, the costs of such removal
shall be assessed against said adjoining property.
   (E)   Costs; lien. Such costs and expenses shall become a lien on said
adjoining premises and shall be certified and collected as other taxes, or the
City Attorney may begin a civil action in the city court in the name of the
city against any owner, occupant or agent of said adjoining premises for the
collection of said costs and expenses and the cost of the action.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-7) (Ord. 07-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction or
a plea of guilty, be subject to a fine as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-8) (Ord. 60-85, passed 8-7-1995)
CHAPTER 153: RADIO, TELEVISION AND WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
Section
   
153.01   Amateur radio antenna
   
153.02   Wireless communication facilities
   
153.03   Appeals
§ 153.01 AMATEUR RADIO ANTENNA.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AMATEUR RADIO ANTENNA. A ground, building or tower mounted antenna
operated by a federally licensed amateur radio operator as part of the Amateur
Radio Service, 49 C.F.R. part 97 and as designated by the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC).
      AMATEUR RADIO ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any structure or device
specifically designed, constructed and/or erected for the purpose of attaching,
mounting or otherwise affixing amateur radio antennas. The term includes the
structure and any support thereto.
      ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the
base of the antenna support structure at grade to the highest point of the
structure, including any attached antennas. If the support structure is on a
sloped grade, then the average between the highest and lowest grades shall be
used in calculating the antenna height.
   (B)   General provisions. All amateur radio towers shall comply with the
following requirements.
      (1)   Location. Amateur radio antenna support structures and antennas
shall be located only within the rear yard and shall not be placed within any
required setback and shall be located so as to minimize their impact on
adjacent residential properties and adjacent rights-of-way while maintaining
acceptable signal quality.
      (2)   Building permit required. Amateur radio antenna support structures
and antennas exceeding six feet in height above grade (if ground-mounted) or
above the roof or ridge of the building on which they are located (if building-
mounted) shall require a building permit. With each building permit, the
applicant shall submit evidence as is required to show that the device is
adequately anchored, designed and/or constructed so as to safeguard the general
public and/or adjacent property from damage in the event of failure of the
device.
      (3)   Design, installation and maintenance. It is recommended that
amateur radio antenna support structures be designed, installed and maintained
so as to blend into the surrounding environment through the use of color and
alternative designs, except in instances where the color is dictated by the
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).
      (4)   Height limitations. In accordance with the FCC preemptive ruling
PRB 1,101 FCC 2d 952 (1985), antenna support structures erected for the primary
purpose of supporting amateur radio antennas may exceed the height limitations
of the underlying zoning as indicated in §
155.017.
      (5)   Attachments. Attachments to amateur radio antenna support
structures, such as guy wires, shall not cross any property line or any
existing or proposed easement.
      (6)   Lighting. No lighting shall be permitted on any amateur radio
antenna support structures except as mandated by the FAA.
      (7)   Signage. No signage, other than required warning signs or displays
of any type shall be permitted on any amateur radio antenna support structure.
      (8)   Use.
         (a)   Allowed. Amateur radio support structures and antennas that are
50 feet or less above grade shall be an allowed use in all residential zones.
         (b)   Conditional use permit required. Amateur radio support
structures and antennas that exceed 50 feet in height above grade are allowable
only with a conditional use permit.
   (C)   Applicability. All amateur radio antenna support structures and
antennas located within the city zoning jurisdiction whether upon private or
public lands shall be subject to this section. This section shall apply to
amateur radio antenna support structures and antennas upon state and federal
lands to the extent of the city’s jurisdiction by way of law, pursuant to any
memoranda of understanding or otherwise. Preexisting amateur radio antenna
support structures and preexisting amateur radio antennas shall not be required
to meet the requirements of this section, so long as said preexisting antenna
support structures and antennas have received all required approvals, permits
and exceptions prior to adoption of this section.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-1) (Ord. 06-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 153.02 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDONED ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURES. Any antennas or antenna support
structures that are not utilized for the provision of wireless communications
services for a continuous period of six months shall be considered ABANDONED.
      ALTERNATIVE ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE. An antenna support structure
designed to shield, conceal or disguise the presence of antennas or towers and
blend with the surrounding setting. ALTERNATIVE STRUCTURES may include, but are
not limited to, unobtrusive architectural features on new or existing
structures, utility poles, clock towers, flagpoles and church steeples.
      ANTENNA. Any structure or device used for the purpose of collecting or
transmitting electromagnetic waves, including, but not limited to, directional
antennas, such as panels, microwave dishes and satellite dishes and omni-
directional antennas, such as whip antennas, but not including satellite earth
stations.
      ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any structure or device specifically designed,
constructed and/or erected for the purpose of attaching, mounting or otherwise
affixing antennas. ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURES may include, but are not limited
to, self-supporting lattice towers, guyed towers or monopole towers. The term
also includes radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers,
common carrier towers, cellular telephone towers, alternative antenna support
structures and the like. The term includes the structure and any support
thereto.
      ANTENNA/ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured
from the base of the antenna support structure at grade to the highest point of
the structure, including any attached antennas. If the support structure is on
a sloped grade, then the average between the highest and lowest grades shall be
used in calculating the antenna height. The height of roof-mounted ANTENNA
SUPPORT STRUCTURE HEIGHT does not include the height of building on which they
are mounted.
      COLLOCATION. The use of a wireless communications facility by more than
one wireless communications provider.
      COMMERCIAL WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES. Licensed commercial wireless
telecommunication services, including cellular, personal communications
services (PCS), specialized mobilized radio (SMR), enhanced specialized
mobilized radio (ESMR), paging and similar services that are marketed to the
general public.
      EQUIPMENT ENCLOSURE. A structure, shelter, cabinet or vault used to house
and protect the electronic equipment necessary for processing wireless
communication signals. Associated equipment may include air conditioning,
backup power supplies and emergency generators.
      FAA. Federal Aviation Administration.
      FCC. Federal Communications Commission.
      WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY. An unstaffed facility for the
transmission and/or reception of radio frequency (RF), microwave or other
signals for commercial communications purposes, typically consisting of an
equipment enclosure, an antenna support structure and one or more antennas.
Amateur radio, land mobile radio and commercial radio and television facilities
are excluded from this definition.
      WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY ANTENNA OR TOWER FARM. An antenna or
tower farm is a tract of land that contains no more than three antenna support
structures within 750 linear feet of each other. No antenna support structures
located in tower farms shall exceed 250 feet in height. Legal tracts must be
adjacent to each other to be included in this definition.
   (B)   Applicability. All wireless communication facilities located within
the city jurisdiction, whether upon private or public lands, shall be subject
to this section. This section shall apply to wireless communication facilities
upon state and federal lands to the extent of the city’s jurisdiction by way of
law, pursuant to any memoranda of understanding or otherwise. Only the
following facilities shall be exempted from the application of this section:
      (1)   Amateur radio stations and antenna support structures;
      (2)   Antennas and antenna support structures for land mobile radio and
radio and television; and
      (3)   Preexisting antenna support structures or antennas. Preexisting
antenna support structures and preexisting antennas shall not be required to
meet the requirements of this section, so long as said preexisting antenna
support structures have received all required approvals, permits and exceptions
prior to adoption of this section.
   (C)   Standards. This section is to establish regulations for the siting of
antenna support structures and antennas on public and private property. The
goals of this section are to:
      (1)   Encourage the location of antenna support structures in
nonresidential areas and minimize the total number of antenna support
structures throughout the community;
      (2)   Strongly encourage the joint use of new and existing antenna
support structures;
      (3)   Require wireless communication facilities to be located, to the
extent possible, in areas where the adverse impact on the community is minimal;
      (4)   Require wireless communication facilities to be configured in a way
that minimizes the adverse visual impact of the towers and antennas; and
      (5)   Enhance the ability of the providers of wireless communication
services to provide such services to the community, as quickly, effectively and
efficiently as possible.
   (D)   Commercial antenna support structures and antennas.
      (1)   Residential zoning districts. Antenna support structures and
antennas shall be permitted as an allowed use in all residential zoning
districts, provided they meet all of the following criteria.
         (a)   Alternative antenna support structures conforming to all
applicable provisions of this code and roof-mounted antennas that do not add
more than 20 feet to the total height of the building on which they are mounted
shall be permitted as an allowed use only when located on school, government
owned utility and other government sites. Proposed antennas or antenna support
structures that are contrary to this section are subject to the conditional use
requirements of the zoning regulations or may be submitted to the Board of
Adjustment for a hearing. The Board of Adjustment shall hold a public hearing
and shall forward comments and recommendations to the City Council for its
consideration.
         (b)   Antennas collocated on existing or approved alternative antenna
support structures or existing or approved antenna support structures which
have previously received all required approvals and permits shall be permitted
as an allowed use.
      (2)   Commercial zoning districts.
         (a)   Alternative antenna structures shall be permitted as an allowed
use in all commercial zoning districts.
         (b)   Antenna support structures shall be permitted as an allowed use
in all commercial zoning districts when located on school, government owned
utility and other government sites. Proposed antennas or antenna support
structures that are contrary to this section are subject to the conditional use
requirements or may be submitted to the Board of Adjustment for a hearing. The
Board of Adjustment shall hold a public hearing and shall forward comments and
recommendations to the City Council for their consideration.
         (c)   Antennas collocated on existing alternative antenna support
structures or existing antenna support structures which have previously
received all required approvals and permits shall be permitted as an allowed
use in all commercial zones.
         (d)   Antenna support structures and antennas located in Residential
Professional (RP) and Neighborhood Commercial Limited (NCL) that do not meet
the requirements of divisions (D)(2)(a), (D)(2)(b) and (D)(2)(c) above shall be
required to obtain conditional use approval. Wireless communication facility
tower farms are not allowed in these zoning districts.
         (e)   Antenna support structures and antennas located in the General
Commercial District (C-1), Central Business District (C-2) and the Highway
Commercial District (C-3) shall be permitted as an allowed use, provided that
the towers meet the requirements of divisions (D)(2)(a), (D)(2)(b) and (D)(2)
(c) above or:
            1.   Roof-mounted antenna that do not add more than 20 feet to the
total height of the building on which it is mounted shall be permitted as an
allowed use;
            2.   Antenna support structures 50 feet in height or less shall be
permitted as an allowed use;
            3.   Antenna support structures that are greater than 50 feet in
height shall be required to obtain a conditional use permit; and
            4.   Wireless communication facility tower farms are permitted with
conditional use permits, except in the RP, NCL and C-1 Districts.
         (f)   All antenna support structures located in the M-1 and M-
2 Districts shall be permitted as an allowed use, including tower farms.
      (3)   Parks. The presence of certain wireless communication facilities
may conflict with the purpose of some city owned parks and will not be allowed.
   (E)   General requirements. The requirements set forth in this section
govern the location and construction of all wireless communications facilities
governed by this section.
      (1)   Building codes and safety standards. To ensure the structural
integrity of wireless communication facilities, the owner of a facility shall
ensure that it is maintained in compliance with standards contained in
applicable local Building Codes and the applicable standards for such wireless
communication facilities, as amended from time to time.
      (2)   Regulatory compliance. All wireless communication facilities must
meet or exceed current standards and regulations of the FAA, the FCC and other
local, state or federal agencies with the authority to regulate facilities
governed by this section. All wireless communication facilities must comply
with all revised standards and regulations within the date established by the
agency promulgating the standards or regulations.
      (3)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Residential uses or zoning. Antenna support structures must be
set back, from all property lines, a distance equal to one-half the height of
the structure from any off-site residential structure or residentially zoned
lot. Accessory structures must maintain a minimum of a 15-foot setback from any
lot line adjacent to a residential structure or residentially zoned lot, or the
required setback of the zoning district where the antenna support structure is
located, whichever is greater.
         (b)   Commercial and industrial zoning. Commercial and industrial
zoning setbacks antenna support structures and accessory facilities must meet
the minimum yard setback requirements for the zoning district in which they are
located.
      (4)   Lot coverage and height. Antenna support structures and accessory
structures shall not exceed lot coverage requirements for the zoning district
in which they are located. Accessory structures shall not exceed the height
restrictions for the zoning district in which they are located.
      (5)   Fencing and buffering.
         (a)   Fencing. A chain-link or solid wood fence, or masonry wall at
least six feet in height (eight feet, if razor or barbed wire is to be used)
shall be constructed and maintained around the perimeter of the antenna support
structure site. Climb-proof shields can be substituted for a fence or wall
around the structure. Solid fences, at least six feet in height, are required
adjacent to residential uses and residentially zoned property.
         (b)   Landscaping. For all facilities the following will be required.
            1.   A continuous evergreen hedge at least four feet in height when
planted shall be planted and maintained around the perimeter of the antenna
support structure outside of the required fencing and spaced close together to
provide a continuous visual screen.
            2.   Shrubs shall also be planted and maintained around the guy
anchors for visual screening purposes.
         (c)   Commercial landscaping. Landscaping requirements shall not apply
to antenna support structures located in the industrial districts.
      (6)   Lighting. Antenna support structures shall not be artificially
lighted unless required by the FAA or other local, state or federal agency. If
the FAA requires safety lighting, the use of red beacons is preferred to
flashing strobe lights. Security lighting on-site may be mounted up to 20 feet
high on the tower and shall be directed towards the ground to reduce light
pollution, prevent off-site light spillage and avoid illuminating the tower.
Cut-off security lighting must be used adjacent to residential uses or
residentially zoned lots. When incorporated into the approved design of the
facility, light fixtures used to illuminate sports fields, parking lots or
similar areas may be included in the facility.
      (7)   Signage. Signage shall be limited to non-illuminated warning and
equipment identification signs.
      (8)   Collocation.
         (a)   Antenna support structures should be designed in all respects to
accommodate both the applicant’s antennas and antennas for at least two
additional comparable antennas if the antenna support structure is over 100
feet in height or for at least one additional comparable antenna if the tower
is between 50 feet and 100 feet in height.
         (b)   All new antennas must collocate on existing or approved antenna
support structures or alternative antenna support structures unless it can be
demonstrated collocation is not feasible under conditional use submitted
information.
      (9)   Maintenance.
         (a)   Equipment at a wireless communication facility shall be
automated to the greatest extent possible to reduce traffic and congestion.
Where the site abuts or has access to a collector or local street, access for
maintenance vehicles shall be exclusively by means of the collector or local
street.
         (b)   All property used for the siting of an antenna support structure
or antenna shall be maintained, without expense to the city, so as to be safe,
orderly, attractive and in conformity with city codes, including those
regarding the removal of weeds, trash and landscape maintenance.
      (10)   Visual impact/aesthetics.
         (a)   Wireless communication facilities shall either maintain a
galvanized steel finish or, subject to any applicable standards of the FAA or
other applicable local, state or federal agency, or be painted a neutral color
or painted and/or textured to match the existing structure so as to reduce
visual obtrusiveness.
         (b)   If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a tower,
the antenna and associated electrical and mechanical equipment must be of a
neutral color that is identical to, or closely compatible with, the color of
the supporting structure so as to make the antenna and related equipment as
visually unobtrusive as possible. Antennas and antenna support structures may
be mounted on existing buildings that are 30 feet or more in height above the
street grade.
         (c)   Roof-mounted antennas and antenna support structures shall not
add more than 20 feet to the total height of the building on which they are
mounted. Roof-mounted equipment shall be made visually unobtrusive to match
existing air conditioning units, stair, elevator towers or other architectural
elements. Only monopole antennas support structures with omni-directional
(whip) or low profile single-directional (panel) shall be installed on building
roofs. Crow’s nest antennas arrays are prohibited on rooftop structures.
         (d)   Wireless communication facilities attached to new or existing
structures shall be designed to blend with the structure’s architecture and
should be placed directly above, below or incorporated with vertical design
elements of a structure.
         (e)   Wireless communication facilities shall be located as to
minimize their visibility and not be placed within historic or scenic view
corridors as designated by the City Council or by any state or federal law or
agency.
      (11)   Antenna support structure separation.
         (a)   All antenna support structures over 50 feet in height,
regardless of the zoning district in which the structure is located, shall be
located at least one mile from any other antenna support structure that is over
50 feet in height. Up to three antenna support structures located within an
approved wireless communication facility tower farm shall be located at least
one mile from any other tower farm.
         (b)   Exceptions to the terms of this section may be granted by the
governing body during the conditional use review process when it is found that
no existing or approved antenna support structure within the required
separation distance of the proposed site can accommodate the applicant’s
proposed antenna, or a critical need exists for the proposed location, and it
is technically infeasible to locate or collocate structures at or beyond the
required separation distance.
   (F)   Nonconforming wireless communication facilities. Antenna support
structures and/or facilities in existence on the date of the adoption of these
regulations, that do not comply with the requirements of these regulations,
(nonconforming antenna support structures) are subject to the following
provisions.
      (1)   Nonconforming antenna support structures may continue their present
use but may not be expanded or increased in height without complying with these
regulations except as further provided in this section.
      (2)   Nonconforming antenna support structures which are hereafter
damaged and destroyed, by less than 50% of its replacement value, due to any
reason or cause may be repaired and restored to their former use, location and
physical dimensions, subject to obtaining a building permit and other necessary
approvals thereof, but without otherwise complying with these regulations. If
an antenna support structure is destroyed or damaged by more than 50% of its
replacement value, the antenna support structure must be brought into
compliance with these regulations.
      (3)   The owner of any nonconforming antenna support structure may make
minor modifications in order to improve the structural integrity of the
facility, to allow the facility to accommodate collocated antennas of
facilities or to upgrade the facilities to current engineering, technological
or communications standards, without having to conform to the provisions of
these regulations.
   (G)   Modifications of existing wireless communication facilities that meet
the requirements of these regulations.
      (1)   Minor modifications. Minor modifications to facilities permitted
under these regulations shall be approved by the Building Department so long as
they comply with the original approved design. Minor modifications are as
follows: the addition of more antenna arrays to any existing antenna support
structure, so long as the addition of the antenna arrays add no more than 20
feet in height to the facility and the increase in height of the support
structure is no greater than 10%. Placement of additional antennas, up to the
number the antenna support structure was originally designed to accommodate,
shall be considered a minor modification.
      (2)   Major modifications. Major modifications to antenna support
structures permitted under these regulations shall be approved through a
conditional use. Major modifications are any that exceed the definition of
minor modifications.
   (H)   Abandonment. Wireless communication facilities will be considered
abandoned if they are unused by all providers at the facility for a period of
six months. Determination of abandonment shall be made by the Building
Department which shall have the right to request documentation from the
facility owner regarding support or antenna usage. Upon abandonment, the
facility owner shall have 90 days to:
      (1)   Reuse the facility or transfer the facility to another owner who
will reuse it; or
      (2)   If the facility is not removed within 90 days of abandonment, the
city may remove the facility at the facility and/or property owner’s expense.
If the facility is removed, city approval of the facility will expire. If the
facility owner is unable to remove the facility within the 90 days due to
unusual circumstances, the Building Department may grant the facility owner an
additional 90 days in which to comply with the requirements of this division
(H).
   (I)   Conditional use submittal requirements. The applicant of new wireless
communication facilities shall provide the following documentation for review
by the Zoning Coordinator and Building Official:
      (1)   A map to scale showing the service area of the proposed wireless
communication facility and an explanation of the need for that facility;
      (2)   A site/landscaping plan showing the following items:
         (a)   North arrow;
         (b)   The location and dimensions of all vehicular points of ingress
and egress; drives, alleys and streets;
         (c)   Property boundaries and lot line dimensions;
         (d)   The locations and dimensions of all existing and proposed
buildings, structures and improvements, including those that will be removed.
All information must be labeled;
         (e)   Setbacks from all property boundaries for existing and proposed
structures and buildings;
         (f)   Centerline and names of major and minor arterial streets
relevant to the application;
         (g)   Elevation drawing of proposed wireless communication facility,
including the antenna support structure, antenna platforms and associated
equipment enclosures. Also indicate the maximum number of antenna platforms
that can be supported;
         (h)   Detailed landscaping plan of the site;
         (i)   Location of artificial light sources and the areas of
illumination;
         (j)   Applications for tower farms shall include divisions (I)(2)(a)
through (I)(2)(i) above and an overall development plan showing the location of
future structures and equipment enclosures;
         (k)   Latitude, longitude and height of proposed antenna support
structures; and
         (l)   Other pertinent features as determined by the Zoning
Coordinator.
      (3)   Area map showing the property boundaries of adjacent property and
the location of existing buildings;
      (4)   Each applicant for one or more antenna support structures shall
provide to the Zoning Coordinator and Building Official a map showing the
locations and service areas of existing and approved antenna support structures
operated or utilized by the applicant, including specific information on the
location, height and design of each antenna support structure. The Public Works
Department shall maintain an inventory of existing and approved antenna support
structure, including specific information about the location, height and design
of each antenna support structures. The city may share such information with
other persons, organizations or governmental authorities;
      (5)   Documentation of minimum light requirements from the FAA or other
local, state or federal agency for the antenna support structure and/or
antennas. Where applicable, applicant will provide documentation of the FAA
airspace review and a copy of comments from the FAA;
      (6)   When the applicant is a wireless service provider, proof that the
applicant is licensed by the FCC to provide the wireless communication services
that the proposed facility is designed to support;
      (7)   Availability of suitable existing or approved antenna support
structures. No new antenna support structure shall be permitted unless the
applicant clearly demonstrates, in writing, to the reasonable satisfaction of
the Zoning Coordinator and Building Official that no existing or approved
antenna support structure within the required separation distance of the
proposed site can accommodate the applicant’s proposed antenna. Closer
separation distances may be approved if the applicant clearly demonstrates a
critical need for the alternative location and the infeasibility of locating or
collocating a wireless communication facility at or beyond the required
separation distance. Evidence submitted to demonstrate that no existing or
approved structure can accommodate the applicant’s proposed antenna must
include a discussion of the following items, if relevant:
         (a)   No existing or approved antenna support structures are located
within the geographic area required to meet the applicant’s engineering
requirements;
         (b)   Existing or approved antenna support structures are not of
sufficient height to meet the applicant’s engineering requirements;
         (c)   Existing or approved antenna support structures do not have
sufficient structural strength to support the applicant’s proposed antenna and
related equipment and cannot be reinforced to provide sufficient structural
strength;
         (d)   The applicant’s proposed antenna would cause electromagnetic
interference with the antenna on the existing or approved antenna support
structures, or the antenna on the existing or approved antenna support
structures would cause interference with the applicant’s proposed antenna;
         (e)   The fees or costs required to share an existing or approved
antenna support structure or to adapt an existing or approved antenna support
structure for sharing are unreasonable. Costs below new tower development are
presumed reasonable;
         (f)   Property owners or owners of existing or approved antenna
support structures are unwilling to accommodate the applicant’s needs; and
         (g)   The applicant demonstrates that there are other limiting factors
that render existing or approved antenna support structures unsuitable.
      (8)   If collocation is feasible, the owner of the antenna support
structure shall certify, prior to permit approval, that the owner will accept
for collocation any FCC licensed wireless communication provider using
compatible technology on commercially reasonable terms up to the antenna
support structure’s capacity to accommodate additional antennas. The applicant
shall also include a statement on how requests for collocators will be
processed; and
      (9)   The applicant must submit information that substantiates that there
will be no adverse effects on surrounding property values resulting from the
proposed facility.
   (J)   Nuisances. Wireless communication facilities, including, without
limitation, power source, ventilation and cooling, shall be operated at all
times within the city noise regulations, shall not be operated so as to cause
the generation of heat that adversely affects a building occupant and shall not
be maintained or operated in such a manner as to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-2) (Ord. 06-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 153.03 APPEALS.
   Appeals from any decision of the Zoning Coordinator and Building Official
may be taken by any person aggrieved or any official of the city by the
decision of the Zoning Coordinator and Building Official. Such appeal shall be
to the city Board of Adjustment pursuant to Chapter 155.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-3) (Ord. 06-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
Cross-reference:
   Zoning Board of Adjustment, see §§
155.295 through
155.308
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Regulations
   
154.01   Title and purpose
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Jurisdictional area
   
154.04   Floodplain District establishment
   
154.05   Floodplain Administrator
   
154.06   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
   
154.07   Compliance
   
154.08   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.09   Interpretation and application of this chapter
   
154.10   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
154.11   Severability
   
154.12   Disclosure provision
   
154.13   Applications of chapter
Administration
   
154.25   Administration
   
154.26   Permit application
   
154.27   Emergency waiver
   
154.28   Review; variances; appeals
   
154.29   Fee
   
154.30   Violation notice
   
154.31   Compliance
   
154.32   Emergency preparedness planning
Specific Standards
   
154.45   Applicability
   
154.46   Floodway
   
154.47   Floodway fringe
   
154.48   Floodplain areas with flood elevations and no delineated floodway
   
154.49   Shallow flooding
Floodproofing Requirements
   
154.60   Certification
   
154.61   Conformance
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 154.01 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known and cited as the Glendive
Floodplain Regulations.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-1)
   (B)   Authority. These regulations are in accordance with exercising the
authority of the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-2)
   (C)   Purpose. To promote the public health, safety and general welfare, to
minimize flood losses in areas subject to flood hazards and to promote wise use
of the floodplain, this chapter has been established with the following
purposes intended:
      (1)   To guide development of the 100-year floodplain within local
jurisdiction consistent with the enumerated findings by:
         (a)   Recognizing the right and need of watercourses to periodically
carry more than the normal flow of water;
         (b)   Participating in coordinated efforts of federal, state and local
management activities for 100-year floodplains; and
         (c)   Ensuring the regulations and minimum standards adopted, insofar
as possible, balance the greatest public good with the least private injury.
      (2)   Specifically, it is the purpose of these regulations to:
         (a)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety
and property in times of flood or that cause increased flood heights and
velocities;
         (b)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public
facilities, be provided with flood protection at the time of initial
construction;
         (c)   Identify lands unsuitable for certain development purposes
because of flood hazards;
         (d)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding undertaken at the expense of the general public;
         (e)   Ensure potential buyers are notified that property is within a
100-year floodplain and subject to the provisions of these regulations; and
         (f)   Ensure that those who occupy 100-year floodplains assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-3)
(Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The State Floodplain and Floodway Management Act, M.C.A. §§ 76-5-101
through 76-5-406.
   ALTERATION. Any change or addition to a structure that either increases its
external dimensions or increases its potential flood hazard.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of these regulations or a request for a
variance.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within the
community subject to inundation by a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any
given year, i.e., the 100-year floodplain.
   ARTIFICIAL OBSTRUCTION, DEVELOPMENT. Any obstruction which is not natural
and includes any dam, diversion, wall, riprap, embankment, levee, dike, pile,
abutment, projection, revetment, excavation, channel rectification, bridge,
conduit, culvert, building, refuse, automobile body, fill or other analogous
structure or matter in, along, across or projecting into any 100-year
floodplain which may impede, retard or alter the pattern of flow of water,
either in itself or by catching or collecting debris carried by the water, or
that is placed where the natural flow of water would carry the same downstream
to the damage or detriment of either life or property.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. A BASE FLOOD is the same as a 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation above sea level of the base flood in
relation to national geodetic vertical datum of 1929 unless otherwise specified
in the flood hazard study.
   CHANNELIZATION PROJECT. The excavation and/or construction of an artificial
channel for the purpose of diverting the entire flow of a stream from its
established course.
   ESTABLISH. To construct, place, insert or excavate.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision where the construction of facilities for servicing the manufactured
homes lots is completed before the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations. This includes, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the
construction of streets and either final site grading or the pouring of
concrete pads.
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. The map on which FEMA has delineated both the 100-
year floodplains and the risk premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The report in which FEMA has provided flood profiles
as well as the flood boundary/floodway map and the water surface profiles.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry lands from the overflow of a stream or the unusual
and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN. The areas subject to these regulations, generally adjoining a
stream, that would be covered by floodwater of a base flood, except for sheet
flood areas that receive less than one foot of water per occurrence and are
considered Zone B by FEMA. The FLOODPLAIN consists of a floodway and floodway
fringe.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a stream and the adjacent overbank areas that must
be reserved in order to discharge a base flood without cumulatively increasing
the water surface elevation more than one-half foot.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside the limits of the
floodway.
   LEVEE. A human-made embankment, usually earthen, designed and constructed in
accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control or divert the
flow of water to provide protection from temporary flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as drainage and closure devices which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. Any floor used for living purposes, storage or recreation.
This includes any floor that could be converted to such a use.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure that is transportable in one or more
sections, built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without
a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. This does not
include RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel or contiguous parcels of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. The national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other
datum to which base flood elevations are referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which construction, substantial improvement
or alteration commences on or after the effective date of these regulations.
   OFFICIAL FLOODPLAIN MAPS. The flood insurance rate maps and flood boundary/
floodway maps provided by FEMA for the city, dated January 1980.
   100-YEAR FLOOD. A flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year. A 100-YEAR FLOOD has nearly a 23% chance of occurring in a 25-
year period. A 100-YEAR FLOOD is the same as a base flood.
   PERMIT ISSUING AUTHORITY. The Glendive City Council.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily for use as temporary living quarters for
recreation, camping, travel or seasonal use and not for use as a permanent
dwelling.
   RIPRAP. Stone, rocks, concrete blocks or analogous material that is placed
along the banks or bed of a stream to alleviate erosion.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Commencement of clearing, grading, filling or
excavating to prepare a site for construction.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, manufactured home, a gas or liquid
storage tank, bridge, culvert, dam, diversion, wall, revetment, dike or other
projection that may impede, retard or alter the pattern of flow of water.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage sustained by a structure where the cost of
restoring the structure to its condition before damage would equal or exceed
50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Includes:
         (a)   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the
cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure
either: before the improvement or repair is started; or, if the structure has
been damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred; and
         (b)   For the purpose of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first construction to any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commenced.
      (2)   The term does not include:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or State Inventory of Historic Places.
   SUITABLE FILL. Fill material which is stable, compacted, well graded,
pervious, generally unaffected by water and frost, devoid of trash or similar
foreign matter, devoid of tree stumps or other organic material and is fitting
for the purpose of supporting the intended use and/or permanent structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of these regulations that
would permit construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by these
regulations.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with these regulations. A structure or other development without
elevation certificate, certification by a licensed engineer or architect of
compliance with these regulations or other evidence of compliance is presumed
to be in VIOLATION until such time as documentation is provided.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-1) (Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996)
§ 154.03 JURISDICTIONAL AREA.
   These regulations shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the
city shown on the official floodplain maps as being located within a 100-year
floodplain district.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-1) (Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996)
§ 154.04 FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT ESTABLISHMENT.
   The floodplain districts established are defined by the base flood
elevations and 100-year floodplains as delineated in the flood insurance study.
The basis for the flood insurance study is a scientific and engineering report
entitled “The Flood Insurance Study for Glendive, Montana,” dated January 1980,
with accompanying flood insurance rate maps and flood boundary/floodway maps.
The official floodplain maps, together with the flood insurance study are on
file in the office of the Floodplain Administrator. 
(Prior Code, § 12-3-2) (Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996)
§ 154.05 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator has been designated to be the Superintendent of
Public Works. The responsibilities of this position are outlined in §
154.25.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-3) (Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996)
§ 154.06 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the 100-year floodway shall be determined by scaling
distances on the official floodplain maps and using the floodway data table
contained in the flood insurance study report. The maps may be used as a guide
for determining the 100-year floodplain boundary, but the exact location of the
floodplain boundary shall be determined where the base flood elevation
intersects the natural ground. For unnumbered A Zones and AO Zone floodplains,
where there is a conflict between a mapped floodplain boundary and actual field
conditions, the Floodplain Administrator may interpret the location of the 100-
year floodplain boundary based on field conditions or available historical
flood information.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-4) (Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996)
§ 154.07 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land use shall be located extended, converted or
structurally altered without full compliance with the provisions of these
regulations and other applicable regulations. These regulations meet the
minimum floodplain development requirements as set forth by the State Board of
Natural Resources and Conservation and the national flood insurance program.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-5) (Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.08 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by these regulations to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easement, covenants, deed restrictions or underlying zoning. However,
where these regulations impose greater restrictions, the provisions of these
regulations shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-6) (Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996)
§ 154.09 INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   The interpretation and application of the provisions of these regulations
shall be considered minimum requirements and liberally construed in favor of
the governing body and not deemed a limitation or repeal of any other powers
granted by state statute.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-7) (Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996)
§ 154.10 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   These regulations do not imply that areas outside the delineated floodplain
boundaries or permitted land uses will always be totally free from flooding or
flood damages. These regulations shall not create a liability or cause of
action against the city, or any officer or employee thereof, for flood damages
that may result from reliance upon these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-8) (Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996)
§ 154.11 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision or portion of these regulations is
adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
remainder of these regulations shall not be affected thereby.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-9) (Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996)
§ 154.12 DISCLOSURE PROVISION.
   All owners of property in an identified 100-year floodplain as indicated on
the official floodplain maps must notify potential buyers or their agents that
such property is subject to the provisions of these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-10) (Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996)
§ 154.13 APPLICATIONS OF CHAPTER.
   The minimum floodplain development standards listed in this chapter apply to
the 100-year floodplains delineated by approximate methods and identified as
unnumbered A Zones on the flood insurance rate maps.
   (A)   Uses allowed without permits. All uses allowed in a floodway according
to the provisions of §
154.46(A) shall also be allowed without a permit in unnumbered A Zone
floodplains.
   (B)   Uses requiring permits. All uses allowed in the floodway fringe
subject to the issuance of a permit, according to the provisions of §
154.47(B) shall require permits from the Floodplain Administrator for
unnumbered A Zone floodplains. Also, the provisions of §
154.47(B) apply to the A Zone floodplains with no floodway delineated or water
surface profile computed. Since there are no 100-year floodwater surface
profiles computed for A Zone floodplains, the following conditions apply.
      (1)   Elevation data on the 100-year flood shall be provided for
subdivision proposals according to the definitions and rules of the State
Sanitation in Subdivision Act, M.C.A. § 76-4, part 1 and the rules adopted by
DHES under this Act. This data shall be used in applying §
154.47(B)(3), (B)(4) and (B)(5). Subdivision proposals shall also provide for
adequate drainage to minimize potential flood hazards.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator may obtain, review and reasonably use
any base flood elevation and floodway data available from federal, state or
other sources, until such data has been provided by FEMA, to enforce §
154.47(B)(3) and (B)(4).
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator may use historical flood elevations to
determine suitable fill or floodproofing elevations as required by §
154.47(B)(3) and (B)(4).
      (4)   If historical flood evidence is not available, then the Floodplain
Administrator shall determine, from a field review at the proposed development
site, an appropriate fill or floodproofing elevation to use in applying §
154.47(B)(3) and (B)(4). In the absence of depth or elevation information, a
minimum two-foot flood depth shall be used.
      (5)   Proposed structures must be anchored to prevent floatation or
collapse and must be located as far from stream channels as practicable.
   (C)   Prohibited uses. The uses prohibited in the floodway fringe in
accordance with §
154.47(C) shall also be prohibited within the A Zone floodplain boundaries.
   (D)   Floodplain boundary interpretation. The Floodplain Administrator shall
make interpretations where needed as to the exact location of the unnumbered A
Zone floodplain boundary when there is a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-1) (Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996) Penalty, see §
154.99
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.25 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Floodplain Administrator. As provided in §
154.05, the Floodplain Administrator has been designated by the City Council
and has the responsibility of such position as outlined in these regulations.
   (B)   Authority. The Floodplain Administrator is hereby appointed with the
authority to review floodplain development permit applications, proposed uses
and construction to determine compliance with these regulations. The Floodplain
Administrator is required to ensure that all necessary permits have been
received from those governmental agencies from which approval is required by
federal agencies from which approval is required by federal and state law and
local codes, including § 404 of the federal Water Pollution Control Act of
1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334, and under the provisions of the Natural Streambed and
Land Preservation Act, being M.C.A. §§ 75-7-101 to 7-7-112.
   (C)   Criteria for permit. Floodplain development permits shall be granted
or denied by the Floodplain Administrator on the basis of whether the proposed
establishment, alteration or substantial improvement of an artificial
obstruction meets the requirements of these regulations. Additional factors
that shall be considered for every permit application are:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights,
increased floodwater velocities or alterations in the pattern of flood flow
caused by encroachments;
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others;
      (3)   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary conditions;
      (4)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effects of such damage on the individual owner;
      (5)   The importance of the services provided by the facility to the
community;
      (6)   The requirement of the facility for a waterfront location;
      (7)   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use;
      (8)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
anticipated development in the foreseeable future;
      (9)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
anticipated development in the foreseeable future;
      (10)   The safety of access to property in times of flooding for ordinary
and emergency services; and
      (11)   Such other factors as are in harmony with the purposes of these
regulations, the State Floodplain and Floodway Management Act, being M.C.A.
Title 76, Chapter 5 and the national flood insurance program.
   (D)   Permit application deemed granted. A floodplain development permit
application is considered to have been automatically granted 60 days after the
date of receipt of the application by the Floodplain Administrator unless the
applicant has been notified that the permit is denied, conditionally approved
or additional information pertinent to the permit review process is required.
   (E)   Procedures. The Floodplain Administrator shall adopt such
administrative procedures as may be necessary to efficiently administer the
provision of these regulations.
   (F)   Files; records. The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain such files
and records as may be necessary to document nonconforming uses, base flood
elevations, floodproofing and elevation certification, fee receipts, the
issuance of permits, agenda, minutes, records of public meetings and any other
matters related to floodplain management in the city. Such files and records
shall be open for public inspection. In matters of litigation, the City
Attorney may restrict access to specific records.
   (G)   Additional information. The Floodplain Administrator may require
whatever additional information is necessary to determine whether the proposed
activity meets the requirements of these regulations. Additional information
may include: hydraulic calculations assessing the impact on base flood
elevations or velocities; level survey; or certification by a registered land
surveyor, professional engineer or licensed architect that the requirements of
these regulations are satisfied.
   (H)   Notice. Upon receipt of an application for a permit or a variance, the
Floodplain Administrator shall prepare a notice containing the facts pertinent
to the application and shall publish the notice at least once in a newspaper of
general circulation in the area. Notice shall also be served by first class
mail upon adjacent property owners and the DNRC floodplain management section.
The notice shall provide a reasonable period of time, not less than 15 days,
for interested parties to submit comments on the proposed activity.
   (I)   Forwarding to state. Copies of all permits granted must be sent to the
Department of Natural Resources and Conservation in Helena, Montana.
   (J)   Riverine situations. In riverine situations, notification by the
Floodplain Administrator must be made to adjacent communities, the floodplain
management section (DNRC) and FEMA prior to any alteration or relocation of a
stream. The flood-carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion of
any stream must be maintained. Erosion control measures shall be incorporated
to ensure stability of altered channels and stream banks.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-1) (Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996)
§ 154.26 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Permit required. Activities or uses that require the issuance of a
permit, including the expansion or alteration of such uses, shall not be
initiated, established or undertaken until a permit has been issued by the
Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Required information. Permit applicants shall be required to furnish
the following information as deemed necessary by the Floodplain Administrator
for determining the suitability of the particular site for the proposed use:
      (1)   Plans in duplicate drawn to scale (including dimensions) showing
the nature, location and elevation of the lot; existing and proposed structure
locations; fill, storage or materials site; floodproofing measures; mean sea
level elevation of the first floor of proposed structures; and location of the
channel;
      (2)   A plan view of the proposed development indicating external
dimensions of structures, street or road finished grade elevations, well
locations, individual sewage treatment and disposal sites, excavation and/or
fill quantity estimates and site plan and/or construction plans;
      (3)   Specifications for floodproofing, filling, excavating, grading,
riprapping, storage of materials and location of utilities;
      (4)   A professional engineer’s or registered architect’s design
calculations and certification that the proposed activity has been designed to
be in compliance with these regulations; and
      (5)   Certification of floodproofing and/or elevation shall be provided
on a standard form available from the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Required at on-site conformance inspection. To determine that the
permit specifications and conditions have been complete, applicants who have
received permits are required to furnish the following at the time of an on-
site conformance inspection:
      (1)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or licensed
land surveyor of the actual mean sea level elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new, altered or substantially improved buildings;
      (2)   If floodproofing techniques were used for buildings, the mean sea
level elevation to which the floodproofing was accomplished must be certified
by a structural engineer or licensed architect in the same manner;
      (3)   Certification shall also be required for artificial obstructions
other than buildings, verifying that the activity was accomplished in
accordance with these regulations and the design plans submitted with the
application for the permit activity. This certification may be clearly
ascertained by a site inspection that the activity was accomplished in
accordance with these regulations; and
      (4)   Certification of floodproofing and/or elevation shall be provided
on a standard form available from the Floodplain Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-2) (Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996)
§ 154.27 EMERGENCY WAIVER.
   (A)   Criteria for waiver. Emergency repair and replacement of severely
damaged public transportation facilities, public water and sewer facilities and
flood control works may be authorized. Floodplain development permit
requirements may be waived if:
      (1)   Upon notification and prior to the emergency repair and/or
replacement, the Floodplain Administrator determines that an emergency
condition exists warranting immediate action; and
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator agrees upon the nature and type of
proposed emergency repair and/or replacement.
   (B)   Verbal authorization. Authorization to undertake emergency repair and
replacement work may be given verbally if the Floodplain Administrator feels
that such a written authorization would unduly delay the emergency works. Such
verbal authorization must be followed by a written authorization describing the
emergency condition and the type of emergency work agreed upon and stating that
a verbal authorization had been previously given.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-3) (Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996)
§ 154.28 REVIEW; VARIANCES; APPEALS.
   (A)   Board of Adjustment created. There is hereby created a local
Floodplain Management Board of Adjustment, the membership, administration and
rules of procedure of which are identical to a Zoning Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   Variances. The Board of Adjustment may, by variance, grant a permit
that is not in compliance with the minimum standards contained in these
regulations according to the following procedures.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued for areas within a floodway if any
additional increase in flood elevations or velocities after allowable
encroachments into the floodway fringe would result.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that refusal of a permit due to exceptional
circumstances would cause a unique or undue hardship on the applicant or
community involved;
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood hazards, present additional threats to public safety, be an
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud, victimize the
public or conflict with existing state and local laws;
         (d)   A determination that the proposed use would be adequately
floodproofed;
         (e)   A determination that a reasonable alternate location outside the
floodplain is not available;
         (f)   A determination that the variance requested is the minimum
necessary to afford relief, considering the flood hazard; and
         (g)   Approval of the State Department of Natural Resources and
Conservation, upon request from the permit issuing authority, prior to formally
approving any permit application that is in variance to these regulations.
      (3)   Variances shall be issued, in writing, from the permit issuing
authority and shall notify the applicant that:
         (a)   A specific variance is granted, and certain conditions may be
attached;
         (b)   The issuance of a variance to construct a building below the
100-year floodplain elevation will result in increased premium rates; and
         (c)   Such construction below the 100-year flood elevation increases
risks to life and property. The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain records
of the variance notification and actions, including justification for their
issuance, and forward copies of all variance actions to the State Department of
Natural Resources and Conservation and the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (C)   Appeal. Appeal of any decision of the permit issuing authority, its
officers or agencies may be taken by an aggrieved person or persons, jointly or
separately, to a court of record.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-4) (Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Zoning Board of Adjustment, see §§
155.295 through
155.308
§ 154.29 FEE.
   A processing fee as set by resolution shall be submitted with each permit
application.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-5) (Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996)
§ 154.30 VIOLATION NOTICE.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall bring any violation of these regulations
to the attention of the local governing body, its legal counsel and the State
Department of Natural Resources and Conservation.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-6) (Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996)
§ 154.31 COMPLIANCE.
   Any use, arrangement or construction not in compliance as authorized by
permit, shall be deemed a violation of these regulations and punishable as
provided in §
154.99. An applicant is required to submit certification by a registered
professional engineer, architect, land surveyor or other qualified person
designated by the Floodplain Administrator that finished fill and lowest
building floor elevations, floodproofing, hydraulic design or other flood
protection measures were accomplished in compliance with these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-7) (Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996)
§ 154.32 EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS PLANNING.
   In formulating community development goals, the community shall consider the
development of a plan for evacuating residents of all manufactured home parks
or subdivisions located within floodprone areas. This plan should be developed,
filed with and approved by appropriate community emergency management
authorities.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-8) (Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996)
SPECIFIC STANDARDS
§ 154.45 APPLICABILITY.
   The minimum floodplain development standards listed in this subchapter apply
to the floodway and floodway fringe portions of the 100-year floodplain as
delineated on the flood boundary/floodway maps and also correspond to the
numbered A or AE Zones depicted on the flood insurance rate maps.
(Prior Code, § 12-5-1) (Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996)
§ 154.46 FLOODWAY.
   (A)   Uses allowed without permits. The following open space uses shall be
allowed without a permit within the floodway; provided, that such uses: conform
to the provisions of §§
154.60 and
154.61; are not prohibited by any other ordinance, resolution or statute; and
do not require fill, excavation, permanent storage of materials or equipment or
structures other than portable structures:
      (1)   Agricultural uses;
      (2)   Accessory uses such as loading and parking areas, or emergency
landing strips associated with industrial and commercial facilities;
      (3)   Private and public recreational uses, such as golf courses, driving
ranges, archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching ramps, parks, wildlife
management and natural areas, game farms, fish hatcheries, shooting preserves,
target ranges, trap and skeet ranges, hunting and fishing areas and hiking or
horseback riding trails;
      (4)   Forestry, including processing of forest products with portable
equipment;
      (5)   Residential uses, such as lawns, gardens, parking areas and play
areas;
      (6)   Irrigation and livestock supply wells; provided, that they are
located at least 500 feet from domestic water supply wells;
      (7)   Fences, except permanent fences crossing channels; and
      (8)   Recreational vehicles; provided, that they be on the site for fewer
than 180 consecutive days or be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A
recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking
system with wheels intact, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
   (B)   Permit only obstruction in floodway. The following artificial
obstructions may be permitted in the floodway subject to the issuance of a
permit by the Floodplain Administrator:
      (1)   Excavation of material from pits and pools; provided, that:
         (a)   A buffer strip of undisturbed land is left between the edge of
the channel and the edge of the excavation. This buffer strip must be of
sufficient width to prevent flood flows from channeling into the excavation;
         (b)   The excavation meets all applicable laws and regulations of
other local and state agencies; and
         (c)   Excavated material is disposed of or stockpiled outside the
floodway.
      (2)   Railroad, highway and street stream crossings; provided, that the
crossings are designed to offer minimal obstruction to flood flow. Stream
crossings shall not increase the elevation of the 100-year flood more than one-
half foot nor cause a significant increase in flood velocities;
      (3)   Limited fill for highway, street and railroad embankments not
associated with stream crossings; provided, that:
         (a)   Reasonable alternate transportation routes outside the
designated floodway are not available; and
         (b)   Such floodway encroachment is located as far from the stream
channel as possible and shall not result in a cumulative increase in base flood
elevations, after allowable encroachment into the floodway fringe, exceeding
one-half foot.
      (4)   Buried or suspended utility transmission lines; provided, that:
         (a)   Suspended utility transmission lines are designed so the lowest
point of the suspended line is at least six feet higher than the base flood
elevation;
         (b)   Towers and other appurtenant structures are designed and placed
to withstand and minimally obstruct flood flows; and
         (c)   Utility transmission lines carrying toxic or flammable materials
are buried to a depth of at least twice the calculated maximum depth of scour
for a 100-year flood. The maximum depth of scour shall be determined by
hydraulic engineering methods acceptable to the Floodplain Administrator.
      (5)   Storage of materials and equipment; provided, that:
         (a)   The material or equipment is not subject to major damage by
flooding and is properly anchored to prevent floatation or downstream movement;
or
         (b)   The material or equipment is readily movable within the limited
time available after flood warning. Storage of flammable, toxic, hazardous or
explosive materials shall not be permitted.
      (6)   Domestic water supply wells; provided, that:
         (a)   They are driven or drilled wells located on ground higher than
the surrounding ground to ensure positive drainage from the well;
         (b)   Well casings are watertight to a distance of at least 25 feet
below the ground surface;
         (c)   Water supply and electrical lines have a watertight seal where
the lines enter the casing;
         (d)   All pumps, electrical lines and equipment are either submersible
or adequately floodproofed; and
         (e)   Check valves are installed on main water lines at wells and at
all building entry locations.
      (7)   Buried and sealed vaults for sewage disposal in recreational areas;
provided, that they meet applicable laws and standards administered by the
State Department of Health and Environmental Sciences;
      (8)   Public or private campgrounds; provided, that:
         (a)   Access roads require only limited fill and do not obstruct or
divert floodwaters; and
         (b)   Recreational vehicles and travel trailers are licensed and ready
for highway use. They are ready for highway use if on wheels or jacking system
with wheels intact, are attached to the site with only quick disconnect type
utilities and securing devices and have no permanently attached additions.
      (9)   Structures accessory to the uses permitted in this section, such as
boat docks, marinas, sheds, picnic shelters, tables and toilets; provided,
that:
         (a)   The structures are not intended for human habitation;
         (b)   The structures will have a low flood damage potential;
         (c)   The structures will, insofar as possible, be located on ground
higher than the surrounding ground and as far from the channel as possible;
         (d)   The floodproofing standards of §§
154.60 through
154.61; and
         (e)   The structures will be constructed and placed so as to offer
minimal obstruction to flood flows and are anchored to prevent floatation.
      (10)   Replacement of manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision on a developed site with servicing utilities. The
replacement home must be elevated on a permanent foundation so the lowest floor
is two feet above the base flood elevation or 36 inches in height above grade.
The foundation must be reinforced concrete, reinforced mortared block,
reinforced piers or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength,
whichever is less. The manufactured home chassis must be securely anchored to
the foundation system so that it will resist floatation, collapse and lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over
the top or frame ties to ground anchors;
      (11)   Substantial improvements to any structure; provided, that the
provisions of §
154.47(B)(3), (B)(4) or (B)(5) are met. In the floodway, the structure must be
floodproofed or elevated on a permanent foundation rather than on fill; and
      (12)   All other artificial obstructions, substantial improvement or
nonconforming uses not specifically listed or prohibited by these regulations.
   (C)   Permits for flood control works; conditions allowing approval. Flood
control works shall be allowed within floodways subject to the issuance of a
permit by the Floodplain Administrator with the following conditions:
      (1)   Levees and floodwalls are permitted if:
         (a)   The proposed levee or floodwall is designed and constructed to
safely convey a 100-year flood;
         (b)   The cumulative effect of the levee or floodwall combined with
allowable floodway fringe encroachments does not increase the unobstructed base
flood elevation more than one-half foot. The Floodplain Administrator may
establish either a lower or higher permissible increase in the base flood
elevation for individual levee projects only with concurrence from the State
Department of Natural Resources and Conservation and the Federal Emergency
Management Agency based upon consideration of the following criteria:
            1.   The estimated cumulative effect of any anticipated future
permissible uses; and
            2.   The type and amount of existing floodprone development in the
affected area.
         (c)   The proposed levee or floodwall, except those to protect
agricultural land, are constructed at least three feet higher than the base
flood elevation.
      (2)   Riprap, except that which is hand placed, if:
         (a)   The riprap is designed to withstand a 100-year flood;
         (b)   The riprap does not increase the base flood elevation; and
         (c)   The riprap will not increase erosion upstream, downstream or
adjacent to the riprap site.
      (3)   Channelization projects, if they do not significantly increase the
magnitude, velocity or base flood elevation in the proximity of the project;
and
      (4)   Dams; provided, that:
         (a)   They are designed and constructed in accordance with the State
Dam Safety Act, being M.C.A. Title 85, Chapter 15 and applicable safety
standards; and
         (b)   They will not increase flood hazards downstream, either through
operational procedures or improper hydrologic/hydrodynamic design.
   (D)   Permits for water diversions; conditions warranting denial. Permits
for the establishment of a water diversion or change in place of diversion
shall not be issued if, in the judgment of the Floodplain Administrator:
      (1)   The proposed diversion will significantly increase the upstream
base flood elevation to the detriment of neighboring property;
      (2)   The proposed diversion is not designed and constructed to minimize
potential erosion from a 100-year flood; and
      (3)   Any permanent diversion structure crossing the full width of the
stream channel is not designed and constructed to safely withstand a 100-year
flood.
   (E)   Prohibited uses within floodway. The following artificial obstructions
and nonconforming uses are prohibited within the floodway:
      (1)   New construction of any residential, commercial or industrial
structure, including manufactured homes;
      (2)   Encroachments, including fill, new construction, alterations,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway that would result in erosion of the embankment, obstruction of the
natural flow of waters or increase in flood levels within the community during
the occurrence of the 100-year flood;
      (3)   The construction or permanent storage of an object subject to
floatation or movement during flooding;
      (4)   Solid and hazardous waste disposal, sewage treatment and sewage
disposal systems;
      (5)   Storage of toxic, flammable, hazardous or explosive materials; and
      (6)   Alterations of structures unless it can be shown the alteration
will not raise flood heights.
(Prior Code, § 12-5-2) (Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.47 FLOODWAY FRINGE.
   (A)   Uses allowed without permits. All uses allowed in the floodway,
according to the provisions of §
154.46(A) shall also be allowed without a permit in the floodway fringe. In
addition, individual or multiple-family subsurface sewage disposal systems are
allowed only when they are reviewed and approved under laws and regulations
administered by the Department of Health and Environmental Sciences or the
local Health Board.
   (B)   Uses requiring permits. All uses allowed in the floodway subject to
the issuance of a permit, according to the provisions of §
154.46(B), (C) and (D) shall also be allowed by permit within the floodway
fringe. In addition, new construction, substantial improvements and alterations
to structures are allowed by permit. This includes, but is not limited to,
residential, commercial and industrial construction and suitable fill to be
allowed by permit from the Floodplain Administrator, subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   Such structures or fill must not be prohibited by any other
statute, regulation, ordinance or resolution;
      (2)   Such structures or fill must be compatible with local comprehensive
plans;
      (3)   The new construction, alteration and substantial improvement of
residential structures, including manufactured homes, must be constructed on
suitable fill such that the lowest floor elevation (including basement) is two
feet or more above the base flood elevation. The suitable fill shall be at an
elevation no lower than the base flood elevation and shall extend for at least
15 feet, at that elevation, beyond the structures in all directions;
      (4)   The new construction, alteration and substantial improvement of
commercial and industrial structures can be constructed on suitable fill as
specified in division (B)(3) above. If not constructed on fill, commercial and
industrial structures must be adequately floodproofed to an elevation no lower
than two feet above the base flood elevation. Floodproofing must be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect that the floodproofing
methods are adequate to withstand the flood depths, hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic pressures, velocities, impact, buoyancy and uplift forces
associated with the 100-year flood.
         (a)   If the structure is designed to allow internal flooding of areas
below the lowest floor, use of this space shall be limited to parking, loading
areas, building access and storage of equipment or materials not appreciably
affected by floodwaters. The floors and walls shall be designed and constructed
of materials resistant to flooding to an elevation no lower than two feet above
the base flood elevation. Walls shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic forces by allowing for entry and exit of floodwaters. Openings may
be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, other coverings or devices which
permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
         (b)   Structures whose lowest floors are used for a purpose other than
parking, loading or storage of materials resistant to flooding shall be
floodproofed to an elevation no lower than two feet above the base flood
elevation. Floodproofing shall include impermeable membranes or materials for
floors and walls and watertight enclosures for all windows, doors and other
openings. These structures shall also be designed to withstand the hydrostatic,
hydrodynamic and buoyancy effects of a 100-year flood.
         (c)   Floodproofing of electrical, heating and plumbing systems shall
be accomplished in accordance with §§
154.60 and
154.61.
      (5)   All manufactured homes placed in the floodway fringe must have the
chassis securely anchored to foundation systems that will resist floatation,
collapse or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not
limited to, over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. The following
conditions also apply.
         (a)   When a manufactured home is altered, replaced because of
substantial damage as a result of a flood or replaced on an individual site,
the lowest floor must be elevated two feet above the base flood elevation. The
home can be elevated on fill or raised on a permanent foundation of reinforced
concrete, reinforced mortared block, reinforced piers or other foundation
elements of at least equivalent strength.
         (b)   Replacement or substantial improvement of manufactured homes in
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be raised on a permanent
foundation. The lowest floor must be at least 36 inches above the ground or
raised two feet above the base flood elevation, whichever is less. The
foundation must consist of reinforced concrete, reinforced mortared block,
reinforced piers or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength.
         (c)   Manufactured homes proposed for use as commercial or industrial
structures must be elevated and anchored, rather than floodproofed.
      (6)   Fill material placed in the floodway fringe must be stable,
compacted, well graded, pervious, generally unaffected by water and frost,
devoid of trash or similar foreign matter, devoid of tree stumps or other
organic material and appropriate for the purpose of supporting the intended use
and/or permanent structure.
      (7)   Roads, streets, highways and rail lines shall be designed to
minimize increase in flood heights. Where failure or interruption of
transportation facilities would result in danger to the public health or
safety, the facility shall be located two feet above the base flood elevation.
      (8)   Agricultural structures that have a low damage potential, such as
sheds, barns, shelters and hay or grain storage structures, must be adequately
anchored to prevent floatation or collapse, and all electrical facilities shall
be placed above the base flood elevation.
      (9)   Recreational vehicles, if they are on the site for more than 180
consecutive days, or are not ready for highway use, must meet the elevating
requirements of division (B)(3) above.
   (C)   Prohibited uses; exception. The following artificial obstructions and
nonconforming uses are prohibited within the floodway fringe:
      (1)   Solid and hazardous waste disposal; and
      (2)   Storage of highly toxic, flammable, hazardous or explosive
materials. Storage of petroleum products may be allowed by permit if stored on
compacted fill at least two feet above the base flood elevation and anchored to
a permanent foundation to prevent downstream movement.
(Prior Code, § 12-5-3) (Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.48 FLOODPLAIN AREAS WITH FLOOD ELEVATIONS AND NO DELINEATED FLOODWAY.
   (A)   A development proposed for a 100-year floodplain, where water surface
elevations are available but no floodway is delineated, may not significantly
increase flood velocities or depths or generally alter patterns of flood flow.
The provisions of §
154.47 shall apply to these areas. The Floodplain Administrator may require a
permit applicant to furnish additional hydraulic data before acting on a permit
application for such a floodplain. The data may include, but is not limited to,
any of the following:
      (1)   A hydraulic study documenting probable effect on upstream,
downstream or adjacent property owners caused by the proposed development; or
      (2)   The calculated increase in the 100-year floodwater surface profile
caused by the proposed development.
   (B)   Permits for such proposed development may be modified or denied if the
additional information shows that the proposed use would cause an additional
flood hazard to adjacent property or significantly increase flood heights. A
significant increase in flood heights is one-half foot, unless existing or
anticipated development in the area dictates a lesser amount of allowable
increase.
(Prior Code, § 12-5-4) (Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996)
§ 154.49 SHALLOW FLOODING.
   (A)   Delineated. Shallow flooding areas are delineated as AO Zone
floodplains on the flood insurance rate maps. The provisions of §
154.47 shall apply to any AO Zone floodplains. The depth of the 100-year flood
is indicated as the depth number on the flood insurance rate maps. The 100-year
flood depth shall be referenced to the highest adjacent grade or stream flow
line in determining which fill or floodproofing heights to use in applying the
provisions of §
154.47(B)(3) and (B)(4). In the absence of depth or elevation information, a
minimum two-foot flood depth shall be used.
   (B)   Floodplain boundary interpretation. The Floodplain Administrator shall
make interpretations where needed as to the exact location of an AO Zone
floodplain boundary when there is a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions.
(Prior Code, § 12-5-5) (Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996)
FLOODPROOFING REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.60 CERTIFICATION.
   If the following floodproofing requirements are to be applied to a proposed
structure, as stipulated by the Floodplain Administrator in accordance with
these regulations, the methods used must be certified as adequate by a
registered professional engineer or architect.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-1) (Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996)
§ 154.61 CONFORMANCE.
   Permitted floodproofed systems shall conform to the conditions listed below
and the floodproofing standards listed in §
154.47(B)(4) for commercial and industrial structures.
   (A)   Electrical systems.
      (1)   All incoming power service equipment, including all metering
equipment, control centers, transformers, distribution and lighting panels and
all other stationary equipment, must be located at least two feet above the
base flood elevation.
      (2)   Portable or movable electrical equipment may be placed below the
base flood elevation if the equipment can be disconnected by a single
submersible plug-in-socket assembly.
      (3)   The main power service line shall have automatic or manually
operated electrical disconnect equipment located at an accessible location
outside the 100-year floodplain and above the base flood elevation.
      (4)   All electrical wiring systems installed at or below the elevation
of the 100-year flood shall be suitable for continuous submergence and may not
contain fibrous components.
   (B)   Heating systems.
      (1)   Float operated automatic control valves must be installed in gas
furnace supply lines so that the fuel supply is automatically shut off when
floodwaters reach the floor level where the furnace is located.
      (2)   Manually operated gate valves must be installed in gas supply
lines. The gate valves must be operable from a location above the elevation of
the 100-year flood.
      (3)   Electric heating systems must be installed in accordance with the
provisions of division (A) above.
   (C)   Plumbing systems.
      (1)   Sewer lines, except those to be buried and sealed in vaults, must
have check valves installed to prevent sewage backup into permitted structures.
      (2)   All toilet stools, sinks, urinals and drains must be located so the
lowest point of possible water entry is at least two feet above the elevation
of the 100-year flood.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-2) (Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of these regulations or failure to comply with
any of the requirements, including permit approval prior to development of
floodprone lands and conditions and safeguards established, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates these regulations or fails to comply with
any of its requirements shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalty as
provided in §
10.99. Each day’s continuance of a violation shall be deemed a separate and
distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-9) (Ord. 61-85, passed 1-2-1996)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
General Regulations
   
155.001   Title, purpose, application
   
155.002   Rules of construction
   
155.003   Definitions
Districts Generally
   
155.015   Establishment of districts
   
155.016   Uses
   
155.017   Area, yard and height requirements
   
155.018   Zoning map
   
155.019   Interpretation of district boundaries
AG Agricultural District
   
155.030   Permitted uses
   
155.031   Conditional uses
   
155.032   Building height limit
   
155.033   Area regulations
AR Agricultural Residential District
   
155.045   Permitted uses
   
155.046   Conditional uses
   
155.047   Building height limit
   
155.048   Area regulations
R-1 One-Family Residential District
   
155.060   Permitted uses
   
155.061   Conditional uses
   
155.062   Building height limit
   
155.063   Area regulations
   
155.064   Restrictions
R-2 One-Family and Two-Family Residential District
   
155.075   Permitted uses
   
155.076   Conditional uses
   
155.077   Building height limit
   
155.078   Area regulations
   
155.079   Restrictions
R-3 Multiple-Family Dwelling District
   
155.090   Permitted uses
   
155.091   Conditional uses
   
155.092   Building height limit
   
155.093   Area regulations
R-4 Multiple-Family Dwelling and Townhouses
   
155.105   Definition
   
155.106   Permitted uses
   
155.107   Townhouses permitted
   
155.108   Site plan
   
155.109   Standards and requirements
   
155.110   Setback and yard requirements
   
155.111   Parking
   
155.112   Curb cuts
   
155.113   Street right-of-way width and improvements
   
155.114   Maintenance of common area
   
155.115   Common open space
   
155.116   Accessory buildings
   
155.117   Fire safety
   
155.118   Conversion
RP Residential Professional
   
155.130   Description
   
155.131   Permitted uses
   
155.132   Conditional uses
   
155.133   Building height limit
   
155.134   Area regulations
NCL Neighborhood Commercial Limited
   
155.145   Description
   
155.146   Permitted uses
   
155.147   Building height limit
   
155.148   Area regulations
C-1 General Commercial District
   
155.160   Permitted uses
   
155.161   Conditional uses
   
155.162   Building height limit
   
155.163   Area regulations
C-2 Central Business District
   
155.175   Permitted uses
   
155.176   Building height limit
   
155.177   Area regulations
C-3 Highway Commercial District
   
155.190   Permitted uses
   
155.191   Building height limit
   
155.192   Area regulations
M-1 Light Industrial District
   
155.205   Permitted uses
   
155.206   Prohibited uses
   
155.207   Building height limit
   
155.208   Area regulations
   
155.209   Elevators
   
155.210   Sexually-oriented business
   
155.211   Marijuana dispensary
M-3 Heavy Industrial District
   
155.225   Permitted uses
   
155.226   Conditional uses
   
155.227   Building height limit
   
155.228   Area regulations
Special Regulations
   
155.240   Off-street parking requirements
   
155.241   Signs
   
155.242   Additional height and area regulations
   
155.243   Transition
   
155.244   Fences
   
155.245   Visibility at intersections
Planned Unit Development
   
155.260   Purpose
   
155.261   Standards and requirements
   
155.262   Procedure
Nonconforming Uses
   
155.275   Intent
   
155.276   Nonconforming lots of record
   
155.277   Nonconforming uses of land
   
155.278   Nonconforming structures
   
155.279   Nonconforming uses of structures
   
155.280   Repairs and maintenance
Board of Adjustment
   
155.295   Created
   
155.296   Membership; term
   
155.297   Removal
   
155.298   Vacancies
   
155.299   Rules
   
155.300   Meetings
   
155.301   Secretary
   
155.302   Minutes; records
   
155.303   Powers and duties
   
155.304   Appeal from administrative decision
   
155.305   Stay of proceedings
   
155.306   Decisions
   
155.307   Appeal from Board of Adjustment
   
155.308   Rehearing
Zoning Commission
   
155.320   Created
   
155.321   Powers and duties
   
155.322   Purpose
   
155.323   Written findings
Administration and Enforcement
   
155.335   Methods of administration
   
155.336   Building permits
   
155.337   Zoning Coordinator
   
155.338   Fees, charges and expenses
Amendments
   
155.350   Application procedure
   
155.351   Notice requirements
   
155.352   Investigation and reports
   
155.353   Zoning Commission action
   
155.354   City Council action
   
155.355   Rehearing
   
155.356   Holding classification for newly annexed areas
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 155.001 TITLE, PURPOSE, APPLICATION.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known as the Zoning Ordinance of the City
of Glendive and shall be referred to herein as “this chapter.”
(Prior Code, § 11-1-1)
   (B)   Purpose.
      (1)   The regulations and restrictions established in this chapter have
been made in accordance with a comprehensive plan whose purpose is to:
         (a)   Lessen congestion in the streets;
         (b)   Secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers;
         (c)   Promote health and the general welfare;
         (d)   Provide adequate light and air;
         (e)   Prevent the overcrowding of land;
         (f)   Avoid undue concentration of population; and
         (g)   Facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water,
sewerage, schools, parks and public requirements.
      (2)   Further, such regulations have been made with reasonable
consideration given as to the character of each district and its peculiar
suitability for particular uses with a view to conserving the value of land and
improvement and encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the
city.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-2)
   (C)   Application of regulations. Except as hereinafter provided:
      (1)   Compliance required. No building or land shall hereafter be used or
occupied and no building or part thereof shall be erected, moved or altered
unless in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the district in
which it is located;
      (2)   Buildings. No building shall hereafter be erected or altered:
         (a)   To exceed the height;
         (b)   To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
         (c)   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area; or
         (d)   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards,
inner or outer courts than is specified herein for the district in which such
building is located.
      (3)   Yards. No part of a yard or other open space about any building
required for the purpose of complying with this chapter shall be included as a
part of a yard or other open space similarly required for another building.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-3)
(Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.002 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the word PERSON includes a firm,
association, organization, partnership, trust, company or corporation, as well
as, an individual; the present tense includes the future tense, the singular
number includes the plural, and the plural number includes the singular; the
word SHALL is mandatory, the word MAY is permissive; the words USED or OCCUPIED
include the words intended, designated or arranged to be used or occupied; and
the word LOT includes the words plot, tract or parcel. Where other definitions
are necessary and are not defined herein, the dictionary may define such terms.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-1) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY. A use, a building or structure, part of a building or structure
which is subordinate to, and the use which is incidental to that of the main
building, structure or the use on the same lot, including a private garage.
      (1)   ATTACHED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. Any structure or building which has
any roof or wall in common with principal structure. For purposes of zoning, an
ATTACHED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE is considered part of the principal structure.
      (2)   DETACHED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. Any structure or building which does
not have any roof or wall in common with any principal structure or building.
For purposes of zoning, a DETACHED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE must maintain a minimum
distance of ten feet from any other building or structure.
   AGRICULTURE. The use of land for agricultural purposes, including farming,
pasture agriculture, grazing land, animal and poultry husbandry, horticulture,
floriculture, viticulture, including all uses customarily incidental thereto,
but not including any agriculture industry or business, such as commercial feed
lots, animal hospitals, food processing plants, fur farms or similar uses.
   ALLEY. A public thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of access
to property abutting thereon.
   ALTERATIONS. A change or rearrangement of the structural parts of existing
facilities, or an enlargement by extending the sides or increasing the height
or depth or the moving from one location to another. In buildings for business,
commercial, industrial or similar uses, the installation or rearrangement of
partitions affecting more than one-third of a single floor area shall be
considered an ALTERATION.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms located in a one-, two- or multiple-
family structure, which shall include a bath and kitchen accommodations
intended or designed for use as an independent residence by an individual or
single family.
   APARTMENT BUILDING. See definition of DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY.
   AUTOMOBILE OR VEHICLE SALVAGE OR WRECKING YARD. The dismantling or wrecking
of motor vehicles or trailers, or the storage, sale or dumping of dismantled,
or partially dismantled, obsolete or wrecked vehicles or their parts or any
establishment or place of business which is maintained or used for the storage,
keeping, buying or selling of wrecked, scrapped or dismantled motor vehicles or
motor parts. The presence on any lot or parcel of land of two or more motor
vehicles, which, for a period exceeding 30 days, have not been capable of
operating under their own power and from which parts have been removed for
reuse or sale, shall constitute a salvage or wrecking yard.
   BARS, TAVERNS and COCKTAIL LOUNGES. Establishments where alcoholic beverages
are sold and consumed on the premises.
   BED AND BREAKFAST INN. A house, or a portion thereof, that contains short-
term guest rooms where lodging, with or without meals, is provided for
compensation. The operator of the inn shall live on the same property upon
which the inn is located.
   BLOCK. The property bounded on all sides by streets, railroad rights-of-way,
waterways or other barriers to or gaps in the continuity of development along a
street.
   BOARDING OR LODGING HOUSE. BOARDING HOUSE shall mean the same as LODGING
HOUSE where for compensation and by prearrangement for definite periods,
lodging, meals or lodging and meals, are provided. BOARDING HOUSES shall not be
construed to mean rest homes or convalescent homes. This definition shall also
exclude BED AND BREAKFAST INNS.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof, but excluding all forms of vehicles
even though immobilized. When a use is required to be within a building, or
where special authority granted pursuant to this chapter requires that a use
shall be within an entirely enclosed building, then the term BUILDING means one
so designed and constructed from the ground to the roofline and shall contain
no openings except for windows and doors which are designed so that they may be
closed.
   BUILDING AREA. The portion of the lot that can be occupied by structures,
excluding the front, rear and side yards.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the highest point of a structure
to the “grade,” excluding permissible height exceptions elsewhere in the zoning
code.
   CARPORT. A structure to house or to protect motor vehicles owned or operated
by the occupants of the main building which is open on three or fewer sides.
   CHILDCARE FACILITIES.
      (1)   DAYCARE. A place in which supplemental parental care and/or adult
supervision is provided to 15 children is allowed in all residential districts
as a permitted use, including the operator’s children, on a regular basis, and
which may include nursery schools, private kindergartens, or after school care
and supervision. Such DAYCARE shall be licensed as required by the state, city
or county and conducted in accordance with applicable state and local
requirements.
      (2)   DAYCARE CENTER. An out-of-home place in which daycare is provided
to 16 or more children on a regular or irregular basis. May be restricted to
commercial districts.
      (3)   FAMILY DAYCARE HOME. A private residence in which supplemental
parental care is provided for up to six children, including the operator’s
children, from separate families on a regular basis. Such DAYCARE HOME shall be
licensed by the State Department of Social and Rehabilitation services under
M.C.A. Title 52, Chapter 2, Part 7, as required by state law.
      (4)   GROUP DAYCARE HOME. A private residence in which supplemental
parental care is provided for seven to 12 children, including the operator’s
children, on a regular basis and which is licensed by the State Department of
Social and Rehabilitation Services under M.C.A. Title 53, Chapter 4, part 5, as
required by state law.
   COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES.
      (1)   ADULT FOSTER FAMILY CARE HOME. A private home licensed by the State
Department of Family Services owned by one or more persons 18 years of age or
older which offers light personal care or custodial care to disabled adults who
are not related to the owner by blood or marriage, or which offers light
personal care or custodial care to aged persons. The number of aged persons or
disabled adults in an ADULT FOSTER FAMILY CARE HOME may total no more than
four.
      (2)   COMMUNITY GROUP HOME. A family oriented residence or home licensed
by the appropriate state agency designed to provide residential services and
facilities for developmentally, severely disabled or mentally disabled persons,
but does not provide skilled or intermediate nursing care.
      (3)   YOUTH FOSTER HOME. A youth care facility licensed by the
appropriate state agency in which substitute care is provided to one to six
foster children or youths, other than the foster parents’ own children,
stepchildren or wards.
      (4)   YOUTH GROUP HOME. A youth care facility licensed by the appropriate
state agency in which substitute care is provided to seven to 12 children or
youth.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use which is not allowed in the zone as a matter of
right, but which is permitted upon findings of the Board that under the
particular circumstances present, such use is in harmony with the principal
permitted uses of the zone. ALLOWABLE CONDITIONAL USES are specifically listed
under the district regulations. Uses not so listed shall not be allowed as
CONDITIONAL USES.
   DAYCARE. See within definition of CHILDCARE FACILITIES.
   DAYCARE CENTER. See within definition of CHILDCARE FACILITIES.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, designed or used exclusively for
residential occupancy, including one-family, two-family and multiple-family
dwelling units, but not including hotels, motels, boarding or lodging houses or
bed and breakfast guest rooms.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building constructed and designed for occupancy
by three or more families living independently of each other and containing
three or more dwelling units, where the dwelling units share a common
separation such as a ceiling, wall and the like (including, without limitation,
the wall of an attached garage or porch) and where access cannot be gained
between the units through an internal doorway, excluding common hallways.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached dwelling containing accommodations for
and intended for occupation by one family only.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building constructed and designed for occupancy by
two families living independently of each other and containing two dwelling
units where the dwelling units share a common separation such as a ceiling,
wall and the like (including, without limitation, the wall of an attached
garage or porch) and where access cannot be gained between the units through an
internal doorway.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms designed for or occupied by one family for
living or sleeping purposes and may contain kitchen and/or bathroom facilities
for use solely by one family. All rooms comprising a DWELLING UNIT shall have
access through an interior door to other parts of the dwelling unit. A studio/
efficiency apartment constitutes a DWELLING UNIT within the meaning of this
chapter.
   FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, adoption, marriage or other
legal means living together as a single housekeeping unit, or not more than two
persons, though not related by blood, adoption, marriage or other legal means
living together as a single housekeeping unit, shall be deemed to constitute a
FAMILY.
   FAMILY DAYCARE FACILITY. See within definition of CHILDCARE FACILITIES.
   FENCE. A barrier, typically located on or near a property line composed of
posts connected by boards, rails, panels or wire for the purpose of enclosing
space for separate parcels of land. It may include a masonry wall. FENCES that
are setback such that they meet or exceed the required district setbacks shall
be regulated as any other structure within the property.
   FRONT LOT LINE. The lot line or lines abutting a public or private street,
the FRONT LOT LINE for a double fronted lot shall be the public or private
street to which the property is addressed.
   GARAGE, RESIDENTIAL. An accessory building or an accessory portion of the
main building, enclosed on more than three sides and designed or primarily used
only for the shelter or storage of vehicles owned and operated by the occupants
of the buildings.
   GRADE (ADJACENT GROUND ELEVATION). The lowest point of elevation of the
finished surface of the ground to the lowest point of elevation of the finished
surface of the ground between the exterior wall of the building and the
property line, if it is less than five feet distance from the wall. In cases
where walls are parallel to and within five feet of a public sidewalk, alley or
other public way, the grade shall be the elevation of the sidewalk, alley or
public way.
   GROUP DAYCARE HOME. See within definition of CHILDCARE FACILITIES.
   HOME OCCUPATION.
      (1)   An occupation carried on by an occupant of a dwelling which is
located in a residential zoning district as an accessory and incidental
activity to the main residential use of the building and:
         (a)   Is conducted entirely within the dwelling or an accessory
building;
         (b)   Is carried on by a member of the family residing in the dwelling
unit;
         (c)   Is incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling unit for
residential purposes; and
         (d)   Which conforms to the following conditions.
            1.   No person shall be employed other than the residents of the
building.
            2.   The floor area devoted to the occupation shall not exceed 25%
of the total ground area occupied by the building.
            3.   The occupation shall not produce light, noise, vibration,
glare, fumes, odors, hours of operation, traffic, electrical interference and
the like, which is inconsistent with the character of the residential area.
            4.   Exterior signs or display shall be in conformance with
provisions of this chapter regulating same.
            5.   There shall be no display, evidence or activity apparent from
the exterior of the lot which would indicate that the premises are being used
for any purpose other than that of a dwelling.
            6.   One business vehicle that is associated with the home
occupation and which does not exceed 8,000 pounds gross vehicle weight (GVW)
may be parked or stored on the premises.
            7.   There shall be no outside storage of materials or equipment
related to the home occupation, except the one allowed vehicle.
      (2)   In particular, HOME OCCUPATIONS include the following or similar
activities which in the opinion of the Public Works Director meet the intent of
this definition:
         (a)   Teaching with musical instruments limited to a single pupil at a
time;
         (b)   Preparation of food for off-premises sale;
         (c)   Real estate and insurance offices;
         (d)   Beauty shops;
         (e)   Barber shops;
         (f)   Shoe repair shops;
         (g)   Dance studios, schools; and
         (h)   Tax return preparation services.
   HOTEL. A building, or portion thereof, designed or used for temporary
lodging, being less than 30 days, where lodging with or without meals is
provided for compensation. A central dining room, banquet meeting hall,
kitchen, plus accessory shops and services catering to the general public can
be provided.
   INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS. Must allow for data mining centers and facilities.
   JUNKYARD. Land or buildings where waste, discarded or salvaged materials are
bought, sold, stored, exchanged, cleaned, packed, disassembled or handled,
including, but not limited to, scrap metal, rags, paper, hides, rubber
products, glass products, lumber products and products resulting from the
wrecking of automobiles or other vehicles.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. A place where dogs other than those owned by the kennel
owner are kept and boarded for any period in excess of 24 hours. Female dogs
bred for the sole purpose of the sale of the puppies for profit and female dogs
numbering more than three constitute a COMMERCIAL KENNEL.
   KENNEL, NONCOMMERCIAL. A kennel at, in or adjoining a private residence
where more than two dogs or cats are kept for the hobby of the householder in
using them in shows or obedience trials, personal pleasure or for the guarding
or protecting the householder’s property. The occasional raising of a litter of
puppies or kittens by the keeper of a NONCOMMERCIAL KENNEL should not change
the character of residential property.
   LODGING HOUSE. A building or place where lodging or lodging and boarding is
provided (or equipped to provide lodging regularly) by prearrangement for
definite periods of time, for compensation for three or more persons in
contradistinction to hotels open to transients.
   LOT. A tract of land, no matter how legally described whether by metes and
bounds, certificate of survey and/or by lots and block designation as in a
recorded plat, having its principal frontage upon a street or officially
approved place.
   LOT AREA. The total area circumscribed by the boundaries of a lot, except
that when the legal instrument creating a lot extends into a public street
right-of-way and/or easement, then the lot boundary for purposes of computing
the LOT AREA shall be the street right-of-way.
   LOT COVERAGE. The total area of a lot covered by buildings or roofed areas,
excluding allowed projecting eaves, balconies and similar features. LOT
COVERAGE includes, but is not necessarily limited to, the following; principal
structures, accessory structures, carports and covered decks and patios.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The portion of the lot nearest the public street. For the
purpose of determining yard requirements on corner lots and through lots, all
sides of a lot adjacent to public streets shall be considered FRONTAGE, and
yards shall be provided as indicated in district regulations.
   LOT LINE. A line of record bounding a lot which divides one lot from another
lot or from a public or private street, alley or other public space.
      (1)   FRONT LOT LINE. The lot line or lines abutting a public or private
street.
      (2)   REAR LOT LINE. The lot line not intersecting a front lot line that
is most distant from and most clearly parallel to the front lot line.
      (3)   SIDE LOT LINE. Any lot line that is not a front or a rear lot line.
   LOT TYPES.
      (1)   CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets.
      (2)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with only one frontage
on a street other than an alley.
      (3)   THROUGH LOT OR DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. A lot other than a corner lot
with frontage on more than one street other than an alley.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A single-family dwelling, built off-site in a factory
that is in compliance with the applicable prevailing standards of the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development at the time of its
production. A MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a mobile house trailer as
defined in M.C.A. § 15-1-101.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Land designed or used that contains temporary or
permanent parking for two or more manufactured homes spaces which are available
to the general public for use as residences. This term does not include a
parcel composed of individually platted lots, each lot of which is filed with
the County Clerk and Recorder, which contain only one manufactured home per
lot.
   MODULAR HOME. A dwelling unit constructed in accordance with the standards
set forth in the Uniform Building Code and bearing the insignia of the state,
applicable to site built homes and composed of components substantially
assembled in a manufacturing plant and transported to the building site for
final assembly on a permanent foundation. Among other possibilities, a MODULAR
HOME may consist of two sections transported to the site in a manner similar to
a manufactured home (except that the modular home meets the Uniform Building
Code standards applicable to site built homes), or a series of panels or room
sections transported on a truck and erected or joined together on the site.
MODULAR HOMES may be transported on a temporary chassis but are not constructed
on a permanent chassis or framework.
   MOTEL. A group of attached or detached buildings containing individual
sleeping units where a majority of such units open individually and directly to
the outside, or to a common corridor and where a garage is attached to or a
parking space is conveniently located at each unit, all for the temporary use,
being less than 30 days, by automobile tourist or transient, and such word
shall include TOURIST COURTS, MOTOR COURTS, AUTOMOBILE COURTS and MOTOR LODGES.
   NONCONFORMING USES. Any building or land lawfully occupied by a use at the
time of passage of this chapter or amendment thereto which does not conform
after the passage of this chapter or amendment thereto with the use and
regulations of the district in which it is situated.
   NURSING HOMES, CONVALESCENT HOMES, ORPHANAGES and CHARITABLE INSTITUTIONS. A
home operated similarly to a boarding house but not restricted to any number of
guests or guest rooms, and the operator of which is licensed by the state, city
or county to give special care and supervision to his or her patients. In such
homes, nursing, dietary and other personal services are furnished to
convalescents, invalids and aged persons, but within which homes are kept no
persons suffering from a contagious or communicable disease, and within which
are performed no surgery, maternity or other primary treatments such as are
customarily provided in sanitariums or hospitals, and within which no persons
are kept to be served who normally would be admitted to a mental hospital.
Adult foster family care homes are not included in this definition.
   PARKING, PUBLIC. An open area other than a street used for the temporary
parking of more than four automobiles and available for public use whether
free, for compensation or as an accommodation for clients or customers.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary or predominant use to which the property is or
may be devoted, and to which all other uses on the premises are accessory.
   RETIREMENT HOME. A place of residence for several families or individuals in
apartment-like quarters, rented or condominiums, which may feature services to
retired persons, such as limited nursing facilities, minimum maintenance living
accommodations and recreation programs and facilities.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land dedicated or acquired for use as a public way,
or that is acquired through an easement.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the upper surface of any
floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost
story shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of
the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor level
directly above a basement, cellar or unused under floor space is more than six
feet above “grade” as defined herein for more than 50% of the total perimeter
or is more than 12 feet above “grade,” as defined herein, at any point, such
basement, cellar or unused under floor space shall be considered a STORY.
   STREETS.
      (1)   ALLEY. A minor way which is used primarily for vehicular service
access or for utility lines to the back or the side of properties otherwise
abutting on a street.
      (2)   ARTERIAL STREET. A street which is intended to provide for high
operating speeds, high levels of service and to serve longer trips through
access management and the interconnection of major development areas such as
the Central Business District, large commercial and industrial developments and
major residential areas.
      (3)   COLLECTOR STREET. A street that functions as a link between local
streets and arterial streets and provides both access and movement functions
within residential, commercial and industrial areas.
      (4)   CUL-DE-SAC. A street that terminates in a vehicular turnaround.
      (5)   LOCAL STREET. A street whose primary function is access and whose
movement function is incidental and involves traveling to and from a collector.
In addition, LOCAL STREETS are characterized by short trip lengths, low traffic
volumes, slow speeds and deliberately discouraging through traffic.
      (6)   STREET. A public way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as a
street, highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard,
land, place or however otherwise designated which has been dedicated to or
acquired for public use and which extends the full width between right-of-way
lines, which includes areas acquired or prescribed through an easement.
   TINY DWELLING UNIT. A residential dwelling unit that is 350 to 750 square
feet, is on a permanent foundation and is used as a single-family dwelling for
at least 45 days or longer. Appendix Q, tiny houses, of the International
Building Code as it was printed on January 1, 2023, may govern all other
requirements of a tiny dwelling unit that is 350 to 750 square feet.
   TOWNHOUSE. A building or structure that has two or more one-family dwelling
units erected as a single building, each being separated from the adjoining
unit or units by an approved fire wall or walls along individual property lines
and providing for fee simple ownership of land and dwelling unit.
   USE. The purpose for which land or a building structure thereon is designed,
arranged, intended or maintained or for which it is or may be used or occupied.
   VARIANCE. The relaxation of the terms of the zoning ordinance where such
VARIANCE will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to
conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the action of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of this chapter would result in unnecessary
and undue hardship. As used in this chapter, a VARIANCE is authorized only for
height, area and size of structure or size of yards and open spaces;
establishment or expansion of a use otherwise prohibited shall not be allowed
by variance, nor shall a VARIANCE be granted because of the presence of
nonconformities in the zoning district or uses in an adjoining zoning district.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground upward, except as
otherwise provided herein. In measuring a YARD for the purpose of determining
the width of side yard, the depth of front yard or the depth of a rear yard,
the minimum horizontal distance between the lot line and the main building
shall be used.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of the lot between the side
yard lines and lying between the front property line or lines and the nearest
line of the principal building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending along the full length of a rear lot line and
situated between the principal building and the rear lot line.
   YARD, SIDE. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building,
between the building and side line of the lot and extending from the front lot
line to the rear lot line.
   ZONING COORDINATOR. The person designated to oversee the administration of
this chapter, unless otherwise noted.
   ZONING MAP. The map or maps incorporated into this chapter as a part hereof,
designating the zoning districts.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-2) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002; Ord. 02-2024, passed 3-
5-2024)
DISTRICTS GENERALLY
§ 155.015 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of promoting the public health, safety, morals and general
welfare of the city, the city jurisdictional area is hereby divided into the
following types of districts.
AG  Agricultural District
AR  Agricultural residential district
C-1 General Commercial District
C-2 Central Business District
C-3 Highway Commercial District
M-1 Light Industrial District
M-2 Heavy Industrial District
NCL Neighborhood Commercial District
R-1 One-Family Residential District
R-2 One-Family and Two-Family Residential District
R-3 Multiple-Family Dwelling District
R-4 Multiple-Family Dwelling and Townhouses District
RP  Residential Professional District
 
(Prior Code, § 11-3-1) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.016 USES.
   (A)   Residential district regulations.
Residential District Regulations
A = Allowed
C = Conditional use
Description of Use AG AR R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4
Residential District Regulations
A = Allowed
C = Conditional use
Description of Use                                           AG AR R- R- R- R-4
                                                                   1  2  3
Accessory buildings and uses that are customarily incident   A  A  A  A  A  A
to the permitted uses
Agricultural uses                                            A  A
Amateur radio tower 50 feet or less in height                A  A  A  A  A  A
Amateur radio tower 50 feet or more in height                C  C  C  C  C  C
Boarding or lodging houses                                   A  A
Cemeteries and mausoleums                                    C  C  C  C  C  C
Childcare facilities:
   Daycare center                                         C  C  C  C  C  C
   Family daycare home                                    A  A  A  A  A  A
   Group daycare home                                     A  A  A  A  A  A
Churches and other places of worship                         A  A  C  C  C  C
Commercial mines, quarries, sand and gravel pits             A
Community centers, neighborhood or homeowners’ association A  A  A  A  A
only
Convalescent nursing homes, retirement homes, orphanages and C  C  C  C  C  C
charitable institutions
Dwellings:
   Multi-family                                           A  A
   Single-family                                          A  A  A  A  A  A
   Townhouses                                             A
   Two-family                                             A  A  A
Fairgrounds                                                  A
Field crops                                                  A  A
Fraternities and sororities                                  A  A
Golf courses                                                 A  A  A  A  A  A
Greenhouses (noncommercial)                                  A  A  A  A  A  A
Gun clubs, skeet shoots, target ranges                       C  C
Home occupations                                             A  A  A  A  A  A
Hospitals                                                    A  C  C  C  C
Kennels (commercial)                                         C  C
Kennels (noncommercial)                                      A  A  A  A  A
Livestock and fowl                                           A  A
Mobile home parks                                            C  C
Planned unit development                                     A  A  A  A  A  A
Private clubs, lodges and country clubs                      A  A  A  A
Public parking                                               A  A  C  C  C  C
Public parks and playgrounds                                 A  A  A  A  A  A
Publicly owned or government operated building and uses      A  A  C  C  C  C
Ranch and farm buildings                                     A  A
Recreation facilities including campgrounds                  A  A  C
Schools (public and private):
   Colleges and universities                              C  C  C  C
   Preschool, elementary, junior or senior high           C  C  C  C  C  C
   Trade or vocational                                    C  C  C
Stables, private                                             A  A
Wells                                                        A  A
 
   (B)   Commercial-industrial zoning district regulations.
Commercial-Industrial Zoning District Regulations
A = Allowable
C = Conditional use
Description of Use RP NCL C-1 C-2 C-3 M-1 M-2
Commercial-Industrial Zoning District Regulations
A = Allowable
C = Conditional use
Description of Use                                   RP NCL C-1 C-2 C-3 M-1 M-2
Accessory buildings and uses for permitted uses      A  A   A   A   A   A   A
Acid manufacture or wholesale storage of acids       C
Apparel, clothing and accessory stores               A  A   A
Asphalt or concrete batch plant                      C
Assembly halls                                       A  A   A
Automobile parts supply stores                       A  A   A   A   A
Automobile sales and service                         A  A   A   A
Automobile wrecking yards                            C  C
Bakeries                                             A  A   A
Banks, savings and loan, credit unions               A  A   A
Barber shops and beauty shops                        A  A   A   A
Boarding/lodging houses                              A
Book and stationery store                            A  A   A
Bottling works                                       A  A
Bowling alleys                                       A  A   A
Brick, ceramic and other clay processing and         A  A
manufacturing
Cabinet makers                                       A  A
Camera supplies store                                A  A   A   A
Campgrounds                                          A  A
Car washes                                           A  A   A
Catering establishments                              A  A   A
Cement, lime, gypsum manufacture                     C
Childcare center                                     A  A   A   C
Church and Sunday school buildings                   A  A   A   A   A
Clinics, medical and dental                          A  A   A   A   A
Contractor plants or storage yards                   A  A
Contractor’s office only                           A  A   A   A   A   A   A
Convenience stores with gasoline pumps               A  A   A   A   A   A
Dairy processing and distribution plants             A  A
Dancing schools                                      A  A   A   A   A
Daycare home                                         A  A   A   A
Dwelling, single-family                              A
Dwelling, two-family                                 A  A
Electrical center power stations                     A  A
Fertilizer manufacture/storage                       C  C
Garages and service stations                         A  A   A   A
Gas manufacture                                      C
Grain elevators or facilities for collection,        A  A
storage processing and marketing and feed products
Greenhouses (commercial)                             A  A   A
Grocery stores (retail only)                         A  A   A
Grocery stores (retail only, 3,000 square feet and   A  A   A   A   A
less)
Heavy machinery sales and service                    A  A   A   A   A
Hobby and toy stores                                 A  A   A
Home furnishing stores                               A  A   A
Hospitals                                            A  A   A   A
Hotels/motels                                        A  A   A   A
Kennels, commercial                                  A  A   A
Laundries, coin-operated                             A  A   A   A   A
Laundromats and dry cleaning establishments          A  A   A
Law offices                                          A  A   A   A   A   A
Libraries, public parks, fire and police stations    A  A   A
and other public buildings
Livestock auction facilities                         C  C
Lodges, clubs, fraternal and social organization     A  A
Lumberyards, building materials, storage and sales   A  A   A
Machine, roofing and sheet metal shops               A  A
Manufacturing and industrial uses not listed         C
Manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging of
cosmetics, pharmacology, electronic components and   A  A
food products, except fish and meat products and the
reducing and refining of fats and oils
Marijuana dispensary                                 A
Meat market (butcher shop)                           C
Mobile home and trailer sales and service            A  A   A
Mortuaries                                           A  A   A
Motor vehicle sales and service                      A  A   A   A
Multi-unit housing (second floor)                    A
Nurseries, lawn and garden                           A  A   A   A
Offices, profession, government, private             A  A   A   A
Packing plants, meat processing                      C
Paint, glass and wallpaper; hardware store           A  A   A   A
Petroleum and petroleum products                     A  A
Petroleum or petroleum product refining              C
Photo shops                                          C  A   A   A   A
Photo studios                                        A  A   A   A   A
Planned unit development                             A  A   A   A   A   A   A
Plumbing, heating and electrical shops               A  A   A
Printing shops and printing plants                   A  A   A
Propane sales, self-contained dispenser refill       A
Public parking                                       A  A   A   A   A
Rail and bus stations                                A  A   A   A
Real estate offices and insurance offices            A  A   A   A   A   A
Recreation facilities                                A  A   A   A
Recreational vehicle sales and service               A  A   A
Restaurants                                          A  A   A   A
Retail paint stores                                  A  A   A
Retirement homes, rest homes, nursing homes          A  A   A
Schools, colleges                                    C  C
Schools, elementary and high school, public and      C  C   C   C
private
Service station, automobile and truck repair garages A  A   A   A
Sexually-oriented business                           A
Shoe repair shops                                    A  A   A
Sign shops                                           A  A   A
Taverns, bars, package liquor                        A  A   A   A   A
Tax preparation offices                              A  A   A   A
Theaters                                             A  A   A
Tire stores, retreading and recapping                A  A   A   A   A
Tourist information and museums                      A  A
Towers, amateur radio, 100 feet or less in height    A  A   A   A   A   A   A
Towers, amateur radio, 100 feet or more in height    C  C   C   C   C   C   A
Towers, broadcasting radio and television            C  C   A   A   A
Towers, commercial communications and dishes (excluding amateur radio and radio
and television broadcasting):
   Camouflaged towers/antennas                    C  C   A   A   A   A   A
   Greater than 50 feet in height                 C  C   C   C   C   A   A
   Less than 50 feet in height                    C  C   A   A   A   A   A
   Tower farms                                    C  C   A   A
Trucking terminals                                   A  A   A
Truck stops                                          A  A   A
Upholstery shops                                     A  A   A
Veterinary services with boarding                    A  A
Warehouses, no outside storage                       A  A   A   A   A
Warehouses, outside storage of materials             A  A
Watch repair and jewelry                             A  A   A
Water/sewer treatment plants                         A  A
Welding and other machine and metal shops            A  A
 
(Prior Code, § 11-3-2) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002; Ord. 01-2009, passed 3-
17-2009; Ord. 01-2018, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 155.017 AREA, YARD AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential.
Area, Yard and Height Requirements, Residential
Zoning Requirements AG AR R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4
Area, Yard and Height Requirements, Residential
Zoning Requirements                   AG      AR      R-1   R-2   R-3   R-4
Maximum height for all buildings2     35      35      35    35    75    35
Maximum lot coverage of required rear 30      30      30    50    50    50
yard percent
Minimum lot area per dwelling unit:
   Minimum lot area in square      5 acres 2 acres 7,500 7,500 7,500 7,500
footage3,6
   Minimum square footage, 2 units67,500   7,500   7,500
   Minimum square footage, 3 to 5  7,500   7,500
units6
   Minimum square footage, 6 units69,000   9,000
   Minimum square footage, 7 units610,500  10,500
Minimum lot frontage                  75      75      50    50    508   50
Minimum yard requirements:
   Front                           50      25      20    20    20    20
   Side                            101,5   104     5     5     57    5
   Side adjacent to street         10      10      10    10    10    10
   Rear                            30      30      20    20    20    15
Other accessory buildings rear        10      10      2     2     2     2
setback4,5
Residential garages and carports rear 10      5       5     5
setback
Notes:
1. Setback 1 foot for each foot of structure height, but in no event less
than 10 feet.
2. Accessory or other structures shall not exceed 3 stories or 45 feet.
3. A lot not served by public sewer or water shall be a minimum of 1 acre.
4. Accessory structures housing, keeping or sheltering livestock or fowl
shall be setback 50 feet from any property line and 50 feet from any
dwelling.
5. Accessory structures housing, keeping or sheltering livestock or fowl
shall be setback 100 feet from any property line and 50 feet from any
dwelling.
6. A two-family or multi-family dwelling shall contain not less than 1,500
square feet per unit and the lot shall contain at least 7,500 square feet.
7. Multi-family and townhouses shall have a side yard of 8 feet.
8. Boarding, fraternities and sororities shall have a lot frontage of 60
feet.
 
   (B)   Commercial.
Area, Yard and Height Requirements, Commercial
Zoning Requirements RP NCL C-1 C-2 C-3 M-1 M-2
Area, Yard and Height Requirements, Commercial
Zoning Requirements                       RP    NCL C-1 C-2 C-3 M-1 M-2
Maximum height for all buildings          35    35  45  70  70  70  70
Minimum lot area requirement
   Lot area requirement in square foota7,500 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Minimum yard requirements
   Front1                              20    15  15  n/a 50  0   0
   Side1                               5     5   0   n/a n/a 0   0
   Side adjacent to street             10    10  10  n/a 15  10  0
   Rear1                               20    0   0   n/a n/a 0   0
1. Where a business or industrial districts abuts a residential
district, the front yard setback shall be 20 feet and rear yard setback
20 feet.
 
(Prior Code, § 11-3-3) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.018 ZONING MAP.
   The city is hereby divided into zoning districts as established in §
155.015, and as shown on the official zoning map which shall be identified by
the signature of the Mayor and attested by the Administrative Clerk and shall
bear the words “The Official Zoning Map of The City of Glendive, Montana,”
which with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby made a part of this
chapter, together with changes adopted by the City Council thereafter.
Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official zoning map
which may from time to time be made or published, the official zoning map shall
be located in the office of the Public Works Director, and such map shall be
the final authority as to the current zoning status of land in the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-4) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.019 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the
aforesaid districts as shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall
apply.
   (A)   Following centerlines. Where district boundaries are indicated as
approximately following the centerlines of streets or highways, street lines or
highway right-of-way lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
   (B)   Follow lot lines. Where district boundaries are so indicated that they
approximately follow the lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be
said boundaries.
   (C)   Parallel to centerlines. Where district boundaries are so indicated
that they are approximately parallel to the centerlines or street lines of
streets or the centerlines of right-of-way lines of highways, such district
boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance
therefrom as indicated on the zoning map. If no distance is given, such
dimension shall be determined by the scale of the map.
   (D)   Follow railroad lines. Where the boundary of a district follows a
railroad line, such boundary shall be deemed to be located in the middle of the
main tracts of said railroad line.
   (E)   Follow shorelines. Where district boundaries are so indicated that
they approximately follow shorelines, such shorelines shall be construed to be
said boundaries and, in the event of change in the shoreline, such boundaries
shall be construed as moving with the actual shoreline.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-5) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
AG AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 155.030 PERMITTED USES.
   In AG Agricultural Districts, no building or premises shall be used and no
building shall be hereafter erected or structurally altered except for one of
the following purposes:
   (A)   Churches, schools, colleges, convalescent homes, nursing homes,
retirement homes, hospitals and similar facilities, but not to include
apartment houses;
   (B)   Commercial mines, quarries, sand and gravel pits;
   (C)   Facilities necessary for the provision of transportation,
communication, water, sewerage, electrical energy and natural gas pipelines and
their necessary appurtenances;
   (D)   Home occupations;
   (E)   Living quarters for persons employed on the premises;
   (F)   Recreation facilities, including campgrounds owned or operated by
either public or private sectors of the economy;
   (G)   Roadside stands for the sale of products grown on the premises;
   (H)   Rodeo grounds, fairgrounds, riding academies, dude ranches and other
farm and ranch-type recreational enterprises, golf courses, country clubs, but
not including automotive race tracks or driving tracks, golf driving ranges,
outdoor theaters and similar commercial recreation enterprises;
   (I)   Signs identifying the property or the activity engaged in or on the
property;
   (J)   Wells; and
   (K)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to the uses
permitted in this district.
(Prior Code, § 11-3A-1) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.031 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses are permitted in the AG Agricultural District after a
finding by the Board of Adjustment that their mode of conduct and location will
not hinder the enjoyment and use of nearby properties and will not disrupt the
appropriate use of land and resources and will not be contrary to the public
interest:
   (A)   Airport or landing strips, provided:
      (1)   They do not endanger the immediate area; and
      (2)   They meet all state and federal regulations.
   (B)   Amusement parks, carnivals, circuses;
   (C)   Cemeteries, crematories, mausoleums; and
   (D)   Race tracks or driving tracks.
(Prior Code, § 11-3A-2) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.032 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMIT.
   There shall be no height regulations except as may be set forth for airport
zoning.
(Prior Code, § 11-3A-3) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.033 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Subject to the modifications set forth in §§
155.240 through
155.245, the area regulations are as follows.
   (A)   Minimum site area.
      (1)   There shall be a lot of not less than five acres.
      (2)   A lot having an area less than herein required which was recorded
under separate ownership from adjoining lots at the effective date hereof may
be occupied by a one-family dwelling or by any nonresidential use permitted in
this district.
   (B)   Minimum front yard. Measured from the edge of the right-of-way of each
and every road, there shall be a front yard setback of not less than 50 feet.
   (C)   Minimum rear yard. Measured from the rear property line, every
principal building shall be set back from the property lines one foot for each
foot of height of the structure, but in no event less than ten feet.
   (D)   Minimum side yards. Measured from the side property lines, every
principal building shall be set back from the property lines one foot for each
foot of height of the structure, but in no event less than ten feet.
   (E)   Accessory structures. All accessory structures used for the purpose of
housing, keeping or sheltering livestock or fowl shall be set back a distance
of 100 feet from any property line and 50 feet from any dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 11-3A-4) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
AR AGRICULTURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.045 PERMITTED USES.
   In AR Agricultural Residential Districts, no building or premises shall be
constructed or structurally altered except for one of the following purposes:
   (A)   Shall only be a permitted use in newly annexed areas or property
immediately adjacent to unincorporated areas bordering the city limits;
   (B)   Agriculture, including the raising of field crops, horticulture and
kennels;
   (C)   Animals, as specified in §
93.03;
   (D)   Churches, schools, colleges and similar facilities;
   (E)   Facilities necessary for the provision of transportation,
communications, water, sewerage, electrical energy and natural gas pipelines
and their appurtenances;
   (F)   Golf courses, country clubs, but not including race tracks or driving
tracks, golf driving ranges, outdoor theaters and similar commercial
recreational enterprises;
   (G)   Home occupations;
   (H)   Living quarters for persons employed on the premises;
   (I)   Police and fire;
   (J)   Ranch and farm dwellings and normal farm and ranch buildings and
facilities common to farm and ranch activities;
   (K)   Recreational enterprises;
   (L)   Single-family dwellings;
   (M)   Wells; and
   (N)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to the uses
permitted in this district.
(Prior Code, § 11-3B-1) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.046 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses are permitted in the AR Agricultural Residential District
after a finding by the Board of Adjustment that their mode of conduct and
location will not hinder the appropriate use of land and resources:
   (A)   Airports, provided:
      (1)   They do not endanger the immediate area; and
      (2)   They meet all local, state and federal regulations.
   (B)   Cemeteries, crematories, mausoleums.
(Prior Code, § 11-3B-2) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.047 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMIT.
   Except as provided in §§
155.240 through
155.245, the height regulations are as follows.
   (A)   No dwelling shall exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in
height.
   (B)   No other structure shall exceed three stories or 45 feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 11-3B-3) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.048 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Subject to the modifications set forth in §§
155.240 through
155.245, the area regulations are as follows.
   (A)   Minimum lot area.
      (1)   A lot upon which there is erected a structure shall not contain
less than two acres.
      (2)   A lot having an area less than herein required which was recorded
under separate ownership from adjoining lots at the effective date hereof may
be occupied by a one-family dwelling or by any permitted nonresidential use
except the keeping of livestock and/or fowl.
   (B)   Minimum lot frontage. There shall be a minimum lot frontage of not
less than 75 feet per dwelling and 125 feet for other principal structures.
   (C)   Minimum front yard. Measured from the front property line there shall
be a front yard of not less than 25 feet.
   (D)   Minimum rear yard. Measured from the rear property line, every
principal structure shall have a rear yard of not less than 30 feet and for
every accessory building there shall be a rear yard of not less than ten feet.
   (E)   Minimum side yards. Measured from the side property lines there shall
be side yards of not less than ten feet on each side of a lot.
   (F)   Accessory structures. All accessory structures used for the purpose of
housing, keeping or sheltering livestock or fowl shall be setback a distance of
50 feet from any property line and 50 feet from any dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 11-3B-4) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
R-1 ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.060 PERMITTED USES.
   In R-1 One-Family Residential Districts, no buildings or premises shall be
used and no building shall be hereafter erected or structurally altered except
for one of the following purposes:
   (A)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to the uses
permitted in this district;
   (B)   Domestic animals, provided such animals are household pets and
noncommercial kennels;
   (C)   Fences, hedges and walls, provided such uses are located where they
will not obstruct motorists’ vision at street intersections, and subject to
requirements set forth in §§
155.240 through
155.245;
   (D)   Home occupations, provided that not more than 25% of the dwelling is
used for such purposes;
   (E)   One-family dwellings; and
   (F)   Public parks and playgrounds, community centers only if owned by a
public agency or a neighborhood or homeowners’ association, public golf
courses, public schools, private educational institutions having the same
curriculum as ordinarily given in public schools and other public buildings and
other recreational facilities.
(Prior Code, § 11-3C-1) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.061 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses are permitted in the R-1 One-Family Residential District
after a finding by the Zoning Commission that their mode of conduct and
location will not hinder the enjoyment and use of nearby properties and will
not disrupt the appropriate use of land and resources:
   (A)   Cemeteries;
   (B)   Churches;
   (C)   Colleges;
   (D)   Electric substations, provided:
      (1)   For each electric substation where transformers are exposed, there
shall be an enclosing, nonclimbable, sight obscuring fence at least six feet
high; and
      (2)   The height requirements may be exceeded, provided that for each
additional one foot of height an additional one foot of front, rear and side
yard shall be required.
   (E)   Fire stations and police stations;
   (F)   Nursing homes and hospitals, provided the state and local health
jurisdictions approve the locations;
   (G)   Signs subject to requirements set forth in §§
155.240 through
155.245; and
   (H)   Water reservoirs, water storage tanks, water pumping stations and
sewer lift stations, provided:
      (1)   For each instance, the applicant shall provide the Board of
Adjustment with plot plans showing the proposed installation and its
relationship to any nearby property; and
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall prescribe conditions as to setbacks
and the like for each installation.
(Prior Code, § 11-3C-2) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.062 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMIT.
   Except as provided in §§
155.240 through
155.245, the height regulations are as follows.
   (A)   No dwelling shall exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in
height.
   (B)   No other structure shall exceed three stories or 45 feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 11-3C-3) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.063 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Subject to the modifications set forth in §§
155.240 through
155.245, the area regulations are as follows.
   (A)   Minimum lot area.
      (1)   A lot upon which there is erected a structure shall not contain
less than 7,500 square feet unless it is not served by public sewer or water,
in which case the minimum shall be 20,000 square feet if served by one central
system.
      (2)   A lot having an area less than herein required which was recorded
under separate ownership from adjoining lots at the effective date hereof may
be occupied by a one-family dwelling or by any nonresidential use permitted in
this district.
   (B)   Minimum lot frontage. There shall be a minimum lot frontage of not
less than 50 feet for one-family dwellings and 75 feet for other principal
structures.
   (C)   Minimum front yard. Measured from the front property line, there shall
be a front yard of not less than 20 feet. If more than 40% of the block is
developed existing frontages can be used.
   (D)   Minimum rear yard. Measured from the real property line, every
principal structure shall have a rear yard of not less than 20 feet and for
every accessory building there shall be a rear yard of not less than five feet.
   (E)   Minimum side yards. Measured from the side property line there shall
be side yards of not less than five feet on each side of a lot.
(Prior Code, § 11-3C-4) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.064 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Structures.
      (1)   No accessory building permitted without a one-family residence
existing, if the residence is dismantled and accessory buildings exist the
penalty shall be as prescribed in §
10.99; and
      (2)   After 90 days of notice by city of this violation or until the
accessory buildings are dismantled or a new residence has been restored to the
property.
   (B)   Minimum size structure. A new residence must be a minimum of 800
square feet.
(Prior Code, § 11-3C-5) (Ord. 02-2014, passed 12-2-2014)
R-2 ONE-FAMILY AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.075 PERMITTED USES.
   In R-2 One-Family and Two-Family Dwelling Districts, no building or premises
shall be used and no building shall be hereafter erected or structurally
altered except for one of the following purposes:
   (A)   All uses permitted in the R-1 District as stated therefor;
   (B)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to the uses
permitted in this district; and
   (C)   Two-family dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 11-3D-1) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.076 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   All as allowed in R-1 Districts; and
   (B)   Daycare centers.
(Prior Code, § 11-3D-2) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.077 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMIT.
   Same as R-1 District.
(Prior Code, § 11-3D-3) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.078 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Subject to the modifications set forth in §§
155.240 through
155.245, the area regulations are as follows.
   (A)   Minimum lot area.
      (1)   A lot upon which there is erected a one-family dwelling or a
permitted nonresidential structure shall contain not less than 7,500 square
feet;
      (2)   A lot upon which there is erected a two-family dwelling shall
contain not less than 7,500 square feet; and
      (3)   A lot having an area less than herein required which was recorded
under separate ownership from adjoining lots at the effective date hereof may
be occupied by a one-family dwelling.
   (B)   Minimum lot frontage. There shall be a minimum lot frontage of not
less than 50 feet per one-family dwelling and 50 feet for two-family dwellings
and other principal structures.
   (C)   Minimum front yard. Same as R-1 District.
   (D)   Minimum rear yard. Same as R-1 District.
   (E)   Minimum side yards. Measured from the side property lines there shall
be side yards of not less than five feet on each side of a lot, except for two-
family residences which will be eight feet on each side.
(Prior Code, § 11-3D-4) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.079 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Structures.
      (1)   No accessory building permitted without a one-family residence
existing, if the residence is dismantled and accessory buildings exist the
penalty shall be as prescribed in §
10.99; and
      (2)   After 90 days of notice by city of this violation or until the
accessory buildings are dismantled or a new residence has been restored to the
property.
   (B)   Minimum size structure. A new residence must be a minimum of 800
square feet.
(Prior Code, § 11-3D-5) (Ord. 02-2014, passed 12-2-2014)
R-3 MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
§ 155.090 PERMITTED USES.
   In R-3 Multiple-Family Dwelling Districts, no building or premises shall be
used, and no building shall be hereafter erected or structurally altered except
for one of the following purposes:
   (A)   All uses permitted in the R-1 and R-2 Districts as stated therefor;
   (B)   Automobile parking lots;
   (C)   Boarding houses;
   (D)   Fraternities and sororities;
   (E)   Multiple-family dwellings and apartment houses, provided access is
provided onto a collector or arterial street;
   (F)   Off-street parking requirements as required in §§
155.240 through
155.245;
   (G)   Private clubs and lodges;
   (H)   Signs subject to requirements set forth in §§
155.240 through
155.245; and
   (I)   Accessory building and uses customarily incident to the uses permitted
in this district.
(Prior Code, § 11-3E-1) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.091 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   All conditional uses as established from R-1 Districts.
   (B)   Mobile home courts, provided that they shall meet or exceed the
following design standards.
      (1)   Minimum density and area requirements. Lot areas and density as
hereby established shall be considered the minimum requirements within a mobile
home park.
         (a)   Minimum area requirements for a mobile home park shall be five
acres.
         (b)   A minimum of 10% of the land area within the mobile home park
shall be provided for definable play areas and open spaces within the mobile
home park. Such areas of open space and/or play area shall not be areas
included within any setback nor shall they include any areas of less than 20
feet in length or width.
         (c)   Minimum lot area per unit shall be 5,000 square feet, including
underground utility easements, private drives and parking spaces, but excluding
street rights-of-way. A mobile home stand may not occupy more than one-third of
the area of its lot. The total area occupied by a mobile home and its roofed
accessory buildings and structures may not exceed two-thirds of the area of the
lot.
      (2)   Lot coverage and setback requirements.
         (a)   Maximum lot coverage for the mobile home park development shall
be 50%. Computations shall be based on all structures within said park.
         (b)   Minimum distance between units shall be not less than 20 feet
measured from the mobile home or its attached structures, such as awning or
carports, to any other mobile home or its attached structures.
         (c)   When a mobile home park abuts a single-family residential use
area, there shall be a minimum setback on that side of 50 feet between the
street right-of-way line and any mobile home park structure, which setback area
shall act as a buffer zone and shall be landscaped according to the landscape
plan, to be submitted at time of application. Such plan shall show the type of
planting material, size and planting schedule.
         (d)   All mobile home parks shall have access to an arterial or
collector street, and street access shall be discouraged into or upon local
single-family residential area streets.
         (e)   Average park density shall not exceed nine mobile house units
per gross acre.
         (f)   No detached structure, such as a storage shed, may be located
within five feet of any mobile home or its attached structure.
         (g)   All mobile homes shall be located at least 25 feet from any
property boundary line abutting a public street or highway right-of-way and at
least 15 feet from other boundary lines of the park.
      (3)   General internal park development requirements.
         (a)   There shall be a minimum front yard setback from the mobile home
unit to the street line of ten feet except where otherwise stipulated in this
division (B)(3).
         (b)   The mobile home stand shall be at such elevation, distance and
angle relative to the street and driveway that placement and removal of the
mobile home with a car, tow truck or other customary moving equipment is
practical. The mobile home stand shall have a longitudinal grade of less than
4% and transverse crown or grade to provide adequate surface drainage. The
stand shall be compacted and surfaced with material which will prevent the
growth of vegetation while supporting the maximum anticipated loads during all
seasons.
      (4)   Parking and street requirements.
         (a)   Parking.
            1.   Off-street parking areas shall be surfaced in accordance with
the street surface standards below.
            2.   All required off-street parking space shall be located not
further than 200 feet from the unit or units for which they are designated.
            3.   A minimum of two off-street parking spaces must be provided
for each mobile unit space provided within the park. One guest parking space
for each ten mobile home lots shall be provided. Group parking may be provided.
         (b)   Streets.
            1.   Streets shall be of sufficient width so as to permit ease of
access to the mobile home parking stands and the placement and removal of
mobile homes without causing damage to or otherwise jeopardizing the safety of
any occupants or mobile homes in the park.
            2.   Streets shall have a minimum width so as to permit two moving
lanes of traffic. Minimum street width shall be 24 feet without parking
allowance.
            3.   Public access to a mobile home park shall be so designed as to
permit a minimum number of ingress and egress points to control traffic
movement and to keep undesirable traffic out of the park.
            4.   Streets shall be graded to ensure surface drainage to the
storm sewer system, where available.
            5.   Streets and parking areas shall be surfaced for all weather
travel with crushed stone, gravel or other suitable material.
      (5)   Storage. Storage of large items such as boats, boat trailer and the
like shall not be accommodated at the site of the mobile home unit, but rather
shall be provided in separate screened areas of the park.
      (6)   Maintenance. The operator of any mobile home park, or a duly
authorized attendant or caretaker, shall be in charge at all times to keep the
mobile home park, its facilities and equipment in a clean, orderly and sanitary
condition. The attendant or caretaker shall be answerable, with said operator,
for the violation of any provisions of these regulations to which said operator
is subject.
      (7)   Skirting. Each mobile home shall be skirted within 60 days after
said mobile home is moved upon a lot within the mobile home park. Said skirting
shall be of a fire resistant material similar to that of which the mobile home
exterior is constructed and attached to the mobile home.
      (8)   Street maintenance. Maintenance of streets within a park is the
responsibility of the developer or owner; such maintenance includes street
sweeping, snow removal and repairs.
      (9)   Utilities. All utilities serving each mobile home area, and each
individual lot shall be buried underground.
(Prior Code, § 11-3E-2) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.092 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMIT.
   Except as provided in §§
155.240 through
155.245, no structure shall exceed six stories or 75 feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 11-3E-3) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.093 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Subject to the modifications set forth in §§
155.240 through
155.245, the area regulations are as follows.
   (A)   Minimum lot area.
      (1)   A lot upon which there is erected a single-family dwelling shall
contain not less than 7,500 square feet.
      (2)   A lot upon which there is erected a two-family or multiple-family
dwelling shall contain not less than 1,500 square feet per unit; however, in no
instance shall such a structure be built on a lot containing less than 7,500
square feet.
      (3)   A lot upon which there is erected a boarding or lodging house,
fraternity or sorority, shall contain not less than 8,000 square feet.
      (4)   A lot having an area less than herein required, and which was
recorded under separate ownership from adjoining lots at the effective date
hereof, may be occupied by a single-family dwelling or by any permitted
nonresidential use.
   (B)   Minimum lot frontage.
      (1)   A lot occupied by a single-family, two-family or multi-family
dwelling shall have a minimum frontage of 50 feet.
      (2)   A lot occupied by a boarding house, fraternity or sorority, shall
have a minimum frontage of 60 feet.
      (3)   A lot having a frontage of less than herein required and which was
recorded under separate ownership from adjoining lots at the effective date
hereof may be occupied by a single-family dwelling or by any permitted
nonresidential use.
   (C)   Minimum front yard. Measured from the front property line, there shall
be a front yard of not less than 20 feet.
   (D)   Minimum rear yard. Measured from the rear property line, every
principal structure shall have a rear yard of not less than 20 feet, and for
every accessory building there shall be a rear yard of not less than five feet.
   (E)   Minimum side yards. Measured from the side property lines, there shall
be side yards of not less than five feet on each side of the lot, except for
multi-family dwellings which will be eight feet.
(Prior Code, § 11-3E-4) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
R-4 MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING AND TOWNHOUSES
§ 155.105 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TOWNHOUSE. A one-family dwelling unit which is part of a group of three or
more such units separated by a common party wall, having no doors, windows or
other provisions for human passage or visibility. Each one-family dwelling unit
shall be attached by not more than two party walls. Each structure shall have a
minimum of three and a maximum of eight units, with each dwelling unit being
located on an individual and separately platted lot and building construction
subject to applicable fire and Building Codes.
(Prior Code, § 11-3F-1) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.106 PERMITTED USES.
   In R-4 multiple-family dwellings and townhouses, no building or premises
shall be used, and no building shall be erected or structurally altered except
for one of the following purposes:
   (A)   All uses permitted in R-1, R-2 and R-3 Districts, as previously
stated;
   (B)   Multiple-family dwellings and apartment houses and townhouses as
described in this subchapter;
   (C)   Signs (subject to the requirements set forth in §§ 155.240 through
155.245); and
   (D)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to the uses
permitted in this district.
(Prior Code, § 11-3F-2) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.107 TOWNHOUSES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Permits and processing required. Subject to the provisions of this
subchapter, townhouses will be a permitted use upon issuance of building and
related permits and processing of any necessary subdivision plats or amended
plats.
   (B)   Location. Townhouses will not be allowed in Single-Family R-
1 Districts. In R-3 Multiple-Family Dwelling Districts, townhouses will be
allowed only if the project site plan and any necessary plats are approved by
the Planning Board and the governing body.
   (C)   Consideration of applications. Application to construct townhouses in
a R-2 One- and Two-Family District shall be considered on the same basis as
application for zone change, and all rules, regulations and procedures,
including public hearings applying to zone changes shall apply. The Board and
governing body shall consider, as a part of their review, the impact on
neighborhood integrity, the impact on traffic flow and the impact on utilities
in addition to other criteria in review of zone changes. Townhouse development
in said district shall only be permitted upon condition of compliance with a
site plan reviewed by the Planning Board and adopted by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 11-3F-3) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.108 SITE PLAN.
   (A)   Required; review and approval. Site plan shall accompany every
application for a subdivision plat or an amended plat which is proposed for
construction of townhouses. If the applicant seeks to locate a townhouse
project in an area zoned as R-2 One- and Two-Family Residential, said site plan
shall be subject to review by the Planning Board and approval or rejection by
the City Council.
   (B)   Required information. A site plan as referred to in this section shall
be prepared at a scale not less than one inch equals 20 feet and must contain,
insofar as is applicable, the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Legal description and boundary lines of property considered for
review;
      (3)   Existing and proposed use of the site;
      (4)   Names of owners and existing land use of adjacent property;
      (5)   Location, dimensions and areas of proposed lots;
      (6)   Location, sizes, heights, dimensions and uses of existing and
proposed buildings and improvements;
      (7)   Location and dimensions of right-of-way, paving, curb and gutter
within roadways servicing the townhouse;
      (8)   Location and description of existing and proposed utilities;
      (9)   Location and dimensions of curb cuts and access points;
      (10)   Location, size, dimensions and numbers of off-street parking
spaces, including vehicular driveways and type of surface treatments; and
      (11)   Location and type of existing and proposed landscaping.
   (C)   Construction agreement. No townhouse project subject to the provisions
of this subchapter shall be constructed unless the applicant shall enter into a
construction agreement with the City Council agreeing to construct said
townhouse project in accordance with the site plan submitted.
(Prior Code, § 11-3F-4) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.109 STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Density. The overall density in a townhouse project shall not exceed
the maximum density permitted in R-3 Zoning District nor the maximum allowed by
the State Department of Health and Environmental Sciences if such requirements
are applicable to the area.
   (B)   Lot area per unit. No townhouse lot shall contain an area of less than
1,600 square feet and a minimum lot and building width of not less than 20
feet. Any portion of the lot less than 16 feet in width shall not be included
in the calculation of the minimum required square foot lot area. The minimum
lot width to depth ratio shall not be greater than one to seven (1:7) and shall
be based upon that portion of the lot eligible for inclusion in the above
mentioned area calculation. The difference in lot area normally required in the
specific zoning district and the net land area per townhouse unit shall be
incorporated into useable and accessible common space and/or private or common
vehicular or parking area.
   (C)   Dwelling unit access. No two townhouse dwelling units shall be served
by the same interior or exterior stairway or by the same exterior door.
   (D)   Height. Maximum height shall not exceed that allowed for R-1 District.
   (E)   Size of development site. The minimum size of the site to be developed
for townhouse units shall be 7,500 square feet.
   (F)   Area occupancy. Not more than 50% of the lot area shall be occupied by
all buildings.
   (G)   Townhouse project site. As used in this section a townhouse project
site is the entire parcel of land for which individual townhouse units are
proposed prior to the creation of any townhouse lots.
(Prior Code, § 11-3F-5) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.110 SETBACK AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Setback variation. No more than two abutting townhouses or townhouse
clusters within the townhouse project site shall have a common front building
setback. Variations in the setback of front building faces shall be at least
four feet.
   (B)   Front yard setback. No townhouse dwelling unit shall be located closer
than 20 feet to the front property line or public right-of-way, or within 15
feet of a private drive, access road or common open parking area to the front
or rear of such a dwelling unit. The minimum depth of a front yard shall be the
depth required between the property line and the building setback line as
required. Townhouses may be arranged on a common open area; such common areas
shall be provided for unobstructed access of emergency vehicles.
   (C)   Rear yard setback. The minimum depth of a rear yard for a dwelling
unit shall be 15 feet.
   (D)   Side yards. The minimum side yard requirement shall be eight feet from
any property line of the townhouse project site; if located on the corner of
two intersecting streets, then the required setback from the side street shall
be ten feet.
   (E)   Minimum distance between townhouse groups. No portions of a townhouse,
accessory structure or other building type in or related to one group or
cluster of contiguous townhouses shall be nearer than 15 feet to any portion of
a townhouse or accessory structure of another townhouse building or cluster.
   (F)   Street frontage. Each townhouse project site must have frontage on a
public street. Individual lots do not need to front on a public street but must
have a minimum of ten feet of access on either a public or private roadway or
private drive.
   (G)   Utilities and services.
      (1)   Connection. Each individual townhouse unit shall be connected to
and served by public water and sewer lines or connected to a central sewer and
water system that has been approved by the State Department of Health and
Environmental Sciences and the Director of Public Works. Each individual
townhouse water and sewer service line shall be independent of service lines
serving other townhouse units or structures.
      (2)   Utility stubs. When townhouse construction is proposed in areas
where no utility services are constructed and no paving exists, all utility
services shall be designed to provide utility stubs to lots platted for each
townhouse unit before paving. No subsequent utility service stubs will be
provided to property lines once installation of water and sewer stubs and
paving of the street has been completed.
      (3)   Electrical and telephone lines. All electrical and telephone lines
in a townhouse development shall be placed underground.
      (4)   Access for necessary services. Proper and adequate access for
firefighting purposes and access to service areas to provide garbage and waste
collection, and for other necessary services, shall be provided.
(Prior Code, § 11-3F-6) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.111 PARKING.
   (A)   Required spaces. A minimum of two off-street parking spaces shall be
provided for the residents of each townhouse.
   (B)   Location. Such parking spaces may be provided on the lot of the
townhouse or in a commonly owned and maintained off-street parking area or
facility; provided, that no parking space shall be more than 150 feet from the
townhouse it is intended to serve. Where one parking space is provided in the
front yard, the driveway width shall not exceed 12 feet. Where two parking
spaces are provided in the front yard area, the frontage lot width shall be
increased to 25 feet and the driveway width shall not exceed 20 feet. To reduce
the number of access points to abutting roadways, adjoining driveways along
common property lines are encouraged. Where parking in the front yard is
allowed, the balance of the front yard area shall be vegetated with live
vegetation ground cover.
(Prior Code, § 11-3F-7) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.112 CURB CUTS.
   (A)   Number allowed. Not more than one curb cut shall be permitted per two
townhouses.
   (B)   Corner clearance. A minimum corner clearance of 20 feet from property
line at uncontrolled intersections and 30 feet from property line at controlled
(either signed or signalized) intersections.
   (C)   Unsafe or hazardous driving conditions. In no case shall any curb cut
be permitted which, in the opinion of the Director of Public Works, may cause
an unsafe or hazardous driving condition.
(Prior Code, § 11-3F-8) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.113 STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH AND IMPROVEMENTS.
   The right-of-way width of private and public streets shall conform to all
applicable city standards and requirements for such streets.
(Prior Code, § 11-3F-9) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.114 MAINTENANCE OF COMMON AREA.
   (A)   Membership homeowners association.
      (1)   Provisions satisfactory to the City Council shall be made to assure
that nonpublic areas and facilities for the common use of occupants of a
townhouse development, but not in individual ownership of such occupants, shall
be maintained in a satisfactory manner without expense to the general taxpayers
of the city.
      (2)   To this end, the incorporation of an automatic membership home
owners association created under recorded land agreements will be required for
the purpose of continuously holding title to such nonpublic areas and
facilities, levying assessments against each townhouse lot, whether improved or
not, for the purpose of paying the taxes and maintaining such nonpublic areas,
and facilities may include, but not be limited to, recreational areas, off-
street parking bays, private streets, sidewalks, streetlights, special
improvement districts and common open and landscaped areas. Such assessments
shall be a lien against the property.
   (B)   Other methods. Other methods may be acceptable if the same positively
provides for the proper and continuous payment of taxes and maintenance without
expense to the general public. The instrument incorporated such provisions
shall be approved by the City Council and shall be recorded in public records
of the county.
(Prior Code, § 11-3F-10) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.115 COMMON OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Minimum required. A minimum of 20% of the site to be developed for
townhouses shall be provided as common open space except when one townhouse
group is proposed.
   (B)   Landscaping. Fifty percent of said space shall be unencumbered with
any structure(s) and any other impervious areas. Said areas shall be landscaped
and well maintained with grass, trees and shrubbery.
   (C)   Maintenance buildings; recreational uses. The remaining 50% may be
used only as swimming pools, tennis courts, pedestrian walks, entrance
features, recreational buildings, maintenance buildings for common areas and
other recreational uses.
(Prior Code, § 11-3F-11) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.116 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   No accessory building shall be erected in any side or front yard. An
accessory building may be located in a rear yard and shall occupy not over 25%
of the rear yard area.
(Prior Code, § 11-3F-12) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.117 FIRE SAFETY.
   (A)   Building layout and fire hydrant location. All buildings proposed to
be constructed within any project containing private streets must be so
arranged and located that firefighting apparatus can park and reach any
building with a 150-foot long hose extending from such equipment. This 150-foot
hose length must be measured as the hose is laid on the ground and may not be
measured as the aerial radius from said parked equipment. In addition, fire
hydrants must be so located and provided within the project boundaries so that
400 feet of fire hose, extending on the ground from the hydrant, can reach the
furthermost part of any building within the boundaries of the plat.
   (B)   Building design. All buildings constructed within any project
containing private streets which contain residential dwelling units and have an
overall length of 300 feet or more, must be so designed to have one or more
open unobstructed walkways through the building at ground level, having a width
of not less than five feet to allow ready access by firefighters and police
officers and their equipment and other emergency services to each side of such
building.
(Prior Code, § 11-3F-13) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.118 CONVERSION.
   (A)   Conversion of existing structures. Conversion of existing structures
to a townhouse project will be permitted if all townhouse development standards
as outlined in this section can be satisfied. Where it cannot be demonstrated
by the applicant that the proposed conversion will comply with appropriate
subdivision, zoning regulations and Building Codes, the conversion will be
disallowed.
   (B)   Ownership. A townhouse development shall be in a single ownership at
the time of development. Further, a legal subdivision plat shall be placed in
the public records of the county prior to the issuance of any building permit
within such townhouse development.
(Prior Code, § 11-3F-14) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
RP RESIDENTIAL PROFESSIONAL
§ 155.130 DESCRIPTION.
   An RP Residential District is a district permitting professional and
semiprofessional uses compatible with surrounding residential development.
(Prior Code, § 11-3G-1) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.131 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Childcare centers;
   (B)   Churches;
   (C)   Clinics, medical and dental;
   (D)   Contractors’ offices;
   (E)   Dancing schools;
   (F)   Daycare homes;
   (G)   Hospitals;
   (H)   Law offices;
   (I)   Nursing homes;
   (J)   Office building, professional, government and private office buildings
in which no activity is carried on catering to retail trade and no stock of
goods is maintained for sale;
   (K)   Planned developments;
   (L)   Public parking;
   (M)   Real estate and insurance offices;
   (N)   Tax preparation offices;
   (O)   Two-family dwellings; and
   (P)   Accessory uses.
(Prior Code, § 11-3G-2) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.132 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Photo studios; and
   (B)   Public installations.
(Prior Code, § 11-3G-3) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.133 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMIT.
   Except as provided in §§
155.240 through
155.245, no structure shall exceed 35 feet.
(Prior Code, § 11-3G-4) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.134 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area. Lots shall not contain less than 7,500 square feet.
   (B)   Minimum lot frontage. There shall be a minimum lot frontage of 50
feet.
   (C)   Minimum front yard. Measured from the front property line, there shall
be a front yard of not less than 20 feet.
   (D)   Minimum rear yard. Measured from the real property line, there shall
be a rear yard of not less than 20 feet from the principal structure and five
feet from any accessory use.
   (E)   Minimum side yard. Measured from the real property line, there shall
be a side yard of not less than five feet.
(Prior Code, § 11-3G-5) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
NCL NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL LIMITED
§ 155.145 DESCRIPTION.
   An NCL Neighborhood Commercial Limited District shall be a personal service
convenience retail district, limited in size and land use.
(Prior Code, § 11-3H-1) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.146 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Barber and beauty shops;
   (B)   Boarding/lodging houses;
   (C)   Book and stationery stores;
   (D)   Camera shop;
   (E)   Childcare centers;
   (F)   Churches;
   (G)   Clinics, medical and dental;
   (H)   Convenience stores with gasoline;
   (I)   Daycare homes;
   (J)   Food stores (retail only 3,000 square foot maximum);
   (K)   Hobby and toy stores;
   (L)   Jewelry and watch sales;
   (M)   Laundries, pick up and self-service;
   (N)   Photographic studio;
   (O)   Planned development;
   (P)   Real estate and insurance offices;
   (Q)   Single-family, two-family dwellings; and
   (R)   Accessory uses.
(Prior Code, § 11-3H-2) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.147 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMIT.
   Except as provided in §§
155.240 through
155.245, no structure shall exceed 35 feet.
(Prior Code, § 11-3H-3) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.148 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area. No requirements.
   (B)   Minimum lot frontage. No requirements.
   (C)   Minimum front yard. Measured from the real front property line, there
shall be a front yard of not less than 20 feet.
   (D)   Minimum rear yard. No requirement except as contained in §§
155.240 through
155.245.
   (E)   Minimum side yard. Requirement of side yard of five feet except that
there shall be a side yard of ten feet on corner lots.
(Prior Code, § 11-3H-4) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
C-1 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.160 PERMITTED USES.
   In C-1 General Commercial Districts, no building or premises shall be used,
and no building shall be hereafter erected or structurally altered except for
one of the following purposes:
   (A)   Assembly halls;
   (B)   Automobile sales and service;
   (C)   Banks;
   (D)   Childcare;
   (E)   Churches;
   (F)   Clinics;
   (G)   Dancing schools;
   (H)   Daycare homes;
   (I)   Greenhouses;
   (J)   Heavy machinery sales and service;
   (K)   Hotels and motels;
   (L)   Libraries and public buildings;
   (M)   Lodges and fraternal organizations;
   (N)   Mobile home and trailer sales and service, including trailer parks
operated in conjunction thereto;
   (O)   Nursing homes, retirement homes;
   (P)   Planned developments;
   (Q)   Printing shops;
   (R)   Public parking;
   (S)   Rail and bus stations;
   (T)   Recreation facilities;
   (U)   Restaurants;
   (V)   Shops for repair and similar services such as:
      (1)   Bakeries, retail for distribution from the premises;
      (2)   Barbershops and beauty shops;
      (3)   Bowling alleys;
      (4)   Car washes;
      (5)   Catering establishments;
      (6)   Garages and service stations, provided:
         (a)   All automobile parts and dismantled automobiles are stored
within the building, except outdoor display racks; and
         (b)   Pumps, lubrication or other devices are located at least 15 feet
from any street property line.
      (7)   Laundromats and dry cleaning establishments employing not more than
five persons;
      (8)   Locksmith shops;
      (9)   Membership clubs;
      (10)   Offices;
      (11)   Photo shops;
      (12)   Plumbing, heating and electrical shops;
      (13)   Shoe repair shops;
      (14)   Sign shops, excluding outside storage;
      (15)   Tire stores and the like; and
      (16)   Undertaking establishments.
   (W)   Signs (subject to requirements set forth in §§
155.240 through
155.245);
   (X)   Stores and shops for the conduct of retail business;
   (Y)   Taverns and cocktail lounges, bars, package stores;
   (Z)   Theaters, excluding drive-ins;
   (AA)   Upholstery shops;
   (BB)   Warehouses; and
   (CC)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to the uses
permitted in this district.
(Prior Code, § 11-3I-1) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.161 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   The following uses are permitted in the C-1 General Commercial
District after a finding by the Zoning Commission that their mode of conduct
and location will not hinder the enjoyment and use of nearby properties and
will not disrupt the appropriate use of the land and resources of the area. The
Zoning Commission shall also recommend appropriate restrictions as necessary
and merited by the area.
   (B)   Meat market (butcher shop).
      (1)   An operation and buildings or structures in connection with the use
to process, store or display meat or meat products for retail sale to the
public or for human consumption.
      (2)   A meat market (butcher shop) may request a conditional use for
engaging in the custom slaughtering of livestock delivered by the owner for
custom slaughter or a person engaged in the preparation of carcasses and parts
and meat food products of such livestock when slaughtered or prepared for the
exclusive use in the owner’s household by the owner or members of his or her
household or his or her nonpaying guests or employees.
(Prior Code, § 11-3I-1-1) (Ord. 01-2009, passed 3-17-2009)
§ 155.162 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMIT.
   Except as provided in §§
155.240 through
155.245, no structure shall exceed four stories or 45 feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 11-3I-2) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.163 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Subject to the modifications set forth in §§
155.240 through
155.245, the area regulations are as follows.
   (A)   Structures. There are no requirements for commercial structures.
   (B)   Minimum lot frontage. There are no minimum requirements except as
contained in §§
155.240 through
155.245.
   (C)   Minimum front yard. Measured from the front property line, there shall
be a front yard of not less than 15 feet.
   (D)   Minimum rear yard. There are no minimum requirements except as
contained in §§
155.240 through
155.245.
   (E)   Minimum side yards. No side yard is required except on corner lots, in
which case there shall be a side yard of not less than ten feet on the street
side.
(Prior Code, § 11-3I-3) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
C-2 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 155.175 PERMITTED USES.
   In C-2 Central Business District zones, no building or premises shall be
used, and no building shall be hereafter erected or structurally altered except
for one of the following purposes:
   (A)   All uses permitted in C-1 retail business;
   (B)   Libraries, public parks and playgrounds, fire and police stations and
other public buildings;
   (C)   Multi-unit housing (second floor);
   (D)   Public and private recreation use;
   (E)   Rail and bus stations;
   (F)   Retail painting shops (no outdoor storage of materials);
   (G)   Retail plumbing shops, heating shops and electrical shops (no outdoor
storage of materials);
   (H)   Signs subject to requirements set forth in §§
155.240 through
155.245;
   (I)   Theaters, except outdoor; and
   (J)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to the uses
permitted in this district.
(Prior Code, § 11-3J-1) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.176 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMIT.
   Except as provided in §§
155.240 through
155.245, no structure shall exceed seven stories or 70 feet in height, provided
that no structure or portion of a structure shall be erected to a height
exceeding 45 feet on any portion of a lot less than 20 feet in distance from
any portion of a lot in any AR, R-1 or R-2 District.
(Prior Code, § 11-3J-2) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.177 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Subject to modifications set forth in §§
155.240 through
155.245, the area regulations are as follows.
   (A)   Minimum lot area. There are no minimum requirements for commercial
structures.
   (B)   Minimum lot frontage. There are no minimum requirements except as
contained in §§
155.240 through
155.245.
   (C)   Minimum front yard. There are no minimum requirements except as
contained in §§
155.240 through
155.245.
   (D)   Minimum rear yard. There are no minimum requirements except as
contained in §§
155.240 through
155.245.
   (E)   Minimum side yards. There are no minimum requirements except as
contained in §§
155.240 through
155.245.
(Prior Code, § 11-3J-3) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
C-3 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.190 PERMITTED USES.
   In C-3 Highway Commercial District, no building or premises shall be used,
and no building shall be hereafter erected or structurally altered except for
one of the following purposes:
   (A)   Automobile parking lots;
   (B)   Food store retail only; 3,000 square feet maximum;
   (C)   Heavy machinery sales;
   (D)   Hotels, motels, restaurants, taverns and package liquor stores;
   (E)   Kennels, commercial;
   (F)   Retail stores for the sale of automobile parts and accessories,
souvenirs, curios, film, magazines and other products customarily sold to meet
the needs of the motoring public, but not including junk, salvage or automobile
wrecking yards;
   (G)   Self-contained propane dispensers;
   (H)   Service stations, automobile and truck repair garages;
   (I)   Signs subject to requirements as set forth in §§
155.240 through
155.245;
   (J)   Tire store sales and service, including vulcanizing and recapping, but
not involving manufacturing on the premises;
   (K)   Tourist information centers and museums;
   (L)   Truck stops; and
   (M)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to the uses
permitted in this district.
(Prior Code, § 11-3K-1) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.191 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMIT.
   Except as provided in §§
155.240 through
155.245, no structure shall exceed four stories or 45 feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 11-3K-2) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.192 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Subject to the modifications set forth in §§
155.240 through
155.245, the area regulations are as follows.
   (A)   Minimum lot area. There are no minimum requirements except as
contained in §§
155.240 through
155.245.
   (B)   Minimum lot frontage. There are no minimum requirements except as
contained in §§
155.240 through
155.245.
   (C)   Minimum front yards. Measured from the front property lines, there
shall be a front yard of not less than 50 feet except for the motor fuel pumps
which may be erected 25 feet from the front property line.
   (D)   Minimum rear yard. There are no minimum requirements except as
contained in §§
155.240 through
155.245.
   (E)   Minimum side yards. No side yard is required except on corner lots, in
which case there shall be a side yard of not less than 15 feet on the street
side.
(Prior Code, § 11-3K-3) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
M-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.205 PERMITTED USES.
   In M-1 Light Industrial Districts, no building or premises shall be used,
and no building shall be hereafter erected or structurally altered except for
one of the following purposes:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the C-1 General Commercial District or C-
2 Central Business District zone or C-3 Highway Service District, except for
residential dwellings existing as of the effective date hereof, shall remain as
a permitted use;
   (B)   Blacksmith, welding or other metal shops, excluding punch presses over
20 tons’ rated capacity and drop hammers;
   (C)   Bottling works;
   (D)   Concrete batch plants;
   (E)   Contractors’ plants or storage yards;
   (F)   Dairy processing and distribution plants;
   (G)   Electrical central power stations;
   (H)   Grain elevators or facilities for collection, storage, processing and
marketing of grain and feed products;
   (I)   Kennels, commercial;
   (J)   Lumber or building materials storage yards, builders supply yards,
sale of cement and concrete products and lumber;
   (K)   Machine, roofing and sheet metal shops;
   (L)   Manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging of cosmetics,
pharmacology, electronic components and food products, except fish and meat
products, and the reducing and refining of fats and oils;
   (M)   Marijuana dispensary;
   (N)   Printing plants;
   (O)   Processing and manufacturing of brick, ceramic and other clay
products;
   (P)   Sexually-oriented business;
   (Q)   Signs subject to requirements set forth in §§
155.240 through
155.245;
   (R)   Storage warehouses; and
   (S)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to the uses
permitted in this district.
(Prior Code, § 11-3L-1) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002; Ord. 01-2018, passed
8-7-2018)
§ 155.206 PROHIBITED USES.
   All uses of land, buildings and structures or industrial processes that are
noxious or injurious by reason of production, or emission of dust, smoke or
refuse matter, odor, gas fumes, noise, vibration or substances or conditions;
provided, however, that any uses may be permitted if approved by the Board of
Adjustment, and subject to securing a permit thereof to such conditions,
restrictions and safeguards as may be deemed necessary by such Board for the
purpose of protecting the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
community.
(Prior Code, § 11-3L-2) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.207 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMIT.
   Same as C-1 District.
(Prior Code, § 11-3L-3) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.208 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Same as C-2 District.
(Prior Code, § 11-3L-4) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.209 ELEVATORS.
   Elevators having demonstrated their inability to control chaff and other
dusts should not be permitted to make additions to present facilities but
should be encouraged to relocate in other industrial areas outside of the city
limits.
(Prior Code, § 11-3L-5) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.210 SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   Sexually-oriented businesses shall comply with the following standards.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. A commercial facility that includes, but is
not limited to, adult bookstores, adult video centers, nude modeling studios,
nude shows, adult motion picture theaters, sexual encounter businesses or
similar activities.
   (B)   Separation from other uses. A building containing a sexually-oriented
business shall be setback a minimum of 500 feet from the boundary of a lot or a
parcel that contains a church, public or private school, public park or a
medical marijuana dispensary or any R-1, R-2 or R-3 zoned properties.
   (C)   Separation from another sexually-oriented business. A sexually-
oriented business shall not be located, or an existing business expanded,
within 500 feet from another sexually-oriented business.
   (D)   One per building. No more than one sexually-oriented business can be
located in the same structure or building.
   (E)   Measurement. For the purpose of determining compliance with division
(B) above, measurements shall be made in a straight line measured from the lot
line of the sexually-oriented business to the lot line containing a church,
public or private school, public park, a medical marijuana dispensary, another
sexually-oriented business or any R-1, R-2 or R-3 zoned properties.
   (F)   Signs. In addition to the standards, signs visible from the exterior
of the structure may state there is adult material inside, but no pictures or
other advertising may be displayed that indicates a nude person is available
for viewing.
   (G)   No alcohol. Alcohol sales, consumption and gambling are prohibited
within a building containing or in conjunction with sexually-oriented
businesses.
(Prior Code, § 11-3L-6) (Ord. 01-2018, passed 8-7-2018) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.211 MARIJUANA DISPENSARY.
   A marijuana dispensary shall comply with the following standards.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      MARIJUANA DISPENSARY. A facility where marijuana is made available for
purposes in accordance with state law and all applicable federal rules and
regulations.
   (B)   Separation from other uses. A building containing a marijuana
dispensary shall be setback a minimum of 500 feet from the boundary of a lot or
parcel that contains a church, public or private school, public park or a
sexually-oriented business or any R-1, R-2 or R-3 zoned properties.
   (C)   Separation from another dispensary. A marijuana dispensary allowing
on-site consumption shall not be located within 500 feet from another marijuana
dispensary that allows on-site consumption.
   (D)   Measurement. For the purpose of determining compliance with divisions
(B) and (C) above, measurement shall be made in a straight line without regard
to intervening structures or objects from the nearest portion of the building
or structure containing the marijuana dispensary to the nearest property line
of the lot or parcel that is a church, school, public park or a sexually-
oriented business or any R-1, R-2 or R-3 zoned properties.
   (E)   Signs. In addition to the standards of, signs visible from the
exterior of the structure may state there is marijuana inside.
   (F)   Compliance with state and federal codes. The operation of a marijuana
dispensary shall comply with all applicable provisions of the Marijuana Act,
being M.C.A. §§ 16-12-102 et seq. and all applicable federal laws and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11-3L-7) (Ord. 01-2018, passed 8-7-2018) Penalty, see §
155.999
M-3 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.225 PERMITTED USES.
   In M-2 Heavy Industrial Districts, no building or premises shall be used and
no building shall be thereafter erected or structurally altered except for one
of the following purposes:
   (A)   All manufacturing and industrial uses not otherwise prohibited by law.
Any residential dwelling existing as of the effective date of this chapter
shall remain as a permitted use;
   (B)   Bottling works;
   (C)   Brick, ceramic and other clay products processing and manufacturing;
   (D)   Contractor plants or storage yards;
   (E)   Dairy processing and distribution yards;
   (F)   Electrical central power stations;
   (G)   Grain elevators of facilities for collection, storage, processing and
marketing of grain and feed products;
   (H)   Heavy machinery sales and service;
   (I)   Junkyards, automobile wrecking yards, scrap iron, scrap paper or rag
storage, sorting or baling shall be permitted, provided:
      (1)   An eight-foot sight obscuring fence must be constructed and
inspected prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for use of the
goods;
      (2)   No automobile or parts thereof, junk or salvage materials or parts
thereof shall be visible from any public right-of-way. All materials or parts
shall be located within the fenced area; and
      (3)   The permit shall be granted for a period not to exceed two years
and at the end of such period, an inspection shall be made of the premises to
determine the advisability of renewing such permit.
   (J)   Kennels, commercial;
   (K)   Lumberyards, building materials, storage and sales;
   (L)   Machine, roofing and sheet metal shops;
   (M)   Manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging of cosmetics,
pharmacology, electronic components and food products, excepting fish and meat
products, and the reducing and refining of fats and oils;
   (N)   Planned developments;
   (O)   Storage warehouses;
   (P)   Tire stores, retreading and recapping;
   (Q)   Truck stops; and
   (R)   Welding and other metal shops.
(Prior Code, § 11-3M-1) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.226 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses are permitted in the M-2 Heavy Industrial District after
a finding by the zoning board that their mode of conduct and location will not
hinder the enjoyment and use of nearby properties and will not disrupt the
appropriate use of nearby land and resources:
   (A)   Acid manufacture or wholesale storage of acids;
   (B)   Asphalt or concrete batch plant;
   (C)   Cement, lime, gypsum or plaster of Paris manufacture;
   (D)   Distillation of bones;
   (E)   Fat rendering, fertilizer, gas or glue manufacture;
   (F)   Garbage, offal or dead animal reduction or dumping;
   (G)   Manufacture of explosives or storage of explosives, including gases;
   (H)   Petroleum or petroleum products refining;
   (I)   Smelting or reduction of ore or metallurgical products; and
   (J)   Stockyards, slaughterhouses, meat processing.
(Prior Code, § 11-3M-2) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.227 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMIT.
   There are no building height requirements for the M-2 District.
(Prior Code, § 11-3M-3) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.228 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Subject to the modifications set forth in §§
155.240 through
155.245, the area regulations are as follows.
   (A)   Minimum lot area. There are no minimum requirements.
   (B)   Minimum lot frontage. There are no minimum requirements except as
contained in §§
155.240 through
155.245.
   (C)   Minimum front yard. No minimum requirements.
   (D)   Minimum rear yard. There are no minimum requirements except as
contained in §§
155.240 through
155.245.
   (E)   Minimum side yards. There are no minimum requirements except as
contained in §§
155.240 through
155.245.
(Prior Code, § 11-3M-4) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
SPECIAL REGULATIONS
§ 155.240 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this subchapter is to reduce traffic congestion
and the need for parking on streets and the hazards caused thereby and to
provide off-street parking adequate for each type of development in terms of
both quantity and location.
   (B)   Parking requirements, general. There shall be provided at the time of
erection of any building or structure, or at the time of any change in
occupancy of any building or structure, minimum off-street parking
accommodations meeting provisions of this section.
      (1)   Expansion and enlargement. Whenever any building is enlarged in
height or in ground coverage, off-street parking shall be provided for the
expansion or enlargement in accordance with the requirements of this
subchapter.
      (2)   Nonconforming uses. Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to
prevent the voluntary establishment of off-street parking to serve any existing
use of land or buildings even though nonconforming; provided, that all
regulations herein governing the location, design, size and space standards and
operation of such facilities are met.
      (3)   Use not specified. In the case of a use not specifically mentioned
in this subchapter, the requirements for off-street parking facilities shall be
determined by the Zoning Coordinator. Such determination shall be based upon
the requirements for the most closely comparable use listed.
      (4)   Reduction in spaces. Off-street parking spaces existing and
actually being used for the parking of automobiles or other motor vehicles in
connection with the use of an existing building shall not be reduced in number
or size, during the entire life of such building or land use, below that which
would be required for a new building or use of a similar type.
      (5)   Fractional spaces. If the number of off-street parking spaces
hereinafter required contains a fraction, such number shall be rounded up to
the next highest whole number.
   (C)   Design standards, location.
      (1)   Off-street parking area(s) as required by this section shall be
located as specified herein:
         (a)   Single- and two-family dwellings. On the same site as the
dwelling they are to serve;
         (b)   Multi-family dwellings, townhouses, retirement homes, lodging,
boarding and bed and breakfast houses. Within 100 feet of the use to be served;
         (c)   Hospitals, sanitariums, convalescent nursing homes, rest homes,
homes for the aged. Within 600 feet for employees and 300 feet for visitors;
and
         (d)   Other uses not specified above. Within 400 feet of the use they
are intended to serve.
      (2)   Where a distance is specified, such distance shall be measured in
walking distance measured from the nearest point of the parking facility to the
nearest point of the lot such facility is required to serve. The off-street
parking shall not be located across a major arterial street except when both
properties are contiguous to an intersection with traffic control lights. Off-
street parking should not be located across a minor arterial or collector
street from the business or residence.
      (3)   Off-street parking areas must be accessible by a public street or
alley and shall be owned or leased by the owner or lessee of the building or
use being served by such parking. Such parking lot shall be maintained as a
parking lot so long as the building and/or use served is in operation or until
another suitable parking area is established for such building or use.
      (4)   Required parking spaces shall be located so as to preclude backing
maneuvers onto any public right-of-way from any use, with the exception of
single- and two-family dwellings. Required parking spaces shall not be located
in any required front or side yard except for detached single-family dwellings
and townhouses.
   (D)   Design standards, construction specifications.
      (1)   Size. An off-street parking space shall be at least nine feet in
width and at least 20 feet in length, exclusive of access drives, yards or
ramps. Such spaces shall have a vertical clearance of at least seven feet.
      (2)   Surfacing. All off-street parking spaces and access areas shall be
improved with asphaltic or Portland cement concrete, except single-family
development on individual lots and shall be designed by accepted engineering
methods.
      (3)   Drainage. All off-street parking areas shall be graded and drained
so as to adequately dispose of all surface water generated. Surface water shall
not be drained across public sidewalks or alleys. Drainage plans for uses
requiring more than ten parking spaces shall be submitted with the building
permit application for approval prior to the issuing of a building permit.
      (4)   Walkways. Walkways shall be a minimum of five feet in width and
shall be provided between any building and adjacent parking lot. Where sidewalk
curbs serve as wheel stops, an additional two feet of sidewalk width is
required.
      (5)   Lighting. Lighting used to illuminate a parking area shall be
arranged in such a manner as to not be a hazard to passing motorists or have
its source visible from any residential property in any district.
      (6)   Wheel stops. Wheel stops shall be installed at least 30 inches from
all adjacent sidewalks, fences and walls. Such stops shall be either a concrete
piece at least 60 inches long and five inches high and affixed securely to the
parking surface, or a continuous concrete curb.
      (7)   Landscaping. Any use having more than 7,500 square feet of required
parking shall have 2% of the gross required parking area landscaped with proper
parking lot trees and shrubs having a low profile. Such landscaping will be
properly maintained at all times.
      (8)   Maintenance. Maintenance of all areas provided for off-street
parking shall include repair and maintenance of drain and repair of traffic
control devices, signs, lights, standards, surfacing materials, curbs and
sidewalks and removal of dirt, trash and weeds.
   (E)   Number of parking spaces required.
      (1)   Specified uses.
Specific Use Required Parking Spaces
Specific Use                                       Required Parking Spaces
Banks, business and professional offices           1 parking space per 300
                                                   square feet of floor area
Board, lodging, bed and breakfast houses and the   1 parking space per dwelling
like                                               or lodging unit
Bowling alleys                                     4 parking spaces per alley
                                                   1 parking space per 4 fixed
                                                   seats or 1 parking space per
Churches, auditoriums and similar uses             100 linear inches of pew or
                                                   1 parking space per 65
                                                   square feet or floor area
                                                   used for assembly
Convalescent nursing homes and retirement homes    1 and 1/2 parking spaces per
                                                   1,000 square feet
                                                   1 parking space per 80
                                                   square feet of gross floor
Convenience store/gas combination                  area with 10 spaces minimum
                                                   (pump lanes not counted as
                                                   parking spaces)
                                                   1 parking space per employee
Daycare, nursery and preschools                    and 1 parking space per 6
                                                   children
                                                   1 parking space per 400
Furniture, appliance stores, household and         square feet of floor area,
equipment sales                                    plus 1 space for each 5
                                                   employees
Hospitals and institutions:
   Over 100 beds                                1.25 spaces per bed, plus 1
                                                   per employee per shift
                                                   1 and 1/2 parking spaces for
   With less than 100 beds based upon state bed each 1,000 square feet of
count                                              total area or 1.25 spaces
                                                   per bed, plus 1 per employee
                                                   per shift
                                                   2 parking spaces for each
Libraries and museums                              1,000 square feet of floor
                                                   area
                                                   1 parking space per 2
Manufacturing uses, research, testing or repair of employees on maximum shift,
materials or commodities, processing, assembling   but not less than 1 parking
                                                   space per 800 square feet of
                                                   gross floor area
Medical and dental offices or clinics              1 parking space per 200
                                                   square feet of floor area
Mortuaries and funeral homes                       1 parking space per 4 seats
                                                   1 parking space per sleeping
Motels/hotels                                      room and 1 parking space per
                                                   employee on shift
Motor vehicle showrooms, machinery sales and       1 parking space per 1,000
service, plumbing, heating and ventilating,        square feet, plus 1 parking
upholstery, building material supplies, sales and  space per employee
service
Open sales area, trailer sales and rental,         1 parking space per 1,500
manufactured home sales and garages                square feet of sales area
Private clubs and lodges                           1 parking space per 200
                                                   square feet of floor area
                                                   1 parking space for each 2
Public utilities and public buildings              employees, plus 5 spaces for
                                                   public use
Residential single-family or duplex dwelling       2 parking spaces per
                                                   dwelling unit
                                                   1 and 1/2 parking spaces per
Residential multi-family dwelling                  2 or more bedroom dwelling
                                                   units
                                                   1 parking space per 100
Restaurants, bars and other eating and drinking    square feet of gross floor
establishments                                     area, plus 1 parking space
                                                   for each 4 employees
                                                   1 parking space per 80
Restaurants with drive-in service                  square feet of floor area,
                                                   with 10 parking spaces
                                                   minimum
Retail sales - less than 5,000 square feet         1 parking space per 200
(include barber, beauty, personal services)        square feet of floor area
                                                   25 parking spaces, plus 1
Retail sales - greater than 5,000 square feet      parking space per 300 square
                                                   feet in excess of 5,000
                                                   square feet
                                                   1 parking space per
Schools, elementary and junior high (public or     classroom, plus 5 additional
private)                                           with minimum auditorium
                                                   requirements, if applicable
                                                   1 parking space per employee
Schools, high school, college, vocational and      and 1 parking space per 5
trade (private and public)                         students, plus auditorium
                                                   requirements
                                                   1 parking space per 80
                                                   square feet of gross floor
Service stations, automotive repair and services   area, with 10 spaces minimum
                                                   (pump lanes not counted as
                                                   parking spaces)
                                                   1 parking space for each 4
Theaters, auditoriums, stadiums, sports arenas and fixed seats or 1 parking
other similar uses                                 space per 100 square feet of
                                                   assembly space without fixed
                                                   seats
                                                   10 spaces for the first
                                                   20,000 square feet of and 1
Warehouses or storage buildings                    additional space for each
                                                   additional 10,000 square
                                                   feet and 1/2 space per
                                                   employee
Wholesale establishments                           5 parking spaces for each
                                                   1,000 square feet
 
      (2)   Other uses. For any other uses not specifically mentioned or
provided for, the Zoning Coordinator shall determine the standards to be
applied for parking, using as a guide the listed use which most closely
resembles the use proposed.
      (3)   Computation of employees. Space requirements for employees shall be
computed by the number of employees on shift during peak parking demand.
   (F)   Joint use of parking facilities, conditions required.
      (1)   Uses. The Zoning Coordinator may authorize the joint use or lease
of off-street parking facilities for the following uses or activities under the
conditions specified.
         (a)   Up to 50% of the parking facilities required by this chapter for
primarily “nighttime” uses such as theaters, bowling alleys, bars, restaurants
and related uses, may be supplied by certain other types of buildings, or uses
herein referred to as “daytime” uses such as banks, offices, retail, personal
service shops, clothing, food, furniture, manufacturing or wholesale and
related uses.
         (b)   Up to 50% of the parking facilities required by this section for
a church or auditorium may be supplied by the parking facilities provided for
primarily “daytime uses.”
      (2)   Conditions required. The building or use for which application is
being made to utilize the off-street parking facilities provided by another
building of use shall be located within 500 feet of such parking facilities, in
addition to which:
         (a)   The application shall show there is no substantial conflict in
the principal operating hours of the two buildings or uses for which joint use
of off-street parking facilities is proposed;
         (b)   The applicant shall present to the city a legal agreement
executed by the parties concerned for joint use of off-street parking
facilities. The lease shall contain a notification requirement whereby the
Zoning Coordinator will be informed in writing of any termination or
complication experienced during the time of the lease. The legal document shall
be recorded with the County Clerk and Recorder; and
         (c)   The portion of the city zoned Central Business District shall be
exempt from off-street parking requirements.
   (G)   Handicapped parking requirements. Parking spaces shall be provided for
the handicapped and shall be clearly signed and marked with a stenciled
notation on the pavement designating such use. Such parking spaces shall be
located closest to the handicapped accessible entrance with an accessible route
provided to that entrance and approved handicapped parking signs shall be
posted. The size and number of handicapped parking stalls shall comply with the
current ADA policies and rules.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-1) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.241 SIGNS.
   (A)   Intent. The following regulations shall govern the location, area and
type of signs permitted within the city. It recognizes the need to protect the
safety and welfare of the public, the need for well maintained and attractive
signing within the community and the need for adequate business identification
and advertising.
   (B)   Signs permitted in zoning districts in the city.
      (1)   Residential zones.
         (a)   Single-family residential zones: One unlighted identification
sign shall be permitted per residential use, provided that such sign does not
exceed four square feet in area.
         (b)   Multi-family residential zones: Multi-family, rooming and
boarding houses may have one identification sign, not to exceed 12 square feet
in sign area.
         (c)   Identification signs, bulletin boards and other similar
structures for governmental agencies which may be regulated by the city are
subject to approval by the Zoning Coordinator.
         (d)   All signs, except for neighborhood identification signs provided
in division (B)(1)(f) below, shall be wall, pedestal or ground signs, but may
not be placed on public property.
         (e)   No sign shall block any means of egress nor shall be placed as
to be a sight obstruction to pedestrians or traffic.
         (f)   For a neighborhood tract, two identification signs per tract
entrance. A sign, masonry wall, landscaping and other similar materials or
features may be combined to form a display for neighborhood or tract
identification; provided, that the legend of such sign or display shall consist
only of the neighborhood, tract or developer’s name and logo. No sign or
structure shall exceed 32 square feet in size nor be over eight feet in height
as established from the street grade and must be located a minimum of five feet
behind all property lines.
         (g)   One sign of a temporary nature, such as “For Sale” or “For Rent”
shall be permitted per residential use, provided such sign does not exceed six
square feet and is not lighted; said sign may be wall, pedestal or ground type.
      (2)   Agricultural districts.
         (a)   Highway signs or other such highway oriented advertising devices
shall be permitted, provided such signs and devices comply with all state and
federal regulations and are located at least 1,000 feet from any existing
advertising sign or device regardless of political boundaries, width of rights-
of-way, existing highways, streets, roads or easements.
         (b)   New billboards located within the zone shall not be placed
within 150 feet of any residential zone.
      (3)   Residential professional and neighborhood commercial limited.
         (a)   One sign advertising the particular use of the property shall be
permitted, provided such sign does not exceed 32 square feet in sign area.
         (b)   Signs shall be placed flat against a building or designed as
part of an architectural feature thereof. Signs may also be detached if they do
not exceed a height of eight feet. Detached signs must be located a minimum of
five feet behind all property lines.
         (c)   When a developed parcel fronts on more than one public right-of-
way or street, excluding alleys, the above provisions of this section shall
apply to each frontage.
      (4)   General Commercial, Central Commercial, Highway Commercial, Light
Industrial, Heavy Industrial Districts.
         (a)   One sign advertising the particular use of the property shall be
permitted, provided such sign does not exceed 200 square feet in area and does
not exceed a height of 75 feet above the centerline of the adjacent roadway.
The sign must be located five feet behind all property lines except, if the
bottom of the structure is 12 feet or higher above the established grade, then
the sign may be located up to one foot behind the property line. Signs located
in the Central Business District may be located up to the property line.
         (b)   No rotating freestanding sign shall rotate at a rate faster than
six revolutions per minute or have a minimum clearance lower than nine feet
between the bottom of the sign and the ground.
         (c)   No wall or canopy signs shall project into the public right-of-
way except in the Central Business District where wall signs may project 18
inches over the right-of-way, subject to a minimum height limit of nine feet
from the sidewalk. Marquee signs may project up to two feet to a vertical line
from the curb face over the right-of-way.
      (5)   Church, school and other institutional use signs.
         (a)   One freestanding monument announcement sign or bulletin board
not to exceed five feet in height or eight feet in length, inclusive of
supporting structure.
         (b)   Two wall signs placed flat against a building or designed as a
part of an architectural feature not to exceed 32 square feet per sign.
      (6)   Other signs and banners.
         (a)   Banners. Banners on or over public property may be authorized by
the City Council for a period not to exceed ten days. Message and symbols are
limited to public service messages with no commercial advertising of any nature
appearing on the banner. This shall not preclude the identification of an event
sponsor, provided that the identification shall not occupy more than 15% of the
area of the banner. The city may require the applicant to indemnify the city
and to provide insurance covering any liability that may occur as a result of
placement of the sign.
         (b)   Directional or instructional signs. Signs which provide
direction or instruction and are located entirely on the property to which they
pertain and do not exceed four square feet in sign area. Signs shall not cause
visual obstructions to traffic.
         (c)   Garage sale signs. Garage sale signs shall not exceed four
square feet in sign area.
         (d)   Political or campaign signs. Political or campaign signs on
behalf of candidates for public office or measures on election ballots may be
erected not earlier than 45 days prior to the primary or special election and
shall be removed within 15 days following the general or special election. If
there is no primary election scheduled, then such signs may not be erected
earlier than 45 days prior to the general election. In any zone, such signs
shall not exceed 32 square feet in aggregate area and, if detached, shall not
exceed six feet in height. Signs over 30 inches in height shall comply with the
clear vision standards at intersections. No political sign, poster or handbill
shall be located within or over the public right-of-way or on any utility pole,
official public sign, bridge or fire hydrant.
         (e)   Real estate signs. One real estate sign on any lot or parcel,
provided such sign is located entirely within the property to which the sign
applies, is not directly illuminated, does not exceed six square feet in area
in residential zones and 12 square feet in commercial zones and is removed
within seven days after the sale, rental or lease has been completed.
      (7)   Prohibited signs and sign structures.
         (a)   Animated and intensely lighted signs. No signs shall be
permitted which are animated by means of flashing, scintillating, blinking or
traveling lights or any other means not providing constant illumination. Public
service information signs and other electronic message center classified as
“changing signs” are permitted.
         (b)   Parking of advertising vehicles prohibited. No person shall park
any vehicle or trailer on a public right-of-way which has attached thereto or
located thereon any sign or advertising device for the basic purpose of
providing advertisement of products or directing people to a business or
activity located on the same or nearby property or any other premises. This
section is not intended to prohibit any form of vehicular signage such as a
sign lettered on a motor vehicle or company vehicle signs.
         (c)   Swinging signs. Signs installed on an arm or spar, that is not,
in addition, permanently fastened to an adjacent wall or upright pole.
         (d)   Other signs. Signs which, by reason of their size, location,
movement, content, coloring or manner of illumination, may be confused with or
construed as a traffic control sign, signal or device, or the light of an
emergency or road equipment vehicle, or which hide from view any traffic or
street sign or signal or device.
         (e)   Nuisance. No sign, outdoor commercial advertising device or
lighting device constituting a nuisance to an adjacent district or creating
hazardous or unsafe driving conditions for motorists because of lighting glare,
focus, animation or flashing of a sign, lighting or advertising device, shall
be erected or continued in operation.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-2) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.242 ADDITIONAL HEIGHT AND AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations; exceptions.
      (1)   Churches, schools, hospitals, nursing or retirement homes or public
buildings may exceed the height limitations of the district if the minimum
depth of the front, side and rear yard setbacks are increased two feet for
every one foot by which the structure exceeds the height limitation of the
district. This allowed height shall not exceed two times the allowed height in
the zoning district in which it is located, without approval through the
variance procedure.
      (2)   Spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas, water towers or tanks,
chimneys or smokestacks, power transmission lines, cooling or elevator towers,
grain elevators or similar and necessary appurtenances not used for human
occupancy are exempt from the height regulations as herein provided.
   (B)   Accessory buildings.
      (1)   Rear yard. Accessory buildings may be built in a required rear
yard, but such accessory buildings shall not occupy more than 30% of a required
rear yard.
      (2)   Proximity to lot lines. All accessory buildings, excepting garages
and carports, shall not be located nearer than two feet to any side or rear lot
line.
      (3)   Garages. Residential garages and carports shall not be located
nearer than five feet to any side or rear lot line, except that when a garage
is entered from an alley at right angles, it shall not be located closer than
ten feet to the alley line. If a garage is located closer than ten feet to the
main building, the garage shall be regarded as a part of the main building for
the purpose of determining setbacks.
   (C)   Yards. Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky,
unobstructed by any structure, except for the projection of roof overhangs,
eaves, belt course, cornices and ornamental features which are not to exceed 12
inches.
   (D)   Basement or cellar. No basement shall be occupied for residential
purposes until the remainder of the dwelling has been substantially completed.
   (E)   Porch, terrace, platform or ornamental feature.
      (1)   An open unenclosed porch, open exterior stairways or decks
projection into required setbacks shall not exceed two feet in side yards or
six feet in front yards.
      (2)   Covered unenclosed porches over front stoops or walkways shall not
exceed four feet into required setbacks. These projections are not permitted if
they protrude into or hang over the public right-of-way.
   (F)   Fireplaces; bay windows. Fireplaces and bay windows shall not exceed
two-foot projection into required front and side yard setbacks.
   (G)   Side yard; two-family or multiple-family dwelling. For the purpose of
the side yard regulations, a two-family dwelling or multiple-family dwelling
shall be considered as one dwelling occupying one lot.
   (H)   Main building; farming, commercial or industrial. Where a lot or tract
is used for farming or for a commercial or industrial purpose, more than one
main building may be located upon the lot or tract, but each such main building
shall conform to all open space requirements around the lot for the district in
which the lot or tract is located.
   (I)   Open space. Where an open space is more than 50% surrounded by a
building, the minimum width of the open space shall be at least 20 feet for
one-story buildings, 30 feet for two-story buildings and 40 feet for three or
more story buildings.
   (J)   Double frontage lots. Where lots have double frontage, the required
front yards shall be provided on only the street to which the property is
addressed.
   (K)   Front yard adjustments. The front yard previously established shall be
adjusted in the following cases.
      (1)   Where 40% or more of the frontage on the same side of a street
between two intersecting streets is developed with two or more buildings that
have (with a variation of five feet or less) a front yard greater in depth than
herein required, new buildings shall not be erected closer to the street than
the front yard so established by the regulations of the zoning district in
which the property is located.
      (2)   Where 40% or more of the frontage on one side of a street between
two or more intersecting streets is developed with two or more buildings that
have a front yard of less depth than herein required, the minimum front yard
shall be a line between the two closest front corners of the adjacent buildings
on each side.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-3) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002; Ord. 02-2024, passed 3-
5-2024)
§ 155.243 TRANSITION.
   Where any light or heavy industrial district abuts an AR, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-
4 or RP Zone, there shall be a minimum setback on the abutting side of 20 feet
between the industrial use and the zone boundary; such setback area shall act
as a buffer zone and shall be submitted to the Planning Board at the time of
application; such plan shall show the type of fencing, landscaping, screening
and other such factors deemed necessary and pertinent for aesthetic buffering.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-4) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.244 FENCES.
   (A)   Impede vision. Regardless of other provisions of this section, no
fence, wall or hedge shall be erected or maintained in any yard which
materially impedes vision of vehicles entering on abutting streets.
   (B)   Height. No fence over 48 inches in height may be erected within the
required front yard of any lot used for residential purposes. No residential
fence shall exceed a height of six feet without first obtaining a variance from
the Board of Adjustment.
   (C)   Electric, barbed wire fences.
      (1)   Electric fences. No electric fence shall be allowed in any zoning
district.
      (2)   Barbed wire fences. No barbed wire fencing shall be permitted in
any residential zoning district. Barbed wire fencing material may be used as a
part of a fence in a commercial or industrial zoning district or for protection
of public utilities in any zoning district when such material is located not
less than seven feet above grade.
   (D)   Construction materials. All fences shall be constructed from approved
materials which are commonly used for fencing and shall not be constructed from
railroad ties, tires, rubble or salvaged material.
   (E)   Vision zone. On the street side of all lots where an alley or private
driveway enters the street right-of-way, a triangular clear vision zone shall
be maintained. Such zone shall measure ten feet into the lot as measured from
the edge of the sidewalk nearest the property line, and 20 feet parallel to the
street measured from the edge of any alley or driveway, away from the alley or
driveway, along the edge of the sidewalk nearest the property line. No fence,
wall, hedge or shrub over 36 inches in height shall be erected or maintained
within the above defined clear vision zone. If no sidewalk exists, the point of
reference for all measurements shall be determined by the Zoning Coordinator or
Public Works Director.
   (F)   Retaining wall. A retaining wall is designed to hold in place a mass
of earth or the like, such as the edge of terrace or excavation. The structure
is constructed to resist the lateral pressure of soil when there is a desired
change in ground elevation that exceeds the angle of repose of the soil. That
portion of a retaining wall that is at the pre-disturbance grade shall not be
included in the maximum fence height calculation.
   (G)   Corner lots. Corner lots in all zones shall not be permitted to have
any fence, hedge, wall, shrub, structure or vision impediment which constitutes
a hazard to the traveling public within the area designated as the “clear view
triangle.” This area can be determined by measuring 80 feet from the center of
the two intersecting public or private streets along the centerline of each
street, then connecting the two points with a straight line forming the
hypotenuse of the clear view triangle. Trees within the clear view triangle
shall have branches removed at the trunk from ground level to a minimum of
eight feet above the ground level. Shrubs, fences, hedges, walls and other
vision impediments within the clear view triangle shall be maintained no higher
than three feet above the established top of curb.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-5) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002; Ord. 02-2024, passed 3-
5-2024) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.245 VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   Corner lots in all zones shall not be permitted to have any fence, hedge,
wall, shrub, structure or vision impediment which constitutes a hazard to the
traveling public within the area designated as the “clear view triangle.” This
area can be determined by measuring 80 feet from the center of two intersecting
public or private streets along the centerline of each street, then connecting
the two points with a straight line forming the hypotenuse of the clear view
triangle. Trees within the clear view triangle shall have branches removed at
the trunk from ground level to a minimum of eight feet above the ground level.
Shrubs, fences, hedges, walls and other vision impediments within the clear
view triangle shall be maintained no higher than three feet above the
established top of curb grade.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-6) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002; Ord. 02-2024, passed 3-
5-2024)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
§ 155.260 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the planned unit development zone (PUD) is to permit
flexibility in the design and development of larger tracts of land that are in
common ownership or control.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-1) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.261 STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   Approval of request for a PUD zone is dependent upon the submission of an
acceptable plan and satisfactory assurance that it will be carried out. Such a
plan should accomplish substantially the same general objectives for the area
as set forth by the comprehensive plan. In addition, the following standards
and requirements shall apply.
   (A)   Use. A use permitted in any zone is permitted in a PUD zone.
   (B)   Area. The minimum area shall be three acres.
   (C)   Housing density. Standards for housing density shall not exceed the
density indicated in the comprehensive plan.
   (D)   Performance bond. The City Council may require a performance bond to
ensure that the proposed development is completed as approved and within the
time limits agreed to.
   (E)   Use, setback, height. The following shall apply in any particular
zoning district.
      (1)   Use. The development shall include no uses not permitted in that
particular zoning district.
      (2)   Height. No structure shall exceed the height limits for the
district.
      (3)   Number of units. The overall number of dwelling units shall be no
greater than would have been permissible in the tract had it been divided into
lots of the appropriate size.
      (4)   Setbacks. Appropriate setbacks shall be observed on the boundaries
of the tract.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-2) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.262 PROCEDURE.
   The following procedure shall be followed in requesting a PUD zone.
   (A)   Submissions of plan.
      (1)   Number of copies. An applicant shall submit to the Planning Board
four copies of a plan for development of the property.
      (2)   Submission deadline. The plan shall be submitted at least 30 days
prior to the meeting at which time it will be considered.
      (3)   Required information. The plan shall show the following
information:
         (a)   Relationship of the proposed development to the comprehensive
plan;
         (b)   The relationship of the property to the surrounding area;
         (c)   The plan of subdivision or resubdivision, if any;
         (d)   Land uses, building location and number of dwelling units;
         (e)   The arrangement of streets and pedestrian-ways;
         (f)   The location of off-street parking spaces;
         (g)   The location of public or communal open spaces;
         (h)   Plans for site grading and landscaping;
         (i)   Plans for water supply, sewage disposal and stormwater drainage;
         (j)   Plans for transfer of ownership of the property, if any, and
arrangements for maintenance of common areas and facilities; and
         (k)   Such additional information as the Planning Board may request.
   (B)   Review criteria. In considering the plan, the Planning Board shall
determine that:
      (1)   There are special development objectives or physical conditions
which justify a request for a PUD zone;
      (2)   The plan of development will be consistent with the comprehensive
plan;
      (3)   The development will be in harmony with the area around it;
      (4)   The development can be completed within a reasonable period of
time;
      (5)   The development will not overload adjacent streets or utilities;
and
      (6)   There is a demand for the type of development proposed.
   (C)   Decision of Board. The Planning Board shall notify the applicant
whether in its judgment the foregoing provisions have been satisfied and, if
not, whether they can be satisfied with further revision of the plan.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-3) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
NONCONFORMING USES
§ 155.275 INTENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to buildings, structures,
lands and uses which became nonconforming as a result of the application of
this chapter to them, or from classification or reclassification of property
under this chapter or any subsequent amendments thereto. If a use originally
authorized by a variance, conditional use permit or any other valid use permit,
prior to the effective date of this chapter, such use shall become a
nonconforming use; however, preexisting valid uses requiring a conditional use
permit after the effective date of this chapter shall not require a conditional
use permit.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-1) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.276 NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   Single lot. In any district in which single-family dwellings are
permitted, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this
chapter, a single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be
erected on any vacant single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this chapter. Such lot must be in separate ownership and not of
contiguous frontage with other lots in the same ownership. This provision shall
apply even though such lot fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or
both, that are generally applicable in the district; provided, that the yard
dimensions and other requirements not involving area or width, or both, of the
lot shall conform to the regulations for the district in which such lot is
located. An additional variance of area, width and yard requirements shall be
obtained only through affirmative action of the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   Two or more lots. If two or more vacant lots or combinations of lots
and portions of lots with continuous frontage in single ownership or record at
the time of passage or amendment of this chapter, and if all or part of the
lots do not meet the requirements for lot widths and area as established by
this chapter, the lands involved shall be considered to be an undivided parcel
for the purpose of this chapter, and no portion of said parcel shall be used or
sold which does not meet lot width and area requirements established by this
chapter, nor shall any division of the parcel be made which leaves remaining
any lot with width or area below the requirements stated in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-2) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.277 NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND.
   Where, at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter,
lawful use of land exists that is made no longer permissible under the terms of
this chapter, as enacted or amended, such use may be continued, so long as it
remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Enlarged or altered. No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or
increased, nor extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at
the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
   (B)   Moved. No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to
any other portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
   (C)   Cease of use. If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any
reason for a period of one year, any subsequent use of such land shall conform
to the regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which such
land is located.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-3) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.278 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or
amendment to this chapter that could not be built under the terms of this
chapter by reason of restriction on area, lot coverage, height, yards or other
characteristics of the structure or its location on the lot, such structure may
be continued so long as it remains lawful, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Enlarged or altered. No such structure may be enlarged or altered in a
way which increases its nonconformity unless an enlargement or structural
alteration makes the building more conforming or is required by law.
   (B)   Destruction. Should such structure be destroyed by any means to an
extent of more than 50% of its replacement cost at time of destruction, it
shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   Moved. Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved.
   (D)   Structural alterations. Structural alterations may be permitted if
necessary to adapt a nonconforming building to new technologies or equipment
pertaining to uses housed in such building. Any enlargement necessary to adapt
to new technologies shall be authorized by a variance only.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-4) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.279 NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES.
   If a lawful use of a structure, or of structures and premises in
combination, exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
chapter, that would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this
chapter, the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise
lawful, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Structural alterations. No existing structure devoted to a use not
permitted by this chapter in the district in which it is located shall be
enlarged, extended, constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered
except in changing the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district
in which it is located.
   (B)   Extended. Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts
of a building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the
time of adoption or amendment of this chapter, but no such use shall be
extended to occupy any land outside such building.
   (C)   Change in use. If no structure alterations are made, any nonconforming
use of a structure, or structure and premises, may be changed to another
nonconforming use; provided, that the Board of Adjustment, either by general
rule or by making findings in the specific case, shall find that the proposed
use is equally appropriate or more appropriate to the district than the
existing nonconforming use. In permitting such change, the Board of Adjustment
may require appropriate conditions and safeguards in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Superseded by permitted use. Any structure, or structures and land in
combination, in or on which a nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted
use, shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in which such
structure is located, and the nonconforming use may be thereafter resumed.
   (E)   Discontinued; abandoned. When a nonconforming use of a structure, or
structures and premises in combination, is discontinued or abandoned for one
year, the structure, or structure and premises in combination, shall not
thereafter be used except in conformance with the regulations of the district
in which it is located.
   (F)   Removal or destruction of structure. Where nonconforming use status
applies to a structure and premises in combination, removal or destruction of
the structure shall eliminate the nonconforming status of the land. For the
purpose of this division (F), DESTRUCTION is defined as damage to an extent of
more than 50% of the replacement cost at time of destruction.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-5) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.280 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or
restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of
such official.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-6) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 155.295 CREATED.
   A Board of Adjustment is hereby created for the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-1)
Cross-reference:
   See also Floodplain Management Board of Adjustment, §
154.28
§ 155.296 MEMBERSHIP; TERM.
   The Board shall consist of five members residing within the city. Members
shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to confirmation by the City Council,
for terms of office of three years.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-2)
§ 155.297 REMOVAL.
   Members of the Board may be removed for cause upon written charges and after
public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-3)
§ 155.298 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies shall be filled by the City Council for the unexpired term of the
member affected.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-4)
§ 155.299 RULES.
   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules necessary to the conduct of its
affairs and in keeping with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-5)
§ 155.300 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Meetings of the Board shall be scheduled at a
regular time each month and special meetings may also be called by the
Chairperson. The Chairperson may cancel the regular monthly meeting if no
matters are pending for the Board’s consideration.
   (B)   Open meetings. All meetings shall be open to the public.
   (C)   Administration of oaths; compel attendance. The Chairperson, or in his
or her absence the acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel
attendance of witnesses.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-6)
§ 155.301 SECRETARY.
   The Board shall designate a secretary of the Board who shall be custodian of
all records of the meetings, findings, conclusions and orders of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-7)
§ 155.302 MINUTES; RECORDS.
   The Board shall keep minutes of their proceedings, showing the vote of each
member, or if absent or failure to vote indicating such fact, and shall keep
records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be a
public record and shall be filed in the city office. The official minutes of
the Board’s proceedings shall be signed by the Chairperson or acting
Chairperson and attested by the recording secretary. The decision of the Board
shall become effective immediately unless otherwise directed by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-8)
§ 155.303 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Administrative review. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
there is error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the
Zoning Coordinator in the enforcement or interpretation of this chapter;
   (B)   Conditional use (special).
      (1)   Authority to hear and decide. To hear and decide only such
conditional uses as the Board of Adjustment is specifically authorized to pass
on by the terms of this chapter; to decide such questions as are involved in
determining whether conditional uses should be granted; and to grant
conditional uses with such conditions and safeguards as are appropriate under
this chapter, or to deny conditional uses when not in harmony with the purpose
and intent of this chapter.
      (2)   Criteria for approval. A conditional use shall not be granted by
the Board of Adjustment unless and until the following requirements are met:
         (a)   Application; required information.
            1.   A written application for a conditional use is submitted
stating the grounds on which it is requested and the following information:
               a.   A legal and general description of the tract(s) upon which
the conditional use is sought;
               b.   A map showing the dimensions, acreage and location of the
tract(s);
               c.   The names and addresses of the owner(s) of the tract(s) and
their agents, if any;
               d.   A site plan showing major details of the proposed
development, including, but not limited to, the location of proposed and
existing buildings and structures, off-street parking and loading, service and
refuse areas, means of ingress and egress; landscaping, screening, signs and
open space areas;
               e.   A time schedule for development; and
               f.   Any other information the applicant believes will support
his or her request.
            2.   The application must be submitted at least 20 days prior to
the date of the public hearing before whom it is appropriate for the matter to
be heard, and be accompanied by payment of all applicable fees.
         (b)   Notice of hearing. Notice of hearing shall be given at least 14
days in advance of the date set for public hearing. The owner of the property
for which conditional use is sought or his or her agent shall be notified by
mail. In addition, property owners of record within 150 feet of the exterior
boundaries of the property for which a conditional use permit is sought shall
be notified. A notice of such hearing shall be posted on the property for which
a conditional use permit is sought at least ten days prior to the public
hearing.
         (c)   Public hearing. A public hearing shall be held and any party may
appear in person, or by agent or by attorney.
         (d)   Findings of fact.
            1.   The Board of Adjustment, before it grants a conditional use
permit, shall make findings of fact and state its reasons for granting the
conditional use permit, said findings of fact to include:
               a.   The use will not endanger the public health or safety if
located where proposed and developed, and that the use will not allow
conditions which will tend to generate nuisance conditions including, but not
limited to, noise, dust, glare, odor or vibration;
               b.   The use meets all required conditions and specifications
set forth in the zone where it proposes to locate;
               c.   The location and character of the use, if developed
according to the plan as submitted for approval, will be in harmony with the
area in which it is to be located and in general conformity with the
comprehensive plan of development of the city and the metropolitan area; and
               d.   Consult with other departments of the city and the Director
of Planning to fully evaluate the impact of the use(s) contemplated under the
conditional use application upon public facilities and services.
            2.   To ensure the establishment of the above conditions, the Board
of Adjustment shall have the authority to require and approve specific plans,
to increase the requirements set forth above and the requirements specified
elsewhere in this chapter, but in no case shall the Board, by conditional use
permit, have the authority to decrease the requirements specified in this
chapter, or elsewhere in this code. Any such decrease in the requirements of
this chapter shall only be granted upon the issuance of a variance permit.
         (e)   Record of conditions. All conditions required by the Board shall
be entered in the minutes of the meeting at which time the permit is granted
and shall also be entered on the certificate of the conditional use permit.
         (f)   Time limitation. The Board of Adjustment shall prescribe a time
limit within which the action for which the conditional use permit is required
shall be begun or completed, or both. Failure to begin or complete, or both,
such action within the time limit set shall void the conditional use permit.
         (g)   Conditional uses eligible for consideration. The following table
of conditional uses shall be eligible for consideration by the Board.
Table of Conditional Uses
Table of Conditional Uses
All development within the boundaries of airport runway clear zones
Amusement parks or zoos
Catering establishments conducted as a home occupation
Drive-in theaters
Extractive industries: excavations, gravel and rock
Garbage, offal and animal reduction or processing
Go-cart tracks
Golf driving ranges
Gun and archery ranges
Heliports and helistops
Home occupations as defined
Hospitals and sanitariums
Landfills, sanitary, for disposal of stumps, trash and garbage
Landfills, reclamation to improve steep, low or otherwise unusable land (see
extractive industries)
Mortuaries
Offices operated as an incidental home occupation
Public utility service installations
Slaughterhouses
Smelting or refining of aluminum, copper, tin, zinc or other light metals
Temporary buildings or structures
 
   (C)   Variances.
      (1)   Authority to grant. The Board of Adjustment shall have the
authority to grant a variance from the terms of this chapter in specific cases
where it is found that the granting of the variance will not be contrary to the
public interest and where, because of special existing conditions with respect
to the lot shape or topography, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter would result in unnecessary hardship.
      (2)   Criteria for approval. A variance from the terms of this chapter
shall not be granted by the Board unless and until the following requirements
are met.
         (a)   Written application. A written application for a variance is
submitted demonstrating:
            1.   Special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar
to the land, and the lot, or some such thing inherent in the land that causes
the hardship, and which are not applicable to other lands in the same district;
            2.   Literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same district under the terms of this chapter; or
            3.   Granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to other land in
the same district.
         (b)   Required information. The application shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
            1.   A legal and general description of the tract(s) upon which a
variance is sought;
            2.   The name and address of the owners of the land and their
agents, if any;
            3.   A map showing the location of the property for which
application is submitted and its relation to adjoining property; and
            4.   The reason the variance is being sought.
         (c)   Filing deadline. The application must be submitted at least 20
days prior to the date of the public hearing.
         (d)   Fees. The application must be accompanied with payment of all
applicable fees.
         (e)   Notice of hearing. Notice of public hearing shall be given as
specified under conditional use applications.
         (f)   Hearing. At the designated time, the public hearing shall be
held. Any party may appear in person, or by agent or by attorney.
         (g)   Findings. The Board shall make a finding that the granting of
the variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this
chapter and with the comprehensive plan of development of the city-county
jurisdictional area and its environs.
         (h)   Additional conditions and safeguards. In granting any variance,
the Board may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity
with this chapter. Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a
part of the terms upon which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter.
         (i)   Time limitation. The Board shall prescribe a time limit within
which the action for which the variance was required shall be begun or
completed, or both. Failure to begin or complete, or both, such action within
the time limit set shall void the variance.
         (j)   District use. Under no circumstances shall the Board grant a
variance to allow a use not permissible under the terms of this chapter in the
district involved. A variance shall not be a grant of special privileges
inconsistent with limitations placed upon other property in the district.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-9)
§ 155.304 APPEAL FROM ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION.
   (A)   Right to appeal. Appeals to the Board of Adjustment concerning
interpretation or administration of this chapter may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer or department of the city or county affected by any
decision of the Zoning Coordinator or building inspector.
   (B)   Notice of appeal. Such appeals shall be taken within a reasonable
time, not to exceed 60 days from the date from which the appeal was taken, by
filing with the Zoning Coordinator and building inspector a written notice of
appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The Zoning Coordinator shall forthwith
transmit to the Board all papers constituting the record upon which the action
appealed from was taken.
   (C)   Notice; hearing. The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time
for the hearing of appeal not to exceed 30 days, give public notice thereof as
well as due notice to the parties in interest, and render a decision with a
reasonable time not to exceed ten days thereafter. At the hearing any party may
appear in person or by agent or attorney.
   (D)   Fees. Each person filing an appeal before the Board of Adjustment as
hereinbefore provided shall deposit a sum in the amount set by resolution with
the Finance Clerk-Treasurer, which sum shall include a filing fee as specified
together with a deposit towards costs incurred in administration of the appeal.
Any sums not spent in processing such an appeal shall be returned to the person
who initiated the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-10)
§ 155.305 STAY OF PROCEEDINGS.
   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from,
unless the administrative official from whom the appeal is taken certifies to
the Board after the notice of appeal is filed with him or her, that by reason
of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause
imminent peril to life and property. In such case, proceedings shall not be
stayed other than by a restraining order granted by a court of record.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-11)
§ 155.306 DECISIONS.
   (A)   In exercising the above mentioned powers, the Board may, so long as
such action is in conformity with the terms of this chapter, reverse or affirm,
wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination appealed from and may make such order, requirement, decision or
determination as ought to be made, and to that end shall have powers of the
administrative official from whom the appeal is taken.
   (B)   The concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be necessary to
reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the Zoning
Coordinator, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it
is required to pass under this chapter, or to effect any variation in the
application of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-12)
§ 155.307 APPEAL FROM BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   Any person or any board, taxpayer, department or board of the city aggrieved
by any decision of the Board of Adjustment may seek review by the county
superior court of the state. Such appeal shall be by certiorari and shall be
initiated by serving and filing a petition for the writ within 30 days after
the Board’s decision has become final.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-13)
§ 155.308 REHEARING.
   If an application for a conditional use, administrative review or variance
is denied by the Board of Adjustment, another application shall not be filed
within a period of one year from the date of denial, except upon the initiation
of the Board of Adjustment after a showing of a change of circumstances which
would warrant a rehearing.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-14)
ZONING COMMISSION
§ 155.320 CREATED.
   There is hereby created for the city a Zoning Commission, consisting of the
City-County Planning Board, pursuant to M.C.A. § 76-1-108. The City-County
Planning Board shall function as the Zoning Commission as authorized under
M.C.A. § 76-2-307.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-1) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.321 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The duties and powers of the Zoning Commission shall be to recommend the
boundaries of the various original districts and appropriate regulations to be
enforced therein, and to hold public meetings and make recommendations to the
City Council on all requests to amend, supplement, change, modify or repeal the
regulations, restrictions and boundaries in zoning districts. The City Council
shall not hold its public hearing or take action until it has received a final
report from such Commission.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-2) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.322 PURPOSE.
   A City Zoning Commission is established to consider and make recommendations
to the Council on all petitions for a change in zone district classification.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-3)
§ 155.323 WRITTEN FINDINGS.
   In making its recommendations, the Commission shall, where applicable,
submit in writing findings of fact on the following:
   (A)   The nature of the proposed use and its potential impact on adjacent
properties;
   (B)   The adequacy of ingress, egress, parking, lighting, landscaping and
screening;
   (C)   Whether the proposed zone change is in accordance with the
comprehensive plan and the intent of this chapter;
   (D)   Protest petitions, if any; and
   (E)   Such other factors as the Commission may deem pertinent to the
petition.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-4)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.335 METHODS OF ADMINISTRATION.
   The provisions of the title shall be administered and enforced by the City
Council and City Attorney. The following methods shall be employed:
   (A)   Requirement of building and occupancy permits;
   (B)   Inspection and ordering removal or correction of violations;
   (C)   Proceedings within applicable procedures; and
   (D)   Injunction.
(Prior Code, § 11-9-1)
§ 155.336 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Required. No building or other structure shall be erected, moved,
added to or structurally altered without a permit therefor, issued by the
building inspector or his or her authorized assistant. It is the intent in the
administration of this chapter that zoning approval shall be originally
determined with the application for a building permit.
   (B)   Duties of Building Department. The Building Department, in performing
its duties, shall receive applications and shall issue building or other
permits, make inspections and issue certificates of occupancy. However, the
Building Department shall issue no permit nor certificate of occupancy unless
all applicable provisions of this chapter are complied with.
(Prior Code, § 11-9-2)
§ 155.337 ZONING COORDINATOR.
   (A)   Office created. There is hereby created within the County Planning
Department the office of Zoning Coordinator, who shall be responsible to the
Director of Planning and who shall administer and coordinate the enforcement of
the zoning requirements for the city.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Zoning Coordinator shall receive all
applications for amendments to this chapter. In complying with the requirements
of the position, he or she shall have equal and all powers conferred upon the
Building Official under all applicable ordinances, to adequately perform his or
her function in coordinating and administering the various elements of this
chapter.
   (C)   Intent. It is the intent of this chapter that questions of
interpretation, or questions requiring review be presented to the Building
Official. A conflict in interpretation from the Building Official may be
presented to the Zoning Coordinator. On appeal from the decision of the
Building Official and the Zoning Coordinator it may be presented to the Board
of Adjustment and that further recourse shall be to the courts as provided by
state law.
(Prior Code, § 11-9-3)
§ 155.338 FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES.
   (A)   Schedule established. The City Council shall establish a schedule of
fees, charges and expenses and a collection procedure for building permits,
appeals and other matters pertaining to this chapter. The schedule of fees
shall be posted in the office of the Director of Public Works and the Director
of Planning and may be altered or amended only by the City Council.
   (B)   Payment required. No certificate, conditional use or variance shall be
issued unless, or until such costs, charges, fees or expenses have been paid in
full, nor shall any action be taken on proceedings before the Board of
Adjustment, unless or until preliminary charges and fees have been paid in full
to the Finance Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 11-9-4)
AMENDMENTS
§ 155.350 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Initiation. Application for amendment of the zoning ordinance map or
text may be initiated at the request of the following:
      (1)   The City Council;
      (2)   A majority of the total membership of the City-County Planning
Board; and
      (3)   A property owner or group of property owners, or his, her or their
authorized agent on their respective property.
   (B)   Amendment requested.
      (1)   Application for amendment of the zoning ordinance may be initiated
to amend the zoning ordinance map for a particular parcel or number of parcels,
to amend the zoning ordinance text or to amend a combination of the zoning
ordinance map and text.
      (2)   An application to amend the zoning ordinance map for a parcel or
number of parcels and/or to amend the zoning ordinance text shall require two
or more separate applications, although such applications may be consolidated
into one public hearing. Approval of one application shall not mandate approval
of the other application.
   (C)   Application form; conditions for submittal. Each application to amend
the official map shall be completed on a form with the Zoning Coordinator, and
each application shall be submitted under the following conditions:
      (1)   A legal description of the tract(s) proposed to be rezoned;
      (2)   A map showing the dimensions, acreage and location of the tracts(s)
and adjacent land uses;
      (3)   The names and addresses of the owners of the land and their agents;
      (4)   Payment of all applicable fees; and
      (5)   Any additional information deemed necessary and appropriate by the
Zoning Coordinator.
   (D)   Time of filing. An application for amendment to the official zoning
map shall be at least 20 days prior to the date of the public hearing before
the Zoning Commission.
   (E)   Withdrawal or amendment of application. An application for a zone
change may not be withdrawn or amended after the legal advertising, as required
by this section, has appeared for the final public hearing before the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 11-10-1) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.351 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No such regulations, restriction or boundary shall become effective
until after a public hearing, both before the Zoning Commission and City
Council, in relation thereto at which parties in interest and citizens shall
have an opportunity to be heard.
   (B)   At least 15 days’ notice of the time and place of such hearing shall
be published in an official paper or a paper of general circulation in such
municipality. The zoning change applicant, the land owner or his or her agent,
shall be notified by mail five days prior to the date of the public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 11-10-2) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.352 INVESTIGATION AND REPORTS.
   (A)   Investigation performed; submittal of report. The Zoning Coordinator,
upon receiving an application for rezoning shall notify the Planning Director.
An investigation shall be performed on each application to provide necessary
information to ensure that the action on each initiation or application is
consistent with the criteria and requirements set forth in this chapter. Any
report on such investigation shall be submitted to the Zoning Commission and
the City Council for consideration prior to or at the public hearing. A copy of
said report shall be mailed or delivered to the applicant five days prior to
the date of the public hearing.
   (B)   Duties of Zoning Coordinator and Planning Director. The Zoning
Coordinator and Planning Director shall do the following:
      (1)   Consult with other departments of the city or county to fully
evaluate the impact of any zoning change upon public facilities and services,
including, but not limited to, schools, drainage, traffic and related
facilities;
      (2)   Study each application with reference to its appropriateness and
effect on existing and proposed land use, compatibility with surrounding land
uses and references to the comprehensive plan;
      (3)   Identify public need in the property in question as compared with
other property already zoned for the intended use in the area;
      (4)   In case of a protest petition filed in the matter of any
application for rezoning determine the validity of each petition;
      (5)   Advertise in the legal newspaper 15 days in advance of the time and
place of the public hearing;
      (6)   Notify, by mail, the applicant or his or her authorized agent five
days prior to the date of the public hearing of the time and place of such
hearing; and
      (7)   Report the findings and conclusions in writing to the Zoning
Commission, which report shall be a matter of public record.
(Prior Code, § 11-10-3) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.353 ZONING COMMISSION ACTION.
   (A)   Review. The Zoning Commission shall review and take action upon each
application in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The Zoning
Commission shall make an advisory recommendation to the City Council which
shall state the findings and determinations of the Zoning Commission.
   (B)   Findings of fact. In making its recommendations, the Commission shall,
where applicable, submit in writing, the findings of fact on the following:
      (1)   The nature of the proposed use and its impact on adjacent
properties and public services;
      (2)   The adequacy of ingress, egress, parking, lighting, landscaping and
screening;
      (3)   Whether the proposed zone change is in accordance with the
comprehensive plan and the intent of this chapter;
      (4)   Protest petitions, if any;
      (5)   There exists a public need for the use that would be allowed by the
proposed zone amendment; and
      (6)   The identified public need is best met on the property in question
as compared with other property already zoned for the intended use in the area.
   (C)   Recommendation to Council. The Zoning Commission shall make a
recommendation to the City Council to:
      (1)   Deny the application;
      (2)   Approve the application; and
      (3)   Approve the application with conditions.
   (D)   Submittal of advisory recommendations. The advisory recommendations
shall be in writing to the governing body within ten days of such public
hearing.
   (E)   Adoption of rules and regulations. The Zoning Commission shall adopt
such rules and regulations for the conduct of public hearings and meetings.
(Prior Code, § 11-10-4) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.354 CITY COUNCIL ACTION.
   (A)   Public hearing required. Before taking action on an application for an
amendment to the official map, and after presentation of the Zoning Commission
report, the City Council shall hold a public hearing on the application.
   (B)   Protest. In case, however, of a protest against such change signed by
the owners of 20% or more of the area of the lots included in such proposed
change or of those within 150 feet of the exterior boundaries of the property
for which a zone change is sought, such amendments shall not become effective
except by the favorable vote of three-fourths of all the members of the City
Council of such municipality.
(Prior Code, § 11-10-5) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.355 REHEARING.
   An application for amendment or zone change denied by the governing body
shall not be resubmitted for a period of one year from the date of denial,
except upon the initiation of the respective governing body in coordination
with the Zoning Commission, after showing of a change of circumstances which
would warrant a new application and rehearing.
(Prior Code, § 11-10-6) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.356 HOLDING CLASSIFICATION FOR NEWLY ANNEXED AREAS.
   When a parcel of land lying outside the corporate limits of the city is
annexed to the city, the property shall revert to a holding classification of
AR Agricultural Residential District. The Zoning Commission shall make a
recommendation to the City Council the desirable zoning district classification
for the area within 90 days of passage of the final resolution of annexation.
(Prior Code, § 11-10-7) (Ord. 09-2002, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Misdemeanor. Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure
to comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any
person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined as specified in §
10.99 and in addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case.
Each day such violations continues shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   Separate offense. The owner or tenant of any building, structure,
premises or part thereof, and any architect, builder, contractor, agent or
other person who commits, participates in, assists in or maintains such
violation may each be found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the
penalties herein provided.
   (C)   Additional remedies. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city
or county from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation, or to bring an action to enjoin any violation of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-9-5)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Montana Code Annotated
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MONTANA CODE ANNOTATED
M.C.A. Section Code Section
M.C.A. Section              Code Section
3-11-104                    32.02
itle 7                      30.04;
                            30.27
7-3-4101                    30.04
7-3-4102                    30.04
7-4-4303                    30.04
7-4-4305                    30.04
7-4-4306                    30.04
7-5-4101                    30.26;
                            30.27
7-5-4122                    30.04
7-5-4205                    30.04
7-5-4206                    30.04
7-4-4112                    30.18
7-4-4401                    30.17
7-5-109                     10.99
7-5-4104                    90.01
7-5-4207                    10.99
7-5-4121(2)                 30.25
itle 7, Chapter 6, part 44  52.28
itle 7, Chapter 12, part 41 151.128
7-12-4101                   151.128
7-12-4102                   151.128
7-12-4133                   52.28
7-12-4169(1)                151.126
7-12-4169(3)                151.127;
                            151.128
itle 7, Chapter 12, part 42 151.126;
                            151.128
7-12-4221 et seq.           151.128
7-33-4124                   35.19
itle 7, Chapter 12, part 43 151.126
15-1-101                    155.003
16-2-102 et seq.            155.211
16-3-306(1)                 112.032
16-4-301                    112.072
17-5-102                    151.028
49-4-301 through 49-4-306   71.25
50-37-101                   92.35
50-52-101 through 50-52-303 150.30
50-60-102(1)(a)             150.01
50-60-301(1)(b)             150.01
50-61-102(2)                92.01
itle 52, Chapter 2, Part 7  155.003
69-4-1101 through 69-4-1104 52.10
                            51.03;
itle 69, Chapter 7, part 1  51.04;
                            52.03
70-24-311                   150.30
75-7-101 to 75-7-112        154.25
itle 76                     33.01
76-1-108                    155.320
76-2-307                    155.320
itle 76, Chapter 5          154.25
76-4, Part 1                154.13
76-5-101 through 76-5-406   154.02
itle 85, Chapter 15         154.46
                            
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2025 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2025 Code Section
1-1-1              10.01
1-1-2              10.02
1-1-3              10.03
1-1-4              10.04
1-2-1              10.05
1-2-2              10.06
1-2-3              10.07
1-2-4              10.08
1-3-1              10.09
1-3-2              10.10
1-3-3              10.11
1-4-1              10.99
1-4-2              10.12
1-4-3              10.13
1-5-1              30.01
1-5-2              30.02
1-5-3              30.03
1-5-4              30.04
1-6-1              30.15
1-6-2              30.16
1-6-3              30.17
1-6-4              30.18
1-6-5              30.19
1-6-6              30.20
1-6-7              30.21
1-6-8              30.22
1-6-9              30.23
1-6-10             30.24
1-6-11             30.25
1-6-12             30.26
1-6-13             30.27
1-6-14             30.28
1-7-1              31.01
1-7-2              31.02
1-7-3              31.03
1-7-4              31.04
1-7-5              31.05
1-8-1              11.01
1-9-1              32.01
1-9-2              32.02
1-9-3              32.03
1-9-4              32.04
1-9-5              32.05
1-9-6              32.06
1-9-7              32.07
1-10-1             34.01
1-10-2             34.02
1-11-1             36.01
1-11-2             36.02
1-13-1             35.01
1-13-2             35.02
2-1-1              33.01
2-1-2              33.01
2-1-3              33.01
2-2-1              33.02
2-2-2              33.02
3-1-1              112.001
3-1-2              112.002
3-1-3              112.003
3-1-4              112.004
3-1-5              112.005;
                   112.999
3-1-6              112.006;
                   112.999
3-1A-1             112.020
3-1A-2             112.021
3-1A-3             112.022
3-1A-4             112.023
3-1A-5             112.024
3-1A-6             112.025
3-1A-7             112.026
3-1A-8             112.027
3-1A-9             112.028
3-1A-10            112.029
3-1A-11            112.030
3-1A-12            112.031
3-1A-13            112.032
3-1A-14            112.033
3-1A-15            112.034
3-1A-16            112.999
3-1B-1             112.045
3-1B-2             112.046
3-1B-3             112.047
3-1B-4             112.048
3-1B-5             112.049
3-1B-6             112.050
3-1B-7             112.051
3-1B-8             112.052
3-1B-9             112.053
3-1B-10            112.054
3-1B-11            112.055
3-1B-12            112.056
3-1B-13            112.057
3-1B-14            112.058
3-1B-15            112.999
3-1C-1             112.070
3-1C-2             112.071
3-1C-3             112.072
3-1C-4             112.073
3-1C-5             112.074
3-3-1              110.01
3-3-2              110.02
3-3-3              110.03
3-3-4              110.99
3-4-5              111.99
4-1-1              90.01
4-1-2              90.02
4-1-3              90.03
4-1-4              90.04
4-1-5              90.05
4-1-6              90.06
4-1-7              90.07
4-1-8              90.08
4-2A-1             50.01
4-2A-2             50.002
4-2A-3             50.003
4-2A-4             50.004
4-2A-5             50.005
4-2A-6             50.006
4-2A-7             50.007
4-2A-8             50.008
4-2A-9             50.009
4-2A-10            50.010
4-2A-11            50.011
4-2A-12            50.012
4-2A-13            50.013
4-2A-14            50.014
4-2A-15            50.015
4-2A-16            50.016
4-2A-17            50.017
4-2A-18            50.018
4-2A-19            50.019
4-2B-1             50.030
4-2B-2             50.031
4-2B-3             50.032
4-2B-4             50.033
4-2B-5             50.034
4-2B-6             50.035
4-2B-7             50.036
4-2B-8             50.037
4-2B-9             50.038
4-2B-10            50.039
4-2B-11            50.040
4-2B-12            50.041
4-2B-13            50.042
4-2B-14            50.043
4-2B-15            50.044
4-2B-16            50.045
4-2B-17            50.046
4-2B-18            50.047
4-2C-1             50.060
4-2C-2             50.061
4-2C-3             50.062
4-2C-4             50.063
4-2C-5             50.064
4-2C-6             50.065
4-2C-7             50.066
4-2C-8             50.067
4-2C-9             50.999
4-2D-1             50.080
4-2D-2             50.081
4-2D-3             50.082
4-2D-4             50.083
4-2D-5             50.084
4-2D-6             50.085
4-2D-7             50.086
4-2D-8             50.087
4-2D-9             50.999
4-3-1              90.20
4-3-2              90.21
4-3-3              90.22
4-3-4              90.23
4-3-5              90.24
4-3-6              90.25
4-3-7              90.26
5-1-1              35.35
5-2-1              35.36
5-3-1              94.01
5-3A-1             94.02
5-3A-2             94.03
5-3A-3             94.04
5-3A-4             94.05
5-3A-5             94.06
5-3B-1             94.20
5-3B-2             94.21
5-3B-3             94.22
5-3B-4             94.23
5-3B-5             94.24
5-3B-6             94.25
5-3B-7             94.26
5-3B-8             94.27
5-3B-9             94.28
5-3B-10            94.29
5-3B-11            94.30;
                   94.99
5-3B-12            94.31
5-3B-13            94.32;
                   94.99
5-3B-14            94.33;
                   94.99
5-3B-15            94.34;
                   94.99
5-3B-16            94.99
5-3C-1             94.45
5-3C-2             94.46
5-3C-3             94.47
5-3C-4             94.48
5-3C-5             94.49
5-3C-6             94.50
5-3C-7             94.51
5-3C-8             94.52
5-5-1              130.02
5-5-2              130.99
5-6-1              91.01
5-6-2              91.02
5-6-3              91.03
5-6-4              91.04
5-6-5              91.05
5-6-6              91.06
5-6-7              91.07
5-6-8              91.99
6-1-1              70.01
6-1-2              70.02
6-1-3              Chapter 74, Schd. I
6-1-4              70.03
6-1-5              70.04
6-1-6              70.05
6-1-7              Chapter 74, Schd. II
6-1-8              70.06
6-1-9              70.07
6-1-10             70.08
6-1-11             70.09
6-1-12             70.10
6-1-13             70.99
6-2-1              71.01
6-2-2              71.02
6-2-3              71.03
6-2-4              71.04
6-2-5              71.05
6-2-6              71.06
6-2-7              71.07
6-2-8              71.08
6-2-9              71.08
6-2-10             71.08
6-2-11             71.08
6-2-12             71.08
6-2-13             Chapter 75, Schd. I
6-2-14             71.09
6-2-15             71.10
6-2-16             71.11
6-2-17             71.12
6-2-18             71.13
6-2-19             71.14
6-2-20             71.15
6-2-21             71.16
6-2-22             71.17
6-2-23             71.18
6-2-24             71.19
6-2-25             71.20
6-2-26             71.21
6-2-28             71.99
6-2-29             71.22
6-2-30             71.23
6-2-31             71.24;
                   71.99
6-2-32             71.25;
                   71.99
6-2-33             71.26
6-2-34             71.99
6-3-1              72.01
6-3-2              72.02
6-3-3              72.03
6-3-4              72.04
6-3-5              72.05
6-3-6              72.06
6-3-7              72.07
6-3-8              72.99
6-4-1              73.01;
                   73.99
7-1-1              35.15
7-1-2              35.16
7-1-3              35.17
7-1-4              35.18
7-1-5              35.19
7-1-6              35.20
7-1-7              35.21
7-1-8              35.22
7-2-1              92.01;
                   92.99
7-2-2              92.02
7-2-3              92.03
7-2-4              92.04
7-2-5              92.05
7-2-6              92.06
7-2-7              92.07
7-2-8              92.08
7-2-9              92.99
7-3-1              92.20
7-3-2              92.21
7-3-3              92.22
7-4-1              92.35
7-4-2              92.36
7-4-3              92.37
7-4-4              92.38
7-4-5              92.99
7-4-6              92.39;
                   92.99
7-4-7              92.40
7-4-8              92.41
8-1-1              151.015
8-1-2              151.016
8-1-3              151.017
8-1-4              151.018
8-1-5              151.019
8-1-6              151.020
8-1-7              151.021
8-1-8              151.022
8-1-9              151.023
8-1-10             151.024
8-1-11             151.025
8-1-12             151.026
8-1-13             151.027
8-1-14             151.028
8-1-15             151.029
8-1-16             151.030
8-2-1              151.045
8-2-2              151.046
8-2-3              151.047
8-2-4              151.048
8-2-5              151.049
8-2-6              151.999
8-3-1              151.060
8-3-2              151.061
8-3-3              151.062
8-3-4              151.063
8-3-5              151.064
8-3-6              151.065
8-3-7              151.066
8-3-8              151.067
8-4-1              151.080
8-4-2              151.081
8-4-3              151.082
8-4-4              151.083
8-4-5              151.084
8-4-6              151.085
8-4-7              151.086
8-4-8              151.087
8-4-9              151.088
8-4-10             151.089
8-4-11             151.090
8-4-12             151.091
8-4-13             151.092
8-4-14             151.093
8-4-15             151.094
8-4-16             151.999
8-5-1              151.105
8-5-2              151.106
8-5-3              151.107
8-5-4              151.108
8-5-5              151.109
8-5-6              151.110
8-6-1              151.125
8-6-2              151.126
8-6-3              151.127
8-6-4              151.128
8-7-1              93.01
8-7-2              93.02
8-7-3              93.03
8-7-4              93.04
8-8-1              151.001
8-8-2              151.001
8-8-3              151.999
8-9-1              152.01
8-9-2              152.02
8-9-3              152.03
8-9-4              152.04
8-9-5              152.05
8-9-6              152.06
8-9-7              152.07
8-9-8              152.99
9-1-1              150.01;
                   150.99
9-2-1              150.02
9-3-1              150.15
9-3-2              150.16
9-3-3              150.17
9-3-4              150.18
9-4-1              150.30
9-4-2              150.31
9-4-3              150.32
9-4-4              150.33
9-5-1              150.45
9-5-2              150.46
9-5-3              150.47
9-5-4              150.48
9-5-5              150.49
9-5-6              150.50
9-5-7              150.51
9-5-8              150.52
9-6-1              153.01
9-6-2              153.02
9-6-3              153.03
10-1-1             51.01
10-1-2             51.02
10-1-3             51.03
10-1-4             51.04
10-1-5             51.05
10-1-6             51.06
10-1-7             51.07
10-2-1             51.20
10-2-2             51.21
10-2-3             51.22
10-2-4             51.23
10-2-5             51.24
10-2-6             51.25
10-2-7             51.99
10-2A-1-1          53.001
10-2A-1-2          53.002
10-2A-1-3          53.003
10-2A-1-4          53.004
10-2A-2-1          53.015
10-2A-2-2          53.016
10-2A-2-3          53.017
10-2A-2-4          53.018
10-2A-2-5          53.019
10-2A-2-6          53.020
10-2A-3-1          53.035
10-2A-3-2          53.036
10-2A-4-1          53.050
10-2A-4-2          53.051
10-2A-4-3          53.052
10-2A-4-4          53.053
10-2A-4-5          53.054
10-2A-5            53.055
10-2A-6            53.021
10-2A-7-1          53.070
10-2A-7-2          53.071
10-2A-7-3          53.072
10-2A-8-1          53.085
10-2A-8-2          53.086
10-2A-8-3          53.087
10-2A-8-5          53.088
10-2A-8-4          53.999
10-2A-9-1          53.100
10-2A-9-2          53.101
10-3-1             52.01
10-3-2             52.02
10-3-3             52.03
10-3-4             52.04
10-3-5             52.05
10-3-6             52.06
10-3-7             52.07
10-3-8             52.08
10-3-9             52.09
10-3-10            52.10
10-3-11            52.11
10-3-12            52.12
10-3-13            52.13
10-3-14            52.14
10-3-15            52.15
10-3-16            52.16
10-3-17            52.17
10-3-18            52.18
10-3-19            52.19
10-3-20            52.20
10-3-21            52.21
10-3-22            52.22
10-3-23            52.23
10-3-24            52.24
10-3-25            52.25
10-3-26            52.26
10-3-27            52.27
10-3-28            52.28
11-1-1             155.001
11-1-2             155.001
11-1-3             155.001
11-2-1             155.002
11-2-2             155.003
11-3-1             155.015
11-3-2             155.016
11-3-3             155.017
11-3-4             155.018
11-3-5             155.019
11-3A-1            155.030
11-3A-2            155.031
11-3A-3            155.032
11-3A-4            155.033
11-3B-1            155.045
11-3B-2            155.046
11-3B-3            155.047
11-3B-4            155.048
11-3C-1            155.060
11-3C-2            155.061
11-3C-3            155.062
11-3C-4            155.063
11-3C-5            155.064
11-3D-1            155.075
11-3D-2            155.076
11-3D-3            155.077
11-3D-4            155.078
11-3D-5            155.079
11-3E-1            155.090
11-3E-2            155.091
11-3E-3            155.092
11-3E-4            155.093
11-3F-1            155.105
11-3F-2            155.106
11-3F-3            155.107
11-3F-4            155.108
11-3F-5            155.109
11-3F-6            155.110
11-3F-7            155.111
11-3F-8            155.112
11-3F-9            155.113
11-3F-10           155.114
11-3F-11           155.115
11-3F-12           155.116
11-3F-13           155.117
11-3F-14           155.118
11-3G-1            155.130
11-3G-2            155.131
11-3G-3            155.132
11-3G-4            155.133
11-3G-5            155.134
11-3H-1            155.145
11-3H-2            155.146
11-3H-3            155.147
11-3H-4            155.148
11-3I-1            155.160
11-3I-1-1          155.161
11-3I-2            155.162
11-3I-3            155.163
11-3J-1            155.175
11-3J-2            155.176
11-3J-3            155.177
11-3K-1            155.190
11-3K-2            155.191
11-3K-3            155.192
11-3L-1            155.205
11-3L-2            155.201
11-3L-3            155.206
11-3L-4            155.207
11-3L-5            155.208
11-3L-6            155.209
11-3L-7            155.210
11-3M-1            155.225
11-3M-2            155.226
11-3M-3            155.227
11-3M-4            155.228
11-4-1             155.240
11-4-2             155.241
11-4-3             155.242
11-4-4             155.243
11-4-5             155.244
11-4-6             155.245
11-5-1             155.260
11-5-2             155.261
11-5-3             155.262
11-6-1             155.275
11-6-2             155.276
11-6-3             155.277
11-6-4             155.278
11-6-5             155.279
11-6-6             155.280
11-7-1             155.295
11-7-2             155.296
11-7-3             155.297
11-7-4             155.298
11-7-5             155.299
11-7-6             155.300
11-7-7             155.301
11-7-8             155.302
11-7-9             155.303
11-7-10            155.304
11-7-11            155.305
11-7-12            155.306
11-7-13            155.307
11-7-14            155.308
11-8-1             155.320
11-8-2             155.321
11-8-3             155.322
11-8-4             155.323
11-9-1             155.335
11-9-2             155.336
11-9-3             155.337
11-9-4             155.338
11-9-5             155.999
11-10-1            155.350
11-10-2            155.351
11-10-3            155.352
11-10-4            155.353
11-10-5            155.354
11-10-6            155.355
11-10-7            155.356
12-1-1             154.01
12-1-2             154.01
12-1-3             154.01
12-2-1             154.02
12-3-1             154.03
12-3-2             154.04
12-3-3             154.05
12-3-4             154.06
12-3-5             154.07
12-3-6             154.08
12-3-7             154.09
12-3-8             154.10
12-3-9             154.11
12-3-10            154.12
12-4-1             154.25
12-4-2             154.26
12-4-3             154.27
12-4-4             154.28
12-4-5             154.29
12-4-6             154.30
12-4-7             154.31
12-4-8             154.32
12-4-9             154.99
12-5-1             154.45
12-5-2             154.46
12-5-3             154.47
12-5-4             154.48
12-5-5             154.49
12-6-1             154.13
12-7-1             154.60
12-7-2             154.61
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
16-82    5-21-1984   112.030
11-85    4-21-1986   150.16
12-85    11-3-1986   50.030
14-85    5-18-1987   36.02
15-85    5-18-1987   110.02;
                     110.03
18-85    6-15-1987   112.005;
                     112.999
19-85    8-17-1987   92.04
23-85    8-1-1988    94.34;
                     94.99
27-85    5-15-1989   94.24
32-85    5-7-1990    112.005;
                     112.999
33-85    5-7-1990    112.006
43-85    2-1-1993    94.45—
                     94.52
42-85    2-16-1993   31.01—
                     31.03
                     50.062—
47-85    7-6-1993    50.067;
                     50.999
52-85    5-16-1994   91.99
                     152.01—
60-85    8-7-1995    152.06;
                     152.99
                     154.01—
                     154.13;
                     154.25—
                     154.32;
61-85    1-2-1996    154.45—
                     154.49;
                     154.60;
                     154.61;
                     154.99
                     51.21—
65-85    6-3-1996    51.25;
                     51.99
                     151.080—
74-85    6-2-1997    151.094;
                     151.999
75-85    9-15-1997   94.01
77-85    12-15-1997  112.032
                     92.35—
80-85    5-18-1998   92.38;
                     92.99
                     92.02;
02-99    2-1-1999    92.03;
                     92.08;
                     92.99
01-2001  3-20-2001   151.015—
                     151.030
                     151.045—
02-2001  3-20-2001   151.049;
                     151.999
03-2001  3-20-2001   52.01—
                     52.28
                     50.030;
04-2001  3-20-2001   50.041—
                     50.047
02-2002  5-21-2002   50.001—
                     50.019
                     50.080—
03-2002  5-21-2002   50.087;
                     50.999
                     90.20—
04-2002  5-21-2002   90.26;
                     94.02—
                     94.06
05-2002  5-21-2002   51.01—
                     51.07
06-2002  5-21-2002   153.01—
                     153.03
                     152.02;
07-2002  5-21-2002   152.04;
                     152.07
                     155.001—
                     155.003;
                     155.015—
                     155.019;
                     155.030—
                     155.033;
                     155.045—
                     155.048;
                     155.060—
                     155.063;
                     155.075—
                     155.078;
                     155.090—
                     155.093;
                     155.105—
                     155.118;
                     155.130—
                     155.134;
                     155.145—
                     155.148;
09-2002  5-21-2002   155.160;
                     155.162;
                     155.163;
                     155.175—
                     155.177;
                     155.190—
                     155.192;
                     155.205—
                     155.209;
                     155.225—
                     155.228;
                     155.240—
                     155.245;
                     155.260—
                     155.262;
                     155.275—
                     155.280;
                     155.320;
                     155.321;
                     155.350—
                     155.356
                     70.01—
                     70.10;
01-2003  5-20-2003   70.99;
                     Chapter 74, Schd. I;
                     Chapter 74, Schd. II
                     71.01—
                     71.20;
02-2003  5-20-2003   71.22—
                     71.25;
                     71.99;
                     Chapter 75, Schd. I
03-2003  12-16-2003  92.40;
                     92.41
02-2004  6-15-2004   92.01;
                     92.99
03-2004  6-15-2004   150.01;
                     150.99
01-2006  7-18-2006   71.26;
                     71.99
04-2006  7-18-2006   91.04
01-2009  3-17-2009   155.016;
                     155.161
02-2009  3-17-2009   110.17
03-2009  4-21-2009   92.39;
                     92.99
05-2009  6-2-2009    50.017
06-2009  6-2-2009    35.17
01-2011  12-6-2011   90.01—
                     90.08
01-2012  3-20-2012   52.02;
                     52.03
04-2012  8-21-2012   151.125—
                     151.128
01-2013  7-2-2013    92.05
02-2013  11-5-2013   71.21
01-2014  4-1-2014    52.02
02-2014  12-2-2014   155.064;
                     155.079
03-2015  2-3-2015    94.99
05-2015  5-19-2015   71.06
                     51.20;
                     51.24;
                     51.99;
                     53.001—
                     53.004;
                     53.015—
                     53.021;
                     53.035;
01-2016  7-5-2016    53.036;
                     53.050—
                     53.055;
                     53.070—
                     53.072;
                     53.085—
                     53.088;
                     53.100;
                     53.101;
                     53.999
02-2016  10-4-2016   Chapter 74, Schd. I
01-2017  3-7-2017    11.01
                     155.016;
01-2018  8-7-2018    155.205;
                     155.210;
                     155.211
01-2020  5-5-2020    94.99
02-2020  7-2-2020    112.028
                     94.21;
                     94.33;
02-2023  12-5-2023   94.99;
                     150.01;
                     150.99
                     155.003;
02-2024  3-5-2024    155.242;
                     155.244;
                     155.245
03-2024  10-1-2024   30.24
01-2025  1-7-2025    90.01
02-2025  2-18-2025   111.01—
                     111.12
03-2025  2-18-2025   130.01
                    
 
